DRN-3190083
The complaint
Mr P complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) mishandled a 
claim on his motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to LV, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold LV responsible for 
their acts or omissions.
What happened
Mr P had a son and a daughter.
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a large sports utility vehicle. Mr Ps 
daughter acquired the vehicle on finance in March 2019.
For the year from May 2020, Mr P had a multi-car policy with LV. From at least September 
2020, the policy covered the car. Mr P was the policyholder, his daughter was named as the 
main driver and Mr Ps son was a named driver.
In March 2021, Mr Ps son reported the theft of the car. He provided CCTV images. They  
showed him parking the car outside Mr Ps home in daylight. The CCTV images also showed 
that  after dark - two thieves got into the car and one of them drove it away.
Mr Ps son showed LV evidence that he still had two key fobs for the vehicle.
In April 2021, LV declined to pay Mr Ps claim for the theft of the car. LV said the CCTV 
didnt show any flashing of indicators or movement of wing mirrors as it would expect when 
the car was locked and unlocked.  In late April 2021, Mr Ps son complained to LV about its 
decision. 
By a final response dated early June 2021, LV turned down the complaint. Mr Ps daughter 
brought his complaint to us straight away.
Our investigator at first recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
that LV had been fair and reasonable in the way in which it assessed the claim. She wasnt 
persuaded there was enough proof the car was left unlocked. She also said that the lack of 
communication with Mr P after the complaint had led to additional stress being experienced 
by the family. She recommended that LV should:
1. re-consider the theft claim; and 
2. pay Mr P £100.00 for inconvenience and stress experienced by the policyholders due 
to LVs lack of response to their emails.
Later the investigator changed her opinion. She recommended that the complaint should be 
upheld only in part. She thought that LV had been fair and reasonable in the way in which it 
assessed the claim. But she still thought that the lack of communication with Mr P after the 
complaint had led to additional stress being experienced by the family. She recommended 
that LV should pay Mr P £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr P, through his daughter, disagreed with the investigators changed opinion. He asked for 
an ombudsman to review the complaint. His daughter says, in summary, that:
The images from the CCTV are not of good quality. It does not pick up small 
movements such as the movement of the wing mirrors and/or flashing of indicators. 
LV only asked for CCTV footage of the car being parked and the car being stolen. 
The CCTV footage is not long enough to show that the car may have been unlocked 
anytime time between when it was parked and when it was stolen. The full footage 
could have been provided if LV had asked for it at the time of the claim.
The CCTV shows the passenger mirror moves and the indicator flashes.
The car was locked. They live on a busy dual carriage way and have never left the 
car unlocked.
The thieves could have unlocked the car by relay-attack. The thieves have used 
keyless technology as part of the theft, as they managed to drive the car away 
without the keys.
If LV downloaded information somehow from the keys, then she is entitled to see it.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Many motor insurance policies exclude claims for theft when the driver has left keys in or on 
the vehicle. LVs policy terms went further. They included the following:
We wont pay for: 
loss or damage to your car by theft or attempted theft if:
your car has been left unlocked or with a window or roof open;
the engine has been left running when unattended; 

the ignition device is left in, on or attached to your car or left in the immediate 
proximity of the car or in range of where the ignition device is effective.
That excludes loss of a car that has been left unlocked and is stolen. Thats an unusual and 
significant exclusion. But on balance Im satisfied that it was clear and prominent enough in 
the policy terms. So I dont find it unfair for LV to rely on that exclusion.
I accept LVs evidence that the cars indicators flash and its wing mirrors move when it is 
being locked or unlocked. As Mr Ps son provided CCTV images, LV was bound to consider 
them. 
The investigator said the following:
LV= took other steps when assessing the claim, such as attempting to obtain fob 
data and detail from Mr [Ps] app.Whilst I agree that LV made enquiries about the fobs and the app, it didnt find any relevant 
information from those sources.
The CCTV camera was at some distance from where Mr Ps son parked the car. And the car 
and its wing mirrors were painted black. So its difficult to see if the mirrors moved when he  
left the car or when the thieves got into it.
But the daytime CCTV images dont show any flash from the cars indicators when Mr Ps 
son left the car. Furthermore, the night-time CCTV images dont show any flash from the 
cars indicators when the thieves got into it. LV was able to see lights on other vehicles 
passing the camera at speed.
So I dont find that LV acted unfairly by concluding that the CCTV showed that Mr Ps son 
had left the car unlocked from the time he left it to the time the thieves got into it. Although 
the thieves still had to start the engine, I consider that the theft was made easier and more 
likely by the vehicle being left unlocked.
So, keeping in mind the policy exclusion quoted above, I dont find that LV declined the claim 
unfairly. Whilst I understand that LVs decision leaves Mr Ps daughter with a debt in relation 
to the car she has lost, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct LV to change its decision.
Mr Ps family continued to write to LV after its final response in June 2021. I wouldve 
expected LV to acknowledge and respond to that, if only by saying that it had given its final 
response. LV didnt do so, and I consider that this caused Mr P to feel that LV was ignoring 
relevant points.
Putting things right
Overall, I agree with the investigator that its fair and reasonable to direct LV to pay Mr P 
£100.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr P £100.00 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman