DRN-2985467
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard were not clear with her 
regarding what would happen with her outstanding balance when her account defaulted and 
poor customer service.
Mrs R is represented by her husband in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill
refer to any submission and comments he has made as being made by Mrs R herself.  
What happened
Mrs R suffered financial difficulties in 2019 and contacted Barclaycard to set up a repayment 
plan. Mrs R spoke to a call handler from Barclaycard who asked her income and outgoings. 
The call handler concluded that Mrs R did not have any disposable income to make a 
repayment plan so informed Mrs R of what would happen moving forward.
Mrs R says she was under the impression that her debt would be written off and that the only 
negative consequence would be that a default would show on her credit file for six years, 
making it more difficult for her to get any credit if she applied for it. She says she rang 
Barclaycard back on the same day to check what would happen.
Mrs R says that she was unable to speak to the original call handler and was instead 
transferred to what she believed to be an overseas call centre. After the call she still believed 
that the outstanding balance would be written off. 
Mrs R says she was contacted by a debt collection agency in January 2021, so she 
contacted Barclaycard to find out why this was. Mrs R says that Barclaycard werent helpful 
and said there was nothing that they could do. Mrs R said she had poor customer service 
here when trying to find out what was happening. Mrs R made a complaint to Barclaycard. 
Barclaycard did not uphold her complaint, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator did not uphold her complaint. He said having listened to the call on 24 May 
2019, Barclaycard didnt make any indication of writing off the debt. Our investigator also 
commented on further communication that Mrs R was sent which showed the outstanding 
balance could be passed to a debt collection agency. 
Our investigator said if there were any misunderstandings about the repayments on the 
phone, Barclaycard fulfilled their requirements to inform Mrs R by sending the documents 
explaining what would happen next. He said in the letters Barclaycard sent her, it clearly 
stated that if the repayments were not made, Barclaycard had the right to refer the debt to a 
third party. In terms of the poor service, our investigator explained that while Mrs R had other 
accounts with Barclays, different departments at the company may only be able to discuss 
accounts in their department.
Mrs R asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary she said her understanding was that the only burden she would have to suffer is 
the default showing on her credit file for six years and the debt would be finished at the time 
of the call in May 2019, but to her surprise she received collection letters from the third party 
debt collector in 2021. She also said that when she contacted Barclaycard about this, she 
did not receive proper attention for this matter. Mrs R said that Barclaycard didnt apply a 
duty of care in handling her debt situation and solution, so she had to ring them back later 
that day and the call handler Mrs R spoke to was in a call centre in another country as her 
English, assent and diction was wanting.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R has made a number of points to both Barclaycard and this service and Ive considered
and read everything shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and
reasonable here.
Ive listened to the phone call on 24 May 2019, when Mrs R originally discussed a repayment 
plan with Barclaycard. Due to Mrs Rs financial difficulties, Barclaycard were unable to put a 
plan in place but clearly set out what would happen next. This included terminating her 
account, registering a default and potentially passing the debt to a third party collections 
agency.
Im persuaded that Mrs R did understand what the call handler was saying to her here. I say 
this as Mrs R made several references to the outstanding balance such as her asking if she 
had a change in circumstances later, would she be asked to pay the whole (outstanding 
balance) and she later asked what happens if I offer you later on £2000. This would 
indicate that Mrs R would be aware that there would still be a debt to pay and that the 
outstanding balance wouldnt be written off. 
The call handler does clearly explain on more than one occasion that the debt could be 
passed to a third party debt collection company. When Mrs R asks what would happen if she 
had no changes to her circumstances, the call handler says your account can be placed, or 
the ownership transferred to a third party at any time. 
Again, when Mrs R asks what happens if she didnt contact Barclaycard within six years, the 
call handler confirms in relation to the outstanding balance, so it can be passed over to an 
external debt collection agency. If that happens you just advise them the same thing (that 
theres no change in your circumstances). Mrs R later says that if her circumstances should 
change in the future, she may be able to pay £2,000. So Im not persuaded that there was 
any indication from Barclaycard that they were going to write off the debt. Or that Mrs R left 
the call by thinking the debt would be written off or that it couldnt be passed to a third party.
Ive thought about what Mrs R says about contacting Barclaycard on the same day. Ive 
listened to this call. The call handler corrects Mrs R by saying that the outstanding balance 
wont be cancelled for six years and Mrs R can pay any amount (she wishes) to pay. The 
call handler did not at any stage say the debt would be written off and told Mrs R on more 
than one occasion that the debt wasnt cancelled. 
In relation to Mrs Rs comments about the call handlers location, Ive seen no evidence that 
the call handler was located in another country, but even if she was, I cant say that the call 
handler has managed the call in any other way but as professional and how I would expect 
her to, as she answered Mrs Rs questions and looked at the notes from the previous call 
handler and reiterated that the debt hadnt been written off. Barclaycard have confirmed that 
they operate globally and any of their agents who are based abroad and trained to handle issues relating to UK accounts, do so within the laws, rules and regulations applicable to 
financial institutions in the UK.
Although Im not persuaded that Barclaycard have implied or gave the impression that they 
would write off the debt, the letters which Barclaycard sent to Mrs R after these phone calls 
clearly state what could happen in the future. So even if there was a misunderstanding on 
the phone calls, the letters sent after these phone calls are clear that the debt could be 
transferred to a third party and that they may take further action to collect the balance in full 
as it states on one of her letters which is dated 10 June 2019. The letter dated 29 July 2019 
states that her full outstanding balance is now due and the letter states that if she cant pay 
this then they may transfer the debt to a third party. So I do think that its clear that the 
outstanding balance wouldnt be written off and could be transferred to a third party.
Ive considered what Mrs R has said about the debt solution that Barclaycard put in place. 
But I am persuaded that they did try to help her. I say this as they froze interest and charges 
and tried to put in place an affordable repayment plan. But as Mrs R had no disposable 
income, Barclaycard were responsible by not asking her to make a payment when she 
couldnt afford one. Then they clearly outlined the steps they would take after the initial call 
in letters to Mrs R including a telephone number if she wanted to contact them. Ive seen no 
evidence of any calls after she received the correspondence until Mrs R received contact 
through the debt collection company. 
Ive considered what Mrs R has said about the service she received and what Barclaycard 
had told her. As the original call handler had explained, Barclaycard may transfer the 
ownership of the debt to a third party. And because they did this then Im persuaded that this 
is why they werent in a position to assist Mrs R as they did not legally own the debt after it 
was transferred to the third party debt collector. And Barclaycard have confirmed that staff 
who work in different departments in their business may have refer to a Barclaycard 
colleague to get specific details of a Barclaycard account.
So although Mrs R thinks the staff she spoke to were dismissive, Im persuaded they werent 
able to assist her as the debt had been transferred to a third party debt collection company 
as it was explained to her several times by phone and letter that this could happen.
Im sorry to hear that Mrs Rs financial situation has worsened since she originally spoke to 
Barclaycard. But, for the reasons Ive already given Im satisfied that Barclaycard have been 
clear that the debt may be passed to a third party debt collector and that the balance 
wouldnt be written off. So it follows I wont be asking Barclaycard to do anything further 
here.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman