DRN-3831835
The complaint
Mrs F and Mr F complain about Homeserve Membership Limited (HML) and the businesses 
failure to move their Plumbing and Drainage (P&D) insurance policy in 2015, meaning they 
continued to pay policy premiums for several years to cover a home they no longer owned.
Mr F has acted as representative during the complaint process. So, for ease of reference, 
Ive referred to any actions taken, or comments made, by either Mrs F or Mr F as Mr F 
throughout the decision.
What happened
Mr F held a P&D insurance policy, administered by HML, for several years. In October 2015, 
Mr F notified HML of a change of address, as he was due to move to another property in 
Mid-November 2015. HML acknowledged this change and updated their system. But Mr F 
messaged HML again to explain he wanted his existing address to be covered up until the 
day he moved.
So, HML emailed Mr F explaining the risk address had been converted back to his current 
property at the time. And they asked Mr F to contact them again after his move had been 
completed to change the risk address to his new one. But Mr F says he didnt receive this e-
mail. And Mr F says he assumed his policy had been cancelled as he heard nothing further.
But in May 2022, Mr F realised he had continued to pay monthly policy premiums, equating 
to over £800 since November 2015. Mr F was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr F thought HML had acted unfairly when continuing to take payments for the policy, as he 
thought hed made it clear he wanted the policy to be cancelled when he moved. Mr F 
explained he lost access to his e-mails at the same time he moved address, so he wouldnt 
have received any written correspondence regarding the policy renewal. But he explained 
his number had remained the same and so, he thought HML couldve done more to ensure 
he still wanted the policy. So, Mr F wanted the premiums hed paid since November 2015 to 
be refunded to him, as they had been paid for a policy of no use to him.
HML responded to the complaint and didnt agree. They were satisfied they had emailed Mr 
F in early November 2015, before his move, explaining Mr F would need to contact them 
after the move completion to complete the change of address. And as they hadnt heard 
from Mr F again, they thought they were fair to continue the policy at Mr Fs original address. 
So, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong and because of this, they didnt think they 
needed to do anything more. Mr F remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They were satisfied HML 
made it reasonably clear to Mr F before his move that he would need to contact them to 
process the policy change. So, they thought it was Mr Fs responsibility to make sure the 
policy he held was correct and up to date. And they didnt think Mr F had. So, while they 
appreciated the financial impact this had on Mr F, they didnt think this impact was created 
by something HML did wrong. So, they didnt think HML needed to do anything more.
Mr F didnt agree. He explained he had no recollection of receiving an email from HML 
stating he needed to contact them again nor was he able to check as he no longer had 
access to this email account. And he explained hed received no contact from HML, by post 
or by phone, regarding the existing policy or its renewal during the last seven years. So, he 
thought it would be fair for HML to refund part of the premiums he paid, to recognise the fact 
HML received these premiums despite having no risk associated to the policy as he no 
longer lived at the address. Our investigators view remained unchanged and Mr F continued 
to disagree. So, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr F. I dont doubt Mr Fs 
testimony that he assumed the policy had been cancelled after hed moved address in 
November 2015. So, when Mr F realised premiums had continued to be taken for several 
years afterwards, I can understand the shock and frustration hed feel. And as Mr F wasnt 
living at the address covered by the policy during this time, I can also understand why Mr F 
feels its unfair for HML to keep the entirety of the premiums hes paid, as they were never at 
risk of receiving a claim for the property.
But for me to say HML should refund Mr F all, or part of, the premiums hes continued to 
pay, I first need to be satisfied HML have done something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied 
that HML made an error when processing Mr Fs request in 2015. Or, if I dont think they did, 
that theyve acted unfairly in some other way since that time. And in this situation, I dont 
think thats the case.
It's not disputed that Mr F contacted HML before his move in 2015. But from the evidence 
Ive seen, I dont think Mr F contacted HML to cancel the policy. Instead, he contacted HML 
to change the risk address on the policy.
I can see HML processed this change. But after this, Ive seen a message from Mr F to HML 
where he explained he wanted his existing address at that time to remain on the policy until 
12 November 2015, when he expected his move to complete.
Ive seen HML reversed the address change on the policy because of this, and this is what 
Id expect them to do. I can also see that, on 5 November 2015 before Mr F moved address, 
HML emailed Mr F to explain the action theyd taken. And within this email, they explained 
Mr F would need to contact them again to complete a change of address once the move had 
completed. 
While I appreciate Mr F has said he lost access to the email address HML held on file after 
his move, Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr F was unable to access his emails before his 
move. And even then, Ive seen nothing to show me Mr F made HML aware his email 
address would be changing and so, I think they were fair to contact him via this method.
It's not in dispute that Mr F didnt contact HML again. So, I dont think HML had any way of knowing for sure whether Mr F had moved address as he intended. So, without this 
confirmation, I wouldnt expect HML to change the address on the policy. And as no 
cancellation was discussed, I wouldnt have expected HML to cancel the policy without 
specific instruction from Mr F.
So, without this instruction, and continued payment from Mr F, I think HML were fair to 
assume Mr F intended to continue with the policy at the address they held. And because of 
this, I dont think I can say they did something wrong when processing Mr Fs address 
change in 2015.
As Ive explained above, Ive then gone on to think about whether HML acted unfairly in 
some other way. Mr F feels HML shouldve done more to contact him about his policy 
between 2015 and 2022, when he realised he was still paying his premiums. And hes 
explained he had no access to his emails or post sent to his previous address during that 
time.
But as Ive explained above, I dont think HML had any way of knowing Mr F had moved as 
hed intended. Nor do I think they were aware Mr F no longer had access to his email 
address. So, I dont think HML wouldve been aware these methods of contact wouldnt 
reach Mr F. 
Mr F feels HML shouldve used read receipts to ensure Mr F was receiving and reading any 
correspondence they sent. But this isnt something Id expect HML to do. I think Mr F himself 
had a responsibility to manage the policy he held. And if he was aware he had changed 
address and email, Id expect him to make HML aware of this. Id also expect Mr F to be 
aware of payments leaving his account and its not disputed that the premiums to HML were 
paid from Mr Fs joint account for almost seven years without any challenge. 
While I appreciate Mr F may not have managed this account himself and he instead left this 
to Mrs F, I note both Mr F and Mrs F were policyholders for the D&P policy with HML and so, 
I think they both had a responsibility to understand the way the account was being managed. 
And crucially, I dont think it was HMLs responsibility.
So, from HMLs perspective, they were receiving payments for a policy to cover Mr Fs last 
known confirmed address. And they hadnt received any notification to suggest Mr F no 
longer lived at the address or didnt want the policy. So, for the period of time they received 
the premiums, they assumed the policy in place was taking on the risk at the property. And 
because of this, I dont think theyve acted unfairly when receiving the premiums or refusing 
to refund them to Mr F now. 
I think its also worth noting that HML have confirmed if Mr F had contacted them to make a 
claim, they wouldve changed the address and covered the claim. So, I think Mr F did 
receive a benefit for the premiums he paid. I appreciate Mr F has said he took out alternative 
cover with another provider. But that was his own choice to make and I think he did so 
without cancelling the policy he had in place with HML. 
So, because of all of the above, I think HML have acted fairly and reasonably and I dont 
think they need to do anything more on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs F and Mr Fs complaint about Homeserve 
Membership Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman