DRN-1384763
 
The complaint
Mr S brings this complaint on behalf of the estate of his late wife Mrs S. He complains that 
HSBC UK Bank PLC (HSBC) froze his late wifes account which then created difficulties for 
them in making planned gifts to their children, and resulting in loss. 
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr S and HSBC, so there is no need for me to repeat them again here in any 
great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its 
relevant to the issues I need to deal with. But in summary, Mr Ss wife wrote a cheque 
payable to Mr S for £230,000 which HSBC stopped as they had concerns about 
the signature. Following that, when HSBC met with Mr S and his wife, it concluded Mrs S no 
longer had the mental capacity to make the payment to Mr S. So they froze the account. 
This prevented Mr S from making gifts to their children, and as a result of that Mr S believes 
HSBC may have caused him and his wife a loss, as the Inheritance Tax payable on his 
wifes estate will be higher. He also believes HSBC should pay him and his wifes estate 
damages.
HSBC thought they had acted appropriately, given the circumstances, although they 
conceded there had been a delay in replying to some correspondence, and for that they 
offered compensation of £150.
Mr S was unhappy with HSBCs final response and so brought the complaint to this service 
and our investigator looked into it. Having done so, the investigator didnt think that HSBC 
had done anything wrong. Mr S didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint be 
passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to mediate individual disputes between consumers and businesses, and to award 
redress where it is appropriate.  
I have taken into account both sides views in considering whether HSBC acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I thought about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I have to make an independent decision about what I 
think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. And in this case, I dont think that 
HSBC has done anything wrong. Ill explain why.
When HSBC looked at the signature on the cheque Mrs S had written they had concerns 
over its authenticity. So they called Mrs S on the telephone but were only able to speak with Mr S who confirmed that her signature could differ from day to day which could related to her 
illness. The following day, at a face to face meeting in the branch with Mrs S also in 
attendance, he confirmed his wife had mild cognitive impairment. The bank representative 
also attempted to speak with Mrs S alone, but she was unable to elicit any response from 
her on the issue of the cheque she had written. HSBC's notes of the interview record that Mr 
S had confirmed to the bank representative that his wife did not have mental capacity, 
although Mr S strongly refutes saying that. Based on that interview HSBC froze Mrs S's 
account in order to protect her funds. 
Against that factual background I do not fault the action taken by HSBC, since they were 
faced with an unresponsive customer who couldnt explain anything about the transaction, 
and whose husband had confirmed she had a cognitive impairment. I note the challenge to 
the assertion that Mr S had stated his wife lacked mental capacity, but whether he said that 
or not is not critical, since it does not detract from Mrs Ss inability to answer any questions 
at all, or that he confirmed she did have cognitive impairment.  So, there was more than 
enough evidence for HSBC to draw the conclusion that Mrs S did not have the mental 
capacity to make the payment of £230,000 to Mr S since she did not understand anything 
about it.
What followed the freezing of the account was very unfortunate, but I cannot say that this is 
because of any action or inaction on the part of HSBC. HSBC explained in July 2018 the 
steps required in order for the account to be unfrozen. These were that Mrs S give full 
instructions, which of course was very unlikely to occur given her medical condition. 
Alternatively a letter from a GP confirming Mrs S was capable of understanding and dealing 
with her finances would be required, but again I suspect that was unlikely for the same 
reasons. Finally, it was suggested that an appointment by the Court of Protection would be 
required. I have noted also that Mr S has made reference to the execution of a Power of 
Attorney and feels that this would have been unsuitable. I broadly agree, although of course 
much would have depended on Mrs Ss capacity at the time of execution of that document.
But as a fact none of those steps were taken which meant that Mrs Ss account remained 
frozen. It would have been open to Mr S to apply to the Court of Protection for a Deputyship 
which would have solved the problem, but unfortunately no such application was made. 
I have also noted Mr Ss comments about the losses he feels he and his wifes estate have 
incurred, but I do not agree that any such losses as might be proven, have been caused by 
HSBC. The reason I say that is that if Mrs S had put in place measures to guard against this 
very eventuality, or had Mr S obtained a Deputyship then Mr S, would have been able to 
manage the account. 
So, although Mr S will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say HSBC 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this element of the complaint.
HSBC has however accepted that it didnt get things right in responding to correspondence. 
They have explained that that was because they had instructed their legal department. I 
agree with Mr S that that should not have prevented HSBC from at the very least letting him 
know that fact, or indeed responding, and so I would agree that it was poor service. But 
HSBC have recognised that too and agreed that it should compensate Mr S. And so it 
offered Mr S £150 which he has not accepted.
Ive given further thought as to whether this is sufficient and in so doing Ive considered the 
level of awards this service has made for distress and inconvenience in similar cases. Ive 
taken into account the impact of the error, in the light of my findings above, Mr S described it 
had upon him. And I've balanced and measured that against the ups and downs of daily life in dealing with other people, businesses and organisations, and recognising that that can be 
inconvenient at times.
Putting all of this into the balance I think what HSBC offered is fair and reasonable. And I 
think it is enough to put matters right for that element of the complaint.
My final decision
HSBC has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint, and this is fair and 
reasonable. So my final decision is that HSBC should pay Mr S £150.
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against HSBC UK Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman