DRN-4127640
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (MSFS) irresponsibly gave 
her a credit card and subsequent credit limit increases that she couldnt afford. 
What happened
In January 2007, Mrs J applied for a credit card with MSFS. She was given an initial credit 
limit of £7,000. There were two credit limit increases on the account, the first to £8,500 in 
September 2007 and the second, to £11,000 in April 2008. 
In 2021, Mrs J complained to MSFS to say that the credit card and subsequent increases 
had been unaffordable from the outset and that they shouldnt have been granted to her. 
She also said that MSFS had failed to identify and assist her financial difficulties at an earlier 
point. 
MSFS didnt agree it had acted unfairly and initially didnt consent to our service considering 
events that occurred prior to 2015. However, our investigator felt that we could consider all 
aspects of Mrs Js complaint dating back to 2007 and MSFS agreed with that conclusion. 
Our investigator then recommended the complaint be upheld. She said that Mrs J had 
provided evidence to demonstrate that she was significantly over-indebted at the time of 
applying for the credit card. She said that proportionate affordability checks at the time ought 
to have revealed that the initial credit card and subsequent limit increases would be 
unaffordable to Mrs J. 
MSFS didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the lending was taken out in 2007 and 2008, Ive had in mind various rules and guidance 
and good industry practice from the relevant time, including (but not limited to) the Banking 
Code to which MSFS was a subscriber. 
Prior to granting credit (or increasing the credit limit), MSFS needed to ensure the borrowing 
was likely to be affordable for Mrs J. To do so, it was required to consider things such as her 
income and financial commitments. 
MSFS hasnt been able to provide us with much detail about the checks it completed when it 
opened the credit card, nor when it increased Mrs Js limit. However, Im satisfied that 
reasonable affordability checks at the time ought to have at least included getting some 
understanding of Mrs Js income and her existing credit commitments. 
I cant be sure exactly what MSFS found out at the time of granting credit to Mrs J. However, 
in the absence of anything from MSFS, Ive relied on the evidence Mrs J has been able to 
provide. This includes details of her other borrowing at the time (loan and credit card 
statements), proof of her income and her current account statements.
Im not suggesting that MSFS needed to obtain any of the specific documents Mrs J has now 
provided, but I think these give a good indication of at least what basic information MSFS 
likely found out (or ought to have found out) about her income and existing credit 
commitments. Weve provided this evidence to MSFS for comment, but it hasnt sought to 
challenge it or provide any evidence of its own in response. 
The information and evidence Mrs J provided shows that at the time of applying for the credit 
card she was significantly indebted elsewhere. I find it likely this would have been visible in 
any credit check MSFS might have completed. Mrs J was self-employed and has shown her 
annual income was around £16,000. Her unsecured debts (including joint and/or household 
borrowing) appear to have amounted to over £50,000. While, her partner was also 
undoubtedly contributing towards some or all of these credit commitments and their essential 
living costs, Ive seen that their joint bank account was consistently in excess of £4,000 
overdrawn. 
The sheer size of the unsecured credit Mrs J was already responsible (or partly responsible) 
for ought to have caused MSFS to question her ability to take on more credit, especially a 
relatively significant sum such as £7,000. I think that at the very least any basic affordability 
checks ought to have prompted more thorough enquiry of Mrs Js financial circumstances 
before MSFS agreed to lend. Had it done more, which I consider it ought to have here, I fail 
to see how it could possibly have concluded anything other than the new credit being 
unaffordable and unsustainable. Mrs J was clearly already in financial difficulty and over-
indebted and appropriate checks would likely have revealed this to MSFS. I think it therefore 
acted unfairly in opening the account.  
As I dont think MSFS should ever have opened the credit card for Mrs J, it follows that it 
should never have been in a position to offer her credit limit increases either. However, for 
completeness, Ive seen nothing to suggest her circumstances had significantly improved by 
the time MSFS increased her limits. I therefore think MSFS acted unfairly in giving Mrs J the 
initial increase and subsequent limit increases. 
As I think MSFS acted unfairly, Ive thought about a fair way to put things right. It isnt 
possible to undo the lending decisions and as Mrs J has spent the money she borrowed, 
I consider it reasonable for her to pay that back. However, as she should never have had to 
pay it back in the first place, its fair that MSFS removes all interest, fees, charges and 
insurances (if any) that were applied to the account. 
It should therefore re-work the credit card as if Mrs J was only required to repay the capital 
she borrowed. I think it is also fair for any adverse information relating to this account to be 
removed from her credit file once she has repaid the capital balance she borrowed.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Marks & Spencer Financial 
Services Plc to:
Re-work the credit card removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not 
already refunded).
If the re-work results in a credit balance this should be refunded to Mrs J alongside 
8% simple interest per year, calculated from the date the account would have first 
gone into a credit balance to the date of settlement. MSFS should also remove any 
adverse information it might have recorded on Mrs Js credit file in relation to this account.  
Or;
If the re-work results in there still being an outstanding capital balance, MSFS should 
arrange a suitable and affordable repayment plan with Mrs J for the remaining 
amount. Once the capital has been repaid MSFS should then remove any adverse 
information it might have recorded on Mrs Js credit file in relation to this account. 
If MSFS considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award, it should 
provide Mrs J with a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off so that she can 
reclaim that amount, if she is eligible to do so.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman