DRN-2619062
The complaint
Mr K complains about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds handling of his buildings insurance 
claim.
What happened
In 2018, Mr K made a claim after his property was flooded. It was found that the flooding had 
washed away the sub soils and had caused subsidence. Fairmead accepted the claim, and 
arranged for repairs to take place by its contractor (that Ill call B). 
After repairs had started, a basement wall was found to be bowing. Fairmead accepted that 
the flood damage had likely caused this problem, and so it asked a contractor (that Ill call 
O) to design a stabilising scheme for the wall. 
Meanwhile, Mr K had concerns about Bs workmanship. Repairs had stopped at that time 
due to the lockdown imposed by the Government during the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr K was 
reluctant to allow B to return to the property to complete the repairs. Fairmead therefore paid 
Mr K a cash settlement to arrange for his own contractor to complete the repairs. 
Unhappy with this, Mr K brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. As Mr K didnt want Fairmeads 
contractor to complete the repairs, she thought it had been reasonable for Fairmead to pay 
him a cash settlement. Although Mr K had raised concerns about the cash settlement 
amount, this was based on commercial rates. And our investigator said Mr K hadnt provided 
any evidence that additional works should be included in the schedule of work. Finally, our 
investigator thought the stabilisation scheme put forward by O had been reasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Repairs completed by B
Mr K raised a number of concerns about the quality of Bs workmanship. 
B failed to apply for building control permission before starting the roof repairs. Though as 
our investigator has said, this has now been done and there doesnt appear to be any 
ongoing impact caused by this error.
B placed some electrical sockets and switches in places where they werent previously. They 
also incorporated electrical trunking details where trunking wasnt previously used. However, 
I see that B was willing to put these issues right. 
B installed some reinforcement bars in a wall, but these werent installed properly. Though I 
understand that this issue will become irrelevant once the retaining wall repair takes place.
Mr K points out that B had placed rubble sacks against the subsiding basement wall. Ive 
seen photos of this, though I dont know when those photos were taken, and so they may 
have been taken before the issue with the basement wall was known.
Mr K was also concerned that B didnt use lateral supports when doing the crack repairs. Its 
accepted that B was required to use lateral supports, and they say that they did. I 
understand that Mr K thinks they didnt do so because some new hairline cracks have 
appeared in some of the places where the repairs took place. 
Its not known for certain whether B used lateral supports, and unless opening up works take 
place, this cant be established. Fairmeads engineer thought the hairline cracking was very 
slight and that it had occurred as a result of a combination of shrinkage of the repaired area, 
decoration over previously debonded plastered areas, and thermal movements. 
Nonetheless, I see that Fairmead allowed for this to be put right in its cash settlement, which 
seems reasonable given Mr Ks concerns. Though I cant say, based on the evidence Ive 
seen, that B failed to use lateral supports and that there was poor quality of work in that 
respect.
B had also left the property in a mess, however, as our investigator has pointed out, B hadnt 
completed the repairs when they left the site. 
Mr K says the new windows and front door that B arranged to be fitted dont meet building 
regulations, but I havent seen evidence of that. Mr K was provided with the relevant FENSA 
certificates which I understand to be evidence that the installations complied with building 
regulations. 
Mr K also explains that the new front door didnt have a decorative aspect that the original 
door had. Fairmead accepted this, but again, this was something that B was willing to 
change. I dont think the lack of decorative detail to the new door means the workmanship 
itself was poor.  
Overall, whilst its apparent there were some issues with Bs work, I dont think its 
reasonable to say the workmanship was of such poor quality that Fairmead ought to have 
arranged for a different contractor to finish the repairs. I think it was appropriate for Fairmead 
to instead expect B to address the issues identified by Mr K when it finished the repairs, 
which I note B wanted to do. However, Mr K chose not to allow B to return, which was of 
course his decision to make. 
Given the breakdown of the relationship between Mr K and B, I think it was reasonable for 
Fairmead to pay Mr K a cash settlement so that he could arrange for his own contractor to 
complete the repairs. 
Cash settlement
Mr K is unhappy with the amount Fairmead has paid him, as he doesnt think this is enough 
to cover all the remaining repairs. However, as our investigator has said, he hasnt provided 
evidence to support that there ought to be additional work included in the schedule of work. 
Fairmeads cash settlement was based on commercial rates rather than the discounted rates 
it would have paid B to complete the repairs. That means the cash settlement amount should 
be sufficient for Mr Ks own contractor to complete the repairs. I note that Fairmead had also previously suggested to Mr K that he arrange for his own 
contractor to review the remaining work needed and quote for this. Mr K didnt do so, and 
therefore hasnt shown that the cash settlement isnt a fair amount for the remaining repairs. 
Mr K has now engaged the services of an engineer and surveyor, and I understand that 
theyve inspected the property. If those specialists believe there to be additional repairs 
necessary as a result of the flooding and/or subsidence that havent been accounted for in 
the schedule of work, then Mr K should provide that information to Fairmead for its 
consideration. 
Damp
I understand theres evidence of rising damp in the basement, and that some of the repairs 
carried out by B are failing due to this. I see that O had remarked that damp was prevalent 
throughout the basement as it was an untanked subterranean room, and the wall with the 
rising damp had no damp proof course. 
Mr Ks surveyor thought an inner wall in the basement (removed by B) may have had a 
damp-proof arrangement. Though as our investigator has said, the initial reports carried out 
by Fairmeads loss adjuster commented on the walls of the basement not having any form of 
damp-proofing protection. Fairmead therefore didnt need to include the cost of damp-
proofing in its cash settlement, because if it did so, this would be placing Mr K in a better 
position than he was in previously. 
Stabilisation of the basement wall
When repairs were taking place in the basement, B removed an inner wall of concrete 
blockwork, which revealed an external brick wall. The external wall was found to have 
several cracks and was bowing.
O said it was impossible to determine whether this was a direct result of the flooding, or as a 
result of long-term pressures applied by the external retained soil - though it thought it was 
likely to be a combination of the two. O put forward a scheme to stabilise the wall. 
Mr Ks surveyor thought that prior to any stabilisation works taking place, monitoring should 
be carried out to establish whether there was ongoing movement to the wall. However, I note 
that Fairmead was working off the basis that there would likely be movement in the future, 
and thats why it asked O to create a stabilisation scheme. I think that was reasonable, and 
therefore there was no need for monitoring to take place on the wall. Fairmead had carried 
out monitoring at the property previously and found there wasnt ongoing significant 
movement. 
Mr K thought Os report had indicated that damp-proofing work was needed before the 
structural work could take place to the basement wall. I agree that O couldve been clearer 
about this. Fairmead therefore checked this with O. 
O responded to say that their previous reference to damp-proofing related to the internal wall 
which divided the front left-hand room from the remaining basement. And that there was no 
requirement for damp-proofing works to take place in advance of its proposal to stabilise the 
front basement wall.
Im therefore satisfied that Fairmead wasnt responsible for arranging damp-proofing works 
before the stabilisation scheme could go ahead. Mr K isnt happy with the proposal put forward by O to stabilise the wall. However, I think it 
was reasonable for Fairmead to rely on Os proposal. Mr K hasnt provided evidence to 
support that the proposal wouldnt have worked. Although Mr K has made reference to a 
piling scheme, I can see that O considered piling and provided a reasonable explanation as 
to why this wouldnt be suitable given the restrictions within the basement. 
Fairmead had been willing for O to complete the stabilisation scheme even though a cash 
settlement had been paid in respect of the other repairs. I think that was reasonable.
However, since then, matters have moved on. As Mr K didnt allow O to start the stabilisation 
scheme, O decided that because of the delays, it wasnt going to do the work. Because of 
this, Fairmead paid Mr K a cash settlement for the stabilisation scheme. It has also included 
costs for a structural engineer and party wall surveyor.
I can see that O was trying to move matters forward for several months, but it was apparent 
that Mr K didnt want to go ahead with the scheme that O had put forward. That being the 
case, I think it was reasonable for Fairmead to have paid Mr K a cash settlement based on 
the cost of Os scheme, so that he can arrange for the wall to be stabilised himself. I 
understand hes in the process of arranging this.
Alternative accommodation
Mr K and his family will need to remain in alternative accommodation whilst the basement 
wall is stabilised and the remaining repairs take place. However, as Fairmead has now paid 
the £50,000 policy limit for alternative accommodation, I dont require it to fund any further 
payments in this respect. Whilst some of the delays with the claim were caused by the 
impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, its also the case that Mr K caused delays by not 
proceeding with Os requests to allow them to initiate party wall negotiations before the 
stabilisation works could begin. 
Although Mr K was under no obligation to agree to Os proposal to stabilise the wall, a cash 
settlement in this respect couldve been paid far sooner by Fairmead if hed wanted (I note 
that he was given that option by Fairmead). Consequently, I cant reasonably require 
Fairmead to pay for further alternative accommodation costs beyond what it has paid, which 
is the policy limit.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman