DRN-2438721
The complaint
  Miss O is unhappy that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) charged her 
for damage to her car windscreen after shed voluntarily terminated the finance agreement. 
What happened
 In 2016 Miss O financed a new car through a hire purchase agreement with VWFS. The 
agreement was for £16,313 over 3 years; with monthly payments of £255.87 and a final 
payment of £9,713.75 payable at the end of the agreement. In 2019 Miss O took the option 
to voluntarily terminate the finance agreement and return the car to VWFS.
VWFS arranged to inspect the car on the day of the termination. Miss O wasnt present at 
the inspection, but her father was there on her behalf. The inspector said there was damage 
to the windscreen. And VWFS said this damage exceeded the fair wear and tear guidelines 
set out by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). As a result of this, 
they charged Miss O £272.55 for the damaged windscreen.
Miss O complained to VWFS about the charge for the damage. She said that the damage 
occurred the day before the car was collected, while it was being professionally cleaned. 
She said that the professional cleaner told her this was a manufacturing defect. And she said 
the inspector agreed with this and told her father that she wouldnt be charged. But VWFS 
didnt agree and Miss O brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for 
investigation.
Our investigator appreciated that Miss O believed this was a manufacturing defect, but he 
said hed seen no evidence this was the case. He also said that Miss O couldve asked the 
inspector not to come and made her own arrangements to repair the windscreen. But, 
because the damage was present when the car was returned to VWFS, he felt they were 
entitled to charge Miss O for this.
Miss O didnt agree with the investigator. She said that the inspector told her she wouldnt be 
charged for the damage. And when she said shed keep the car and repair the damage 
herself, she was told this wasnt necessary because it was a clear manufacturing fault. So 
shes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 11 November 2020, where I explained my intention to 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said:
The terms of the agreement Miss O had with VWFS allowed them to charge for any damage 
caused by her not taking reasonable care of the car. So, the issue here is what caused the 
damage to the windscreen, and whether Miss O shouldve been charged for it. Windscreens 
can be damaged through wear and tear, for example by a stone chip; or by the failure to take 
reasonable care which might result in scratching or cracking. But theyre not a part of a car 
that youd expect to deteriorate through usage and need replacing within three years.
Ive seen a copy of the inspectors report, and this doesnt say the damage to the windscreen 
was caused by wear and tear. It says there was a suspected fault in the screen lamination 
process. Miss O wasnt present when the inspection of her car took place, but her father 
was. And she says the inspector told her father the windscreen damage was caused by a 
manufacturing defect  he thought this because the scratch couldnt be felt from either the 
outside or the inside of the windscreen. And this was also what the professional cleaning 
company had told Miss O.
Its not disputed that, if the damage to the windscreen had been caused by Miss O failing to 
take reasonable care, or by something like a stone chip, and that damage fell outside of 
BVRLA guidelines; VWFS would be entitled to charge Miss O for this.
But, the inspector didnt say this was the case. So I now need to consider whether the 
windscreen was durable  this means the components of the car must last a reasonable 
amount of time. And if they dont, as the supplier of goods, VWFS are responsible.  
As Ive said, a reasonable person would expect a windscreen to last a reasonable amount of 
time. And no reasonable person would expect to have to replace a windscreen after just 
three years because the laminate has deteriorated. The inspector felt the damage wasnt 
caused by Miss O failing to take reasonable care of the car but was caused by a 
manufacturing defect. And, because of this, I think its reasonable to say the windscreen 
mustve been defective when Miss O took possession of the car. Its unfortunate timing that it 
failed just before Miss O was due to return the car. But, because the windscreen wasnt 
durable, the car didnt conform to contract.
Where goods are faulty, the Consumer Right Act 2015 says the consumer has the right to 
reject them. It also says that goods can be rejected when, after one attempt at repair, the 
goods still do not conform to the contract. Because Miss O was returning the car the same 
day it was inspected (and the day after the fault in the windscreen became apparent), theres 
been no opportunity for any repair to take place. But this doesnt mean that VWFS dont 
have to do anything.
Given the above, I dont think Miss O failed to take reasonable car of the car as the fault was 
most likely a manufacturing defect. And, having regard to the terms implied by the Consumer 
Rights Act, because the manufacturing defect mustve been present when the car was 
supplied, VWFS are responsible for fixing the damage. But Miss O no longer has the car. 
So, having regard to all the circumstances and the relevant law, I think it's fair and 
reasonable for VWFS not to charge Miss O for the manufacturing defect in the windscreen.
For the reasons explained above I intend to uphold Miss Os complaint. Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited should:
Amend their records to show that Miss O doesnt owe them any money for the 
damage to the windscreen.
Amend Miss Os credit file to remove any adverse entries relating to the above.
Pay Miss O £100 to recognise the stress and inconvenience chasing her for the cost 
of the replacement windscreen has caused.
Responses
Miss O didnt respond to my provisional decision, but VWFS did. And they didnt agree with 
me. They said Id ruled in the customers favour solely based on the customers testimony 
and they wanted to understand why I did this, and what evidence I relied on to reach my 
conclusion.Theyve also said the damage was caused by the cleaning company and suspect this might 
have been caused by a stone in the cloth or the product used. But, regardless of the cause, 
they said the damage was outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines. So they feel they 
shouldnt be responsible for the cost of the replacement windscreen.
Finally VWFS dont think they should compensate Miss O £100 for a charge that is outside 
of BVRLA fair wear and tear guidelines and therefore correctly invoiced for.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In addressing the comments made by VWFS, Id like to specifically refer to the Vehicle 
Inspection Report, a copy of which they provided to us on 5 May 2020. In this report the 
inspector refers to the scratch as being a suspected fault in the screen lamination 
process. And, according to Miss O, the inspector explained this conclusion had been 
reached because the scratch couldnt be felt from either the inside or outside of the 
windscreen. So the damage was contained entirely within the windscreen itself.
And verbal evidence is still evidence, so it shouldnt be discounted just because theres no 
recording of the conversation. But in this case, the verbal evidence provided by Miss O is 
supported by the written evidence  the inspection report  provided by VWFS.
Because of this, Im satisfied that the combination of the verbal and written evidence is 
sufficient to show that this was most likely a manufacturing defect, not damage to the car. 
And, with a manufacturing defect, the BVRLA guidelines for fair wear and tear damage dont 
apply. Whats more, because this was most likely a manufacturing defect, I cant agree that it 
was damage caused by the cleaning company using a cloth with a stone in it and/or the 
wrong type of cleaning product.
For the reasons fully explained in my provisional decision, as Miss O was supplied with a 
brand-new car, any manufacturing defect mustve been present when it was supplied. So 
VWFS are liable for the costs of the repair, not Miss O. Despite this, VWFS chased Miss O 
for the cost of the replacement windscreen, even though shed argued that VWFSs own 
evidence showed it to be a manufacturing defect and not damage under the BVRLA 
guidelines. This caused her unnecessary stress and inconvenience. And I maintain my 
provisional view that VWFS should compensate Miss O for this.
  
Putting things right
 For the reasons explained above VWFS should:
Amend their records to show that Miss O doesnt owe them any money for the 
damage to the windscreen.
Amend Miss Os credit file to remove any adverse entries relating to the above.
Pay Miss O £100 to recognise the stress and inconvenience chasing her for the cost 
of the replacement windscreen has caused.
 
My final decision
  For the reasons explained above I uphold Miss Os complaint. Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman