DRN-3627856
Complaint
Miss V has complained about a guarantor loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Trust 
Two) provided to her. She says that if the appropriate financial checks had been completed 
it would have been clear that she wasnt in a good financial situation at the time.
Background
Trust Two provided Miss V with a guarantor loan for £4,000.00 in February 2018. This loan 
was due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £156.34.
One of our investigators reviewed what Miss V and Trust Two had told us. And he thought 
that Trust Two hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss V unfairly. So he didnt 
recommend that Miss Vs complaint be upheld. Miss V disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Vs complaint.
Trust Two needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Trust Two needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
Miss V could afford to repay before providing her with this guarantor loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Trust Two provided Miss V with a loan for £4,000.00 in February 2018. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 60 instalments of £156.34. Trust Two says it agreed to Miss Vs application after 
she provided details of her monthly income and some information on her expenditure. It says 
it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out and all of this 
information showed Miss V could afford to make the repayments she was committing to. On 
the other hand, Miss V has said she wasnt in a good financial position at the time.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss V and Trust Two have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Trust Two has provided a record of the results of its credit 
searches. Trust Two searches appear to show that while Miss V had had previous difficulties 
with credit she didnt have any outstanding credit commitments at that time. Furthermore, the 
rest of the information gathered from Miss V about her income and expenditure didnt flag up 
anything concerning either. 
I accept that Miss Vs actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the other information Trust Two obtained. And I know that      
Miss V has said that she lost her job three months after the loan was provided. But the key 
here is that Trust Two couldnt have known that this would happen afterwards. All Trust Two 
could do was make a decision based on the information it had available at the time.
Trust Two was providing a loan for a relatively small sum  albeit at a high rate of interest. 
And its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, the lack of obvious 
inconsistencies and Trust Two was reasonably entitled to rely on what Miss V had said 
about her historic defaults, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
have extended into the level of checks Miss V is suggesting. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Trust Two did anything wrong when deciding to lend to 
Miss V - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Trust Two treated Miss V unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing her with her loan. And Im not upholding Miss Vs complaint. I appreciate this will 
be very disappointing for Miss V. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman