DRN-3734017
The complaint
Mr H and Mr H complain about a missing payment sent from their account with Santander 
UK Plc.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for these reasons:
On 26 April 2022 Mr H and Mr H made the payment which was released following 
checks by Santander on 05 May. Although there was a delay in sending the 
payment, as the payment didnt reach the intended account, Im satisfied this delay 
wouldnt have had any impact on Mr H and Mr H. 
On 17 May Santander checked the payee details and the money was confirmed as 
being sent to the correct third-party account. So, Im satisfied that Santander didnt 
make any error when sending the payment.
Two days after the payment details were checked, Santander put a trace on the 
payment, and it said it would text Mr H and Mr H when it heard back from the third-
party bank. 
On 13 June and then again on 30 June Mr H chased the payment as he hadnt heard 
from Santander. By this point Mr H says he had chased several times and visited a 
branch. On 06 July the payment was returned. 
From the information Ive seen from both parties, Im satisfied that the payment going 
missing and the delay was no fault of Santanders and most like at the receiving 
bank. 
I understand Mr H has referred to our published compensation levels when he calculated 
what he thinks the compensation should be. As each case is dealt with on its own individual 
merits, Ive thought about the impact Santanders actions have had on Mr H and Mr H. Its 
also worth noting that Mr H has referred to an amount where the business has made an 
error, and Ive not found Santander have made any error when sending the payment here. 
In summary I havent found Santander have made any error when it sent the payment, so 
Im not persuaded the compensation amount should be increased to the amount Mr H has 
suggested. I do agree with the investigator that there was no proactive contact from 
Santander to provide an update with the trace and missing funds. Although there may not 
have been any updates to pass on, it took Mr H calling in several times to find this out, and 
Im satisfied Santanders customer service couldve been better at that point.  
Santander have acknowledged that it couldve handled the situation better and awarded £75. 
Having considered the impact Mr H said the missing payment had on him and having seen 
the number of times Mr H chased the payment, I think the amount should be increased to 
£125 to recognise the time spent and the inconvenience this caused. The payment fee 
should also be returned.  
Putting things right
Santander should increase its compensation amount from £75 to £125 and refund the £25 
payment fee.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr H and Mr Hs complaint against Santander UK Plc
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman