DRN-2781307
The complaint
Mr B says Fund Ourselves Limited lent to him irresponsibly. He says that he had to borrow 
from other sources to make the loan repayments. He also says he was reliant on short term 
lending to meet his everyday living costs. He thinks that Fund Ourselves shouldve seen this 
and not lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about four instalment loans Fund Ourselves provided to Mr B between 
December 2018 and August 2019.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedmonthly 
instalmentsrepayment date ended
1 14/12/2018 £200 4 £91.60 21/12/2018
2 12/02/2019 £250 4 £114.00 26/02/2019
3 01/04/2019 £400 4 £192.80 26/07/2019
4 17/08/2019 £100 4 £45.20 26/11/2019
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that the checks made by Fund 
Ourselves were proportionate and so it was reasonable to approve these loans. 
Mr B disagreed and said that he was taking multiple loans from other businesses and that 
Fund Ourselves should have seen this. He also said that he had other similar complaints 
that had been upheld. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Fund Ourselves needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr B could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Fund Ourselves should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint and Ive have explained why below.
All of these loans had a term of four months. The monthly repayment for loan one was just 
over £90. This rose to £114 for loan 2 and £190 for loan 3. The repayment fell to £45 for loan 
3. 
Ive seen a record of the information Mr B provided when he completed his loan applications. 
Mr B said he had a monthly income of around £3,200 and he had regular monthly outgoings 
of around £1,500. So, it would have been reasonable for Fund Ourselves to have thought 
that Mr B could have afforded to make the repayments, based on the information he 
declared. 
Mr B repaid these loans either early or on time. And there were some shorter breaks 
between loans 1 and 2. Which suggest that Mr B wasnt becoming reliant on the lending. So, 
I dont think the lending pattern itself wouldve looked problematic to Fund Ourselves. 
The crux of Mr Bs objection to the lending is that he feels Fund Ourselves should have 
made more in-depth checks. Had it done this, it wouldve seen he was in financial difficulty. 
But given the amounts borrowed against his income, and that that it was early in the lending 
relationship, I dont think its reasonable to say Fund Ourselves should have looked into his 
finances in more detail.
I havent seen any further information that showed it was likely Fund Ourselves was made 
aware of any financial problems Mr B mightve been having. It has provided its credit checks. 
But I dont think these show the information Mr B refers to, and that he thinks Fund 
Ourselves shouldve seen. And Ive not seen any other information that wouldve prompted it 
to investigate his circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Fund Ourselves to 
rely on the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Fund Ourselves did for these 
loans were proportionate. And I think its decisions to lend for loans 1 to 4 were reasonable.  
Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about them. 
Mr B has noted that this service has looked at some of his other complaints. These are 
about similar lending over a similar time period. Mr B has said its not clear to him why he 
has received compensation in respect of some of these cases and not others. 
I cant provide a full answer to Mr B on this issue as I can only look at the complaint about 
Fund Ourselves as part of this decision. And I have a statutory responsibility to look at each complaint individually. But a large part of my what I have thought about in this complaint 
concerns what Fund Ourselves did before approving credit. Ive made a decision about 
whether it did, or didnt, do enough before approving these loans. 
But there can be differences between how businesses approve lending and this can lead to 
different outcomes when consumers circumstances are similar. As one business has done 
enough, whereas another hasnt. And this is what has happened in Mr Bs complaints. So 
again, I apologise for the lack of detail here, but I hope this explanation is helpful. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman