DRN-2082671
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited dealt with a claim for 
subsidence under his home insurance policy.
All references to Lloyds include their appointed agents.
What happened
In August 2017, Mr D submitted a claim to Lloyds after noticing some cracks in his property. 
Lloyds accepted the claim and appointed a contractor to investigate the cause of the 
damage. 
Following site investigations and monitoring it was determined the cause of damage was 
linked to tree roots and vegetation belonging to a third party. The vegetation was removed in 
March 2019, and the site monitored to ensure the cause of the movement had been 
addressed.
Lloyds then requested Mr Ds excess payment so it could start repairs to the property, but he 
said he had already paid it 18 months ago near the start of the claim. There followed a delay 
of some weeks whilst Mr Ds excess payment was found by Lloyds.
The repairs to the property were done in July 2019. Following the repairs, Mr D raised some 
concerns with Lloyds and requested a certificate of structural adequacy (COSA). He was 
concerned no repair work had been done to the foundations of the property and to prevent 
future problems with the vegetation. Lloyds provided Mr D with a certificate of structural 
adequacy which guaranteed the repairs for 12 months and said it had told the third party of 
their responsibilities in maintaining the vegetation.
Mr D then raised a complaint with Lloyds. He said the delay in locating his excess payment 
and progressing his claim had been stressful. He wanted copies of the letters Lloyds sent to 
the third party and said that only cosmetic repairs to the property had been carried out.
Lloyds responded to Mr D. It offered £200 for the delays and upset caused in locating his 
excess payment. It also agreed to send Mr D a timeline of the contact it had with the third 
party. Lloyds said it had repaired Mr Ds property in line with the terms of the policy and 
wouldnt cover further work to prevent a potential future event. It said the COSA showed the 
property was structurally sound and as the cause of damage had been identified and 
removed, further investigations and works werent required.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mr D referred the complaint to our service. He said he 
wanted the underground repairs undertaken and a longer guarantee provided for the works 
that could be transferred to any new owners of the property.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint not be upheld. He 
found Lloyds offer of compensation was reasonable for the delays and upset caused. He 
considered the cause of damage and repairs carried out by Lloyds, and concluded it had 
acted fairly based on the recommendations in the expert reports. He wasnt persuaded it 
needed to do further investigations or repairs to the foundations, and he was satisfied with 
the actions it took in relation to the third party.
Mr D disagreed with our investigators opinion. He said he accepted the future 
responsibilities of the third party but didnt believe the property had been returned to its full 
state before the damage. He said no-one had inspected the damage below ground since the 
initial investigations, and it was reasonable to assume the damage had worsened due to the 
delays in the claim. Mr D also said he would be more inclined to accept Lloyds position if its 
contractor reassessed the damage below ground and replaced any damaged bricks at the 
same time.
Our investigator responded to Mr Ds comments. He said he was satisfied the certificate of 
structural adequacy confirmed the repair works were successful. He found the evidence 
didnt show further repair works were required  instead it showed the property had settled 
and as such returned to its previous state. 
Mr D asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why 
below.
Ive considered the repair work carried out by Lloyds and whether this amounts to an 
effective and lasting repair of the damage. Ive also considered the report provided by 
Lloyds contractors and any recommendations within, in order to assess if Lloyds has treated 
Mr D fairly in the handling of this claim.
 
The report states Provided the property stabilises as expected, no foundation stabilisation 
works are considered necessary, with structural repairs of the superstructure being required 
only, together with internal redecoration of the damaged rooms. The report also notes the 
cause of damage to the property was indicative of subsidence as a result of shrinkage of 
clay subsoil due to the moisture extracting influence of various trees situated to the right-
hand side of the property. 
Ive next considered the steps Lloyds took upon receipt of this information. From the 
evidence I can see investigations were done to the property, drains, and soil to locate the 
cause of the damage. Once the likely cause of damage was found, monitoring of the ground 
movement was also done before and after the vegetation was removed. And it was only 
once the ground had settled following the removal of vegetation that repairs were done. So I 
am satisfied Lloyds acted reasonably on the information provided from the initial survey.
Lloyds contractor didnt think further stabilisation works were needed provided the property 
stabilised as expected. This was also based on the findings in the initial report. As a whole I 
am persuaded by their position, particularly because it is based on the opinions of two 
experts who both inspected the property. In order for me to be persuaded that further 
investigations or repairs are necessary, I would need to see evidence to suggest why the 
initial contractors position was incorrect. 
Mr D has said it is reasonable to assume further damage will have been caused to the 
foundations over the lifetime of the claim. But I dont agree. I say this because Lloyds carried out further monitoring of the property following the repairs and found no further signs of 
abnormal movement. And if the foundations were sufficiently damaged it is likely the 
monitoring would have shown this. 
In addition, the COSA provided shows the property is structurally sound. So for more 
investigations to be covered under the policy, there would need to be evidence of a further 
insured event. As Ive not seen any evidence to support this I wont be requiring Lloyds to do 
anything further with regard to this claim.
Ive considered the matter of compensation for the delays caused with locating Mr Ds 
excess payment  and the additional time this would have added to his claim. I agree this 
matter would have caused Mr D some upset  particularly as he was on holiday at the time 
this happened. And having looked at everything I am satisfied Lloyds offer of £200 
compensation fairly reflects the upset caused here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds offer of compensation is 
reasonable, and I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman