DRN-3388061
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with the amount Zurich Insurance plc (Zurich) has offered them 
towards their costs following damage they say was caused to their property by Zurich whilst 
it carried out repairs in connection with a claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Cs home was damaged by a storm in March 2020. Zurich accepted Mr and Mrs 
Cs claim for storm damage and arranged for its contractor (M) to carry out repairs to their 
property. Mr and Mrs C say the repairs were completed in June 2020. 
Mr and Mrs C say that the scaffolding installed by M over their conservatory to facilitate the 
repairs damaged their property. Mr and Mrs C say that once the scaffolding had been 
dismantled, water began to ingress into their conservatory.
Zurich note Mr C reported the damage in August 2020. Zurich say it repaired damage to Mr 
and Mrs Cs conservatory blinds but said the conservatory roof had been damaged by wear 
and tear and not by its agent.
 
Zurich say that in November 2020 Mr C called it to advise that snagging from the storm 
repairs still hadnt been addressed. Mr and Mrs C say they became frustrated because - not 
only did they want the snagging corrected  they also wanted Zurich to assess the damage 
they said had been caused to their conservatory roof by the scaffold. Mr and Mrs C say 
appointments were made with Zurichs agents to inspect the damage, but no-one arrived.
 
Around a month or so later, Mr and Mrs C complained. Zurichs final response in February 
2021 was to offer Mr and Mrs C £350 compensation and arrange for a different contractor 
(D) to inspect the damage. Mr and Mrs C responded that they were happy with what Zurich 
had determined. The inspection took place on 16 February 2020. 
Ds report concluded that most of damage itd seen hadnt been caused by the scaffold. It 
said the water ingress had been caused by an end cap on the conservatory working itself 
loose because silicone sealant had perished. But it did say that the damage to the edges of 
Mr and Mrs Cs conservatory roof panels may have been caused by the scaffold. Mr and Mrs 
C brought their complaint to us because they were unhappy with the findings of this report 
and felt the scaffold had damaged more than just their roof panels.
Zurich issued a further final response to Mr and Mrs C on 29 April 2021. It said it would 
rectify the issues with the roof panels and offered Mr and Mrs C a further £350 
compensation. It also said itd consider any independent report Mr and Mrs C may want to 
provide.
 
In June 2021, Mr and Mrs C employed their own contractor to carry out work to rectify the 
issues with their conservatory roof. 
At the beginning of July 2021, Mr and Mrs C sent us a copy of their own experts report. Mr 
and Mrs C felt the report concluded that the damage to their roof as well as their guttering 
had been caused by the scaffold. Mr and Mrs C provided us with a copy of the receipt for the 
cost of their report and an invoice for the work theyd paid for, which the invoice noted as 
work to their guttering and other work.
Our investigators view was that Zurich should cover 50% of what Mr and Mrs C had paid to 
repair the damage.  She said this was fair because both Zurichs and Mr and Mrs Cs reports 
mentioned two possible causes for the damage - the scaffold and wear and tear  and its 
difficult to attribute the damage to a particular cause. Our investigator also said Zurich 
should pay Mr and Mrs C half of what their experts report cost them and that the £350 
compensation Zurich had offered Mr and Mrs C was fair.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the view. They said Zurich should pay 100% of their costs and 
compensation for the missed appointments and the time theyd had to spend speaking to 
builders about the cause of the problem. Mr and Mrs C asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Zurich responded noting that neither its own nor Mr and Mrs Cs report said the damage to 
the guttering was caused by the scaffold, so it felt it should only cover cost of the damage to 
the roof panels. But despite our investigators award, Zurich said that the roof panels may 
have been more expensive than the guttering and offered instead to pay 70% of Mr and Mrs 
Cs costs rather than 50%.
Mr and Mrs C then said theyd be prepared to accept Zurichs offer of 70% of their costs. 
They also said theyd be prepared to accept the £350 further compensation Zurich had 
offered as well as 50% of the cost of their experts report. 
Our investigator relayed what Mr and Mrs C were prepared to accept to Zurich.  Zurich said 
it was still willing to pay 70% of Mr and Mrs Cs costs and the further £350 compensation, 
but nothing towards the cost of Mr Cs report because the report hadnt presented any new 
information and didnt change its stance. It also said the addition of interest to the 70% 
contribution wouldnt be appropriate.
 
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with this because they felt Zurich should pay the interest and 
50% of their report costs. They asked again for an ombudsmans decision.
 
After Id considered all the available evidence to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I reached a different outcome to our investigator. Because 
the outcome was different, I issued a provisional decision giving both parties a further 
chance to comment on my findings ahead of issuing my final decision. 
My provisional decision
I explained my provisional findings to both parties as follows:
 
Cause of damage
Both Zurich and Mr and Mrs C provided expert reports on the cause of the damage to Mr 
and Mrs Cs roof. Mr and Mrs Cs report notes that the roof panels have been damaged but 
doesnt say the guttering has also been damaged. Instead, Mr and Mrs Cs report 
recommends correcting the gutterings back falls and the installing additional brackets, down 
pipes and a stop end. None of which appear to be repairs to correct damage caused by a 
scaffold. So, I cant say on balance Mr and Mrs Cs guttering was damaged by the scaffold 
and that it should be paid for by Zurich. So I think its fair and reasonable that Zurich only 
cover the damage to Mr and Mrs Cs roof panels. 
Mr and Mrs Cs report costs
On 29 April 2021, Zurich wrote to Mr and Mrs C saying it would rectify the issues with their 
roof panels. It also said it would consider any expert report Mr and Mrs C wanted to provide. 
Zurich made this offer before it had been able to review Mr and Mrs Cs expert report, which 
was provided to Zurich after the complaint had been brought to us. 
Mr and Mrs Cs report didnt note any damage that could be attributed to the scaffold that 
Zurich hadnt already identified and had already offered to pay for. So I dont think it would 
be fair for me to ask Zurich to contribute to the cost of Mr and Mrs Cs report because their 
report didnt cause Zurich to change its stance and I think is reasonable  given Mr and Mrs 
Cs report - that Zurich didnt change its stance. 
Interest on Zurichs increased award
Zurich increased its offer to 70% of Mr and Mrs Cs costs, so £770. It said the increase was 
to reflect that fixing the roof panels may possibly have cost more than 50% of Mr and Mrs 
Cs costs, even though it wasnt clear from Mr and Mrs Cs invoice how much theyd paid for 
just the roof panels. Zurich didnt say why it wouldnt be appropriate to pay interest on this 
amount. 
I appreciate Zurich offered to repair the panels in its FRL of 29 April 2021. But despite this  
and given the issues Mr and Mrs C had experienced previously with Zurichs agents not 
arriving when they said they would - I dont think its unreasonable for Mr and Mrs C to 
instead have made their own arrangements to fix the panels.
 
Its unfortunate that Mr and Mrs Cs invoice wasnt itemised. But if Zurich had provided the 
service Id have expected it to after Mr C first reported the damage, Mr and Mrs C most likely 
wouldnt have felt they needed to undertake the repairs themselves. And so wouldnt have 
needed an invoice to show what theyd spent on the roof panels. Because of this - and 
because Zurich said it thought it should pay for the roof panels and that theyd cost 70% of 
Mr and Mrs Cs costs (£770) - I think its fair and reasonable that Zurich also pays interest on 
this amount.
Compensation
Mr and Mrs C told us they were willing to accept Zurichs offer of a second compensation 
payment of £350 for their distress and inconvenience. I think payment of the additional £350 
Zurich has offered Mr and Mrs C is fair and reasonable given their trouble and upset since 
February 2020 when Zurich issued its final response to their first complaint. 
Conclusion
Im minded to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. I think its fair and reasonable that Zurich 
pay Mr and Mrs C the further £350 it has offered them. And I think its fair and reasonable 
that Zurich pay Mr and Mrs C £770 towards their costs plus 8% simple interest on this 
amount from the date of Mr and Mrs Cs invoice. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs Cs said Zurich had taken photos of their conservatory as part of its assessment 
of the storm damage. They asked that I review these photos as they would show the state of 
the conservatory before the scaffold was erected. They said the surveyor whod assessed 
the storm damage had at no time suggested there was any damage other than that caused 
by the storm. Mr and Mrs C also said the only damage thered been since the guttering was pushed back 
into place had been below it. As well, they said thered been no damage that would 
correspond to a missing end cap. They also said that some of the repaired damage had 
returned. 
Zurich said it hadnt been aware Mr and Mrs C had carried out repairs until wed told it they 
had. It said that, because Mr and Mrs C said they wouldnt accept anything less than 100% 
of their costs, it didnt want to inflame the situation by sending 70% of their costs to them 
sooner.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the responses of both parties to my provisional decision. 
Ive reviewed the photographs taken of the damage following the storm before the scaffold 
was erected. But the photos only show part of the guttering.  And because I cant see more 
of the guttering, I cant say on balance that the guttering was in a good condition after the 
storm and before the scaffold had been erected. So Im not persuaded to depart from my 
provisional finding that its fair and reasonable for Zurich to only cover the cost of the roof 
panels and not the guttering. 
Mr and Mrs Cs response mentioned damage that occurred after the guttering had been 
pushed back into place. They said that some of the repaired damage had returned. In the 
first instance, Mr and Mrs C would need to contact Zurich about any further damage theyve 
seen. They would subsequently then be free to raise the matter with this service if they find 
themselves unhappy with Zurichs response.
 
Zurich say it didnt pay 70% of Mr and Mrs Cs costs to them sooner because it didnt want to 
inflame the situation. In my provisional decision, Id said that it wasnt unreasonable for Mr 
and Mrs C to have made their own arrangements to fix and pay for the panels themselves. 
And if Zurich had provided the service Id have expected it to when Mr C first reported the 
damage, Mrs and Mrs C most likely wouldnt have felt they needed to make their own 
arrangements and complain. So Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional finding that 
Zurich should pay interest from the date of Mr and Mrs Cs invoice. 
So, for the reasons outlined above, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings 
and Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint in line with my provisional decision. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
I require Zurich Insurance plc to pay Mr and Mrs C £770 plus 8% interest from the 30 June 
2021, which is the date of their invoice for repairs. If Zurich Insurance plc considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr 
and Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs C a certificate showing 
this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.I also require Zurich Insurance plc to pay the additional £350 compensation it has already 
offered to pay them. Zurich Insurance plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs C accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman