DRN-4183474
The complaint
Mr A complains that Sabre Insurance Company Limited have unfairly charged the policy 
excess on a claim made under his commercial motor insurance policy.
Any reference to Sabre includes its agents.
What happened
Mr A took out a commercial motor insurance policy for his vehicle which he uses for work. 
The policy is underwritten by Sabre.
He had an accident and reported the incident to Sabre. His vehicle was repaired but Mr A 
was told that he had to pay the excess. Mr A disputed this saying that it was written in his 
documents that if he reported the incident within 24 hours, he wouldnt be charged an 
excess. Sabre disagreed with this but did offer a 50% reduction of the excess amount. 
Unhappy with this, Mr A made a complaint to Sabre. It said that the policy excess reduction 
to zero was only applicable if Mr A had met all the policy conditions. One of those conditions 
was that he had to use one of Sabres approved repairers. As Mr A had chosen not to use 
an approved repairer, Sabre said the removal of the policy excess didnt apply on this claim. 
It also noted that it shouldnt have offered the 50% reduction of the policy excess, however, it 
accepted that as this was its error, it wouldnt now request the full excess be paid.
Mr A remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into the matter but didnt think that Sabre had acted unfairly in requesting the policy excess 
be paid. Mr A disagreed with our investigator and said the information he had received about 
the policy excess reduction was very misleading and he shouldnt have had to pay this. As 
no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Im reaching the same outcome to that of our investigator for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
The welcome letter sent to Mr A after he took out the policy states the following:
Your insurer will reduce your accidental damage excess by 100% if, further to the 
above stipulations, you report a claim within 24 hours and meet the other 
requirements as detailed in your policy wording, including provide photographs of all 
vehicle involved in the incident OR dashcam footage of the incident within 24 hours 
of the incident.
The same document also confirms that the policy wording is available on the website, and 
the address is provided. In addition, it states that a copy can also be provided to Mr A upon 
request. 
Ive looked at the policy wording and it states:
We will agree to reduce the Accidental Damage Excess in respect of any incident 
which may be the subject of a claim under the policy, provided that all of the following 
conditions are met;
It then lists four main bullet points of things that must occur in order for the excess to be 
reduced. One of these bullet points is as follows:
And You use our Approved Repairers
In the claim notes that have been provided to us, it appears that Mr A chose to use a 
repairer that wasnt one of Sabres approved repairers. As Mr A didnt use an approved 
repairer, he wasnt entitled to an excess reduction as this is a requirement. Im persuaded 
that Sabre was acting in accordance with the policy terms and conditions when refusing an 
excess reduction for Mr A. Im satisfied that it was fair for Sabre to require the excess to be 
paid.
Mr A had said that the list of requirements wasnt detailed in the documents he received and 
therefore it is misleading. I accept that the welcome letter he received didnt list what other 
requirements would need to be met, however, it did state that these were available in the 
policy wording and where he could find this. So, Im satisfied Sabre did enough to explain to 
Mr A the requirements for an excess reduction.  
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman