DRN-3174861
The complaint
Mr G complains that PM Advisory Limited trading as Police Mutual (PM) mis-sold him a 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G took out a mortgage with PM and as part of this, it offered to sell him a home insurance 
policy for the property he was buying. In November 2019 he spoke to the branch of PM that 
sells home insurance and was given a quote. Then when the sale of the property completed 
in February 2020 he spoke to them again and bought the policy. 
In June 2020 there was a burglary at the property and Mr G made a claim on the policy. 
However he was told by the insurer that as his property had been unoccupied for more than 
60 days, he had breached a condition of the policy and his claim was declined. In November, 
after a second theft, PM informed Mr G that due to the breach the policy would be cancelled.
Mr G didnt think this was fair, he said in his initial call with PM about the insurance in 
November 2019 he had advised that he would be completing work on the property before 
moving in, and that he wasnt sure whether this would take more than 60 days or not. And 
the advisor had said that this was fine as long as he let PM know if it went over 60 days. Mr 
G said he called PM in March to tell them it would be unoccupied for longer, but was told that 
the property wouldnt be considered unoccupied as there were people attending regularly. 
So he took no further action. He made a complaint to PM as he felt hed been given wrong 
information that had led to the insurer cancelling his policy.
PM didnt uphold his complaint. It said its advisors had asked Mr G in both the call in 
November 2019 and the one in February 2020 whether the property would be unoccupied 
for more than 60 days and he hadnt confirmed it would be. And it sent him the policy details 
which showed this as a condition of the policy as well as the definition of unoccupied. 
Further, it said it had no record of a call from by Mr G in March.
Mr G wasnt happy with this response, so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said he thought PM had provided the correct information about the policy in a clear and not 
misleading way and hadnt seen enough evidence to show that Mr G was advised a different 
definition of unoccupied on the phone in March 2020. So he didnt think PM had done 
anything wrong when selling the policy.
Mr G didnt agree, he said the first conversation he had with PM had led him to believe  he 
would still be able to have the policy if the unoccupancy of the property went over 60 days. 
He said that he has suffered significant distress due to the matter and was facing having his 
property re-possessed because of it. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has provided a lot of information in relation to the case. As this is an informal service, I 
havent responded to every point he has raised. Instead Ive focussed on those I consider 
most relevant to the outcome Ive reached. However I want to reassure Mr G that I have 
considered everything hes said and provided when reaching my decision.
PM is an insurance intermediary, so was responsible for the sale of the policy. Therefore in 
this decision I will consider whether the sale was carried out correctly, but not comment on 
the decision of the insurer to decline Mr Gs claim or cancel his policy. 
At the heart of this complaint is whether PM provided clear information about the terms of 
the policy when he took it out. I need to decide if PM fairly sold the policy to Mr G and 
provided clear information about it when doing so and afterwards. 
Did PM mis-sell the policy?
Mr Gs policy was sold as part of a non-advised sale. This means, under guidance set by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) it needs to ensure it provided clear, fair and not 
misleading information to its customer about the policy, so that they can decide if it is the 
right one for them. 
To assess this Ive listened to the two calls between Mr G and PM where the policy was 
discussed. One from November 2019 when a quote is obtained, and the second from 
February 2020 when the policy is confirmed. 
In the first call the advisor asks Mr G if the property is likely to be unoccupied for more than 
60 consecutive days and Mr G responds to say he isnt certain but hopes renovations wont 
take that long. The advisor explains that if it is unoccupied for longer there may be extra to 
pay for some of the cover to remain in place. But he confirms that we will record Mr Gs 
answer as No for the purpose of the quote. Mr G accepted this. 
In the second call the advisor read out the information Mr G had provided for the initial quote 
and asked Mr G to confirm it was still correct. This included confirming that the property 
wont be unoccupied for more than 60 days in a year. Mr G confirmed this information was 
correct. 
After both calls, Mr G was sent documents with details of the questions he had answered 
and information about policy cover. This included the policy schedule that confirmed his 
answers to the questions asked, including: Will the property be unoccupied for more than 60 
days in a row? No.
He was also sent a product information document both times, that stated under Are there 
any restrictions on cover?:
If your home is left unoccupied for more than 60 days in a row you wont be covered for:
Escape of oil from pipes, tanks or heating systems.
Malicious damage or vandalism.
Theft or attempted theft
Based on the calls and information provided by PM to Mr G after, I am satisfied that PM 
provided correct information about the policy and presented it in a fair and not mis-leading 
way. While Mr G expressed in the first call that he wasnt certain the renovations would be complete within 60 days and therefore the property might be unoccupied for longer than that, 
PMs advisor made it clear that the quote that was being provided would be on the 
assumption that the answer to that question would be no. And that if the property was 
unoccupied for longer this would have an impact on policy cover. And this was reinforced by 
the documents sent after the call. So I think it would have been clear enough to Mr G that 
the policy was quoted on that basis. 
I understand Mr G thinks he was mis-led by PM in the first call, as he expressed then that 
renovations may take longer and this could lead to the property being unoccupied for more 
than 60 days. However when buying insurance as part of a non-advise sale, the onus is on 
the consumer to provide the correct information about their circumstances and to check the 
policy meets their needs based on the information provided. PM made it clear that the quote 
was based on the property not being unoccupied for more than 60 days, and this was 
confirmed on both calls and all documentation sent to Mr G. So I dont think this was mis-
leading. 
Mr G has also said that as part of his mortgage application with PM he had explained that he 
would be carrying out significant renovations to the property and it should have been clear 
from this that the property wouldnt be habitable for some time. However the mortgage 
application and discussions about the insurance were with different employees, working for 
different parts of the business. And I think its reasonable that this information wasnt passed 
between the two entities. And regardless, it would still be for Mr G to ensure he provided 
correct information when taking out the insurance policy. In this case that information is 
whether the property would be unoccupied for more than 60 days. And the onus is on Mr G 
to ensure that he assesses the information he knows about the renovations in order to 
provide a correct answer. So I dont think it was for PM to deduce this based on the small 
amount of information he provided about the renovations. 
Based on this, Im satisfied PM provided clear and not mis-leading information about the 
policy when selling it to Mr G, so I dont consider the policy to be mis-sold. 
Was incorrect information provided in March 2020 about the definition of 
unoccupied? 
Mr G has also said that when he became aware that the renovations would take longer than 
expected, and the property would be unoccupied for longer than 60 days, he called PM to let 
it know. He says on this call he was told by PM that the property would only be considered 
unoccupied if there was no one attending regularly. 
This is disputed by PM as it says it has been unable to find any calls from Mr G on the date 
and time that he says he called, or the months between March and October 2020 or that his 
profile was accessed throughout this time. 
When facts are disputed, this service considers what was most likely to have happened 
based on the evidence available.  And we assess this based on the balance of probabilities. 
In this case, in order to say that PM had provided incorrect information I need to be 
persuaded that Mr G most likely called PM as he says he did. And I would then also need to 
be persuaded that during this call, he was given an incorrect definition of unoccupied.
Mr G has provided an email from his work that confirms a four minute call was made to PMs 
number at around 9:15am on 20 March 2020. PM has said it has carried out extensive 
searches of calls received at and around this time from the numbers provided by Mr G and 
other numbers. It has also listened to all calls from withheld numbers around that time. And it hasnt been able to find any calls from Mr G. It has provided evidence to show these 
investigations.
It has also provided a screenshot of its internal system that shows when Mr Gs profile has 
been accessed and by which staff member. Its said that when a customer calls, their profile 
will be accessed in order for information to be discussed and provided. From this I can see 
that his profile wasnt accessed at any time around when Mr G said he called PM.
Based on what Ive seen I think its most likely that a call from Mr G wasnt made to PM in 
March 2020. As records of all calls that get through to PM are recorded and there are no 
records of a call during the time indicated by Mr G. 
And even if I was to accept the call was made but cannot be found, Id still need to be 
persuaded that Mr G was advised by PM that the definition of unoccupied is different to that 
listed in the policy. As this is a usual term in insurance, and the definition provided in the 
policy is the usual definition, I think it unlikely this advice would have been given by a PM 
advisor. 
Further the call Mr Gs work has identified is four minutes long, and this doesnt seem like a 
long enough time for a discussion about policy cover to take place. In particular, as having 
listened to previous calls Ive found it takes nearly two and a half minutes of call time to get 
past the initial automated messages that begin each incoming call. 
For these reasons Im not persuaded that Mr G called PM and was wrongly advised about 
the definition of unoccupied after the policy was taken out.
Has PM done anything wrong?
From reviewing all the evidence, I dont think PM has done anything wrong in this case. Im 
satisfied it provided Mr G with correct information about the policy and provided it in a clear 
and not-misleading way. And Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me that Mr G was 
wrongly advised about the policy definitions in March 2020.
I can see that this has been a very difficult time for Mr G and that the cancellation of his 
insurance has had a severe and far reaching impact on many areas of his life, and I really do 
sympathise with his position. However I can only consider the impact of PMs actions as part 
of this decision, and not the impact of the situation overall. And Ive not found that PM has 
got anything wrong here, so I cant say it is responsible for putting things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman