DRN-3842663
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy how American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) handled a claim 
he made in respect of a purchase on his credit card.
What happened
Mr L says he bought flights at the start of 2020 using his credit card which the airline later 
cancelled due to the pandemic.
Mr L says he contacted AESEL soon after to raise a claim with it for a refund. However, he 
says that it told him that he was unable to make a claim and therefore he pursued a refund 
with the airline directly.
Around mid-2022 Mr L made a claim to AESEL for his money after not getting it from the 
airline. AESEL considered it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 
75) and upheld it  offering him a refund. 
Mr Ls complaint to this service is that as a result of what AESEL told him when he first got in 
touch he has been trying to get a refund from the airline for two years which has caused him 
stress and wasted his time. 
AESEL disagrees that it did anything wrong. It says it doesnt have records of calls from the 
time Mr L says he first got in touch  but it has information to show it raised a claim for him in 
June 2020 and that it sent him claim documentation to his email address. It says that it didnt 
get any response from Mr L so it closed the claim in July 2020.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and did not uphold it so the matter has come to me 
to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service is aimed at resolving disputes informally. Therefore, I have focused on the 
matters and evidence I consider central and relevant to this complaint. The complaint as far 
as I can see is about what Mr L says he was told by AESEL in 2020  therefore I have 
turned my mind to that rather than the outcome of his eventual 2022 claim which was upheld 
by AESEL. 
On that point as the complaint concerns what Mr L says AESEL told him in 2020 I dont 
consider the content of all the calls from 2022 to be of particular relevance here (I note Mr L 
has sent some recordings of calls from 2022 and we have some transcripts). Furthermore, 
Mr L has not responded to the investigators view in such a way as to give me cause to 
consider all of these as relevant to the matter in hand. When deciding what is fair and 
reasonable I have not considered it necessary to listen to all of the 2022 calls or give 
particular focus to the transcripts of calls from this time either.
It is unfortunate AESEL has not been able to locate records of calls which Mr L says took 
place around March 2020 and where he says AESEL said it could not help him. AESEL says 
it has no evidence Mr L contacted it in March 2020 and denies it told him this when he did 
get in touch. In order to make a decision in this case I consider what happened on the 
balance of probabilities.
On the one hand Mr L is adamant about what AESEL told him, and I do recognise his 
strength of feeling here. I have given due weight to his testimony. However, AESEL has 
provided compelling information to show it had contact from Mr L and opened a Section 75 
claim in June 2020. 
I have seen a copy of an internal note from AESEL showing it received a claim from Mr L on 
12 June 2020. The notes say Mr L explained that the airline had agreed to a full refund, but 
he was worried it might not come. It says he requests a Section 75 claim.
AESEL has shown a copy of a cover email it says it sent to Mr L in June 2020 which shows 
his email address and a Section 75 claim form and acknowledgement letter as attachments. 
The information AESEL has provided appears credible, and I note it refers to Mr L by name. 
There is no information here that leads me to believe AESEL said to him it couldnt look into 
a claim for him  it indicates the opposite. I also note AESEL has provided a copy of a letter 
it says it sent to Mr L in July 2020 closing the dispute when it had not heard back from him 
the copy letter also refers to Mr L by name and appears credible.
Mr L says he didnt get the correspondence AESEL says it sent. I am not sure why this is - it 
looks like the correct email was used so it might have been caught in his spam folder. But 
ultimately what the evidence shows to me here is that it is unlikely AESEL would have told 
Mr L it couldnt help him back in 2020 if it then went to the trouble to open a claim and 
prepare and send him this personalised documentation I have seen copies of. 
I have thought about why Mr L would have continued to chase the airline if he knew AESEL 
could help. There are credible reasons why. Perhaps Mr L hoped the airline would refund 
him eventually as it had said it would (and the outcome of a claim with the bank isnt 
necessarily guaranteed). In any event, from the information I have seen I am unable to fairly 
conclude AESEL likely told Mr L it could not help him recover the money for the tickets or 
refused to open a claim for him.
I have listened to the 2022 call where Mr L was offered air miles because Mr L has indicated 
this was an admission of liability by AESEL. However, this appears to be a courtesy gesture 
from the agent in the moment rather than based on an investigation into what Mr L was told. 
I dont think the information from this call (or the offer of airline points) allows me to conclude 
on balance that AESEL told Mr L the wrong thing back in 2020.
I have noted the documents AESEL says it sent to Mr L are focused on a Section 75 claim. It 
isnt entirely clear the possibility of raising a chargeback at the time. But I consider that in 
any event in order for AESEL to proceed with this or a Section 75 claim it would likely have 
needed a claim form back from Mr L with further information. So I dont think AESEL did 
anything wrong in closing down the dispute at the time when it didnt hear back.
Overall, I am sorry to hear about the delays in getting a refund and the stress Mr L says this 
has caused but based on what I have seen I dont think it is fair and reasonable to ask 
AESEL to pay him compensation here.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman