DRN-3031699
complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out in 2005 with a 
mortgage. Mr B says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold the PPI to him. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to HSBC throughout this decision.
background
One of our adjudicators previously looked into the complaint and said they didnt think we 
should uphold it. Mr Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt 
raise any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments 
theyd previously made
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account 
relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
 
The evidence Ive seen shows it was clear enough that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI 
and he chose to take it out. It looks like he asked for the PPI and it was set out on his 
Mortgage Offer, a document I feel Mr B would have wanted to read quite carefully. I note the 
PPI was included in a section headed Optional Insurance and it also said no insurance was 
required to be bought from HSBC. In my view, therefore, HSBC properly obtained his 
consent.
HSBC had to check that the PPI was suitable for him. I think it was.
The evidence about Mr Bs circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example, he was eligible for the cover, had 
only limited sickness protection with his job. Mr B also had limited other financial means to 
fall back on at around that time and the mortgage was also secured against his home. I can 
see why it would have been of use to him, given these circumstances.
There was also nothing about Mr Bs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. Mr Bs representative said hed suffered a broken leg in 1980 and 
implied this was a pre-existing condition that might have made claiming difficult under the 
policy rules. However, whilst Im sure this injury would have been of concern at the time, it 
occurred some 25 years before the PPI sale. Ive seen nothing that shows this is in any way 
relevant as to whether or not the PPI was mis-sold to Mr B in 2005.
The PPI was designed to help pay Mr Bs mortgage in the event of him losing his job or 
becoming too ill to work for a while. It wasnt too dissimilar to what he probably thought he 
was buying from the information he was most likely given at the point of sale. It also looks 
like it was affordable for him. So, I think all these things show it was suitable for him.
Its certainly possible the information HSBC gave to Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But the paperwork shows, in my view, that he had enough information on 
which to make an informed decision; he knew who and what was covered and also the cost. 
Ive also not seen anything that would have made claiming for a back condition or mental 
health issues onerous, as alleged by his representative. Because of all this I dont think Mr B 
would have declined the cover even if had HSBC could have done a better job at explaining 
the policies.
Mr Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be other general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These include: a claim that the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling 
PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost 
good faith meant HSBC should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance 
of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. I 
have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Bs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint.
For the reasons Ive set out, I dont uphold the complaint. This means HSBC UK Bank Plc 
doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
my decision
I do not uphold the complaint or make any award in favour of Mr B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman