DRN-4154968
The complaint
Mrs A complains that she was mis-sold a free standing additional voluntary contribution 
(FSVAC) pension plan by The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited. She 
complained that she would instead have purchased her occupational pension schemes 
(OPS) added years option if shed been made aware of that.
What happened
Mrs A was advised by Royal London to take out a FSAVC in 1990 when she was 34 years 
old. 
Earning £13,776 a year and contributing 6% into OPS. Agreed to make FSAVC contributions 
of £67 a month which were made until 2007. 
Mrs A had joined her OPS at age 26 and the scheme had a normal retirement age of 60. By 
which time she would have been six years short of her maximum OPS benefits. So could 
have purchased 6 additional years in the scheme.
Mrs A complained to Royal London that her FSAVC was mis-sold. Royal London explained 
that it had little evidence from the time of the sale but accepted that Mrs A ought to have 
been advised about the option of in-house AVCs with her employer. And that it was likely 
she wasnt. So went ahead with a loss calculation, that it said showed Mrs A was better off 
by taking out the FSAVC.
Mrs A referred her complaint to us via her representative because she was dissatisfied with 
Royal Londons attempt to resolve it. This matter remained unresolved after our investigator 
had considered it and the case was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. I issued a 
provisional decision to allow both parties the opportunity to consider my view.
In my provisional decision I said
The event complained about happened in 1990. So it is understandable after such a 
passage of time that evidence and recollections of what occurred may not be complete. Still, 
Royal London have consented to our looking into this complaint. So Ive not considered 
whether this complaint has been made too late under our rules.
We havent been provided with evidence of any recommendation that Mrs A was given by 
Royal London that led to her decision to take out the FSAVC policy. But Royal London 
havent defended the suitability of any recommendation that Mrs A was given. Rather, it has 
accepted that the advice was likely to have been incorrect. Following the regulatory 
guidance that existed at the time when policy sales such as this were subject to a review.
The starting point in deciding a fair resolution for this complaint is therefore that both Royal 
London and Mrs A agree that she wasnt treated fairly in 1990. So, like Royal London did, I 
also uphold Mrs As complaint
Royal London was advising on a FSAVC. This was only available to Mrs A if she was a 
contributing member of an OPS. Which Mrs A was. Prior to recommending the FSAVC, the 
regulatory framework at the time meant that Royal London had to make Mrs A aware of the 
alternatives that were available to her through her scheme. These options were an in-house 
AVC or an option to purchase added years of her defined benefits.
Royal London wasnt expected to advise on the suitability of the options provided by her 
employer. But was expected to highlight that the AVC was likely to have lower charges than 
a FSAVC. It would be expected that Mrs A would then contact her scheme to explore that. 
Purchasing added years was an entirely different proposition. Once highlighted to Mrs A, 
again it would be down to her to explore whether she considered that to be more suitable for 
her.
The issue of disagreement in resolving this complaint is the question of what Mrs A would 
have done if shed been made aware of the options available to her. That is, what would she 
have done faced with the choice in 1990, rather than with the benefit of hindsight looking 
back. I make this point because the financial landscape in 1990 was different than it is today.
It appears that Mrs A was single at the time and had no dependants. Although it is explained 
that she expected to marry soon and then start a family. She was in an occupation that it 
was very likely she would remain in. And one that would continue to receive annual pay 
increments and offer opportunities for career advancement. So purchasing added years may 
well have offered attractive benefits had Mrs A known to look into that option. 
It would have given her the opportunity to bring her pension up to the maximum amount. The 
benefits were guaranteed as a percentage of any final salary she retired on, rather than 
being dependant on investment performance. But a key factor here is what those investment 
returns may have looked like in 1990. 
The industry projections for investment returns that were introduced in July 1988 were 8.5%; 
10.75%; 13% for low; medium; high annual returns respectively. These are the projections 
that would likely have been used in pension illustrations. And reflected the industry view of 
expected returns at that time. In contrast by 2014 the industry projected rates had reduced to 
2%; 5%; 8%. Which the industry considers more accurately reflects likely future investment 
returns now.
What this means is that the performance of money purchase pension arrangements like 
Mrs As FSAVC havent performed anything like as well as was anticipated in 1990. And 
today, it looks like purchasing added years, with the guaranteed defined benefits, would give 
more valuable benefits. But Mrs A would not have known these things in 1990. 
In 1990 she had 26 years until her normal retirement age. With her existing OPS benefits, I 
think that she had the capacity for loss for such an investment product. It would be adding to 
her pension rather than being the sole pension provision. And Ive seen no evidence that it 
was invested in a way that would have been incompatible with most consumers attitude to 
risk at that time. 
The added years option required an up-front decision to purchase a set number of additional 
years of pension. The cost would be a percentage of annual salary for the remainder of 
Mrs As career. As her salary increased, so too would the cost. It wouldnt afford the flexibility 
to adjust the amount paid in response to life events like an AVC or FSAVC might. 
Ive considered the amount of Mrs As contributions into her FSAVC. They were set at quite 
a high level. £67 a month equated to about 5.8% of Mrs As salary in 1990. She was 
contributing about the same level again as she contributed to her OPS. Ive seen that Mrs As representative has shown that the level of her contributions was 
higher than the cost of purchasing six additional years at that time. The figures provided 
indicated an annual cost of 0.78% of salary for each added year purchased. Which meant 
that six added years would equate to a contribution of 4.7% of Mrs As salary each year. So I 
agree that Mrs A could have afforded the cost initially.
But I need to be convinced that, in 1990, Mrs A would have thought that contributing a 
further 4.7% of her salary would remain affordable for the whole of her career. She was yet 
to marry or start a family. It seems likely that she would have anticipated fluctuations in her 
disposable income in the future because of these life events.
Mrs As pay was subject to annual reviews through pay negotiations and had increased by 
an amount most years. Mrs A was likely to expect that to continue to be the case. Her pay 
was also calculated on an incremental scale. Mrs A had been in her occupation for around 
eight years by 1990, so was not yet at the top of the pay increments at that time. But theres 
no evidence that Mrs A intended to increase the contributions that she made as her salary 
was reviewed. Rather, the evidence shows that no annual increases to her FSAVC 
premiums were ever made. Long before Mrs A stopped paying the premiums into her 
FSAVC in 2007, the amount she was paying would have been lower than the sum she would 
still have been tied into had she purchased added years in 1990.
I have to reach a conclusion, based on the evidence, as to what I think would most likely 
have happened if Royal London had done what it was supposed to. For the reasons Ive 
given above, I cant say that its more likely that Mrs A would have opted to purchase added 
years rather than taking out an AVC. I do however agree with our investigators conclusion 
that Mrs A would more likely than not have opted for the AVC over Royal Londons FSAVC if 
shed been made aware that it was likely to be the cheaper option.
Royal London have always accepted this position. Although I can see that there has been 
further disagreement about the assumptions that Royal London used in making its 
calculation from the outset. Royal London didnt find out what charges would have been 
applied to Mrs As AVC had she instead chosen that option. Instead it made an assumption. 
Which placed those charges as higher than its own FSAVC. Which, in line with the 
regulators methodology for calculating redress in such cases, showed no loss.
Mrs As representative has since provided evidence that the assumptions used in Royal 
Londons calculation were incorrect. Our investigator proposed using the figure of 1% for the 
AVC charges. Which Royal London agreed to do. 
Response to my provisional decision
Ive received no further comments or evidence from Royal London.
Mrs As representative didnt agree with my finding. He still thought that Mrs A would have 
purchased added years in her OPS for the reasons that hed already given. But he 
additionally suggested that Royal London should pay £500 as a gesture of goodwill and as 
an apology for its failings in dealing with the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again my final decision is the same as the finding I reached in 
my provisional decision. And for the same reasons, that Ive included above. I think that, but for Royal Londons mistake, Mrs A would most likely have opted for her employers AVC 
instead.
Ive considered again how Royal London should put things right. The rules that our service 
operate under allow me to direct a business to compensate a customer for financial loss that 
they may have suffered. Which is what my following direction does. Im also allowed to 
award compensation where a businesses mistake has caused distress or inconvenience, or 
pain and suffering. Whilst it may be the case that businesses may offer payments as 
goodwill gestures, this isnt something that our rules allow me to direct a business to do. 
Any award I make has to be as a consequence of the impact on the customer of a 
businesss mistake. In this case, the mistake in 1990 may have resulted in Mrs A being in a 
less suitable product. But this didnt have any immediate impact on her. She wasnt aware of 
the issue or caused distress or inconvenience by it for around thirty years. It has only 
recently come to light. Overall in this case I think that putting right any financial impact is 
sufficient compensation for the mistake that was made.
Putting things right
Royal London have now made the offer to put things right taking into account the actual fee 
structure that existed for Mrs As AVC. I think this is now fair. For the avoidance of further 
doubt though, I will set out how I think Royal London must calculate whether Mrs A suffered 
a loss. 
Royal London should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators 
FSAVC review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data 
for the CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005. 
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Royal London should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 
and the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mrs As pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs A as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I uphold Mrs As complaint and direct The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited to compensate her in the manner Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman