DRN-2015722
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society didn't block his credit card when he asked it 
to. As a result, his credit card debt increased and his financial difficulties and mental health 
problems got worse. 
What happened
Mr B says that he contacted Nationwide on several occasions throughout 2018 because he 
felt he was no longer in control of his debt. He wanted Nationwide to take steps to limit his 
credit card use or prevent him using it altogether.
The building society didn't however act until August 2019, when it blocked the card, 
preventing further use of it. It said that Mr B could ask for the block to be lifted, although it 
doesn't appear that he's done that - and the overall debt has reduced as a result. 
Nationwide agreed that it should have acted sooner and offered Mr B £250 in compensation, 
which he initially appeared  to accept and which Nationwide paid. He decided however that 
the offer didn't go far enough and referred his complaint to this service, where one of our 
investigators considered it.    
The investigator thought however that Nationwide had done enough to resolve the complaint 
and didn't recommend that it do any more. Mr B didn't accept that view and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has accepted that it should have acted sooner than it did, but Mr B thinks its offer 
of compensation isn't sufficient. He thinks any compensation should place him in the position 
he would have been in had Nationwide acted correctly in the first place.
However, I'm required by law and by this service's rules to determine Mr B's complaint by 
reference to what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Those 
circumstances must I think include any steps which Mr B could himself have taken to limit his 
spending, as well as the benefits he gained from having the use of the credit card. In saying 
that, I accept that Mr B may have been limited in what he could do himself.
But I note as well that Mr B's credit card account was at all times very close to his credit limit. 
Since he was only making minimum payments and making relatively small purchases, his 
use of the card wasn't in my view significantly different from what it would have been, had 
the card been blocked. That's not to say that Mr B is now in exactly the position he would 
have been in if Nationwide had blocked the card earlier, but I'm not persuaded that his 
position is as different as he perhaps thinks it is. Be that as it may, I believe that Nationwide's payment of compensation of £250 is enough to 
resolve Mr B's complaint in a way that's fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require Nationwide Building Society to do anything more to 
resolve Mr B's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman