DRN-4132412
The complaint
Mr W complains HSBC UK Bank Plc gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his pension.
What happened
Mr W was a member of an occupational pension scheme (OPS). In 1989, Mr W transferred 
the funds hed accrued in the OPS to a personal pension on the advice of a business HSBC 
later became responsible for.
Soon after, the regulator established an industry-wide review of particular pension business 
carried out between 1988 and 1994. This was, known as the Pensions Review. In 1998 
HSBC offered Mr W a review as part of this, which Mr W accepted. Following the review, 
HSBC wrote to Mr W in 2001 to say its 1989 advice may not have been suitable and may 
have caused him a financial loss. HSBC proposed to put this right by topping up Mr Ws 
personal pension with further fund units, with a value totalling £3,652 at that time. Mr W 
accepted this offer and HSBC topped up his pension. 
In 2022, Mr W complained to HSBC about the suitability of its 1989 advice and asked it to 
provide suitable financial compensation for this. 
HSBC said the suitability of its 1989 advice was addressed in its 2001 Pension Review. And 
Mr W had accepted the compensation it had offered him, which had been based on the 
regulators assumptions and guidance at that time. And while those hadnt been borne out, 
the Pension Review was intended to be a one-off exercise that drew a line under things. So, 
HSBC wouldnt do anything further here.
Mr W brought his complaint to our Service. He said the compensation hed received in 2001 
turned out, over time, to not be enough compensation for his financial loss. So, he asked to 
be paid additional compensation to put him back into the position he should have been in. 
Our Investigator thought HSBC carried out its 2001 Pension Review for Mr W in accordance 
with the regulators guidance at that time and wasnt required to carry out another 
calculation. 
Mr W disagreed. He maintained that the 1989 advice was unsuitable and hed been treated 
unfairly. That when HSBC offered its 2001 compensation, hed not been allowed to transfer 
back to his OPS and accrue his pension within it, so hed lost out financially. And Mr W 
suggested HSBC had later sold his personal pension to another provider in order to absolve 
itself of responsibility for its unsuitable advice. So, Mr W wanted HSBC to carry out another 
calculation.
But our Investigator didnt change her position. As agreement couldnt be reached, this 
complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr W feels very strongly that the 1989 advice was unsuitable. But theres no 
need for me to consider this here because HSBCs 2001 Pension Review accepted the 
advice was unsuitable and took steps to put that right. Therefore, whats left for me to 
consider is whether HSBC carried out Mr Ws Pension Review correctly and in line with the 
regulators guidance at that time.
HSBCs 2001 Pension Review calculated that the unsuitable advice in 1989 had caused 
Mr W a financial loss which could be put right if it bought and added further fund units to 
Mr Ws personal pension. Those had a value totalling £3,652 at that time. Mr W accepted 
this offer and HSBC topped up his pension. But Mr W says this has turned out to not be 
enough compensation for the financial loss the unsuitable advice caused him.
Its important to note that under the industry wide Pensions Review established by the 
regulator, businesses were only required to conduct the review once, using the standards 
and assumptions the regulator put in place at the time. This is because the assumptions or 
predictions they used were considered reasonable at the time to assess the future loss. 
In general, the assumptions to be used for the calculation were those relevant to the time
that the calculation was done, and compensation was paid on this basis. This included
where mistakes were discovered in the original calculations  a re-calculation would usually
be done using the same assumptions that applied at the date of the original calculation.
Unfortunately, in many cases the assumed growth rates used in the calculations didnt
materialise. This, combined with annuity rates falling, has had an impact on the overall 
benefits provided by personal pensions. So, although it was thought the compensation paid 
following the review, plus the existing value of the pension, would be high enough to match 
the OPS benefits at retirement date, this hasnt been the case for many consumers. But that 
alone isnt a reason to carry out a further Pension Review and recalculate compensation.
The Pension Review was intended to be a one-off exercise. So, businesses could provide 
redress for mis-selling, knowing they wouldnt be liable for future compensation. And 
consumers could be reassured that the mis-selling had been recognised and put right at that 
point in time using what were considered reasonable assumptions. That avoided the need to 
revisit the matter many years later. Because of this, the Pension Review was a very tightly 
regulated process, subject to supervision and sampling at the time by the regulator.
The regulators current guidance, referred to as FG17/9, was originally aimed at complaints
upheld about OPS transfers received after 3 August 2016 or received before that date but 
full and final settlements hadnt already been offered. It was initially intended that any case 
that fell within the Pension Review period would be excluded from this updated guidance.
However, it was subsequently decided some cases could be included - where reviews by
businesses hadnt been carried out in accordance with regulatory standards at the time of
the review - and/or where the particular circumstances of a case were not addressed by
those standards. The onus under this guidance is on the consumer to show theres been a 
mistake in carrying out the Pension Review. 
In this case, Mr W isnt arguing that HSBC made a mistake when it carried out the 2001 
Pension Review  he hasnt pointed to HSBC using any incorrect details or assumptions, or 
given other reasons why the review didnt otherwise meet the regulatory standards. 
Nonetheless, Ive considered the evidence of the 2001 Pension Review provided by to me 
and I havent seen anything to persuade me it was carried out incorrectly. Im satisfied HSBC 
checked whether Mr Ws benefits could be reinstated into the OPS  they could not, as the 
OPS wouldnt allow this. And there dont appear to be any errors in respect of the information or assumptions used to calculate the redress. So, I think Mr Ws pension transfer 
advice was reviewed and compensation was calculated in line with the regulators guidance 
and requirements at the time. 
What Mr W is arguing in this case, is that the compensation he received in 2001 has turned 
out to not be enough. But as Ive already explained, that alone isnt a reason to carry out a 
further Pension Review and recalculate compensation.
For these reasons, Im not asking HSBC to do anything further here, though I realise this 
isnt the answer Mr W hoped for.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman