DRN-1625206
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didn't actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple. 
Miss M says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
 
What happened
Miss M opened a store card account in a shop in 1994. At the same time, she took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on Miss Ms card each 
month if shed been unable to work because of injury or sickness, or if she lost her job. It 
also included some purchase protection insurance and life cover.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. In brief, she said she 
didn't think that AXA had made the policy's costs and benefits clear enough to Miss M. And 
taking into account Miss M's circumstances and the cover she already had, she didn't think 
Miss M would have decided to take the PPI if she'd been given clear information about the 
costs and benefits of the policy.
AXA disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
I've decided to uphold Miss M's complaint. I'll explain why.
Miss M has told us that she'd have been entitled to six months' full pay, followed by six 
months' half pay from her employer at the time if she'd been off sick. She says she also had 
savings of around £4,000 when she opened the store card account. 
After the adjudicator sent out her view, AXA commented that it thought it unlikely that Miss M 
would have been entitled to the level of sick pay she's told us about, given her length of 
service at the time. But Miss M has explained that she'd have been entitled to this level of pay after a three-month probation period. And I'm not satisfied, on balance, that there's a 
good reason to doubt what Miss M's told us about her sick pay. 
Miss M's also told us that she'd received an inheritance of £3,500 earlier in 1994, which had 
taken her savings to around £4,000. She says she didn't have the savings set aside for any 
particular purpose. They were for a rainy day. Miss M hasn't been able to provide evidence 
to support what she says. But I don't think that's surprising, given how long ago the sale took 
place. And again, I'm not satisfied, on balance, that there's a good reason to doubt what 
Miss M's told us.
£4,000 was the equivalent of over three months' salary for Miss M at the time. Taking 
everything into account, between her sick pay and savings, I think Miss M could have met 
her monthly store card repayments for at least a year without the PPI. And I'm not convinced 
that she'd have thought the benefit of the policy was worth the cost if AXA had given her 
clear information about the costs and benefits. So I think Miss M has lost out because of 
what AXA did wrong.
 
Putting things right
AXA should put Miss M in the financial position shed be in now if she hadn't taken out PPI:
A.   AXA should find out how much Miss M would have owed when the card account was 
closed if the policy hadn't been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Miss M owed when the account was 
closed and what she would have owed if she hadn't had PPI.
If Miss M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her. 
B.   AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss M would have 
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C.   If  when AXA works out what Miss M would have owed each month without PPI  Miss 
M paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Miss M paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Miss M would 
have owed AXA something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.   AXA should tell Miss M what it's done to work out A,B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA France IARD to put things right by 
doing as I've set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman