DRN-2932046
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice given by Quilter Financial Services Ltd (Quilter) to 
transfer the benefits from his preserved defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme 
to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In 2016 at a networking event, Mr W was introduced to a business - who at the time was an 
appointed representative of Quilter - to discuss his pension and retirement needs. 
Quilter completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ws circumstances and 
objectives. Quilter also carried out an assessment of Mr Ws attitude to risk, which it deemed 
to be moderate. I will expand on what this means later on. 
In January 2017, Quilter advised Mr W to transfer his pension benefits into a SIPP and 
invest the proceeds in a multi-asset, multi-manager investment fund provided by a third-party 
investment company. The suitability report listed 11 points, which the adviser called key 
points of advice that theyd considered in making the recommendation. These included, 
better death benefits, the need for greater flexibility, the funding level and strength of the DB 
scheme and other assets and income. But in the advisers overall summary, the reasons for 
this recommendation were:
To enable Mr W to take tax-free cash from his pension immediately, which was 
higher than hed get from his DB scheme;
To provide rental income in retirement  in lieu of guaranteed income - alongside his 
state pension by using the tax-free cash to make his buy-to-let property habitable; 
To also provide the opportunity for an income near to that offered by the DB scheme; 
and
To meet Mr Ws requirement for flexibility from his pension.
In 2020 Mr W, through a representative, complained to Quilter about the suitability of the 
transfer advice because he said he now realises the advice was flawed  hes lost 
guaranteed benefits and his pension is exposed to significant risk, which was wasnt 
explored at the time. 
Quilter didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. In summary it said the advisers research carried out 
at the time to transfer Mr Ws DB scheme was in his best interests. It said the advice was 
suitable and appropriate for Mr Ws needs and circumstances. 
Quilter said by taking the tax-free cash to make his buy-to-let property habitable, the rental 
income Mr W would receive in addition to his state pension meant he had no need for the 
income from his DB scheme  it was surplus to requirements and would therefore be subject 
to unnecessary tax. It said Mr Ws other assets and income meant he had a requirement for 
flexibility, which his DB scheme couldnt provide. It also said that more flexible death benefits 
were important to Mr W and the SIPP would allow his wife to inherit the full pension fund 
upon his death rather than half of the guaranteed income provided by his DB scheme.
Mr W referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and 
required Quilter to pay compensation. In summary they said Quilters assessment of Mr Ws 
future retirement income from both his buy-to-let property and land wasnt guaranteed, which 
meant they considered Mr Ws tolerance for loss wasnt high. They considered it wasnt in Mr 
Ws best interests to give up a guaranteed income given his large dependent family and 
because he didnt have other significant pension provision. They said the critical yield or 
growth required to match Mr Ws existing benefits was far greater than he could expect to 
receive and so Quilter should have recommended he remain in his DB scheme. Finally they 
said Mr Ws objective could have likely been met by other means including by taking out a 
loan.
Quilter disagreed. It simply said it considered the advice was suitable for the reasons set out 
in the advice letter of January 2017.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. My reasoning is set out below. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Quilter should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ws best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having 
looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability 
Quilter says the advice to transfer out of Mr Ws DB scheme was in his best interests  it 
says it was suitable and appropriate for his needs and circumstances.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
Mr W was 58 at the time of the advice and told the adviser he hoped to work as long as he 
could. The critical yield required to match Mr Ws benefits at age 65 was 20.4% if he took a 
full pension and 17.6% if he took tax-free cash and a reduced pension. The critical yield to 
match the benefits available through the Pension Protection Fund at age 65 was quoted as 
13.6% per year if Mr W took a full pension and 12.1% per year if he took tax-free cash and a 
reduced pension.This compares with the discount rate of 3.3% per year for six years to retirement in this case 
(or 3.1% for five years to retirement at the point the transfer was finalised.) For further 
comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection 
rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ws 
recorded attitude to risk as a moderate investor and also the term to retirement. 
In my view there would be little point in Mr W giving up the guarantees available to him 
through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the 
scheme. But here, taking the most likely option of Mr W taking tax-free cash and a reduced 
pension, the critical yield was 17.6%. This figure was significantly higher than both the 
regulators middle and upper projection rates  it was also around five times higher than the 
discount rate. And while I have some concerns about how Quilter arrived at classifying Mr W 
as a moderate investor (this was defined as someone who is willing to take risk with a high 
proportion of their available assets and usually has some experience of investing in products 
containing higher risk assets) even if I thought this was the level of risk Mr W was prepared 
to take with his pension, I think it was clear he was likely to receive benefits of a substantially 
lower overall value than his DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that 
attitude to risk. I think this would also be the case even if the scheme moved to the PPF .
Because the required sustained growth rate was more than five times the discount rate, I 
think it is clear the transfer was not compatible with Mr Ws attitude to risk. To have come 
close to achieving the level of growth required, in my view would have required Mr W to take 
significant investment risk, which was far greater than his recorded appetite. And even then I 
think its more likely than not that Mr W would have been worse off financially at retirement if 
he transferred out. I think the term to retirement was also a limiting factor here.
Im mindful too that, looking at the advisers advice letter of January 2017 in which they set 
out their recommendation and the reasons for it, they said the critical yield was quite high... 
and it is unlikely to be achievable... But despite what appears to have been an 
acknowledgement that the transfer wasnt financially viable, they went ahead anyway and 
recommended Mr W transfer out his pension. I dont think this was acting in Mr Ws best 
interests. 
I can see the adviser explains in their advice letter the reason why they consider the true 
relevance of the critical yield figures may be limited. They say the figures assume an annuity 
is taken at retirement age to generate the pension income, which they say isnt necessarily 
the case because the new pension rules offer more flexibility. They also say it was unlikely 
Mr W would take an annuity. That said, later on in the advice letter, the adviser says that Mr 
W could take an immediate annuity which was more in line with his requirements... and 
was suitable for him. I think this highlights the gaps in the advisers advice and knowledge 
about Mr Ws future income and wider pension planning needs, which I will discuss further 
below.
But in any event, I dont think the importance of the critical yield figures should have been 
downplayed by the adviser. The regulator required Quilter to provide the rates of return 
required to replicate the benefits available to Mr W through his DB scheme. 
So, telling Mr W it wasnt really relevant to him undermined the analysis the regulator 
required it to undertake. And I think given the very high critical yield figures in Mr Ws case, 
these should have acted as a clear sign that Mr W ought to retain his DB scheme and that 
transferring out was not likely to be in his best interests.
I can see the adviser provided Mr W with risk warnings and told him that There will be 
advantages and disadvantages to consider, and you need to be satisfied that on balance you believe the transfer to be in your best interests. But Quilter was under a duty to provide 
suitable advice and to act in Mr Ws best interests  it wasnt for Mr W to work it out for 
himself. So if Quilter didnt think the transfer was suitable for Mr W because of the difficulty in 
achieving the critical yield, the adviser should not have recommended he go ahead with it. 
Merely disclosing information doesnt make an unsuitable recommendation suitable.
  
Overall, I think Quilter ought to have told Mr W it wasnt in his best interests to transfer out of 
the DB scheme because I think its clear that he would be worse off financially if he did so. 
And for this reason alone, I dont think the advice to transfer out was suitable. Of course 
financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. I accept there might 
be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility  access to tax-free cash and income requirement
It appears that Mr Ws primary objective, and the reason for the recommendation to transfer 
out of his DB scheme was to access his tax-free cash to make his recently purchased buy-
to-let property habitable so he could rent it out to generate income.
But I dont think this was a suitable reason to recommend the transfer. I say this because 
crucially the adviser did not establish how much money Mr W needed to realise his plans. 
The adviser recorded that Mr W had released some money from other pension sources, 
which hed used towards the renovations  but all the adviser said was that he needed more 
than this to make the property habitable. 
But by not establishing how much Mr W needed, the possibility existed that Mr W might not 
actually have enough money to realise his plans to enable him to generate the rental income 
he said he could achieve. And even if Mr W was able to complete the renovations, I dont 
think rental income can reasonably be described as guaranteed.
Quilter says Mr W didnt need the income from his DB scheme and was likely to pay more 
tax in retirement if he took his benefits from the scheme. But again, this was predicated on 
Mr W being able to achieve a particular level of rental income, some of which was 
attributable to a property development that Mr W hadnt even got planning permission for. 
So, given what Ive said above, I dont think it was reasonable for the adviser to conclude 
that Mr W didnt need the guaranteed income the DB scheme provided or that he was likely 
to pay more tax if he took benefits from the scheme instead. And given Mr Ws other pension 
was worth only around £35,000 and was subject to investment risk, I think he could have 
been reliant on the guaranteed income his DB scheme provided.
Overall, I think the advice to give up guaranteed benefits provided by Mr Ws DB scheme for 
something which, at the time of the advice wasnt clear that it could be reasonably achieved, 
and also couldnt be guaranteed, wasnt acting in his best interests.
 
Furthermore, there is no evidence the adviser explored alternative solutions to help meet Mr 
Ws objective before recommending he transfer his pension to access the tax-free cash to 
achieve it. But I would have expected them to have done so. For example, I wouldve 
expected the adviser to have explored with Mr W the possibility of him accessing more 
readily available methods of funding such as a loan or a mortgage. Mr W said that he 
purchased his buy-to-let property without the need for a mortgage, so it appears there was 
scope for him to consider taking out a mortgage on the property to raise the required funds. And a buy-to-let mortgage lender would typically take into account a percentage of the 
expected rental income when considering a lending application. That said, because Mr W 
appears to have been debt free, Ive not seen any evidence that affordability was a likely 
issue. 
Overall, Ive not seen any evidence to persuade me that Mr Ws objective couldnt have likely 
been met by alternative means of funding rather than recommending he make an irreversible 
decision to transfer his DB scheme to a personal arrangement to help achieve it.
The other reason the adviser gave for the recommendation to transfer was to provide 
flexibility in how Mr W took future income. But I cant see that Mr W had a strong need for 
variable income through his retirement  Mr Ws future income needs werent known at the 
time.
 
Firstly Mr W said that he had no plans to retire any time soon and that he wanted to continue 
working. I think this was driven by the fact that he had a large dependent family. As Ive said 
above, Mr Ws plans to generate rental income from his newly acquired property hadnt 
come to fruition, so it wasnt possible to know what income, if any, this might generate. And 
the land that Mr W owned, which he said he had plans to develop to generate further 
income, was also only at the planning stage so wasnt in any way guaranteed.
Because Mr Ws future income needs werent known, I think this explains why the advisers 
advice letter was at times confused and appeared contradictory on the point of income need. 
On the one hand the adviser talks about Mr Ws need for flexibility, but on the other hand 
they went on to say that Mr W could use his pension money to take an immediate annuity, 
which would better suit his requirements and was suitable. In addition I can see the adviser 
cautioned Mr W about taking his tax-free cash entitlement from his DB scheme at age 65 
because it would significantly reduce his income  yet they went on to recommend Mr W 
transfer out, which the illustration showed was likely to result in Mr W getting even less 
income than his DB scheme.
Overall Im not persuaded Mr Ws need for flexibility was a real objective  I think it was 
simply a consequence of transferring out to a different arrangement to meet Mr Ws need for 
access to cash. And in any event, Mr W already had a degree of flexibility because he had 
already switched his personal pensions to the SIPP and so he could choose how to access 
these benefits in future.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension arrangement was likely an attractive feature to Mr W. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr W might have thought it was 
a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension arrangement because of this, 
the priority here was to advise Mr W about what was best for his retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Quilter 
established the extent to which Mr W was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in 
exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr W 
was married and had children - so the spouses and dependents pension provided by the 
DB scheme wouldve been useful to them if Mr W predeceased them. I dont think Quilter 
made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr W. This was guaranteed and it escalated  
it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a 
personal pension was. In any event, Quilter should not have encouraged Mr W to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in 
retirement.
While Im mindful that Mr W was 58 at the time, if he genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for 
his spouse and children, which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his 
pension fund remained on his death, I think Quilter shouldve instead explored life insurance. 
This didnt have to be a whole of life policy with a sum assured for the full transfer value, 
which given Mr Ws age might have been costly. The starting point ought to have been to 
ask Mr W how much he wanted to leave to his family, and this couldve been explored on a 
whole of life or term assurance basis, which I consider was likely to be cheaper to provide. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr W. And I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative.
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I can see the adviser highlighted that Mr Ws DB schemes funding level was at 86% as at 
April 2015 and that Mr W was concerned by this. But Im not persuaded the funding of his 
deferred DB scheme was in a position such that Mr W should have genuinely been 
concerned about the security of his pension. In any event, if the scheme did end up moving 
to the PPF, as Ive explained above, Mr W was still likely to be better off than transferring out 
given the high critical yield required to match the benefits available through the PPF.
Summary 
I dont doubt that the immediate availability of tax-free cash, flexibility and the potential for 
higher death benefits on offer through a SIPP would have sounded like attractive features to 
Mr W. But Quilter wasnt there to just transact what Mr W might have thought he wanted. 
The advisers role was to really understand what Mr W needed and recommend what was in 
his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr W was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income to meet an objective that in my view could likely 
have been achieved through other means such as a form of borrowing, which wouldve been 
far preferable to Mr W than giving up his only guaranteed retirement income. By transferring, 
Mr W was very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no 
compelling reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this.
So, I think Quilter shouldve advised Mr W to remain in his DB scheme.
I now need to consider whether Mr W wouldve gone ahead anyway, against Quilters 
advice. Having done so, I dont think Mr W wouldve insisted on transferring out of his DB 
scheme and gone head in any event. I say this because Mr W was not in my view an 
inexperienced investor, despite how Quilter classified his attitude to risk and experience - so 
I think he relied on the advice he was given. At the time this pension was the primary source 
of Mr Ws guaranteed future retirement provision. 
So, if Quilter had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, 
explaining why it wasnt suitable for him, and if it had explained that Mr W should explore 
alternative source of funding his project to meet his primary objective and not risk his 
guaranteed pension to do so, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. I think Mr W 
wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Quilter should compensate Mr W for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr W. Taking everything into account, including that 
Mr W is now at the age when his retirement provision is of greater importance, I think the 
unsuitable advice has caused him distress. And overall, I think an award of £200 is fair in all 
the circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for Quilters unsuitable advice. I consider Mr W 
would have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Quilter must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
My understanding is that Mr W has not yet retired. So, compensation should be based on his 
normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
Quilter may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ws 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date Quilter receives notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes Quilter to pay Mr W.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Quilter Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Quilter Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr W any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Quilter 
Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr W any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Quilter Financial Services Ltd pays Mr W the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr W.
If Mr W accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Quilter Financial 
Services Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman