DRN-1540680
Complaint 
Mrs W complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold payment protection insurance to 
her alongside a credit card in 1995. 
Background
In its initial response to the complaint, BOS said that it didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. It also said that it didnt have to tell Mrs W about a high level of commission it 
received in respect of her PPI premiums. 
Mrs W complained to this service. After some investigation by our adjudicator, BOS agreed 
that it would agree to refund some of the commission Mrs W paid. Our adjudicator didnt 
think the PPI was mis-sold and she said that the offer BOS made was a fair way to settle the 
complaint. 
Through her representatives, Mrs W didnt agree. She said she had good benefits from her 
employer and so she did not need a PPI policy. As the parties are not in agreement with our 
adjudicator, the matter has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs W, but I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. And I think the offer 
BOS made to settle the complaint by refunding some of the commission it received is a fair 
way to settle the complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Mrs W told us that she couldnt remember how PPI had been sold to her. Thats not 
surprising given the sale took place around 25 years ago. Ive been given a copy of the 
application form she completed for her credit card. It looks as though she applied for PPI at 
the same time as her credit card. I can see she filled out a leaflet and sent it back to BOS 
through the post. So I think Mrs W would have been able to fill that application form out at 
her own pace and in her own time. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mrs W would have known the PPI was optional and 
that she didnt have to take it out if she didnt want it. I can see that when she filled the form 
out, she had to tick a separate box if she wanted the cover to be added to her account. And 
that box has been completed. I think it would have been clear to Mrs W that she didnt have 
to select PPI  and I note that she did leave some of the options in respect of other financial 
products blank. 
BOS didnt make a personal recommendation to Mrs W about the PPI. But it still had to give 
her enough information about the cover so she could decide for herself whether it was a 
good fit for her needs. That information had to be clear, fair and not misleading. Looking at the application form, I agree with our adjudicator that the information given to Mrs 
W could have been clearer. But that doesnt mean I can automatically withhold her complaint 
because of that. 
The next question I have to consider is whether Mrs W would have changed her mind about 
the cover if BOS had told her everything it should have done. To help me decide what shes 
likely to have done, Ive looked at the policys terms and conditions. And Ive also looked at 
what we know about Mrs Ws personal circumstances at the time. 
I can see that if shed had to make a claim on the policy, 10% of Mrs Ws credit card balance 
would have been paid for up to 12 months for each claim. I know that Mrs W told us she had 
six months full pay from her employer. But the cover would have lasted for longer than her 
full pay. And Mrs W told us that she didnt have any other means with which to make 
repayments if she was out of work. 
Mrs W appears to have been in good health and so I dont think shed have been affected by 
any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. And I havent seen anything unusual 
about her wider circumstances that would have stopped her from being able to make a 
successful claim if she needed to. 
Overall, I think this policy could have been helpful to Mrs W if she was out of work. As I set 
out above, she selected the cover and so it looks as though she wanted this type of cover at 
the time. With all of this in mind, I dont think more or better information about the cover 
would have put Mrs W off buying it. It follows that I cant say the PPI was mis-sold. 
All of this means that BOS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W. But 
BOS has agreed to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because it got a high 
level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium). Because BOS 
didnt tell Mrs W, that was unfair. BOS has offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs to do
If it hasnt done so already, BOS has to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. BOS should also pay back to Mrs W any 
extra interest she paid because of that.
BOS must re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mrs W the difference between 
what she owes and what she would have owed if the commission and profit share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. BOS should also pay Mrs W 8%* simple 
interest if she paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs W can claim this back if she 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs W. 
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman