DRN-4346778
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the way UK Insurance Limited handled a home emergency
claim.
Any reference to UKI includes the actions of its agent. For ease of reading, Ive referred to
Mr C throughout my decision.
What happened
The events of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr C contacted UKI  the underwriter of his home emergency policy - when his boiler
stopped working leaving him without heating and hot water.
UKI sent an engineer who advised the boiler required a strip down service before
repairs could be completed, and that as a strip down service wasnt covered, he
wasnt able to do any more.
The engineer reported the boiler as operational, though Mr C says he was told not to
use the boiler in the meantime.
Mr C says that his boiler didnt work properly following the engineers visit, and
ultimately, arranged for his own plumber to repair the boiler who diagnosed a
malfunctioning fire valve.
Unhappy with the service from UKIs engineer, Mr C complained. He said the
engineer didnt have the appropriate tools to complete a thorough investigation and
failed to identify the fault  which, in any event, wouldnt have been fixed by having a
service.
In its final response, UKI maintained a strip down service was necessary before the
engineer could reattend. It added that as there was intermittent heating and hot water
at Mr Cs property  it was no longer a home emergency.
Unhappy, Mr C brought a complaint to this Service.
An Investigator considered it and upheld it  saying UKI needed to pay £100
compensation because it hadnt been clear as to why a strip down service was
needed and because of poor communication on its part.
Because Mr C disagreed with the Investigators outcome, the complaint was passed 
to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
Having reviewed the complaint, I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The starting point is the policy which says: We will cover you for incidents in your
home which if not dealt with quickly will [] leave your home with a total loss of
heating, lighting or water.
It goes on to say: Cover includes emergencies relating to: The main source of
heating in the home.
UKI accepted there was an insured peril because Mr Cs boiler had stopped working
and he was without heating and hot water. But it has said that as the boiler was
operational when the engineer left, it was no longer an emergency, and so further
repairs werent covered. It added that a strip down service was required before any
further repairs could be completed.
So, I need to consider whether the engineers temporary repair was sufficient. Whilst
UKIs obligation was to provide a temporary repair to have Mr Cs boiler working
again, given he was in touch with UKI within a few hours of the engineer attending
his property, Im not persuaded the repair can be considered sufficient.
UKI says the engineer couldnt complete a repair because a strip down service was
required in the first instance, but it hasnt evidenced where this requirement is stated 
in the policy. Nor has it provided sufficient evidence explaining why a strip down 
service was necessary before a temporary repair could be completed.
On the face of it, Im not persuaded a sufficient temporary repair has been
completed. So, Ive considered whether further temporary repairs were completed to
resolve the issue, and whether UKI ought to have done these.
It seems Mr Cs own engineer was able to repair the boiler in a single visit and wasnt
precluded from completing the repair even though a strip down service hadnt been
carried out first. Furthermore, from reviewing the invoice, the repair works dont
appear to be extensive, and the invoice is for less than the policy limit. So, in the
circumstances, I consider it reasonable for UKI to pay the costs Mr C incurred in
having his engineer repair his boiler.
I also consider £100 compensation to reasonably reflect the difficulties Mr C
experienced because of UKIs handling of his claim.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr and Mrs C £100 compensation.
Reimburse Mr and Mrs C the costs incurred in having their boiler repaired  subject
to proof of invoice. UKI should pay simple interest at 8% a year from the date Mr C 
paid his engineers invoice to the date it is refunded.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party responded to my provisional findings and so, my final decision is the same as 
my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr and Mrs C £100 compensation. 
Reimburse Mr and Mrs C the costs incurred in having their boiler repaired  subject 
to proof of invoice. UKI should pay simple interest at 8% a year from the date Mr and 
Mrs C paid their engineers invoice to the date it is refunded. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman