DRN-3219171
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about a mortgage they took out with Clydesdale Bank PLC in 2007. 
They say the bank mis-sold them the mortgage because it was set up over a shorter term 
than had been agreed, and the bank then reneged on promises it made over the years to 
extend the term. They complain that they have been left with an expired mortgage, ruined 
credit files, and no means to pay back the capital.
Solicitors bring the complaint on Mr and Mrs Ss behalf.
 
What happened
  
Mr and Mrs S had a mortgage with another lender which they were paying on a capital and 
interest repayment basis, and on which the term was due to end in 2018. In late 2007, they 
re-mortgaged to Clydesdale. As well as repaying their existing mortgage, they borrowed 
around an extra £100,000. 
Clydesdale recommended the mortgage to Mr and Mrs S as a suitable arrangement. It was a 
flexible repay mortgage  that is, a current account mortgage with a secured overdraft 
facility. The overdraft limit was £337,500. No monthly payments were required; instead, Mr 
and Mrs S had to ensure there was enough money in the account to meet the monthly 
interest charges. The mortgage was set up over a term of 10 years and 9 months, so the 
term would end in 2018.
Earlier in 2007, Mr S had bought two commercial units which he says he intended to use as 
his repayment vehicle for the residential mortgage. He financed this in part by borrowing on 
commercial terms, also from Clydesdale. 
Mr S says that, soon after taking out the residential mortgage, he noticed the term on it was 
shorter than he had expected or wanted, and that it was shorter than the term on his 
commercial borrowing. He says he had wanted a 20-year term to take him to the age of 65, 
and by which time he expected to have cleared the business loan. He asked to discuss this 
with the bank so it could be sorted out, and says the bank promised this would be done  but 
nothing happened, despite several requests from 2008 onwards. 
Following Mr Ss bankruptcy in 2011, the bank required the sale of the property on which Mr 
S had secured his business loan  and Mr and Mrs S say this left them without a repayment 
vehicle for their residential mortgage.
In September 2018, the mortgage term ended. The following month, Mr S said he was 
arranging to sell another property and could pay £30,000 by the end of the year, plus an 
extra £1,000 a month. The bank didnt accept that as a long-term proposal. 
Mr and Mrs S provided the bank with their accounts, but it said it couldnt accept dividend 
income in assessing their situation and it wouldnt extend the term. It later marked the 
mortgage as defaulted on Mr and Mrs Ss credit files; as a result Mr and Mrs S say they have 
been unable to re-mortgage elsewhere. 
Mr and Mrs S complained. They wanted either a term extension or their credit files amending 
so they could move their mortgage to another lender. 
The bank said it had done nothing wrong: it had set up the mortgage over the term Mr and 
Mrs S had asked for in 2007, and it couldnt extend the term based on income mostly from 
dividends.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I proposed that the bank settle the 
complaint by amending Mr and Mrs Ss credit files and paying them some compensation. I 
said: 
First of all, I should explain that Im not required to set out my view on every point each 
party has made if I dont consider it necessary or material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Were a free, informal dispute resolution service, not a court, and I assure Mr and Mrs S and 
their representatives that Ive carefully considered everything theyve provided, alongside 
relevant regulatory rules (here, the Mortgage Conduct of Business rules), guidance and 
good practice, and taken account of relevant law. 
Mr and Mrs S took out their mortgage in 2007. Clydesdale has accepted that they havent 
left it too late to complain, and I agree. Ive seen a copy of an e-mail from Mr S to the bank in 
2013, saying he was concerned about the term. That was within six years of taking out the 
mortgage, so Im satisfied Mr and Mrs S havent left it too late to complain. 
However, the bank sent its final response to Mr Ss complaint about its decision to call in its 
security for his business loan a number of years before the complaint at hand here was 
made, so I cant consider that here. Both parties have accepted that.
There are three key points which I must decide in this case. Firstly, the sale of the mortgage 
with what Mr and Mrs S say was the wrong term. Secondly, the promises which Mr and Mrs 
S say the bank made and broke to extend the term. Thirdly, the way the bank has recorded 
the operation of the mortgage on Mr and Mrs Ss credit files since the term ended. Ill deal 
with each in turn.
The sale of the mortgage
Mr and Mrs S have argued that they were induced into re-mortgaging with Clydesdale: it 
approached them, rather than the other way around. I think its clear that the parties had an 
existing relationship before the mortgage was taken out. Mr S had already arranged 
business borrowing with the bank, for example.
But who approached whom doesnt change my approach to this complaint. Clydesdale gave 
Mr and Mrs S advice about their mortgage. That advice was regulated. So Clydesdale had to 
recommend a suitable mortgage arrangement. I think it did that. It has provided copies of the 
mortgage fact find, application, and offer. All of those documents said Mr and Mrs S had 
asked for, and got, a mortgage term of 10 years and 9 months. They appear to have signed 
the fact find and application to confirm the information on them. 10 years and 9 months was 
the same remaining term they had on their then-existing mortgage with another lender. The 
fact find also said Mrs S intended to retire at 55 and in terms of Mr S:
You intend to retire in 10yrs & 9mths, at which time you will be 56. You will receive a tax 
free lump sum which you would use to repay the loan in full. However in the meantime you 
will pay in lump sums in order to reduce the outstanding balance. Upon retirement you may 
sell your business which would be valued between £550k and £1m.It includes various details about Mr and Mrs Ss financial arrangements, including the value 
of a pension, and equity in other properties. It also says Mr and Mrs S wanted the flexibility 
of a mortgage on which they could make overpayments and re-draw money when they 
needed it. The fact find doesnt say Mr S planned to sell commercial units to repay this 
mortgage, or include anything about the longer term on the business borrowing which was 
secured on those units.
Its also clear that Mr and Mrs S werent simply re-mortgaging in order to switch the deal they 
were on and their lender. They also wanted to borrow more money, and the new mortgage 
with Clydesdale enabled them to do that.   
I dont consider the banks advice that Mr and Mrs S take out this mortgage was unsuitable 
in these circumstances, and I dont accept the mortgage was misrepresented at the start. Im 
satisfied that the 2007 mortgage documents were clear about what Mr and Mrs S were 
getting. I think Mr and Mrs S understood they were taking an interest-only mortgage to 
replace the capital and interest repayment mortgage they had before, and they had a plan to 
repay it. I also think they knew  or should reasonably have known  what the term was of 
the mortgage they were taking out. It was clear in the mortgage documents.
Requests for a term extension
Mr S has asked the bank to extend the mortgage term a number of times since 2008. He 
and Mrs S say the bank kept promising to extend it and it would be sorted out. They argue 
that it misled them and had it not done so they would have re-mortgaged elsewhere.
I dont think theres any dispute that there were discussions about this between the parties. 
Ive seen a copy of an e-mail from the bank to Mr S dated 7 April 2008, saying that altering 
the term: will require a new mortgage being put in place but I will discuss it with you when I 
see you on Wednesday. 
Later in 2008, the bank produced mortgage illustrations for Mr and Mrs S for mortgages over 
a 20-year term. However, those were for buy-to-let mortgages for a different property. Mr S 
raised the matter of the term on the residential mortgage several times in later years, but I 
find nothing to indicate that an application was made to extend it.
E-mails between Mr S and the bank in early 2016 show the parties were looking at the term 
again then, and the bank asked for various information about Mr and Mrs Ss businesses 
and accounts. The bank says it didnt receive anything and it went on to issue a formal 
demand for payment because the mortgage continued to exceed its limit.
Ive looked at the way the mortgage operated over the years: it regularly went over the 
overdraft limit; Mr and Mrs S then made payments to bring the balance back just under the 
limit. They didnt go ahead with the overpayments they had planned to make until more 
recently, after the term had ended. 
Extending the term would always have been subject to an assessment of Mr and Mrs Ss 
circumstances  including the way they had run the mortgage. An extension was never 
guaranteed, and the evidence Ive seen doesnt lead me to conclude that the bank promised 
an extension or a re-mortgage later, or that it misled Mr and Mrs S about this. 
Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage term has now ended, and a term extension is something I would 
expect a lender to consider in this situation. The bank has said it has done that: it has looked 
at Mr and Mrs Ss accounts and it wasnt prepared to extend the term. In all the circumstances, I dont consider that I can fairly require the bank to extend the term 
now. Mr and Mrs S dont have a plan for how theyre going to repay the capital. They have 
paid around an extra £1,000 a month towards the mortgage since March 2019, and they told 
the bank they hoped to raise £30,000 from the sale of a commercial property in late 2018, 
although its unclear whether that came to fruition. They havent made any other proposals 
for repayment. 
Extending the term in these circumstances is likely to leave Mr and Mrs S in a difficult 
position later. While they might be able to continue to make some inroads into the mortgage 
balance, they havent set out how they will ultimately repay it, and their circumstances have 
changed since they took it out in 2007.  
The bank has a duty to continue to treat Mr and Mrs S fairly with their best interests in mind, 
and it should work with them to try to reach an agreement for repayment of the mortgage. 
While it is entitled to repayment, repossession should be a last resort. Given my conclusion 
about a term extension, its not appropriate for me to be prescriptive here about timeframes 
for what happens next, not least because Mr and Mrs S and the bank will need to engage 
with one another about next steps. 
Credit files
Mr and Mrs S have said it was unfair of the bank to record the mortgage on their credit files 
as having defaulted six months after the term ended. I agree. Since the term ended, they 
have continued to make payments to more than cover the monthly mortgage interest; they 
havent stopped paying. 
While I can see that the bank considers Mr and Mrs S to have broken their agreement with it 
to repay the mortgage at the end of the term, I dont think a credit file default is a fair 
reflection of that. We wouldnt generally expect a default to be registered until later, when a 
lender takes a property into possession, for example. I also have in mind that a default will 
have had an impact on Mr and Mrs Ss ability to refinance elsewhere. 
So, as well as removing the default and any missed or late payments from Mr and Mrs Ss 
credit files while they have been paying since the end of the term, I think the bank should 
also pay Mr and Mrs S some compensation for the considerable inconvenience and upset 
they have been caused as a result of its having reported the operation of their mortgage in 
this way. I provisionally assess a fair award at £500.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited Mr and Mrs S and the bank to let me have any further comments or evidence they 
wanted me to consider before making my final decision. 
Through their solicitors, Mr and Mrs S said, in summary:
- Mr S has retrieved his notes of a meeting he had with the bank on 3 July 2008, which 
have jogged his memory. The bank had assured him at that meeting that a new 
mortgage with a longer term was being put in place. This is new evidence and shows the 
bank made a binding contractual promise. I hadnt made a finding about this, or referred 
to relevant case law, specifically, RBS v Carlyle [2015] UKSC 13.
- There were mistakes of fact in my provisional decision:
- They had been promised a new mortgage with a longer term, not a term extension on 
the existing mortgage; the two are different. - No mortgage illustrations for buy-to-let mortgages were produced in 2008.
- I had said no application was made to extend the term of the residential mortgage, 
but it was usual in 2008 for the bank to release money to Mr and Mrs S without 
formal paperwork  so they accepted the banks assurances that the mortgage term 
would be extended without an application.
- The mortgage only exceeded its limit on limited occasions and Mr S had been in 
contact with the bank when this did happen. 
- They had intended to refinance in order to repay the mortgage but the default has 
prevented them from doing so. 
- The bank rejected their proposal to pay £30,000 from the sale of a commercial 
property to the mortgage.
- £500 doesnt fairly reflect the extent of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and 
Mrs S. The default has affected their day-to-day lives on both a personal and business 
basis. 
The bank said it had nothing more to add and it had begun taking steps to remove the 
default and arrears from Mr and Mrs Ss credit files.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, for 
the same reasons.
I said in my provisional decision that I accepted there were discussions between Mr and Mrs 
S and the bank about extending the mortgage term. I havent changed my view about that. 
Ive given careful consideration to Mr Ss note of his meeting with the bank which has now 
come to light. While it mentions mortgage renewal, theres no other significant detail. 
Mr and Mrs S say the meeting was on 3 July 2008, and the bank told Mr S it would put in 
place a new mortgage with a longer term. They say this was confirmed in a subsequent e-
mail from the bank to Mr S dated 9 July 2008. That e-mail said:
We are pressing ahead with your mortgage and overdraft paper work (you should receive 
an email today from [staff members name], with new account forms to set up the overdraft 
on)
[Another staff members name] cannot progress further with the mortgage approval until she 
receives confirmation of income from your accountant. Would it be possible for you to ask 
your accountant to give this priority and fax us at his earliest convenience?
Mr and Mrs S say the first part of the e-mail was to do with the mortgage at issue here, and 
the second part related to a buy-to-let property. 
I dont think that pressing ahead necessarily meant anything had been finalised. Rather, it 
would have led Mr S to expect paperwork to arrive soon afterwards. Thats not the same as 
saying the bank undertook to provide either a new mortgage or a term extension. I dont find that the bank did give such an undertaking  or, for the avoidance of any doubt, a 
binding contractual promise. In reaching that conclusion I have weighed up Mr and Mrs Ss 
testimony, alongside the other evidence and all the circumstances in this case. 
I have also read the judgment in the case which Mr and Mrs Ss solicitors seek to rely on. 
But it doesnt help Mr and Mrs S, given my finding about the absence of a legally binding 
promise from the bank in this case.  
Finally, I can see that Mr and Mrs S have been adversely impacted by the default on their 
credit files. I remain of the view that the award I proposed in my provisional decision reflects 
that significant impact. 
Putting things right
  
The bank should:
- amend Mr and Mrs Ss credit files in respect of this mortgage, to remove the default and 
any late or missed payment entries where Mr and Mrs S have made monthly payments 
covering at least the monthly interest, from the end of the mortgage term to the date of 
this final decision, if it hasnt already done so; and
- pay Mr and Mrs S £500 compensation.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Clydesdale Bank 
PLC should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2022. 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman