DRN-3642592
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice given by Bloomfield Financial Limited to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS) to his defined 
contribution (DC) group personal pension (GPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for 
him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Mr B is represented in this complaint, but for ease Ill refer only to Mr B.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Bs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure
its business, including decoupling the employer DB scheme (the BSPS) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined benefit scheme (the BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
In April 2017 Mr Bs employer set up a new DC GPP for him.  
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed  it said that if risk-related qualifying conditions 
relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme sponsored by Mr Bs 
employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017, and was later extended to 22 December 2017.
Mr B was concerned about the security of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. So in October 
2017 he contacted independent financial adviser Bloomfield. Mr B told it this matter was time 
sensitive because of the Time to Choose deadline. And that hed thought hard and 
transferring out his BSPS DB scheme was his best option, and hed be willing to proceed as 
an insistent client due to his retirement plans. Bloomfield told Mr B it wouldnt start its 
advice process expecting him to be insistent, because that would be to presume what its 
advice would be. 
Bloomfield gathered information about Mr Bs circumstances and objectives. On 
30 November 2017 it completed its terms of business with Mr B, as well as a fact find for 
him and his wife. The fact find said Mr B was almost age 55, in good health, married with 
no dependents, was employed and earned £32,000 gross each year, and had savings of 
£19,973. The home he shared with his wife was worth £115,000, and their repayment 
mortgage had a remaining term of 11 years and a remaining balance of £36,000, for which 
they repaid £368.64 each month. The fact find said their annual expenditure was £24,000, 
though there was no detailed breakdown of this. And that Mr B had three pensions  his 
BSPS DB scheme with a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £202,523.94, another 
DB scheme which Mr B later got a CETV of £33,439 for in March 2018, and his DC GPP 
with a current value of £3,780. It wasnt recorded whether Mr Bs wife had any pensions. 
The fact find said Mr B wanted to leave his current job at age 60, because he and his wife 
wanted to sell up and buy a small business abroad. They thought this business would cost 
£200,000 and give them an income, so they preferred taking Mr Bs pension benefits as a 
lump sum rather than a retirement income. The fact find recorded Mr B had been watching 
his BSPS CETVs looking for jumps in value he could bank. That he was very worried the 
BSPS would fall into the PPF, which would greatly restrict his options and benefits. And 
that life assurance wasnt important to Mr B. On 30 November 2017, Bloomfield also 
assessed Mr Bs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be balanced, or medium. 
Bloomfield carried out financial analyses on 9 January 2018. And on 12 January 2018, its 
suitability report advised Mr B to transfer his BSPS DB scheme benefits to his existing DC 
GPP, which had lower fees than other personal pensions. It said this transfer would allow 
him to access maximum tax free cash (TFC) at age 60 to move and buy a business abroad 
 it noted Mr B could probably fund this through selling his UK home, but having additional 
capital would give him confidence to proceed. Bloomfield also said the transfer would 
address Mr Bs fears that his DB benefits would move to the PPF (as hed lost trust in the 
BSPS trustees and thought the BSPS2 would either fail to launch or would move to the 
PPF), and that hed lose out on the increased CETV at that time. Mr B accepted this advice, 
so on 9 March 2018 £202,523.94 was transferred from the BSPS to Mr Bs DC GPP.
In June 2022 Mr B complained to Bloomfield that this 2018 advice had been unsuitable, as it 
left him financially worse off and meant hed lost guaranteed benefits. 
Bloomfield said it told Mr B hed likely be financially worse off by transferring his DB scheme 
benefits to his DC GPP. But the transfer was suitable for Mr B because it was the only way 
he could definitely buy a business abroad at age 60 as he wanted. Bloomfield said Mr B had 
insisted this was all that mattered, and the CETV was high enough for him. And that it was 
possible the BSPS2 might fail to launch and Mr B was convinced his DB scheme benefits 
would move to the PPF. Bloomfield said its recommendation to transfer, and the subsequent 
investment, was suitable given Mr Bs particular objectives and attitude to risk. 
Still unhappy, Mr B asked our Service to investigate. He said Bloomfield hadnt gathered 
enough information about his plan to move abroad, which hadnt been a certain plan. That 
hed not known much about the BSPS2 and PPF, but was concerned about them and 
Bloomfield hadnt reassured him. He didnt have much financial knowledge and hadnt 
understood the risk Bloomfield encouraged him to take. Hed simply relied on its 
recommendation to transfer. Mr B said he was still working and his financial situation meant 
he planned to retire at age 65. 
Ultimately, our Investigator thought Bloomfields advice to transfer Mr Bs BSPS DB 
scheme benefits was unsuitable. Because it meant he was giving up a guaranteed, risk-
free and increasing income, and was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And there 
were no reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. He thought Bloomfield 
should compensate Mr B for its unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined benefits 
pension transfer redress methodology, and using the benefits available to Mr B through 
the BSPS2 for comparison purposes. He also thought Bloomfield should pay Mr B £300 
compensation for the unnecessary distress its unsuitable advice had caused him. 
Mr B agreed with our Investigator. He clarified hed accessed TFC in 2021 in reaction to 
falling markets and concerns about a recession, but wouldnt have accessed TFC as early 
as he did if Bloomfields unsuitable advice hadnt left this option open to him. And hed not 
spent any of the TFC. So, Mr B thought redress should be based on retirement at age 65. Bloomfield disagreed with our Investigators view and provided further comments. In 
summary, it said:
It had complied with the regulators requirements and guidance. 
The Investigators view was based on hindsight. At that time, the UK steel industry 
was declining, and Mr Bs employer expected to go out of business if the BSPS wasnt 
restructured. Mr B had insight of that industry. And BSPS2 wasnt certain to go ahead, 
as discussed in the media and online forums Mr B was part of. Mr B greatly distrusted 
the BSPS and wanted to transfer away. And the PPF would have left Mr B with greatly 
restricted options and benefits, and was rightly portrayed more negatively than the 
BSPS by members and the trustees. So, avoiding the PPF was another compelling 
reason for Mr B to transfer his DB benefits.
It wouldnt have been reasonable for Bloomfield to try to persuade Mr B his fears were 
unfounded. But Bloomfield had told Mr B about BSPS2s positives and that hed lose 
guaranteed benefits and wouldnt get better returns if he transferred. And it had told 
him he should opt for BSPS2 while it evaluated his options.
The CETV was particularly high at that time and might have fallen if the BSPS2 failed 
to launch. The CETV gave Mr B more than he needed to meet his objective of moving 
abroad, while avoiding the risk of losing value. 
Mr B had considered and planned to move abroad at age 60. This made the transfer 
suitable, and it was wrong to say Bloomfield should have dismissed Mr Bs plan. 
Since pension freedoms were introduced, pensions were no longer strictly for 
providing retirement income, but also for funding retirement lifestyles. Mr B had 
watched his CETV until it was high enough for him to be confident in progressing his 
plan - he didnt want to rely on the sale of his UK home and it would be difficult to 
coordinate this with buying abroad. Taking TFC from his other pensions wouldnt give 
Mr B enough to move abroad, and the BSPS2 and PPF didnt allow flexible drawdown 
and easy access to TFC.
Mr B wouldve insisted on a transfer anyway. He asked about the insistent client 
process at the very start, so hed already decided to transfer and only came to 
Bloomfield because he was obliged to obtain advice.
Our Investigator didnt change their view. He thought an enhanced CETV wasnt enough 
reason to transfer, and moving abroad wasnt a certain plan for Mr B. That the primary 
purpose of a pension is to provide retirement income. And while Mr B may have had 
concerns about the BSPS, BSPS2 and PPF, it wasnt for Bloomfield to simply do what 
Mr B wanted  it should have given him an impartial view. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was referred for an Ombudsmans 
decision. Whilst that referral was underway, our Service contacted Mr B and Bloomfield to 
explain that Mr B could choose to have any redress calculated now in line with the 
regulators current guidance in FG 17/9, or he could instead choose to wait for any new 
guidance/rules to be published by the regulator, as expected in early 2023. 
Bloomfield said that, without admission of liability, it was prepared to settle the complaint 
in line with the regulators current guidance in FG17/9. Using that, it calculated Mr B 
hadnt been caused any financial loss. But it offered Mr B £500 compensation for his 
distress and inconvenience, in full and final settlement of his complaint. Our Service passed this offer to Mr B. He said he wanted to wait and have any redress 
calculated in line with any new guidance/rules to be published by the regulator.
This complaint then came to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Bloomfields actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
I appreciate Bloomfield says it complied with the regulators requirements. But having 
considered all of this, and the evidence in this case, Im upholding this complaint for largely 
the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Bloomfield 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Bs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Financial viability
Bloomfield carried out a transfer value analysis report TVAS (as required by the regulator) 
showing how much Mr Bs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide 
the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr B was less than a month from turning age 55 at the time of the advice, and wanted to 
retire at age 60. Bloomfield argues the enhanced CETV at that time made the advice 
suitable. But even if the CETV was enhanced, the critical yield nonetheless required to 
match Mr Bs benefits under the BSPS2 at age 60 was still 14.25% if he took a full pension  
Bloomfield didnt record what critical yield would be required if Mr B took TFC and a reduced 
pension at age 60, despite its advice being predicated on this. The critical yield to match the 
benefits available through the PPF at age 60 was quoted as 9.68% per year if Mr B took a 
full pension and 8.87% per year if he took TFC and a reduced pension.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.1% per year for five years to retirement. Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's 
projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Bs 
medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr B 
giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given all of the critical yields at age 
60 were well above the discount rate and all of the regulators projection rates, I think Mr B 
was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at 
retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. This would be the case 
even if the scheme moved to the PPF. 
Bloomfield has provided various financial analyses which it may say shows the viability of 
the transfer despite the high critical yields. Ive considered these. They say that if Mr B 
transferred his DB scheme benefits to his GPP and took his benefits at age 60, at a medium 
rate of return his fund would run out at age 102. But this is based on Mr B taking a full 
pension at age 60. And Bloomfield recorded that Mr B wanted to access maximum TFC at 
age 60, and it argues this is one the reasons its advice was suitable for Mr B. Other parts of 
Bloomfields analyses are based on Mr B accessing TFC, but at age 65 rather than at age 60 
as he wanted. So Bloomfields modelling doesnt clearly reflect what Bloomfield recorded 
Mr B wanted to do. And it doesnt seem to show a direct comparison between the escalating 
income Mr B was entitled to take through his existing DB scheme, and the same income 
being instead taken through a GPP to his estimated death. 
Also, as Bloomfield will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and 
so I consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic 
in this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over 
such a long period of time.For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Bs best interests; in pure 
financial terms he was likely to be worse off if he transferred out of the scheme and started 
accessing his pension at age 60. Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration 
when giving transfer advice, as Bloomfield has argued in this case. There might be other 
considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. 
Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
One of the key reasons Bloomfield recommended Mr B transfer to a personal pension was 
because Mr B wanted the flexibility to move abroad at age 60 and buy a small business 
which would give him and his wife an income.
Ive considered this carefully, and I dont think Mr B needed to take any action to give him 
flexibility in retirement at the time of the advice. This is because based on the evidence Ive 
seen, I dont think at that time that Mr B had any concrete need to take TFC at age 60 in 
order to move abroad and buy a business. In my view, this was something Mr B was thinking 
about but was not a genuine and concrete objective at that time  it was still some five years 
away, during which time Mr Bs plans couldve changed drastically. Im not suggesting 
Bloomfield should simply have dismissed Mr Bs plans, but I think it should have properly 
challenged them and given Mr B an impartial view. It ought to have fully explored the 
financial implications of Mr Bs plan, particularly on his retirement income, and the risk it 
carried. And I dont think Bloomfield did that. 
I say this because before making its recommendations, Bloomfield completed a fact find 
for Mr B. It recorded that Mr B thought buying a small business abroad would cost 
£200,000 and mentioned two types of business and various areas Mr B was thinking 
about. That Mr B wanted TFC in order to have the confidence to do this without worrying 
about timings or having enough capital. And that Mr B expected to have an income from 
this new business. But Bloomfield didnt record anything more detailed about Mr Bs plans. 
In particular, it didnt record what his income needs would be from age 60 onwards, or 
what income he expected to get from his new business abroad. And taking maximum TFC 
reduces the sum available to provide retirement income. Given all this, I think its fair to 
say that Bloomfield didnt consider whether a transfer would leave Mr B with enough to 
meet his income needs in retirement or whether he could afford to take the risk. 
Mr B might have liked the idea of moving and buying a business abroad at age 60, and 
done some thinking about this. But that doesnt mean it was a plan set in stone for him at 
the time of the advice or one that he shouldve been encouraged to pursue without good 
reason. But even if I accepted that at the time of the 2018 advice, Mr B had a concrete 
need to move and buy a business abroad at age 60, which I dont, then I think there were 
other ways of achieving this without transferring his DB pension and losing guaranteed 
benefits. 
Bloomfield itself had recorded that Mr B could probably fund the purchase through selling 
his UK home, but that having additional capital would give him confidence to proceed. So 
based on what Bloomfield recorded at the time of the advice, it seems that what Mr B was 
looking for was some additional cash as a cushion. 
At the time of the advice, Mr B had £19,973 in savings. The fact find suggests he had about 
£250 of disposable income each month, however the suitability report says he in fact had 
£500 disposable income each month. So its reasonable to think Mr B could have added 
another £15,000 to his savings over the next five years, so that they reached a total of about 
£35,000 by the time he reached age 60. Mr B also had a DC GPP. This had started in April 2017 and had a value of £3,780 at the 
time of the advice. Mr B and his employer contributed a total of 16% per year to this. Given 
this and Mr Bs salary, I think its reasonable to conclude Mr Bs DC GPP would be worth at 
least about £29,000 by the time he was aged 60. Mr B could take 25% of this as TFC, 
around £7,000, and couldve drawn down further sums if he needed extra income.
If Bloomfield had advised Mr B to opt into the BSPS2, as I believe it should have, Mr B 
couldve also taken TFC if he decided to retire and access his benefits at age 60. The 
suitability report said that Mr B couldve taken TFC of £41,754.13 plus an income of 
£6,263.12. 
So the information gathered at the time of the advice shows that Mr B could have almost 
£84,000 cash available to him at age 60 if he built his savings up, made use of the flexibility 
already available to him through his DC GPP and took TFC from his DB scheme. But in any 
event this discussion wouldve been premature. And I think Bloomfield shouldve advised 
Mr B to revisit the objective of taking TFC nearer to him reaching age 60, at which point he 
could assess whether his savings and the TFC available to him through his DB and DC 
schemes was sufficient. 
As I say, Bloomfield recorded almost no details of the costs involved in Mr Bs plan. But it did 
record that Mr B thought £200,000 was enough for the purchase, and I think the £84,000 its 
fair to say Mr B could already have had available to him at age 60 through savings, the 
flexibility of his existing DC GPP and the BSPS2 would have been a reasonable financial 
cushion for a purchase of this size, since it was about 40% of the total amount Mr B thought 
he needed. And in these circumstances Mr B wouldve retained the guaranteed income the 
BSPS2 could provide him with, which wouldve almost certainly been of use to him whilst he 
was launching a new business. Thats particularly the case given the income from his new 
business was far from guaranteed. 
Bloomfield may argue that it was still a good idea for Mr B to transfer his BSPS DB scheme 
benefits to his DC GPP and access maximum TFC at age 60 to avoid the difficulty of 
coordinating a sale of his UK home with the purchase of a business abroad. But its clear 
that the maximum TFC from Mr Bs BSPS DB scheme benefits would not cover the whole 
£200,000 Mr B thought he needed to buy a business abroad. So Mr B was always going to 
need to sell his house and try to coordinate timings in order to buy a business abroad. 
Mr B was almost age 55 and had more than five years before he thought he wanted access 
to TFC, so I think transferring his BSPS DB pension in 2018 was premature. Therefore, at 
the time of the 2018 advice, Im not satisfied that taking TFC at age 60 was a concrete plan 
Mr B had made, but rather was an idea he was working towards. And as Mr B had more than 
five years before he thought he needed to access his pension, I think it was too soon to 
make any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr B to give up his guaranteed benefits in 2018 when he wasnt 
sure what his needs in retirement would be. 
Overall, I think it wouldve been in Mr Bs best interest to join the BSPS2  I know he had 
concerns about this, which Ill return to. Opting into the BSPS2 would have meant Mr B 
retained the option to transfer out of the scheme at a later date, should his circumstances 
dictate that this was in his best interests. And the escalation rates were generally better 
under BSPS2. Bloomfield says it told Mr B he should opt for BSPS2 while it evaluated his 
options. But Ive not seen a clear reference to this in the documents from 2018 provided to 
me. Nonetheless, its evident Bloomfield recommended Mr B transfer his BSPS DB scheme 
benefits into his GPP, not into the BSPS2. So, I dont think Bloomfield should have advised Mr B to transfer out of the BSPS to have 
flexibility that he didnt yet need, when his retirement plans werent concrete. Mr Bs desire to 
access his pension didnt outweigh Bloomfields responsibility to provide him with suitable 
advice and act in his best interest.  
Control and concerns over the financial stability of the DB scheme
Bloomfield may argue that a transfer was suitable because it gave Mr B control over his 
pension. But I think this would be to overstate Mr Bs desire for control over his pension 
benefits. Bloomfield says Mr B had monitored his CETV for some time, and had chosen the 
investments for his GPP so it might argue he was an experienced investor. But I disagree. 
Mr B was a retail client with no real investment experience, and I cannot see that he had an 
interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont 
think control was a genuine objective for Mr B but was simply a consequence of transferring 
away from his DB scheme. 
Bloomfield argues that financial security was a compelling reason for Mr B to transfer  it 
says hindsight shouldnt be used here and that there was a great deal of uncertainty and 
concern about the BSPS, BSPS2 and the PPF. And Mr B was very aware of this, given he 
was working in the steel industry, reading media coverage and active in related online 
forums. And Bloomfield says the BSPS had significant funding issues, and there were 
concerns BSPS2 might fail to launch since the letters the BSPS trustees sent to members 
were pessimistic about this. And that the PPF would have left Mr B with greatly restricted 
options and benefits and was rightly seen more negatively than the BSPS. So, avoiding 
the PPF was a compelling reason for Mr B to transfer his DB benefits to a personal 
pension. It added that Mr B had already introduced the idea of being an insistent client to 
force the transfer through.
Im aware that many BSPS members like Mr B had serious concerns about their 
employers future and the effect this would have on their pension pots. The situation was 
evolving after the BSPS closed in March 2017. There was also some widespread 
trepidation about what moving pensions to the PPF meant for members. Its also well 
known that this was a period of uncertainty for people like Mr B. But this only serves to 
emphasise the need at that time for a balanced assessment of the options available and 
ultimately the need for suitable advice. 
I understand there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice with 
preconceived ideas or concerns about the financial health of an employer or pension 
scheme. But Bloomfield was tasked with rationally addressing those concerns and 
providing an appropriately balanced view of all the available options. And in order to 
recommend that Mr B should transfer out of his DB scheme, Bloomfield needed to be able 
to clearly demonstrate that doing so was in his best interests. 
I dont dispute that when Mr B approached Bloomfield there was still the possibility that his 
pension could move to the PPF. And Bloomfield has argued it couldn't be sure  at the 
time of its advice  that the BSPS2 would go ahead. But I think Bloomfield overestimated 
the chance of the BSPS2 not happening. I note that Mr B sought advice just after he 
received his Time to Choose pack. In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of 
the RAA had been agreed. Under the announced plans, Mr Bs employer agreed to set up 
and sponsor the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being 
satisfied. The Pensions Regulator approved the RAA on 11 August 2017. 
Subsequently on 28 August 2017 the BSPS administrators provided scheme members, 
including Mr B, with an important update in respect of BSPS transfer values. The update 
said an expected payment into the BSPS of £550 million by Mr Bs employer, as part of its agreement with The Pension Regulator, was likely to result in an improvement to transfer 
values. And for those with unexpired transfer values, like Mr B, administrators would issue 
updated valuations in October 2017, which would be guaranteed until at least December 
2017. The confirmation that Mr Bs employer had made the payment referred to was 
announced on 11 September 2017. That was several months before Bloomfield made its 
recommendation. 
Given that the whole purpose of the RAA was to prevent the entirety of the BSPS entering 
the PPF, I think that Bloomfield should have been aware that it was more likely than not 
that the BSPS2 would go ahead. In those circumstances, while entry into the PPF was still 
a possibility, I think Bloomfield should have explained to Mr B that this was unlikely to be 
the case. But it didnt do that. 
Nevertheless, if Mr B transferred his DB scheme he wasnt likely to be able to match or 
improve on the benefits hed be entitled to if the scheme entered the PPF. So, I think 
Bloomfield ought to have reassured Mr B that the possibility of his scheme moving to the 
PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought  it still wouldve provided him with a sizable sum in 
TFC and a guaranteed income, even if he retired early. And its possible the benefits 
available to Mr B under the PPF at age 60 were better than those under the BSPS2 because 
of the more favourable early retirement and TFC commutation factors.  So, Bloomfield 
shouldve reassured Mr B that he could meet his plan of moving and buying a business 
abroad in either scheme regardless.
Overall, I appreciate Mr B had very strong feelings about transferring out and the PPF when 
he sought advice from Bloomfield. But I think if Bloomfield had provided clear and objective 
information about Mr Bs options and benefits whichever DB scheme he was in, and 
explained that Mr B could meet his objectives by opting into the BSPS2 or moving to the 
PPF, I think he wouldve been reassured by this and accepted the advice.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and control on offer through a personal pension would have 
sounded like attractive features to Mr B. But Bloomfield wasnt there to just transact what 
Mr B might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr B 
needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr B was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr B was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no compelling reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr B shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to have flexibility he didnt yet need, and in any event having that flexibility 
wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme. Mr B couldve met his 
objectives by remaining in the DB scheme. So, I think Bloomfield shouldve advised Mr B not 
to transfer to a personal pension.
Mr B couldnt remain in his existing scheme; he had until 22 December 2017 to choose 
whether to opt into the BSPS2. If Mr B didnt opt into the BSPS2 by this point, he would 
move with the existing scheme to the PPF. So, Ive thought about what Bloomfield shouldve 
advised Mr B to do here. 
I think that by 30 November 2017, Bloomfield had all the information it needed from Mr B to 
be able to give him its advice. This means it had just over three weeks to provide its 
recommendation to Mr B before the deadline for joining the BSPS2 passed. But ultimately, 
Bloomfield didnt give Mr B its advice until the suitability report dated 12 January 2018. And 
by this time, Mr B had lost the chance to opt into the BSPS2. I think it was incumbent on Bloomfield to ensure it was able to provide the advice to Mr B before the deadline for opting 
into the BSPS2 passed. And Ive not seen anything in the evidence provided to me to justify 
the delay. So I think Bloomfield shouldve been in a position to give its recommendation in 
good time to meet the deadline.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr B would've gone ahead anyway, against 
Bloomfields advice. Bloomfield argues that Mr B would always have transferred anyway, 
because when he first contacted Bloomfield he said hed already considered his options 
and decided to transfer, and was asking about its insistent client process. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr B wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Bloomfields advice. I say this because while I 
acknowledge that at the start, Mr B thought his best option was to transfer out and was 
willing to go down the insistent client route, this was because of inexperience and 
misconceptions that Mr B had. Its still the case that he was a retail client with no real 
investment experience, that he had a medium attitude to risk, and that this pension 
accounted for the majority of his retirement provision. And I think Bloomfield failed to 
address the misconceptions Mr B had. So, if Bloomfield had provided Mr B with clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I 
think Mr B wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Bs concerns about the BSPS, BSPS2 or PPF were so great that 
he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he 
had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. 
If Bloomfield had explained that Mr B could meet all of his genuine objectives without risking 
his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr B 
would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
As I say, at the time of the advice, I think it was clear to all parties that BSPS2 was likely to 
be going ahead. And Bloomfield would have been aware that Mr B had received his Time to 
Choose pack by this time, giving him details of the BSPS2 and the choice to opt into it or 
remain in the scheme and move to the PPF. Given Mr Bs age at the time of the advice and 
the fact he didnt have concrete plans to retire before age 60, I don't think that it would've 
been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme 
entering the PPF, as it wouldn't necessarily be offset by the more favourable reduction for 
very early retirement. Also, the annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also 
more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think Bloomfield shouldve advised Mr B to opt 
into the BSPS2.
In light of the above, I think Bloomfield should compensate Mr B for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
I also accept Bloomfields error here would have caused Mr B some distress. I note our 
Investigator suggested £300 was fair and reasonable compensation for that. And that 
Bloomfield itself then later chose to offer Mr B a total of £500 compensation for his distress 
and inconvenience, albeit as a goodwill gesture in an attempt to bring this matter to a close. 
So I think its fair and reasonable that Bloomfield should pay Mr B the £500 compensation it 
has itself already offered him for his distress and inconvenience, if it hasnt done so already.
 Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr B whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect.
He would like his complaint to be settled in line with new guidance /rules. I consider its fair 
that Bloomfield calculates Mr Bs redress in line with new guidance and rules when they 
come into effect. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Bloomfield to put Mr B, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Bloomfields unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the GPP if he'd been given 
suitable advice. So, Bloomfield should use the benefits offered by the BSPS2 for comparison 
purposes.
The basic objective of the amendments to the redress methodology still remains to put a 
consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had advised 
them to remain in the DB scheme. Having reviewed the FCAs consultation and policy 
statement, Im satisfied that the changes still reflect a fair way to compensate Mr B.
Bloomfield must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology as 
soon as any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay 
any due compensation now in line with FG17/9).  
For clarity, I understand that Mr B has not yet retired and plans to do so at age 65. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance/rules come into effect.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and Bloomfield 
has received notification of Mr Bs acceptance of my decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date any 
changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Bloomfield to pay Mr B.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Bloomfield deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. Bloomfield should give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Bloomfield Financial 
Limited to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
I also require Bloomfield Financial Limited to pay Mr B the total of £500 compensation it 
has itself already offered him for the distress caused by its mistake, if it hasnt paid this 
already.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require 
Bloomfield Financial Limited to pay Mr B any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Bloomfield 
Financial Limited to pay Mr B any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Bloomfield Financial Limited pays Mr B the balance. I additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr B.
If Mr B accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Bloomfield Financial 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.Bloomfield Financial Limited should also provide details of its calculations to Mr B in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman