DRN-3405380
The complaint
Miss W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money she lost as the result of a 
scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here.
But in summary, in May 2021, Miss W was contacted by somebody claiming to be a Police 
Officer and Prosecutor from the Shanghai Public Security Bureau. They told Miss W that she 
was the main suspect in a transnational illegal money laundering case and that, if proved 
guilty, she would face ten years in jail and also face five years in jail if she told anybody 
about the investigation. But unknown to her at the time Miss W was dealing with fraudsters. 
Miss W has said she had to give a statement during a two-hour video call and the fraudsters 
sent her what appeared to be legal documents from China, that contained her Chinese name 
and passport number. Miss W added that she felt threatened and received daily calls from 
the fraudsters, asking her what her routine was.
The fraudsters told Miss W that she had to pay fees, so that she could stay in the UK, rather 
than being deported to China, during the investigation. She was told this would be refunded 
to her if she won her case. Believing things to be genuine Miss W went ahead and made the 
following international payments, totalling £130,000, to account details provided to her by the 
fraudsters;
12 May 2021 £50,000
18 May 2021 £44,000
20 May 2021 £16,000
28 May 2021 £20,000
Miss W has said the fraudsters put her under severe pressure and they taught her to lie to 
the bank. Telling her that she should tell the bank the payments were in connection with a 
property purchase in Hong Kong. 
HSBCs fraud detection systems blocked the first two payments and it contacted Miss W to 
discuss them with her. But satisfied with Miss Ws responses it allowed the payments to be 
progressed. 
When Miss W realised shed been scammed she reported it to HSBC who looked into things 
and issued its final response on 15 June 2021, not upholding the complaint. In summary it 
said that while it sympathised with Miss W it wouldnt be able to provide her with a refund. 
Unhappy with HSBCs response. Miss W then brought her complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it was our 
investigators view that HSBC couldnt have done much more to prevent the scam and he 
didnt think any further intervention by the bank would have made a difference. Our 
investigator also didnt think HSBC had missed an opportunity to try and recover the money 
Miss W had lost. 
Miss W didnt agree with our investigators view. In summary Miss W and her 
representatives argued that;
- Miss W was vulnerable at the time, as English wasnt her first language, and she 
wasnt familiar with UK banking procedures.
- Consideration should be given to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM code).
- HSBCs interactions during the calls didnt go far enough, especially considering  
Miss W had initially tried to make the first payment of £50,000 to different bank 
details.
- Considering how large the payments were, Miss W should have received the 
strongest possible intervention and she should have been referred to a branch for 
questioning.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Miss Ws representatives have referred to other decisions issued by our service, 
and Miss W has referred to case studies on this services website. But I would point out that, 
while on the surface complaints may seem quite similar, each complaint is determined by its 
own individual circumstances. Here, as Im required to do, Ive looked at the individual 
circumstances of Miss Ws complaint. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
I can quite understand why Miss W would like HSBC to refund her under the CRM code. The 
CRM is a voluntary code through which victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams 
can sometimes get their money back from the banks involved in the payments. But 
unfortunately the CRM only applies to transfers between UK banks. The CRM doesnt apply 
here because Miss Ws payments were international. As such I cant use it as a 
consideration in this complaint or as the basis for asking HSBC to do more.
Ive gone on to consider HSBCs wider obligations when dealing with authorised push 
payment scams. In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the account terms 
and conditions, HSBC is expected to execute authorised payment instructions without undue 
delay. Its not disputed that Miss W was duped, but nor is it disputed that she requested 
these payments. So the starting position is that shes liable for the resultant loss.
But there are some situations where we believe that banks, taking into account relevant 
rules, codes and best practice ought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have looked at 
the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before deciding whether to make the 
payment. If HSBC failed to do so adequately, causing a fraudulent loss, it might be fair to 
hold it liable.Here, HSBCs fraud detection systems did flag the first payment of £50,000 and it contacted 
Miss W before allowing the payment to be progressed. Considering how Miss W typically ran 
her account, I think it was right to flag this for checking. It was a significant payment, that 
wasnt in keeping with how Miss W generally used her account and it appeared as if there 
were two attempts being made, for £50,000 each, with different beneficiary account details. 
Ive listened to the intervention calls HSBC had with Miss W when it spoke to her before 
progressing both her payment for £50,000 and £44,000, to decide whether HSBC responded 
appropriately to the risk it identified. In doing so, I was mindful that Miss W didnt have a 
history of making such large payments  and that the potential level of loss was 
considerable. 
Having listened to these calls, I think, on balance, HSBCs intervention did go far enough. 
But importantly, considering the individual circumstances of this case, I think it more likely 
than not that even if HSBC had questioned Miss W further, Im not persuaded it would have 
made a difference.
HSBC questioned Miss W, during both calls, about the payments and recipient account. 
Miss C consistently maintained that the funds were being paid for the purpose of a property. 
During the first call, HSBC questioned why two payments had been set up (for the initial 
payment of £50,000) and Miss W told it that after checking the payment details, she realised 
they were incorrect. HSBC also ask Miss W about the recipient (who she said was her uncle) 
and about the recipient of the aborted payment (who Miss W explained was also a family 
member). HSBC also asked why the payment couldnt have been sent directly by her mother 
(who had transferred the £50,000 to her to facilitate the payment), but Miss W explained as 
the property was being purchased in her name, she was the one that had to send the 
payment. 
HSBC went on to speak to Miss W about whether shed received any calls or messages or 
emails or asked to do anything by a number of organisations, including the Police, or been 
asked to move funds or send money to a safe account. Miss W confirmed she didnt get any 
notice from any other person. 
Miss W is questioned again by HSBC when she is making the payment for £44,000. HSBC 
discussed with Miss W, amongst other things, how she knows the beneficiary, whether the 
recipient had received the first payment, whether this would be the last payment, whether 
shed met the recipient and what country they lived in. As well as this HSBC, queried the 
credits that had been received into Miss Ws account and again why funds were not being 
transferred directly to the recipient (rather than being transferred to Miss W first, for her then 
to transfer on). As with the first call Miss W maintained that the payments were for the 
purchase of a property, that the property was going to be in her name, so the payments had 
to come from her. But that other family members were buying it with her, which is why the 
money was being transferred to her. 
HSBC went on to explain the reason it was asking so many questions was because 
scams/fraud were rising at an alarming rate, with people being asked, forced, or convinced 
to make payments that turn out to be a scam. 
Miss W has said that the fraudsters had taught her to lie to the bank, about the purpose of 
the payments and she was coached about what to say. Im familiar with how convincing 
these scams can be, and with how and why consumers are tricked into giving cover stories. 
And here, given the threat and fear of jail, that Miss W genuinely thought she was at risk of, 
if she didnt comply with the fraudsters instructions, its understandable why she told the 
bank what she did. But its generally more difficult for banks to detect and prevent scams when their customer doesnt truthfully answer their questions. In the circumstances, I 
consider it reasonable for HSBC to have relied on what it was told. On balance I think the 
answers Miss W gave were plausible and consistent, and I think it was reasonable in this 
case for HSBC to have been reassured that Miss W wasnt at risk of financial harm and for it 
to allow the payments to progress. 
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC did enough to satisfy its duties before processing the payments. 
We do of course now know, with the benefit of hindsight, that the payments were being sent 
to a fraudster. But, at the time, I have to consider whether HSBC missed an opportunity to 
identify that Miss W was going to suffer financial harm. When considering this, Im 
persuaded that even if Miss W had been questioned further about the payment, given what 
shes told us about being coached, the fear and pressure she was under to obey the 
instructions she was given and having heard the answers she gave to the questions HSBC 
did ask, I think it more likely than not she would have continued to give persuasive and 
plausible answers, that wouldnt have given HSBC any further cause for concern.
Miss Ws representatives have said HSBC should have asked Miss W to attend a branch to 
discuss the payment. There are situations, depending on the circumstances of the individual 
payment being made, when HSBC could ask a customer to attend a branch to discuss, or 
refuse outright to make a payment. But given its starting duty is to act on authorised 
payment instructions. I consider it reasonable that, instead, in the circumstances of this 
case, HSBC questioned Miss W about the payments to satisfy itself that she wasnt at risk. 
And given the plausibility of the answers it received, I dont think it was wrong to not ask 
Miss W to go to a branch. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I think HSBC was fairly and reasonably reassured by what 
Miss W told it, before progressing with the payments. She seemed plausible, 
knowledgeable, and consistent about what she was doing. Based on the responses Miss W 
gave during the calls she had with HSBC, about the payments for £50,000 and £44,000, I 
also consider it reasonable that HSBC also processed the further authorised payments   
Miss W went on to make, particularly given these, while not insignificant amounts, were for 
considerably less than the previous two payments.
Ive thought carefully about Miss W describing herself as a vulnerable person living in the UK 
alone and explaining that she was not familiar with UK banking services, especially 
international online payments. I can understand why the nature of this particular scam, not to 
mention the fear she had of not fulfilling the fraudsters requests, wouldve left Miss W feeling 
very vulnerable. But HSBC can only act on vulnerability its aware of, or ought reasonably to 
be aware of. In this case I cant see that HSBC has previously been informed of any 
vulnerability, nor missed an opportunity to identify Miss W was vulnerable during the 
interactions it had with her when she was making these payments.
Ive gone on to think about whether HSBC  did what it shouldve done once it was aware this 
was a scam. In order for me to be able to fairly ask HSBC to refund the money to Miss W, I 
need to be satisfied that HSBC should have acted sooner in trying to recover the money. 
And if I dont think it acted soon enough, I need to decide whether it made any difference. 
Here, I can see HSBC raised the matter with the receiving banks but unfortunately it wasnt 
able to recover the money. Im persuaded HSBC tried to recover the money within a 
reasonable time frame. It is quite typical with these types of scams for fraudsters to move 
money away from the beneficiary account, straight after the payments are made, 
presumably to frustrate the efforts at this type of recovery. And as these were international 
payments, HSBC can only try and recover the funds on a best endeavours basis. So I dont 
think HSBC has missed an opportunity to try and recover the funds Miss W sadly lost.
 Its very unfortunate Miss W has lost this money in this way, and I understand the whole 
experience has been deeply upsetting and I have a great deal of sympathy for her. But in the 
circumstances, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say HSBC should have done more to 
prevent Miss W from losing this money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman