DRN-2942205
The complaint
Mrs C complains 1Plus1 Loans Limited irresponsibly approved a loan taken out by a third 
party (the borrower) to which she stood as guarantor for. 
Mrs C is represented by a claims management company. For ease Ill refer to all 
submissions as if they were made directly by her.
What happened
The borrower was approved for a £2,000 loan by 1Plus1 Loans. The term of the loan was 36 
months; with repayments of £95 (approx.). Mrs C complains 1Plus1 Loans lent this loan 
irresponsibly because it did not complete reasonable and proportionate checks on either the 
borrower or herself.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He felt:
Neither party had provided sufficient information into the checks which were 
completed on the borrower; or what further checks mayve shown. So he was unable 
to say that 1Plus1 Loans had lent irresponsibly to them;
That the checks it competed on Mrs C were proportionate and they showed she 
could afford to meet the necessary repayments should they become due. 
Mrs C disagreed with the assessment and maintained that the borrower should not have 
been lent to. She highlighted the fact the borrower was no longer making payments; and 
also raised concerns that 1Plus1 Loans were no longer pursuing the borrower for the debt. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint. 
Our investigator correctly set out our approach to these types of complaint in their initial 
investigation so I wont repeat it in full here. Needless to say I have considered if 1Plus1 
Loans completed reasonable and proportionate checks on the borrower and Mrs C before it 
lent. Whether it made a fair decision to lend based on these; and whether Mrs C gave her 
informed consent to be bound by the agreement. Ive also considered if 1Plus1 Loans acted 
unfairly in any other way.
Having considered all of the information we have; Im satisfied this complaint should not be 
upheld. This is for largely the same reasons that our investigator outlined. 
Our service has not been provided sufficient information from either party in relation to the 
checks that were completed on the borrower; or any further information which would provide 
an insight into the borrowers circumstances at the time of the application. I note the value of 
the loan was low; and as such any checks which 1Plus1 Loans completed would need to be 
proportionate to that  such as completing a credit file search or checking the borrowers 
income. In this instance 1Plus1 Loans confirmed it completed an affordability assessment on 
the borrower and sort verification through the use of the open banking system. 1Plus1 Loans 
says these checks showed the borrower could afford the loan. Whilst Mrs C disagrees with 
this position in the absence of any information to the contrary, Im unable to say 1Plus1 
Loans acted unreasonably when approving the borrower.
Mrs C says the borrower is no longer making repayments, and this in part shows the loan 
was not affordable. Whilst I acknowledge this point of view; non payment is not the same as 
showing what the borrowers circumstances were at the time of the application itself. Ive 
also not been provided persuasive information which shows the borrower was unable to 
make the repayments at the time of the application. 
Turning to Mrs Cs application as the guarantor; again Im satisfied that 1Plus1 Loans has 
acted reasonably when approving her. 
Mrs Cs complaint to our service was broad in explaining that she did not feel she shouldve 
been accepted as a guarantor. Whilst she hasnt specifically said she did not give informed 
consent, I can see that 1Plus1 Loans addressed this in its final response letter. And having 
reviewed this, as well as considering the information which 1Plus1 Loans provided our 
service; Im satisfied on balance Mrs C knew she was gave her informed consent to being a 
guarantor. Im satisfied she was aware of the main circumstances in which she would be 
required to meet repayments in the event the borrower did not. There are no arguments from 
Mrs C that she was unaware of what she was agreeing too; and theres been no assertion of 
coercion. So, based on the information which has been provided Im satisfied Mrs C gave 
her informed consent in this instance.
1Plus1 Loans says it completed reasonable and proportionate checks on Mrs C before it 
approved her as a guarantor. This included checking Mrs Cs credit file; and completing an 
income and expenditure assessment on her.
The results of these checks showed that Mrs C income was £1,500 per month (1Plus1 
Loans verified this via a third-party online tool). Her credit file search showed she had one 
active credit / store card with a balance of about £2,200. She was maintaining this well; and 
there were no negative markers recorded on her credit file at this point in time. The 
affordability assessment covered her main expenses; and demonstrated that she had 
approximately £650 in disposable income per month. When considering the low value of the 
loan (and the subsequent low monthly repayments); Im satisfied that 1Plus1 Loans checks 
were proportionate in this instance. This is because the checks enabled 1Plus1 Loans to 
have a good understanding of Mrs Cs finances and they did not show that further checks 
were warranted. 
It follows that as these checks demonstrated that Mrs C could afford the repayments should 
they become due; that Im satisfied 1Plus1 Loans acted reasonably when it approved Mrs C 
as the guarantor.
Finally, Mrs C has told our service that the borrower is no longer making repayments 
towards the loan; and she is unhappy 1Plus1 Loans is pursuing her for the repayments. 
Based on the information which weve been presented Im satisfied that 1Plus1 Loans is 
acting in line with its terms and conditions. I appreciate this is not the outcome Mrs C wants; and shell be likely disappointed by it. I can 
assure her Ive carefully considered all the information before reaching my decision. And I 
hope my decision sets out my reasoning clearly for her.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against 1Plus1 Loans Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman