DRN-4183519
The complaint
Mr W complains that Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) hasnt settled his claim on his car 
insurance policy for the loss of his car following its theft fairly.
What happened
Mr Ws car was stolen, so he made a claim on his car insurance policy. Zurich said Mr Ws 
car was a total loss. It offered him £16,000 to settle his claim (minus his policy excess of 
£500). Zurich said this was because Mr Ws policy said, if his car was a total loss, it would 
pay the market value of the car up to the value stated in Mr Ws schedule. The value stated 
in Mr Ws schedule was £16,000.
Mr W didnt think this was fair, so he brought his complaint to us. Initially, the investigator 
who looked at Mr Ws complaint didnt uphold it. But, on further reflection, she changed her 
view and said Zurich hadnt acted reasonably by limiting the settlement amount it offered   
Mr W to the value set out in his schedule. She recommended Zurich increase the settlement 
amount it offered Mr W from £16,000 to £16,544.66 (plus interest). She also said Zurich 
should pay Mr W £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its delay in 
paying him a fair settlement amount had caused him.
Zurich hasnt responded to our investigators views on Mr Ws complaint, which has now 
come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ws car insurance policy says that if his car is a total loss, the most Zurich will pay him is 
the market value of his car, less the policy excess. And it says the market value is the cost 
of replacing his car with another of a similar make, model, age, mileage and condition as at 
the time of the loss up to the value stated in your policy schedule. Zurich has relied on this 
wording to limit Mr Ws settlement to £16,000. This was the estimated value Mr W gave for 
his car when he took the policy out and which, as Ive said, was set out in his policy 
schedule.
Our general approach to complaints about this issue is that, unless a business clearly 
explains to a potential policyholder the importance of declaring a value for a car and its 
possible ramifications if a claim is made, were unlikely to say its fair and reasonable of that 
business to rely on it. 
From what Mr W says, he didnt know about this limitation on his policy until after Zurich 
declared his car a total loss  and hes also made the point the value he gave was only an 
estimate. Ive seen no evidence Zurich made the possible ramifications of this limitation clear 
to Mr W when he took the policy out. So on the facts and circumstances of this complaint, I 
dont think Zurich has acted fairly and reasonably in relying on this policy term to limit the 
settlement of Mr Ws claim to £16,000.
Our general approach to complaints about car valuations where theres been a total loss is 
to assess its market value as the price which the consumer wouldve had to pay for a 
comparable car across the various markets, immediately before the loss. Assessing the 
value of a used car isnt an exact science but we generally find the valuations given in motor-
trade guides most persuasive because theyre based on extensive nationwide research of 
likely selling prices. 
In her second view on Mr Ws complaint, and in line with our general approach to car 
valuations, our investigator got valuations from four of the motor-trade guides. The average 
of these valuations (discounting one low valuation) was £16,544.66. Ive also got valuations 
from the same guides, based on the date Mr Ws car was stolen. These give a slightly higher 
average of £16,690.25. So in line with our general approach to car valuations, I think the fair 
and reasonable outcome here is for Zurich to value Mr Ws car at £16,690.25, and not at 
£16,000.
Zurichs failure to offer Mr W a fair and reasonable valuation for his car following its theft has 
caused Mr W some inconvenience. And, from the start, Mr W argued strongly against 
Zurichs reliance on the policy limitation of £16,000, so its clear Zurichs approach made him 
unhappy. In these circumstances, I think its fair and reasonable for Zurich to pay Mr W £150 
in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Zurich Insurance PLC to:
Settle Mr Ws claim based on a valuation of £16,690.25, rather than £16,000 (minus 
Mr Ws policy excess of £500).  Zurich Insurance PLC has already paid Mr W 
£16,000, so it must now pay him the outstanding settlement amount. 
Pay Mr W interest on the outstanding settlement amount at the rate of 8% a year 
simple from the date of payment of the initial settlement amount to the date of 
payment of the outstanding settlement amount.
Pay Mr W £150 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023. 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman