DRN-3325371
The complaint
Mr D complains Aviva Insurance Limited has unfairly declined a claim hes made on his 
contents insurance policy following a burglary. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary.
Mr D has a contents insurance policy underwritten by Aviva covering a property he 
owns and formerly occupied, which is now occupied by his daughter (Miss D). 
A burglary was committed and a number of Miss Ds personal belongings were 
stolen. So, Mr D made a claim on his policy.
Aviva said, for the policy cover to engage, Miss D would need to be a permanent 
resident of the home in which Mr D, himself, resided as his permanent home 
address. And Aviva said, as Mr D now lives overseas, which it hadnt been informed 
of prior to the claim, this didnt apply. So, it declined the claim.
Unhappy with Avivas decline, Mr D brought his complaint to this Service. Our 
Investigator didnt uphold it saying that the policy covers contents for certain people 
in addition to the policyholder but they must permanently live with the policyholder 
which wasnt the case here.
Mr D asked an Ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for contents, which are defined as:
Household items and personal belongings:
That you own
The policy contains the following definition of You:
You, Your
The person (or people) named on your schedule, their domestic partner and 
members of their family (or families) who are permanently living with them 
and their foster children who live with them
Im satisfied this definition of You makes it clear that the policy only covers the 
personal belongings of additional family members when they live permanently with 
the policyholder named on the policy schedule, and thats Mr D. 
So, Ive gone on to consider this as it relates to where Mr D and Miss D lived.
Mr D says he used to live at the property as his main residence from 2008 and Aviva 
confirms this is the basis on which the policy was accepted.
But Mr D subsequently moved overseas and his permanent residence has been in 
another country since 2016. Ive seen nothing to show he or Miss D let Aviva know 
that the property was no longer his main residence.
Miss D had lived at the property from 2012 until 2018 while studying. She then 
moved back in Autumn 2020 and was still living there when the burglary occurred in 
July 2021. 
But notably, she was not permanently living with the policyholder, Mr D, at the 
insured property when the burglary occurred and the claim was made as he had 
been living overseas for some years by this point.
So overall, Im satisfied Aviva has acted fairly in saying this policy term hasnt been 
met and because of this, declining the claim.
Mr D has also said he paid for most of the stolen items so Aviva should cover the 
claim. However, in light of the available evidence and considering the items stolen 
and the relationship between parties, Im satisfied Avivas decision to consider them 
as Miss Ds personal belongings was reasonable, so this doesnt change my mind.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman