DRN-4414749
The complaint
Mr P complains, on behalf of his father, that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) caused difficulties 
when he tried to manage his fathers bank account. He doesnt think hes been adequately 
compensated for the administrative errors by the bank.  
What happened
Mr P has Power of Attorney (PoA) for his father, and this was expedited in October 2022. He 
attempted to register this with BoS and made the bank aware of his fathers dementia in 
order to restrict cash withdrawals, but described the banks administration as disorderly. 
After the PoA was registered with BoS at the second attempt, Mr P took his father to the 
bank on 8 November 2022 and saw him make a cash withdrawal and noticed another of 
£1,000 from 20 October. Mr P said his father told him he could do this without his bank card 
or ID, but by bringing sweets for the branch staff. Mr P was angry that his father was able to 
withdraw cash again and said when questioned BoSs manager got shouty and defensive. 
Mr P requested that his fathers account be locked down, but BoS refused and said that Mr P 
would need to get guardianship for this. Mr P said this is incorrect because he already had 
PoA before his father lost mental capacity. He checked this with a solicitor and also asked 
the manager to double check this, and said that she got angry. Mr P complained to BoS.
In its response BoS upheld the complaint and reimbursed Mr Ps father £500 for the latest 
cash withdrawal and offered Mr P £160 compensation. Mr P refused because hed made an 
extra trip to sort out the banks mistakes in registering the PoA. He wants to be reimbursed 
for this trip and many phone calls and is frustrated by BoSs poor organisation and said its 
branch manager has breached proper conduct. Mr P referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said BoS caused Mr P 
inconvenience, but as a third party to the complaint we wouldnt tell it to pay compensation. 
She said BoSs terms require customers to prove their ID to make a large cash withdrawal, 
but she wouldnt expect to see a record of what Mr Ps father provided in support of this at 
the branch. She said registering the PoA didnt require BoS to block Mr Ps fathers access 
to cash, and there was nothing to show it allowed a cash withdrawal only on sight. 
The investigator said records of Mr Ps call to BoS on 9 November 2022 show that its agent 
declined a restriction as Mr P didnt have guardianship, but this was incorrect. Mr P had PoA, 
and this was enough to block the account, and should have prevented his father from taking 
out £500 in branch, but BoS had resolved this by returning £500 to Mr Ps fathers account. 
Mr P disagreed and requested an ombudsman review his complaint. He said BoS should 
show how his father had accessed cash, given his confused mental state and dishevelled 
appearance. He said the recordings of his two calls demonstrate that the branch manager 
hadn't a clue about his authority as PoA. He said his second trip to register the PoA was 
necessitated by BoS entering the wrong address. He described BoS as providing appalling 
customer service and the losses stemmed from this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BoS has acknowledged that it provided Mr P with poor service when he tried to register his 
PoA, as required with its branch. Mr P has authority to handle his fathers accounts on his 
behalf under his PoA, but he is representing his father in this complaint, and as a third party 
we dont have the authority to award compensation to him for any inconvenience or distress 
he has suffered. And so I havent made any finding regarding the compensation offered by 
BoS to Mr P in respect of the poor service he received.   
Mr P was concerned about his fathers access to his account given his dementia. He 
obtained PoA and called BoS on 13 October 2022 to register it, and said that he wanted his 
father to have reduced access to his account, but didnt state his fathers medical condition. 
Mr P said he was provided with misleading information when trying to place a block on his 
fathers ability to spend on the account.  
BoS has acknowledged that it provided Mr P with inaccurate information about the effect of 
his PoA and the need for Guardianship. Im pleased BoS has apologised as this would have 
frustrated Mr P in his attempt to protect his father. 
BoS reimbursed Mr Ps father for the £500 cash withdrawal made after it registered the PoA 
and knew about Mr Ps fathers medical condition. Mr P doesnt think this resolves other 
similar transactions that shouldnt have been allowed and thinks BoS authorised them 
without his father having to provide ID or a pin number. Mr P described BoSs lack of branch 
records about his fathers cash withdrawals as a cop out to cover up its incompetence and 
lack of duty of care to a vulnerable adult. He thinks that BoS allowed his father to make 
withdrawals on the production of nothing more than bags of sweets. 
The BoS branch manager said that Mr Ps father didnt show any signs of having dementia 
and they werent made aware of this until Mr P called after his father withdrew £1,000 on 8 
November. I can see the call ended acrimoniously at this point but BoS then updated its 
records about Mr Ps fathers vulnerabilities. The manager said his staff have served Mr Ps 
father for many years and on occasions he brought sweets for the staff, but the proper 
procedures were followed. 
Mr P says BoS should have noticed his fathers appearance and mental condition and 
restricted his access to cash notwithstanding its lack of restriction on the account. However, 
because BoS didnt have concerns about Mr Ps father at the time he was still allowed to 
withdraw cash and I think this was reasonable given BoSs impressions of Mr Ps father and 
the information available to the bank at the time. 
Ive looked at BoSs records and can see that Mr Ps father made large cash withdrawals of 
£1,000 by debit card in the branch in August 2022, of £500 at a cashpoint in September, and 
£1,000 by debit card in branch in October 2022. It appears that Mr P was present when his 
father made a counter withdrawal of £1,000 in branch on 8 November 2022 and followed this 
the next day with his call requesting the account to be blocked. BoS failed to follow his 
instructions by allowing his father a counter withdrawal of £500 on 14 November 2022 after a 
conversation with the branch manager who reduced Mr Ps fathers request for £1,000. Im 
pleased that BoS has refunded this to the account. 
We cannot be certain what Mr Ps father provided by way of verification for his counter 
withdrawals, though clearly conversations with BoS staff took place. Most of the large 
transactions were by debit card and cashpoint and would have required his PIN number. Branches do not, in my experience, keep records of the ID provided for individual cash 
withdrawals over the counter, though BoS has clear procedures for this. 
I can see that Mr P is suspicions about what took place in branch, but we have to decide on 
the available evidence. It would seem unlikely that BoSs staff would ignore the requirements 
to allow cash withdrawals without the required verification. Mr P hasnt provided any 
evidence that BoS has acted in breach of its procedures with regard to verification in respect 
of his fathers cash withdrawals. As a consequence I cannot require BoS to reimburse his 
fathers other withdrawals, particularly as they took place before it was aware of his fathers 
medical condition. I realise Mr P will be disappointed with this decision, but I hope he 
understands the reasons I have reached it. 
Mr P has indicated that he has had further problems with BoS since he brought his complaint 
to them. It is open to Mr P to bring a further complaint to BoS on his fathers behalf about this 
if he wishes, and subsequently to our service.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman