DRN-3756633
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G complain about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) and the 
cash settlement offered to them after they made a claim on their home insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2021, high winds resulted in roof tiles blowing from the roof of Mr G and Mrs 
Gs house, causing damage to both their car and their greenhouses. Mr G and Mrs G 
instructed their own roofer, who Ill refer to as B to inspect the damage and provide a quote 
for their repair work. As this quote exceeded the excess on Mr G and Mrs Gs home 
insurance policy, they contacted AA to make a claim.
AA instructed an independent surveyor, who Ill refer to as X, to attend Mr G and Mrs Gs 
property. Xs report initially estimated the repair work needed to total £602.97, and this was 
communicated to Mr G and Mrs G who took some time to consider this. But AA identified a 
problem with Xs calculations, so they contacted Mr G and Mrs G again to make them aware 
that the cash settlement they would pay, after the £350 excess was deducted, would be 
£51.44. Mr G and Mrs G were unhappy about this, so they raised a complaint. 
Mr G and Mrs G didnt think the cash settlement offered by AA was fair. They thought this 
offer would leave them substantially out of pocket as it differed vastly from the repair quote B 
provided. So, to resolve their complaint, they wanted AA to cover the costs of the repair in 
full, as well as any costs needed for a permanent repair to the greenhouses.
AA responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the cash settlement 
offered to Mr G and Mrs G was a fair one, based on the report provided by X. And they 
thought it fell in line with the terms and conditions of the policy Mr G and Mrs G held. So, 
they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr G and Mrs G remained unhappy with 
this response, so they referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised there was a 
difference between the quotes included in the report by X and the quote from B. But they 
didnt think theyd seen evidence to show the additional work suggested by B was 
necessary. And so, they thought AA were fair to rely on the report provided by X when 
calculating the cash settlement. They also explained the costs of the repair work for the 
greenhouse were included within this report. So, they didnt think AA needed to do anything 
more.
Mr G and Mrs G didnt agree. They disputed what they felt was our investigators questioning 
of Bs integrity. They provided detailed comments about why B, and the quotation they 
provided, was fair and reasonable and should be covered by AA. They also referred to the 
report provided by X, explaining X didnt inspect the damage to the same extent B did. As Mr 
G and Mrs G didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr G and Mrs G. I understand 
they paid for the home insurance policy to help cover any financial losses in a situation such 
as the one they have found themselves in. So, I can understand why Mr G and Mrs G would 
be left upset and frustrated when they realised the cash settlement AA were offering would 
cover very little of the repair costs they incurred. And I recognise why they would question 
the fairness, and use, of the policy because of this.
But for me to say AA should cover the full costs Mr G and Mrs G have incurred, Id first need 
to be satisfied theyve done something wrong when offering the cash settlement that they 
have. So, Id need to see evidence that shows when offering this settlement, they failed to 
act within the terms of the policy Mr G and Mrs G held. Or, if I think they did act within these, 
that it was unfair of them to do so. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
I can see that Mr G and Mrs G made their claim to AA after receiving a quote for the work 
from B. And in response to our investigators view, Mr G and Mrs G have spoken about their 
relationship with B, and the ongoing work B has taken on regarding their roof over several 
years. So, I think its reasonable for me to assume Mr G and Mrs Gs intention was to use B 
to complete the necessary repair work.
The terms and conditions of the policy explain that AA would settle the claim by either 
repairing the damage using their own approved supplier or, if a customer wanted to use their 
own supplier, then AA would make a cash payment. They go onto explain that If we make a 
cash payment, we will only pay you what it would have cost us using our own suppliers and 
therefore the amount you receive may be lower than the cost charged by your suppliers.
In the context of this condition, AAs supplier is X and Mr G and Mrs Gs supplier is B. So, I 
think this condition makes it reasonably clear that the cash settlement AA provided may be 
lower than the repair quote put forward by B. And so, I think AA have acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy when doing so.
But as Ive explained above, Ive also thought about whether I think AA acted fairly. I 
recognise Mr G and Mrs G dont think AA have, as they feel theyve been left significantly out 
of pocket.
Ive looked at the repair quote provided by B, and compared this to the report submitted by 
X. I can see X felt a certain number of roof tiles needed to be replaced and quoted as such. 
Whereas B quoted for more extensive work, with a whole line of tiles to be replaced and 
mortar to be re-laid. 
So essentially, there is a difference of expert opinion. And I think its important to point out 
that neither I, nor AA, are industry experts nor did we attend Mr G and Mrs Gs property to 
inspect the damage. So, this decision isnt intended to decide who out of X and B was 
correct. Instead, this decision is solely focused on whether I think AA have acted fairly when 
relying on the information provided to them by X. And I think they were.
This is because X was commissioned to provide an independent report and quote for the 
repair work, with no intention of completing the work themselves. While B were quoting for 
repair work that they themselves intended to complete. So, I think this impacts the independence of the quote provided by B.
Thats not to say I am questioning the integrity of B. Nor am I saying I think the quote B 
provided was unreasonable and I dont doubt due to the working relationship B held with Mr 
G and Mrs G that they were quoting for work they felt would improve the situation Mr G and 
Mrs G found themselves in.
But as Xs report, and the repair work quoted within it, was provided on an independent 
basis, I think AA were fair to rely on this quote when calculating the cash settlement. And 
unfortunately for Mr G and Mrs G, this cash settlement was calculated less the excess of 
£350 that was applicable for each claim they made. This contributed to Mr G and Mrs G 
receiving a cash settlement that was much less than the overall repair costs and while I 
recognise how this would feel unfair, I cant say AA have done anything wrong when 
calculating the settlement in this way. And because of this, I dont think they need to do 
anything more.
I note there was also a point raised about the repair work to the greenhouses, which 
currently have a temporary fix. But Ive seen within Xs report that the repair work to the 
greenhouses was including in the overall repair costs and so, within the cash settlement Mr 
G and Mrs G received.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr G and Mrs G were hoping for. And I recognise this 
has left them financially out of pocket as theyve chosen to instruct B to complete the repairs. 
I want to reassure Mr G and Mrs G Ive taken this point seriously, and the decision Ive 
reached has been made with this in mind. But ultimately, I think AA have acted fairly, and in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy, on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr G and Mrs Gs complaint about AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman