DRN-1155730
 
The complaint
Mr E says that Elevate Credit International Limited trading as Sunny.co.uk (Sunny) was 
irresponsible in its lending to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about the five loans Sunny provided to Mr E between November 2017 and 
April 2018.
Loan Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 15 Nov 2017 29 Dec 2017 6 £150
2 21 Jan 2018 28 Feb 2018 6 £100
3 20 Feb 2018 31 Aug 2018 6 £150
4 22 Mar 2018 11 Jul 2018 6 £100
5 14 Apr 2018 28 Sep 2018 6 £150
 
Mr E said that when he took out the loans with Sunny he was struggling financially and the 
interest on the loans made his debt spiral out of control. 
Sunny said that before the loans were provided it undertook affordability and 
creditworthiness assessments to ensure the repayment amounts on the loans were 
affordable. 
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint in regard to loan five. He didnt think there was enough 
evidence to say that loans one to four shouldnt have been provided. But he thought by loan 
five Mr E was showing signs of struggling to repay his previous loans and that he wouldnt 
be able to sustainably make his repayments.
Sunny didnt accept our adjudicators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr E could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and the 
consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr E could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Es complaint.
Mr E took out five loans between November 2017 and April 2018. Each was repayable over 
six months. Before the loans were provided information about Mr Es income and expenses 
was gathered. At the time of the loans Mr Es declared monthly income was £1,350 and his 
monthly expenses ranged from around £740 (on the first loan) to around £600. 
Our adjudicator didnt think that loans one to four should be upheld. The parties didnt 
comment on these loans being rejected so I dont need to look at these loans again. 
Although I will look at Mr Es full lending history with Sunny to assess the case fairly. 
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint in regard to loan five. Loan five was taken out while 
loans three and four were outstanding.  This meant that Mr E's monthly repayments 
increased to around £130. Based on the information provided this would still suggest the 
repayments were affordable for Mr E. The issue is whether, by this time, Mr E was showing 
signs of struggling to repay his loans or his borrowing suggested he was persistently reliant 
on short term loans.In this case, Mr E took out his first loan in November 2017 and repaid it early in December 
2017. He took out the next loan less than a month later and then took out loan three before 
repaying loan two.  He then took out loan four around a month later. By the time he took out 
the fifth loan Mr Es total borrowing from Sunny had increased to £450. 
I think that by loan five Mr Es pattern of borrowing should have raised concerns. I say this 
because he was taking out new loans on an almost monthly basis and when loans were 
repaid he then took out new borrowing shortly after. He was increasing his levels of 
indebtedness and by loan five I think Sunny should have been concerned that Mr E was not 
managing to repay his loans sustainably.
Because of this I uphold this complaint in regard to loan five.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr E paid on loan five;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid  to the date of settlement*;
 
remove any negative information about loan five from Mr Es credit file.
 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Es complaint. Elevate Credit
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman