DRN-2902030
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy because Santander UK Plc did not reimburse the money she transferred to 
a fraudster.
 
What happened 
On 16 June 2021 I issued my provisional decision on this complaint. I explained why, based 
on what I had seen so far, I was intending to uphold this complaint. I wanted to give both 
parties a chance to respond to my findings. I have copied my provisional decision below and 
it forms part of this final decision;
What happened
On 3 February 2020, Ms R was contacted by a fraudster pretending to work for her 
telephone provider. The fraudster claimed there was a problem with Ms Rs internet 
connection which meant her internet security was at risk. Ms R says she was reassured 
by the callers knowledge of her telephone account details, the fact she banked with 
Santander and had recently upgraded her broadband.
Though Ms R doesnt recall exactly how it happened, the fraudsters appear to have 
control of her computer allowing them to seemingly demonstrate problems with her 
internet connection.
The fraudster advised Ms R that her bank accounts, including those held at Santander, 
might be at risk and theyd need to transfer her over to Santanders security department. 
So, Ms R spoke to a second fraudster. They said there had been significant issues with 
bank fraud, particularly with Santander and that her account was under threat. Ms R said 
this fraudster also knew about recent transactions on her current account and a couple of 
regular payments she makes.
In order to demonstrate the alleged internal fraud, they showed her what appeared to be 
Santanders internal bank accounts, which held a large balance. They said theyd need to 
help Ms R complete a transfer but that her own money would not be at risk as it would be 
put in a safe place.
What happens next is unclear. A payment for £14,500 was set up and completed using 
Ms Rs online banking. Ms R says she didnt enter any information at all and it must have 
been the fraudsters (who had control of her computer) that did this. Ms R also denies 
receiving or disclosing a passcode. That passcode, Santander say, was sent to her 
phone and would have been necessary for the payment to take place.
The payment was flagged for additional security checks and Ms R was instructed to call 
Santander to discuss it. Again, Ms R hasnt been particularly clear on the events leading 
up to this call. She does say that she was told what to say during the call by the fraudsters 
(who were listening in on the other line). She also says she questioned what she was 
being asked
to do  but felt very threatened by the fraudsters and was suffering from an asthma 
attack and high blood pressure.
During the call Santander questioned Ms R about the purpose of the payment. They 
asked what the payment was for, how the bank account details had been obtained, 
whether she was expecting to make the payment, whether shed been put under any 
pressure and, on two occasions, whether anyone had asked her to lie to the bank.
Ms R explained that the payment was money to help her daughter, shed received the 
details over the phone, shed spoken to her daughter and that nobody had asked her to lie 
about making the payment or put her under pressure.
Satisfied with Ms Rs answers, Santander allowed the payment to go through. Soon 
afterwards Ms R spoke to a member of her family. They quickly recognised the 
possibility shed been scammed and they contacted Santander. Santander were able 
to recover
£2,795.86 from the bank which received the money.
Santander is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of APP scams like this one in all but a limited number of circumstances. Santander 
says that Ms R ignored an effective warning and didnt have a reasonable basis for 
believing the payment to be genuine.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They thought that Ms R hadnt ignored 
an effective warning as the written warnings she would have seen werent impactful and 
the phone conversation didnt go far enough in questioning Ms R. They also thought that 
she acted with a reasonable basis of belief  highlighting the sophisticated nature of the 
scam and the information apparently known to the fraudsters.
Santander disagreed. In summary it said:
-The bank must be reasonably entitled to rely on receiving truthful answers 
from its customers.
-Ms R did not seem flustered or otherwise uneasy during the call and was 
able to answer questions confidently. So, there was nothing to suggest she 
was at risk of financial harm.
-The customer should read and take notice of warnings provided and take 
reasonable steps to verify the identity of the person they are talking to.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I am satisfied 
that:
Its more likely than not that Ms R did authorise the payment which left her 
account,  so the terms of the CRM Code are relevant here.
Under those terms, Santander should have refunded the money Ms R lost. I 
am not currently persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement 
apply in the circumstances of this case.The money was taken from Ms Rs current account. It is not clear how Ms R 
would have used the money if Santander had refunded it when it should have 
done, so
Santander should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 
8% simple per year from 18 February 2020 (the day by which Santander 
should have made their decision to decline the claim under the Code) to the 
date of payment.
Ive first considered whether Ms R actually authorised the payment which left her account. 
Santander have treated the payment as being authorised and therefore applied the Code 
to this case. Ms R says, at times at least, that she neither completed any of the steps 
necessary for the payment to take place nor allowed someone else to make the payment. 
However, Ive listened to the call which she had with Santander after the payment was 
stopped for security purposes. In this call she clearly agrees that she is carrying out the 
transaction. I also note her comment that the fraudster said theyd help me make a 
transfer. So, regardless of whether Ms R might have believed no money would actually 
leave her account, Im satisfied she consented to the transaction taking place.
I have carefully considered Santanders representations about the warning it gave and 
whether Ms R had a reasonable basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. But 
they do not persuade me to reach a different view. In particular I am not persuaded that 
Ms R failed to take the requisite level of care required for Santander to choose not to 
reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code.
Neither can I agree with Santander that a customers failure to give honest answers to 
questions is a determinative factor under the Code. Its widely recognised that scam 
victims will be given cover stories and instructed to mislead a bank about the reasons for a 
payment. I need to consider whether Ms R ignored an effective warning and whether she 
had a reasonable basis for believing the payment to be genuine.
In relation to warnings there are two distinct sets that Santander say they gave to Ms R  
written warnings during the payment process and the warnings provided during the call 
she had with the bank before the payment was released.
Ms R doesnt recall seeing the online warnings. Given Ms R says it was the fraudsters, 
rather than her, that did much of the activity on her online banking, this isnt particularly 
surprising. And, though its likely she would have seen the more general warnings 
displayed on the login screen, its quite possible she didnt see the later, more tailored, 
warnings at all. But in any event, even if she had seen the online warnings, Im not 
persuaded Ms R ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate action in 
response to them for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
It also seems to me that Santander have, in response to our investigators view, 
principally relied on the warnings in the call as the basis for saying Ms R ignored an 
effective warning. So, Ive focused my considerations on the contents of the call, rather 
than the written warnings, some of which Ms R may not have actually seen.
During that call Santanders adviser explored a number of different scenarios with Ms R 
 but focussed mainly on the possibility that either a fraudster had intercepted a 
genuine request for payment from her daughter or the request from her daughter was 
itself fraudulent. I think the adviser did a reasonable job at describing what scams of 
that nature might look like and asked a number of sensible questions about those 
scenarios.Unfortunately, out of perhaps the three most likely scams Ms R might have been falling 
victim to, the adviser did the least to provide a warning about situations where she might 
be asked to lie to the bank. Simply asking someone who has been told to lie whether 
theyve been told to lie or been put under any pressure (when fraudsters are likely to 
have coached victims for these specific questions  as was the case here, where Ms R 
believed she was lying in order to help with a fraud investigation) wasnt, I think, likely to 
break the spell  either for Ms R or anyone else in her circumstances.
The conversation did nothing to bring alive what such a scam would look and feel like  
specifically that fraudsters impersonate the bank and other organisations and ask them to 
move money and lie to the genuine bank about what they are doing, and why. Without 
such a description, including the steps Ms R could take to protect herself, I can see why 
she didnt recognise her own circumstances during the call.
So, while I recognise the difficulty Santander had in correctly identifying the particular 
scam risk, as there was no real warning provided about the circumstances Ms R found 
herself in, Im not persuaded that she ignored an effective warning.
Ive gone onto consider whether Ms R had a reasonable basis of belief in making 
the payment.
What cant really be disputed is that Ms R did believe what she was told by the fraudsters 
 its hard to see any reason why she would have gone ahead with moving money from 
her own account (or, at least, tell the bank she was doing this) if she didnt. I can see how 
much this money has meant to Ms R and theres no indication shed willingly risk its loss. 
But I have to consider whether that belief was reasonable  taking into account her 
characteristics and the complexity and sophistication of the scam.
In doing this, I have to note that Ms Rs account of events is, perhaps understandably, 
less than complete. There are gaps in her testimony, some of which, particularly in the 
aftermath of the scam, has not been consistent. I acknowledge that this must have been a 
confusing event for Ms R and, I suspect, many of the details of what was actually 
happening were concealed from her. I also understand that her desire to recover money 
that had been stolen from her may have led to some of the inconsistencies in the 
evidence shes provided. With this in mind, where there are gaps in the evidence, Ive had 
to decide what I think is more likely than not in the circumstances  even if that contradicts 
Ms Rs account of events.
On the face of it, it might appear implausible that Ms R was first contacted by her 
telephone provider, passed to her bank, asked to be involved in some kind of internal 
fraud operation and ultimately asked to lie to the genuine bank about what she was 
doing. But, such a brief overview fails to really take into account not only the length of the 
interaction but its complexities at each stage.
First, the caller appeared to know information about her telephone provider  including 
her account number and details of a recent upgrade. I can understand why this would 
have reassured her that she was speaking to them (even if she hadnt verified the 
number they were calling from).
What Ms R describes next appears to be the way in which a fairly common scam works. 
The fraudster persuades the victim to allow access to their computer. Once access is 
achieved, they are able to apparently demonstrate various faults  including that 
fraudsters are accessing the victims internet connection. These techniques are probably 
unknown to most people and certainly appear to have been unknown to Ms R.Though Ms R says the fraudsters knew she banked with Santander, Im not necessarily 
persuaded they did. She says that she was asked by the fraudsters to type onto the 
screen which banks she held accounts with. So, its reasonable to think this information 
was obtained from her, rather than known in advance.
Ms R acknowledges logging into her Santander account and this presumably (based on 
subsequent events) took place while the fraudsters were still connected to her computer. 
Its not clear whether the fraudsters pretended to pass over Ms R to Santanders fraud
department before or after this took place. Based on my experience of these types of 
fraud, I suspect it was after  allowing the fraudsters to quote back information from Ms 
Rs account, as if they were already aware of it. This would be consistent with what Ms R 
has said and the most plausible way of the fraudsters obtaining this information.
If this is what happened, its tempting to see this as a rather obvious deception. But again, 
to do so would gloss over the likely complexities of the scam. Without knowing the precise 
tricks employed here its difficult to speculate  but we know scammers will hide or darken 
the computer screen of the victim to make it appear as though they arent viewing the 
screen (or to obscure their actions). In my experience, its likely similar tricks were 
employed here. So, if that is what happened, and as Ive explained I think this is likely to 
have been the situation, I can see why Ms R believed the fraudsters knew this information 
in advance, rather than simply taking it from her online banking.
Once Ms R logged into her online banking, it appears she was told she needed to assist 
Santander in a fraud investigation. She was shown an internal account of Santanders to 
demonstrate this. We know fraudsters can manipulate what is shown on a victims screen 
and Im persuaded its more likely than not this is what happened here based on Ms Rs 
recollections. This is rather specialist knowledge and Im not surprised that Ms R wouldnt 
understand that she wasnt looking at Santanders account, but likely her own. I do think 
that seeing what appeared to be an internal bank account could be quite compelling and I 
can understand why Ms R wouldnt question why anyone other than a Santander 
employee (and perhaps a fairly senior one) would have access to this.
Again, what happens next isnt particularly clear. Ms R is apparently told she needs to 
assist the fraudster but that her own account would not be touched. Whether this 
assistance took the form of carrying out a dummy transaction, which would appear to 
leave her account but actually wouldnt or an actual transaction which would be kept safe 
somewhere, isnt clear.
We do know that a payment was set up on her account. Ms R says this wasnt her and, as 
the fraudsters had access to her computer, this is possible. Santander say that in order for 
a new payee to be set up a code would have been sent to her mobile telephone number. 
Ms R denies having received such a code. While Im unable to see that the code was sent 
from the evidence provided, I understand some form of additional verification would 
always be needed to set up a new payee. However, Santander havent argued that the 
text sent to Ms R contained any additional warning and neither have they provided 
evidence of exactly what it said. So, even if Ms R did, in fact, receive and read the 
message I dont think, as it stands, this has much bearing on whether she had a 
reasonable basis of belief.
Of more significance, I think, is what happened when Ms R spoke to Santander about the 
payment. Ive thought carefully about what happened during that call and whether what Ms 
R was being told should have affected her belief that the payment was genuine. As mentioned previously, its relevant that the adviser didnt describe the specific scam Ms R 
was falling victim to. And, its likely that the call went just as Ms R was told it would do  
that the bank would ask questions and that she should give them plausible answers  
including that she wasnt being asked to lie. Given that, I can see why the call didnt 
change her belief that the fraudsters were the genuine Santander.
Of course, in hindsight there was another explanation for the fraudsters actions and its 
arguable that the mere fact she was being asked to lie to the bank ought to have caused 
Ms R significant concern. However, Ms R says she genuinely believed she was helping 
prevent fraud  so its perhaps understandable why she felt it was necessary to lie to the 
bank. Its also important not to forget this was a highly pressured situation and one that 
took place, according to Ms R, over between one and two hours. The relentless and 
seemingly unending nature of the scam, as well as the apparent threat to her banking 
security likely
had an impact on Ms Rs capacity to make informed decisions about what she was being 
asked to do. As noted, she recalls the events caused her to suffer with an asthma attack 
and by the time she spoke to the real Santander she had become extremely agitated by 
the days events (though I accept, as Santander say, this isnt particularly apparent from 
the telephone call recording).
Overall I think the fraudsters employed a number of sophisticated techniques  such as 
manipulating Ms Rs computer screen and fabricating threats to her internet connection  
all of which appear to be unknown to Ms R. The scenario they created  though perhaps 
far- fetched in hindsight  was carefully constructed over a period of time so that Ms R 
was completely taken in and believed she was helping the bank. Taking all of this 
together and considering her individual characteristics, I think she held a reasonable 
basis of belief that the payment was genuine.
My provisional decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im currently minded to decide it is fair and reasonable 
to uphold this complaint about Santander UK Plc  and I am minded to require the 
bank to:
-Pay Ms R £14,500, deducting any amount Santander has been able to 
recover and return to her.
-Pay Ms R 8% interest on that amount from 18 February 2020 until the 
date of settlement.
Ms R accepted the provisional decision. Santander said it did not agree with the provisional 
decision but would settle the case in line with my recommendations. It said the provisional 
decision had not made it clear whether Santander had been found at fault or no party was to 
blame. It also said it had made no errors and had provided a warning to Ms R  so it didnt 
accept liability.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms R has accepted my provisional decision and Santander have agreed to settle the case in 
line with its recommendations. So, there is little for me to add other than to say that my 
provisional decision sets out that Santander havent demonstrated that one of the exceptions 
to reimbursement under the CRM Code applies in Ms Rs case. Ive also already addressed why, despite the warning Santander provided, Ms R should be 
reimbursed. As Santander have provided no new arguments about this, there is nothing 
further for me to address. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Ive decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this 
complaint about Santander UK Plc  and I require the bank to:
Pay Ms R £14,500, deducting any amount Santander has been able to recover and 
return to her and any amount that it has paid in advance of this final decision.
Pay Ms R 8% simple interest per year on that amount from 18 February 2020 until 
the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman