DRN-3150756
The complaint
The estate of Mr C complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited mis-sold him 
guaranteed over 50s plans in 2000 and 2003. The estate says it wasnt fair that Mr C paid in 
more to the policies than the sums assured it received upon his death. 
The estate is being represented by Ms C  the late Mr Cs daughter. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide a brief 
overview of some of the key events here. 
In 2000 and 2003 the late Mr C took out these policies. Sadly, in 2020 he died. So, Ms C 
contacted Aviva to make a claim. But when Ms C discovered how much her father had paid 
into the policies and how much the sums assured were, she made a complaint. Aviva 
reviewed the complaint but decided not to uphold it. So, Ms C brought her complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said Aviva couldnt provide 
us with a copy of all the sales documentation due to the time that had passed, but from the 
evidence he had seen, he thought Mr C wouldve been aware it was possible he would pay 
more into the policies than the sums assured. The investigator said Aviva had provided a 
copy of one of the agreements signed by Mr C which showed the costs of the policies and 
that it would pay a fixed sum assured. And that it wasnt unusual or considered unfair for 
these policies to work this way. He added that Aviva sent a letter to Mr C in 2019 which 
again explained how the policies worked and that the sums assured were fixed. The 
investigator said Aviva had offered Ms C £75 compensation for its handling of this matter. 
But because this service didnt consider compensatory awards for a person representing an 
estate, he couldnt say whether this was a fair offer. 
Ms C disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said it wasnt fair Mr C paid in 
more than the sums assured and she wasnt sure he wouldve been told that this was a 
possibility when they were taken out. She said Aviva shouldnt be able to continue to operate 
these types of policies and asked what happened to the extra money that was paid into the 
policies. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Ms C feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Aviva has provided a copy of the signed declaration for the 2000 policy and its been able to 
find a copy of a similar type of marketing material, which it says Mr C wouldve seen when 
he decided to apply for them. But Aviva hasnt provided a copy of the terms and conditions 
for the specific policies due to the time that has passed. Thats not uncommon in these 
circumstances. I note the marketing material explains that due to the guaranteed benefit 
being a fixed sum, the total premiums Mr C pays in could be greater. Thats in line with how 
these policies work.  
Aviva has said these policies were sold on a direct sales basis which means Mr C completed 
a form and applied for them without receiving any advice. The sums assured were fixed from 
this point. And its provided evidence no commission was paid for the sale of either the 2000 
and 2003 policy  which suggests to me no advice was provided by an intermediary. So, it 
was Mr Cs responsibility to ensure the policies were suitable for his needs and whether he 
felt they sufficiently covered any funeral expenses over the long term. He couldve sought 
financial advice at the time if he wished, but I havent seen any evidence that he did so. And 
I havent seen any evidence that he was unhappy with the sums assured since the sale or 
when Aviva sent its letters in 2019 updating Mr C about the fixed sums assured. So, I cant 
fairly say the policies were unsuitable for Mr C here. 
Ms C has said its not right that Aviva can take more money than the agreed sums assured 
from her late father. I think it would be helpful for me to explain that the nature of these types 
of policies means that the length of time the policyholder lives for will determine whether they 
receive more or less than the premiums theyve paid. This is a common principle with 
insurance, as it only pays out when an insured event takes place. And so, in the early years 
of a policy being set up, the premiums Mr C paid would be less than the sums assured. In 
Mr Cs case, the premiums he paid exceeded the sums assured because he fortunately lived 
for a longer period of time. He did however benefit from the cover for the duration of the 
policies and the agreed sums assured were paid by Aviva as per the terms of the 
agreement. 
Ms C has asked what happened to the premiums Aviva received for these policies. It 
wouldnt be possible for me to track where the premiums that Mr C paid have gone within 
Aviva, once he had paid in an amount equivalent to the sums assured. And even if I could, I 
dont think I can fairly request this information from Aviva because Im not satisfied its done 
anything wrong here. 
Aviva offered Ms C £75 for the way its handled the matter. But as the investigator has 
explained, this service can only consider compensation for any distress and inconvenience 
the late Mr C experienced or if a mistake by Aviva led to a financial loss for his estate. I 
havent seen any evidence either of those scenarios have taken place here. So, Im not 
going to comment on whether the £75 Aviva offered Ms C was fair. 
I realise this isnt the outcome Ms C is hoping for but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think Aviva has to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman