DRN-3248751
The complaint
Mr U has complained that, before allowing him to open a self-invested personal pension
(SIPP), Heritage Pensions Limited did not carry out the appropriate checks on either the
advisor who recommended and introduced the transaction, or on the investment the SIPP
was to be used for.
What happened
The parties
Mr U
Mr U is a private individual. He was, at the time of his investment, a company director 
earning around £160,000 per annum. As well as the pensions he transferred, Mr U 
apparently had a further pension through the armed forces. And he says he had around 
£11,000 in savings.
Mr U has said his primary residence was owned but subject to a mortgage, although 
paperwork from the time of his investment indicates he was living in rented accommodation. 
Mr U was 37 years old and intended to retire at 65. He says he was not a sophisticated 
investor.
Mr U is represented in this complaint by a claims management company and many of the 
representations made have been submitted by this company. However, for the sake of 
convenience, in this decision I have just referred to these being Mr Us submissions.
TailorMade
TailorMade Independent Limited (TMI) was an independent financial adviser (IFA) 
previously authorised by the FCA and the FSA. This company was previously named The 
TailorMade SIPP Limited.
TMI specialised in giving advice to retail customers on the merits of their transferring their 
pension monies into SIPP schemes. It was one of a number of companies operating under 
the TailorMade brand. Although legally separate, these companies were under common 
control and worked closely together.
One of these other companies, TailorMade Alternative Investments Limited (TAI), acted to 
promote, to customers, alternative investments; typically illiquid, esoteric investments  
including in Harlequin Property. TAI was not regulated by the FSA/FCA.
Harlequin Property
The Harlequin group of companies was involved in the development and distribution of 
overseas property investments and resorts, primarily based in the Caribbean. 
The developments failed and funds invested were not always used as intended. A number of 
Harlequin entities are now in insolvency, with some senior figures involved with those 
companies facing prosecution. The FSA and subsequently the FCA did not regulate any of 
these companies.
What happened
In 2012, Mr U had benefits in pensions schemes with Pitney Bowes Pension Fund and 
Neopost Pension Scheme totalling around £95,000. Following the promotion, by a third 
party, of an investment opportunity in Harlequin Property, Mr U was advised by TMI to open 
a SIPP with Heritage.
This SIPP was created, with the intention that this was to be used to invest in Harlequin 
Property. The cash value of Mr Us pension benefits was transferred into the Heritage SIPP 
and, in September 2012, a large proportion was invested in Harlequin Property.
Sadly, the Harlequin Property developments were never completed and its highly likely that 
Mr U has lost all of the money he invested. Heritage has said there is a balance of cash in 
Mr U's SIPP though.
The relationship between TMI and Heritage
Heritage was approached by TMI in November 2011. Heritage has said that prior to agreeing 
to accept business from introducers, it carried out appropriate due diligence into them. And 
that it:
regularly declined to do business with introducers in whom they did not have confidence.
Heritage says it also applied a checklist of seven objective factors (business hurdles) to all 
new business. If one of these business hurdles was not met, the new business was declined. 
These business hurdles were:
1. Missing risk warning documents;
2. Member crystallised funds early due to ill health; 
3. Member aged over 65;
4. Member bankrupt;
5. Pension earmarking/sharing order on transfers in;
6. Temporary address and/or request all documents go via a third party; and,
7. Part of a syndicated SIPP with no obvious connection to other members.
In terms of TMI, an explanation of the group of TailorMade companies was provided, and 
this included that TMI provided regulated advice on pension transfers and that another of the 
companies, TAI, promoted non-regulated alternative investments products.
TAI was not authorised by the FSA or FCA. TAI, or a network of introducers it used, 
presented marketing information for the investments to potential customers. And, if they 
were interested, the customer was then introduced to TMI which would provide advice on 
whether it was appropriate to transfer their existing pension into a SIPP. The SIPP would 
then, commonly, be used to invest in the alternative investment.TAI was paid via commission from the investment providers, and a substantial portion of this 
commission (often 50%) was then paid to the introducer if this was a separate company. The 
introducer was also paid a commission by TMI if the SIPP was created through TMI. 
Heritage was provided with details of the four directors of TMI, and Heritage says it was 
comforted by the fact each had more than 10 years regulated experience. It isnt clear if full 
information relating the interests these directors shared across the TailorMade companies 
was given to Heritage though.
In early November 2011 Heritage had met with TailorMade. It was noted that: 
Tailor Made [is] a group of companies that offer a variety of services. These 
include a regulatory [sic] company that provides pension and pension transfer advice 
a non-regulated company that promotes unregulated investments.
And:
We discussed the various investments TailorMade was promoting. [Alistair Burns of 
TailorMade] explained he always sought legal opinion about the products they 
promoted before approaching SIPP providers for their confirmation. He felt his due 
diligence was very through. For all investment products they were promoting he had 
legal opinion as to the suitability and agreed he would share this information...
There was a further meeting in mid-November. The minutes of the meeting included the 
following:
[Alistair Burns] has a number of companies i.e. TailorMade group which includes an 
FSA regulated firm which provides independent pension transfer advice and 
recommendations; and a company that promotes non-regulated alternative 
investment products. (The use of the quotation marks for the word promotes 
appears in the original minutes.)
And:
[TailorMade] asked about alternative investments and whether these were permitted 
by the Heritage SIPP. [Heritage] explained [it] was aware TailorMade had conducted 
their own compliance and asked for copy documents. This would assist greatly 
Heritage with their compliance
[TailorMade] asked typically how long it took Heritage to approve an Investment. 
[Heritage] explained this depended on the due diligence TailorMade had undertaken 
and provided to Heritage. Assuming the due diligence carried out was 
comprehensive Heritage could move forward with its own due diligence subject to no 
further information / due diligence being required.
In this meeting, TMI confirmed that it had been inspected by the FSA who were satisfied with 
the services it provided. No details of this inspection were apparently obtained though, and it 
is not known what form the FSA review took, when it took place, or what its findings actually 
were. Heritage has said it did check the FSA register to confirm TMI was appropriately 
authorised.
Heritage prepared an Introducer Profile, which was completed on 23 November 2011. This 
fact find was a list of standard questions Heritage seems to have used for all introducers it 
was engaging with. It was completed with details such as TailorMades process for 
monitoring pension sales and transfers, the number of transactions it made, etc. It confirmed 
Heritage was aware that customer referrals were made to TMI from agents/introducers, 
though it didnt state whether this initial part of the process would involve TAI.It was though confirmed that TAI provided customers with details of particular investments. 
And that these had apparently been approved by a third-party specialist. We know that the 
investments TAI provided details of were six illiquid, esoteric, investments such as biofuel oil, 
farmland and overseas property (and these included the investment into which Mr U 
invested).
The Introducer Profile included the following:
What is the process for monitoring pension sales?
Introductions received from agents/introducers. TailorMade SIPP Ltd send client 
introductory letter, client agreement and services and costs disclosure document, fee 
schedule, business card, attitude to risk profiler and a fact find. If client completes 
and returns forms SIPP is set up. TailorMade Alternative Investments contact client 
and provide investment brochure which includes only investments that have been 
approved by a third party specialist [name given]. Copies of the investment sign-off 
have been provided directly to Heritage by a director of [that third party]. Client given 
option to make their investment choices or refer to an IFA for further advice. 

How would the firm describe its client profile?
Individuals with preserved pension arrangements, who are dissatisfied with their 
current pension performance, and who require control over their investments 
decisions. Individuals who require independent advice and a more proactive service.

What determines whether a client is recommended a member-directed scheme over 
a personal pension or stakeholder plan and is this documented?
Client indicates on fact find their preferred investment option, and choice of 
investment and investment flexibility.

How does the firm demonstrate it is meeting its TCF [treating customers fairly] 
requirements?
TailorMade SIPP Ltd is authorized by the FSA and provides independent advice with 
no bias. They offer a transparent fee structure, provide clear literature and regular 
training is provided with external speakers to ensure competency is maintained. The 
firm is subject to a regular external compliance audit.
And concluded with the following summary:
TailorMade appear to write a lot of SIPP business and have provided clear insight 
into their process which we are told has been reviewed by the FSA satisfactorily. To 
manage work performance and risk restrict new business to circa 20 per month. 
Agree to discuss the position every quarter.
Though it was apparently provided with copies of the investment sign-offs from the 
third-party specialist (referred to in the Introducer Profile), Heritage did not seek to obtain 
copies of the brochures, etc. that TAI provided to customers. However, copies have been 
provided to this service.
Brief summaries of the Harlequin Property investment was included in a leaflet provided by 
TAI, inviting investors to invest using personal or pension funds via a SIPP. The leaflet said 
that investors could expect:Guaranteed income of 10% of the initial purchase price for 2, 3 or 10 years...
This leaflet went on to set out, under the heading Investor Protection, that Harlequin 
Property was financially secure and already had resorts that were operating.
TMI also provided a leaflet which provided a brief explanation of SIPPs, and said that TMIs:
sole purpose is to offer advice on the merits of moving preserved pension schemes 
into a SIPP.
It also said:
[TMI] would urge anyone considering transferring preserved pension funds from 
their current arrangement(s) to a SIPP (or any other pension contract) to obtain 
professional advice from a qualified IFA (Independent Financial Adviser) before doing 
so.
And:
[TMI] do not offer advice on the suitability of products which a SIPP can hold. 
It isnt known whether Mr U saw these specific leaflets.
Heritage has said that it confirmed TMI had a process for producing customer suitability 
reports and having them signed off by a pensions transfer specialist before being shown to 
the relevant client. Heritage has said that it did not routinely obtain copies of these reports 
and it is not clear whether Heritage was provided with Mr Us report. However, I am aware 
that Heritage did receive copies of the suitability reports for other customers in similar 
circumstances to Mr U, and that Heritage would have seen such reports prior to Mr U 
investing.
In its submissions to this service, Heritage has said it understood that; non-regulated 
investments were promoted and therefore unadvised. The Introducer Profile itself does not 
mention whether TMI had specifically claimed it gave no advice on the actual investments.
But it does say that customers were given the option to make their investment choice or 
contact an IFA for further advice.
However, in its submissions to this service, Heritage has also said TMI offered their 
customers specific advice upon the suitability of the proposed investment, should the 
customer want it. And Heritage has said its:
understanding was that all business was referred on an advised basis, both in 
relation to the proposed transfer of pension assets into a Heritage SIPP and the 
particular investment. Heritage was entitled to rely reasonably upon the information 
provided by [TMI] as a regulated entity.
TMI confirmed to Heritage that it had arranged 490 SIPPs in its last business year, about a 
quarter of which involved pension transfers. It isnt clear how much this had increased in the 
circa six months prior to the approach to Heritage. However, by May 2012, TMI said it was 
involved in the creation of around 100 new SIPPs each month.
Heritage decided to limit the number of new SIPPs it would provide via TMI to 20 cases per 
month in order to iron out any creases and to manage work performance and risk, 
according to the relevant meeting notes and Introducer Profile respectively.TMI signed a terms of business agreement with Heritage on 21 November 2011. These 
terms were the standard terms Heritage used for intermediaries. They required TMI to 
maintain the necessary permissions, etc. to carry out the activities required under the 
agreement, and that it would comply with relevant rules and law. And included the following 
statement:
For avoidance of doubt this includes whether ensuring the Heritage SIPP is suitable 
for the client This includes transfers into the Heritage SIPP FROM Defined Benefit 
Occupational Pension Schemes. 
It also provided that TMI took full responsibility for any advice given, including regulated 
investment advice, in relation to the assets held within the SIPP. But no reference was made 
to the type of investment that would be involved or on what sort of product TMI would or 
would not provide advice in relation to.
Between November 2011 and December 2012, TMI introduced 180 clients to Heritage. 
Heritage has said all of these clients were introduced on an advised basis, though it isnt 
clear whether this advice extended only to the transfer into the SIPP or also included advice 
on the underlying investment.
TMI asked Heritage on a number of occasions if it was willing to accept more transfers per 
month, but meeting notes indicate Heritage was comfortable with the level of business it was 
receiving and did not agree to any increase. Nonetheless, TMI business represented 43% of 
all business received by Heritage between November 2011 and December 2012.
Heritage has said that around a quarter of the applications derived from occupational 
pensions transfers, and around two-thirds involved investing in non-mainstream investments. 
I also note that in February 2012 Heritage had a phone discussion with TailorMade. 
Heritages note includes:
No changes to their model
And in May 2012 it noted:
TM has a well-oiled NB machine. No changes in model albeit always looking to 
streamline their processes. (I assume NB means new business.)
Meeting notes from July 2012 show that TailorMade told Heritage there were no changes to 
its model. However, they also confirm that TailorMade were, at the time, in the process of 
obtaining FSA authorisation for a SIPP company of their own; a process which was 
completed in October 2012. Heritage has said it took comfort from this.
In November 2012, Heritage became aware of allegations being made against Harlequin 
Property, and it asked a number of questions about this investment before agreeing to 
suspend future investments into this product. Heritage has said that it also contacted 
customers, including Mr U, after it became aware of the potential issues with Harlequin 
Property.
Around this time, the FSA was also carrying out further enquiries as to TMIs processes. And 
following a visit to TMI from the FSA and a more general, though related, alert published by 
the FSA in early 2013, Heritage was informed there were issues with TMIs process for 
giving advice.The January 2013 FSA alert explained that the regulator had become aware of certain firms 
operating inappropriate advice models, whereby they did not provide advice on the suitability 
of the underlying investment in situations similar to Mr Us. It stated, in part:
the provision of suitable advice generally requires  when advice is given on a 
product which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other 
wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the 
wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes. 
TMI ceased taking on new pension transfer business at this point and entered liquidation in 
late 2013, ultimately being wound up.
Post-investment events relating to TMI
The FSA was carrying out an assessment of TMIs operating model from late 2012. This, 
and TMIs response to an FSA alert in January 2013, led TMI to stop making new pension 
transfers and ultimately enter liquidation, before being wound up.
Since 2015, the FCA has issued a number of notices in relation to TMIs directors and made 
a number of points in relation to the operation of TMI. These include:
TMI provided advice, to consumers who were considering switching or transferring 
their pension funds to a SIPP, to make unregulated investments in biofuel oil, 
farmland and overseas property. Those investments were high risk, illiquid and 
esoteric and not suitable for all retail customers.
TMI reviewed consumers' overall financial circumstances and assessed their attitude 
to risk. But the advice process couldn't be relied on to ensure appropriate 
recommendations were made, as the overriding factor was to aim to use the pension 
funds to purchase unregulated investments. In nearly all cases, TMI had 
recommended to move to a SIPP. This included cases where the consumer was 
transferred from an occupational scheme, where the assumption should be that the 
transfer is unsuitable.
TMI's recommendation process was inadequate as, rather than taking into account 
consumers' individual needs, it produced recommendations based on the consumers' 
objective of using their pension funds to purchase unregulated investments.
TMI failed to ensure the investments consumers intended to make into the SIPPs 
were suitable.
A number of individuals at TMI were the owners or agents of an unregulated 
introducer business, which was responsible for most of the unregulated investment 
introductions which led consumers to move to SIPPs. This created a conflict of 
interest.
The FSCS claim
Following TMI being wound up, Mr U made a claim against TMI through the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). The FSCS estimated the amount lost by Mr U as a 
result of moving from his pensions schemes was in the region of £155,000. But, in 
January 2017, he received a payment of only £50,000 from the FSCS  this being the 
relevant limit on such claims.
On 14 December 2017, the FSCS reassigned Mr U's rights of complaint against third parties 
to him. And he has brought this complaint against Heritage.
Mr Us complaintMr U has complained that Heritage failed to carry out adequate due diligence on TMI and the 
investment itself. And that this led to his losses. Mr U has put forward a number of complaint 
points. In summary, these are:
Heritage was required to adhere to the Financial Conduct Authoritys Principle and 
Rules but it failed to do so.
Mr U transferred his pensions to Heritage in order to make an investment that was 
high risk and unregulated.
The suitability report did not advise on the suitability of investing in Harlequin 
Property, and this report was not even obtained by Heritage.
No clarification from TMI was obtained as to the suitability of investing in Harlequin 
Property. This included not confirming how the assumption that transferring from a 
defined benefits occupational pension scheme would be unsuitable, was overcome. 
Heritage should not have allowed Mr U to give up the pensions guarantees he had 
without good reason.
Heritage did not carry out adequate due diligence on TMI.
The involvement of an unregulated introducer promoting, advising on and arranging 
the investment, even if Heritage was unaware of this, meant Heritage should not 
have allowed the transfer to take place.
Heritage did not carry out an appropriateness test in relation to Mr U or the 
investment.
Heritage should not have allowed Mr U to invest such a high portion of his portfolio in 
Harlequin Property via the SIPP.
Heritage should have warned Mr U that even if his investment lost its value, he would 
still be liable to pay Heritage annual fees for managing his SIPP.
Heritage should have considered an investment in Harlequin Property to be 
unsuitable for any SIPP.
Heritage did not confirm Harlequin Propertys ownership of the property.
The Harlequin Property investment represented an investment in an unlawful 
unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS) and Heritage should not have 
allowed Mr U to invest in such a scheme.
The investment made was a first instalment on the Harlequin Property investment, 
and a second instalment was required which would not be met by the value of the 
SIPP. Heritage should not have allowed the transfer without obtaining assurance the 
necessary funding was in place.
Heritage didnt accept the complaint. It made a number of points, including:
Heritage said it had met its responsibilities by, in part, carrying out appropriate due 
diligence on TMI. Heritage also stressed the due diligence it had carried out on 
Harlequin Property itself and provided a great deal of detail on this.
Heritage also said it had not provided any advice to Mr U. And it was TMIs 
responsibility to provide advice to him. Heritage said it was clear that Mr U had taken 
advice from TMI both on the SIPP and on the investment within it.
Heritage said it was not advised at any time by TMI that any other introducer was 
involved (though presumably they were aware of TAIs role in TMIs business model 
generally).Heritage told Mr U it was not required to obtain a copy of the suitability report in 
relation to his investment. But advised us it had in any case obtained a copy prior to 
proceeding with the SIPP investments on behalf of Mr U.
Whilst acknowledging the use of the appropriateness test form was not specifically 
relevant in relation to the type of transaction Mr U was engaged in, Heritage said the 
answers Mr U gave in the form indicated he was a high earner who understood the 
transaction he was entering and was comfortable with the risks involved.
Heritage denied that a SIPP wrapper was unsuitable for Mr U, and it did not consider 
it had an obligation to ensure that the investment was being made in Mr Us best 
interests.
Heritage said it had satisfied itself that the investment in Harlequin Property was not 
in breach of tax legislation. And had also sought legal opinion on investments in 
Harlequin Property and was satisfied that this did not constitute an unregulated 
collective investment scheme (UCIS).
The contract with Harlequin Property was for a purchase of 30% of the relevant 
property and Heritage said any remaining portion was not something the SIPP was 
required to fund. It was for Mr U to fund the remainder and Heritage was not obliged 
to determine how this would occur.
Ultimately, Heritage considered it had complied with the good practice for SIPP 
providers that the FSA had issued and that in doing so, it had met the requirements 
upon it. Heritage considered that if any party was responsible for Mr Us losses, it 
was TMI which had provided the regulated advice. And that Heritage was not 
responsible for this advice.
Our investigation
The matter was then referred to us and our investigator looked into it, taking into account all 
the submissions made by the parties, including Heritages view that it was more appropriate 
for this complaint go be dealt with by The Pensions Ombudsman.
After completing his investigations, our investigator wrote to the parties on 30 October 2019.
He first explained why he didnt think it would be more appropriate for the complaint to be 
dealt with by The Pensions Ombudsman.
He then went on to explain why he thought Mr Us complaint should be upheld. Heritage did 
not agree with the investigator.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 12 November 2021. After setting out the background 
I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a preliminary point  before I consider what is fair and reasonable in al the 
circumstances - I confirm that I agree with our investigator, and for the reasons he 
gave in his letter of 30 October 2019, that it would not be more appropriate for this 
complaint to be with by The Pensions Ombudsman.Im satisfied that the Financial Ombudsman Service has the jurisdiction to consider 
this complaint and that it is appropriate for us to do so.
Relevant considerations
As well as the evidence provided by Heritage and Mr U, Ive taken into account 
relevant evidence provided on similar complaints that have been referred to this 
service from other customers of Heritage. As well as information in the public domain 
about the detail of the structure and workings of TailorMade.
I have borne in mind that not all of this information would have been available at the 
time of the sale of Mr Us SIPP. But one of the questions I have to ask is how much 
of this structure and workings should have been something Heritage appreciated.
In accordance with my duty under section 228 of the Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000 (FSMA), I must determine this complaint by reference to what is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. When considering 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant considerations which include: law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; and codes of practice. Im also required to 
take into account, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
I consider the following to be relevant considerations in this complaint.
The Principles
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my 
decision on whats fair and reasonable in this case. The Principles, which are set out 
in the FCAs handbook, are a general statement of the fundamental obligations of 
firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2 G). Principles 2, 3, and 6 say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with 
due skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
I have carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application 
of the FCAs Principles. In British Bankers Association, R (on the application of) v 
The Financial Services Authority & Anor [2011] EWHC 999 (BBA), Ouseley J said 
at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which 
the specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. 
The Specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict 
them. They are but specific applications of them to the particular requirement 
they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can exhaust the 
application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for 
the Principles to augment specific rules.
And at paragraph 77: Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the 
Ombudsman to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into 
account in deciding what would be fair and reasonable and what redress to 
afford. Even if no Principles had been produced by the FSA, the FOS would 
find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory duty without having regard to the sort 
of high level Principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever 
formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, 
subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service 
[2018] EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim 
challenging the decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint 
against it. The ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken 
due diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, 
and that if it had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The 
ombudsman found Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory 
obligations and had not treated its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out 
above, said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not 
merely to cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA 
shows that they are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general 
application. The aim of the Principles-based regulation described by Ouseley 
J. was precisely not to attempt to formulate a code covering all possible 
circumstances, but instead to impose general duties such as those set out in 
Principles 2 and 6.
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of Financial Services & Markets Act 
2000 (FSMA) and the approach an ombudsman is to take when deciding a 
complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL provides a strong endorsement for 
the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which I have described 
above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time as 
relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account.
Since Heritage made its most recent representations on this case, the Court of 
Appeal has handed down its judgment on Adams v Carey, following its consideration 
of Mr Adams appeal.
Ive considered both the High Court and Court of Appeal judgments, and whether 
Adams v Carey changes the weight that I should give to the Principles in deciding 
this case. And, I find that it doesnt. In the High Court judgment, HHJ Dight did not 
consider the application of the Principles and they did not form part of the pleadings 
submitted by Mr Adams. The Court of Appeal judgment gives no consideration to the 
application of the Principles either. So, Adams v Carey does not provide any 
assistance with the application of the FCAs Principles, and in particular, they say 
nothing about how the Principles apply to an ombudsmans consideration of a 
complaint.As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of 
statutory duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles 
into account in deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a 
case. And, Jacobs J adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in 
BBSAL. I am therefore satisfied that the FCAs Principles are a relevant 
consideration that I must take into account when deciding this complaint.
COBS 2.1.1R
This rule says:
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
Unlike the Principles, COBS 2.1.1R was considered by HHJ Dight in Adams v Carey. 
Mr Adams pleaded that Options SIPP/Carey owed him a duty to comply with COBS 
2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of 
FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected this claim and found that Options 
SIPP/Carey had complied with the best interests rule on the facts of that particular 
case.
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the 
COBS claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was 
radically different to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part 
of Mr Adams appeal did not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which 
HHJ Dight had dismissed the COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward 
an entirely new case).
Overall, I am satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R remains a relevant consideration  but that 
it needs to be considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and 
within the factual context of Mr Us case.
I note that there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R 
alleged by Mr Adams and from the issues in Mr Us complaint. The breaches were 
summarised in paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, as HHJ 
Dight noted, he was not asked to consider the question of due diligence before 
Options SIPP/Carey agreed to accept the store pods investment into its SIPP. The 
facts of the case were also different.
So, I have considered COBS 2.1.1R - alongside the remainder of the relevant 
considerations, and within the factual context of Mr Us case, including Heritages 
role in the transaction.
However, I think it is important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case. And, in doing that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations 
which include: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes 
of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the 
judgments in Adams v Carey. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal 
pleadings in Mr Adams statement of case.
Regulatory publicationsThe FSA and the FCA have issued a number of publications which remind SIPP 
operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles. These include:
A report on the finding of a thematic review by the then regulator the FSA on 
SIPP operators published in September 2009 (the 2009 report).
A report on the finding of a thematic review by the then regulator the FSA on 
SIPP operators published in October 2012 (the 2012 report).
A guide for Self-Invested Personal Pensions (SIPP) operators published by 
the FCA in October 2013 (the 2013 guidance).
A letter from the FCAs Director of Supervision sent to the CEOs of all SIPP 
operators in July 2014 (the 2014 Dear CEO letter).
I think these too are relevant considerations in this complaint. I have considered them 
in both determining what the regulator expected of firms and also in determining what 
amounted to good industry practice.
The 2009 report
The 2009 report pre-dates the events subject of this complaint. So, like the 
investigator, I think the 2009 report is most relevant. However, Ive also quoted 
selected parts of the other publications which I think are of particular relevance. But 
to be clear, Ive considered them in their entirety.
The 2009 report included the following:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide 
advice, are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must 
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly) insofar 
as they are obliged to ensure the fair treatment of their customers. COBS 
3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension scheme is a client for COBS 
purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients. It is the 
responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer 
outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for 
the SIPP advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also 
clear that SIPP operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, 
and we would expect them to have procedures and controls, and to be 
gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to identify 
possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as 
unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate 
way, for example by contacting the member to confirm the position, or by 
contacting the firm giving advice and asking for clarification. Moreover, while 
they are not responsible for the advice, there is a reputational risk to SIPP 
operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential 
instances of poor advice and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the 
facts and circumstances of individual cases, we may take enforcement action 
against SIPP operators who do not safeguard their customers interests in this 
respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and 
effectively, with adequate risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, 
taken from examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we 
have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries 
that advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they 
have the appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing 
to the firms clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA website 
listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and 
clarifying respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing 
SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries 
that give advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially 
unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or 
large transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted 
shares, together with the intermediary that introduced the business. 
This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from 
the client or their adviser, if it is concerned about the suitability of what 
was recommended. 
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the 
intermediary giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible 
for advice, having this information would enhance the firms 
understanding of its clients, making the facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs 
less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have 
signed disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions, 
and gathering and analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of 
such business. 
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and 
the reasons for this.
The later publications
In the 2013 guidance, the FCA states:
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to 
give firms further guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These 
are not new or amended requirements, but a reminder of regulatory 
responsibilities that became a requirement in April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet 
Principle 6 and treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member 
of a pension scheme is a client for SIPP operators and so is a customer 
under Principle 6. It is a SIPP operators responsibility to assess its business 
with reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes.
The 2013 guidance also set out the following:Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective 
members and SIPP operators
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators 
include the following:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers 
that advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they 
have the appropriate permissions to give the advice they are 
providing; neither the firm, nor its approved persons are on the list of 
prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary 
history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA website listings 
for unauthorised business warnings.
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and 
clarify the responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP 
business to a firm.
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the 
nature of the firm, what their business objectives are, the types of 
clients they deal with, the levels of business they conduct and expect 
to introduce, the types of investments they recommend and whether 
they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with.
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by 
unusually small or large transactions; or higher risk investments such 
as unquoted shares which may be illiquid. This would enable the firm 
to seek appropriate clarification, for example from the prospective 
member or their adviser, if it has any concerns.
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their 
cancellation rights and the reasons for this.
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment 
advice given, as a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of 
the SIPP business it administers. Examples of good practice we have 
identified include: 
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the 
information they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the 
firm with, is authentic and meets the firms procedures and are not 
being used to launder money
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern 
relationships and clarify responsibilities for relationships with other 
professional bodies such as solicitors and accountants, and 
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP 
operators have considered the additional risks involved in accepting 
business from nonregulated introducers.
In relation to due diligence, the 2013 guidance said:
Due diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct 
their business with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that 
they conduct and retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, 
checking and monitoring introducers as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for personal pension schemes) to help them justify their 
business decisions. In doing this SIPP operators should consider:
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted 
by HMRC, or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is 
identifiable, HMRC is informed and the tax charge paid
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect 
of the introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate 
enhancing the processes that are in place in order to identify and 
mitigate any risks to the members and the scheme
having checks which may include, but are not limited to: 
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, 
qualifications and skills to introduce different types of business 
to the firm, and
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies 
House records, identifying connected parties and visiting 
introducers
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has 
been independently produced and verified
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of 
benchmarks, or minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the 
minimum standard the firm is prepared to accept to either deal with 
introducers or accept investments, and
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would 
lead a firm to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further 
investigations such as instances of potential pension liberation, 
investments that may breach HMRC tax relievable investments and 
non-standard investments that have not been approved by the firm.
The 2013 guidance also included details on the due diligence a firm might be 
expected to carry out in relation to UCIS. Heritage has disputed that the Harlequin 
Property investment was a UCIS. And whilst this service may not agree with that 
stance, I do not feel it is necessary to consider this aspect of due diligence in this 
decision and so I also do not consider it necessary to make any determination in 
relation to the categorisation of the Harlequin Property investment.
The 2014 Dear CEO letter provides another reminder that the Principles apply and 
an indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP 
operator might reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. 
The 2014 Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its 
obligations in relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be 
met by:
correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation 
ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are 
correctly drawn-up and legally enforceable)ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of 
purchase and subsequently, and
ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous 
investors have received income if expected, or that any investment providers 
are credit worthy etc.).
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the 2014 Dear CEO letter arent 
formal guidance (whereas the finalised 2013 guidance is). However, the fact that 
the reports and Dear CEO letter did not constitute formal guidance does not mean 
their importance should be underestimated. They provide a reminder that the 
Principles for Businesses apply and are an indication for the kinds of things a SIPP 
operator might do to ensure it is treating its customers fairly and produce the 
outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect, the publications which set out 
the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be doing also goes some 
way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice, and I am, 
therefore, required to take them into account.
It is relevant that when deciding what amounted to have been good industry practice 
in the Berkeley Burke case, the ombudsman found that the regulators reports, 
guidance and letter go a long way to clarify what should be regarded as good 
practice and what should not. 
Jacobs J quoted from the ombudsmans provisional decision under the heading 
industry good practice at para 99 of the BBSAL judgment and went onto say that:
This conclusion is not the subject of any judicial review challenge for which 
permission has been granted, and accordingly this case must be determined 
on the basis of that conclusion. The relevant conclusion is either a factual 
conclusion as to what constituted good industry practice at the time, or 
perhaps more strictly the Ombudsmans conclusion as to what he considered 
to be such practice. On any view, it was not (as Mr. Kirk sought to submit in 
reply) a conclusion of law. The Ombudsmans conclusion as to good industry 
practice at the time is, in my view, fatal to the contention that the effect of the 
Ombudsmans decision was to create new, unexpected duties
Heritage has referred to the comments of HHJ Dight, in Adams v Carey, that 
regulatory publication cannot give rise to a claim. But I am not considering a legal 
claim here. My role is to determine what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint, and in doing so I am obliged to take account of, 
amongst other things, the Principles and the regulatory publications insofar as they 
provide examples of good industry practice.
Im also satisfied that Heritage, at the time of the events under consideration here, 
thought the 2009 report was relevant and it set out examples of good industry 
practice. Its important to keep in mind the judgments in Adams v Carey did not 
consider the regulatory publications in the context of considering what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances bearing in mind various matters including the 
Principles (as part of the regulators rules) or good industry practice.
Like the ombudsman in the Berkeley Burke case, I do not think the fact the 
publications other than the 2009 report post-date the events here means the 
examples of good practice they provide was not good practice at the time of the 
events.The later publications were published after the events subject to this complaint, but 
the Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as did the obligation to act in 
accordance with the Principles.
It is also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the 2014 Dear CEO 
letter) that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the 
recommended good practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst 
the regulators comments suggest some industry participants understanding of how 
the standards shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, it is 
clear the standards themselves had not changed.
That doesnt mean that in considering what is fair and reasonable, I will only consider 
Heritages actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and 
guidance gave non-exhaustive examples of good practice. They did not say the 
suggestions given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to 
the 2014 Dear CEO letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations 
will depend on the circumstances. 
In this case, the business Heritage was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. And 
in determining this complaint, I need to consider whether Heritage complied with its 
regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and 
diligence, to take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and 
effectively, to pay due regards to the interests of its customers (in this case Mr U), to 
treat them fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im 
looking to the Principles and the publications listed above to provide an indication of 
what Heritage could have done to comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
Having said all of the above, I reiterate the starting point is that Im required to make 
a decision on whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of TAI and TMI
Mr U has said the Harlequin Property investment was introduced to him by 
TailorMade. Hes said that he was unaware that TAI and TMI were separate 
companies. It isnt clear where Heritage would have been aware that TAI had 
introduced the investment to Mr U specifically.
But it is clear that Heritage wouldve been aware that TailorMades business model 
was for TAI, or another unregulated introducer  often acting as TAIs agent, to carry 
out these introductions. 
In any event it doesnt seem to be in dispute that it was TMI that introduced Mr U to 
Heritage for the provision of his SIPP.
To meet its regulatory obligations as a SIPP operator when conducting this business 
Heritage had to decide whether to accept or reject the business and/or particular 
investment. It had to pay due regard to Mr Us interests and treat him fairly.
As mentioned, Heritage havent been entirely clear when setting out, to us, its 
understanding on whether the business from TMI was referred on an advised basis 
or not.
However, the evidence I have seen, including the Introducer Profile which Heritage 
prepared when deciding whether to enter into its agreement with TMI, shows that 
TMIs business model was that clients had the option of choosing their own investments or referring to an IFA. I havent seen anything to suggest that TMI itself 
offered advice on the investments, or any reason why Heritage would think that was 
the case.
The suitability report which TMI sent to Mr U made clear that the recommendation to 
transfer his pension was predicated on his own decision to invest in an overseas 
commercial property. It didnt purport to give advice about that decision. 
Heritage has said that it didnt (and wasnt required to) see the suitability report and 
that it wouldnt have been able to assess suitability anyway because it wasnt 
authorised to, and because it wasnt in possession of the underlying information.
However, Heritage has said it did see suitability reports for other customers in similar 
circumstances to Mr U. Whilst there were differences between the reports to reflect 
the individual aspects of the customers, largely speaking the reports seen by this 
service were the same. And the information in the report is consistent with the way 
TMI told Heritage it operated. So, Heritage did know how TMI operated, and knew 
that Mr U would not have received advice on the Harlequin Property investment from 
TMI.
In addition, the appropriateness test which Heritage asked Mr U to complete for the 
investment was one designed to be used when instructions are given to make a 
complex investment in circumstances where the client hasnt received independent 
advice. The form makes this clear. That suggests that Heritage was aware that 
clients could be choosing their investments without advice. Mr U completed the form, 
seemingly without question. That again should reasonably have alerted Heritage to 
the possibility that he hadnt received advice in relation to the Harlequin Property 
investment.
The contract between Heritage and Mr U
Heritage says that, consistent with the decision in Adams v Carey, the regulatory 
rules have to be read in the light of the contract between the customer and the SIPP 
provider. 
I dont think the considerations in the Adams v Carey case are analogous to the 
circumstances in this complaint, in which Im considering the Principles. I accept that 
Heritage made clear to Mr U that it was not giving him financial advice. But I dont 
think that absolved Heritage of its regulatory obligations to treat customers fairly 
when deciding whether to accept or reject business.
Heritage has said itself that its understanding was that TMI was responsible for 
providing Mr U with investment advice as his regulated financial adviser and that TMI 
had provided him with that advice.
So, although Heritage says it accepted Mr Us business on an execution-only basis 
that appears to have been on the understanding that he had received investment 
advice from TMI. I think there were reasons to doubt that, as mentioned above, and 
that Heritage should have been wary of accepting Mr Us business in these 
circumstances.
In the Adams v Carey case, the judge at first instance found that Mr Adams would 
have proceeded with the transaction regardless. HHJ Dight said (at para. 32):The Claimant knew that it was a high risk and speculative investment but 
nevertheless decided to proceed with it, because of the case incentive
In this case there is no suggestion that Mr U received an incentive to invest. He says 
he signed the forms (to say he was prepared to take a risk) because he had been led 
to believe that, although the investment was classed as high risk, the riskiest phase 
of the investment had passed. And the party that had led to him having this 
understanding was either TAI or TMI.
Heritage had to act in a way that was consistent with its regulatory obligations. I dont 
think the contract between Heritage and Mr U means that Heritage no longer had the 
responsibilities placed on it by its regulatory obligations, or that it didnt have to pay 
due regard to Mr Us interests and treat him fairly.
I dont think it would be fair for Heritage to rely on the contract when it had (or ought 
to have had) concerns about the way TMI was operating. It still had to treat Mr U 
fairly when deciding whether to accept or reject the introduction of his business by 
TMI.
Heritage could have declined Mr Us application. I dont consider that would have 
amounted to giving him financial advice. So, I dont think the fact that Heritage wasnt 
authorised to give advice precluded it from meeting its regulatory obligations to think 
carefully about the quality of the business is was accepting. And I dont think that 
Heritage needed to carry out an assessment of Mr Us needs and circumstances in 
order to identify the risk of consumer detriment in the business model operated by 
TMI.
What did Heritages obligations mean in practice?
In this case, the business Heritage was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. Im 
satisfied that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would 
include deciding whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of 
business.
I note that in Adams v Carey, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act 
honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client). 
HHJ Dight said at paragraph 148:
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 
2.1.1 one has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent 
from the submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on 
the ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite 
fact, in the context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which 
defined their roles and functions in the transaction.
Heritage says the Principles and COBS rules need to be addressed in the context of 
the specific area in which it was acting. It says it was in a non-advisory/execution-
only relationship with Mr U and the regulations did not impose an obligation on a 
SIPP operator to refuse to accept the underlying investment even where that could 
be done without having to give advice to the investor himself.
As mentioned, I do not say that Heritage was under any obligation to advise Mr U on 
the SIPP and/or the underlying investment. I only say that to meet its regulatory obligations when operating its SIPP it had to give consideration to whether to accept 
or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business.
In paragraph 159 of the Adams v Carey judgment HHJ Dight said:
to ascertain the suitability or otherwise of the investment for the claimant 
himself the defendant would have had to make detailed enquiries about the 
claimant's financial circumstances and, in my view, take advice on the value 
of the investment, evaluate the risks inherent in and lastly make a judgment 
call on the question of whether those risks were appropriate for the claimant 
in the light of the information which they had obtained about his financial 
situation and appetite for risk. That was not the role which the parties had 
agreed in the contract that the defendant would have. COBS Rule 2.1.1 
cannot, in my view, be interpreted as requiring the defendant to take those 
steps.
In my view, this simply says that the obligation to act in a clients best interests set by 
COBS 2.1.1R does not oblige a firm to give advice on the suitability of an investment 
for an individual investor, where the firm was not contracted to provide advice. That is 
consistent with the approach I am taking in this complaint. In this section of the 
judgment, the alleged breach of COBS 2.1.1R under consideration was taking into 
the SIPP what was claimed to be a manifestly unsuitable underlying investment, 
where suitability meant suitability for Mr Adams. The judge does not say the SIPP 
operator was not obliged to give any consideration to whether to accept or reject an 
application. Only that such consideration did not need to include the suitability of the 
intended investment for the individual investor. It does not follow from this, for 
example, that the SIPP operator was obliged to accept and execute the clients 
instructions in all circumstances.
And, in my view, refusing to accept an application is not the same thing as advising 
Mr U on the merits of investing and/or switching to the SIPP  there is a difference.
Further the point about SIPP operators being required to carry out the instructions it 
receives was considered and dealt with in the BBSAL decision where Jacobs J said 
at paragraph 135:
any suggestion that a SIPP provider must, as a result of COBS 11.2.19R, 
execute a transaction, regardless of the duties contained in the Principles, 
produces surprising results and in my view cannot be right. A number of 
examples were given during the course of argument as to circumstances in 
which, having received an instruction, the SIPP provider would or might think 
it inappropriate to proceed, or at the very least query the transaction with his 
client. These included situations where: (1) the proposed investment was not 
then SIPPable; i.e. was not eligible for the tax benefits of putting an 
investment into a SIPP; (2) the SIPP provider knew that although it was then 
SIPPable, there had been a legislative change which meant that it would no 
longer be SIPPable in a few months time; (3) the SIPP provider had received 
information which cast doubt on the integrity of those who were promoting the 
proposed investment, or as to whether underlying assets actually existed; (4) 
the SIPP provider had learnt of problems, such as a possible insolvency, 
which affected the proposed investment. In all of these situations, I consider 
that there is scope for the operation of the Principles, and that COBS 
11.2.19R does not mandate the SIPP provider to proceed to execute the 
transaction. This is consistent with the underlying purpose of the COBS rules, 
which have their origin in MiFID, namely consumer protection.And in my view the thrust of the point is, in effect, acknowledged  at least in so far 
as the position before any contract is entered into with the client - by Heritage when it 
says it regularly declined to do business with introducers in whom they did not have 
confidence.
The point made by Heritage also undermines its argument that by extension the 
Adams v Carey judgment means that it was not under no obligation to carry out due 
diligence on an introducers business model. In practice it did carry out checks on 
introducers to it and this would inevitably have included checks on the introducers 
business model.
The regulatory publications provided some examples of good industry practice 
observed by the FSA and FCA during their work with SIPP operators including being 
satisfied that a particular introducer/investment is appropriate to deal with/accept. 
That involves conducting checks  due diligence  on introducers and investments to 
make informed decisions about accepting business. The obligation was a continuing 
one. And in practice Heritage seems to have accepted the need to carry out some 
checks.
As set out above, to comply with the Principles, Heritage needed to conduct its 
business with due, skill, care and diligence; organise and control its affairs 
responsibly and effectively; and pay due regard to the interests of its clients 
(including Mr U) and treat them fairly. Its obligations and duties in this respect were 
not prescriptive and depended on the nature of the circumstances, information and 
events on an ongoing basis.
I agree with our investigator that its clear Heritage understood and accepted that its 
obligations meant it had to carry out appropriate due diligence on TMI to ensure the 
quality of business it was introducing, and on the Harlequin Property investment 
before accepting them into Mr Us SIPP. And to do this it needed to carry out checks 
on TMIs business model.
What due diligence did Heritage carry out on TMI?
With hindsight, it is possible for us to know more about TMIs business model and the 
process that likely occurred during transactions such as the one Mr U was involved 
in. However, even without this hindsight, Heritage was aware of much of this detail  
and if it wasnt, I consider it ought to have been.
Having considered everything Heritage has told us, it is clear that Heritage 
understood and accepted that it had a responsibility to carry out due diligence on 
TMI.
I have outlined above the steps Heritage has said it took in relation to the due 
diligence and control on TMIs business. In summary these were:
Obtaining details of the four directors of TMI
Obtaining details of the standard sales process
Checking FSA register
Confirming the investments being offered via the TailorMade group had been 
approved by a third party specialist
Preparing an Introducer ProfileConfirming that suitability reports were prepared and signed off by an 
appropriately qualified pensions transfer specialist
Signing a terms of business agreement with TMI
Holding regular meetings, including quarterly reviews, with TMI
Limiting the business it took on from TMI to 20 referrals each month, and
Applying the business hurdles to TMI.
Like the investigator, I think that when taken together, these efforts went some way 
towards meeting the examples of good practice set out by the regulator in the 
publications Ive set out above. I expect Heritages action was taken with these  and 
its overarching regulatory obligations  in mind.
But I dont think this absolved Heritage of all further responsibility. Heritage may have 
been reassured that TMI had in place the necessary authorisations and permissions, 
but that didnt necessarily mean there was no risk of consumer detriment.
I think it ought to have been apparent to Heritage, given the contents of what it had 
reviewed, that it should not have accepted the introduction of business from TMI. 
Thats because I think Heritage ought to have concluded that TMIs business model 
meant that accepting Mr Us introduction from TMI and facilitating the SIPP would not 
be treating him fairly and would expose him to an obvious risk of consumer 
detriment.
I think the business hurdles Heritage applied would only have flagged up the most 
obvious signs of potential detriment.
Heritage says TMIs management told it that TMI had been reviewed by the FSA in 
2011 and had been found to have satisfactory procedures in place. It says it had no 
reason to doubt what TMI said. Again, whilst Heritage may have been reassured by 
what TMI told it I dont think it means it didnt need to check for itself and make up its 
own mind about TMI.
It seems to me that Heritage relied too heavily on what TMI told it and didnt pay 
sufficient attention to warning signs that things might not be as they should be.
Heritage says that the systems and controls it had in place didnt reveal an obvious 
risk of consumer detriment such as to prompt it to decline business from TMI.
I disagree, and I think the Introducer Profile is particularly relevant here.
As Ive set out, the Introducer Profile was a pro-forma document which I understand 
Heritage produced in relation to each of its introducers. It was, essentially, a fact-find 
which set out various information about TMI including its sales process and typical 
volume of business. In effect, it summarised how TMI conducted its business. The 
form was completed on 23 November 2011 and Ive set out above some of the key 
details contained in this form.
Although it is not expressly recorded in the Introducer Profile, it is clear that TMI were 
not operating what might be referred to as a typical IFA business model. By that I 
mean a firm operating with an array of clients with differing needs and objectives 
whose individual circumstances are assessed by the adviser, who then uses their judgment to recommend an investment they consider suitable for the clients 
particular circumstances.
TMIs business model was different. In its process an introducer, often TAI, promoted 
a limited number of what were considered unregulated investments to the potential 
client and the client in effect chose whether or not they wanted to invest in the 
investments on offer.
There was nothing in that process in which the individual clients circumstances were 
considered in an advice process, nor where any advice was given to the client that 
the investment under consideration was suitable for them. There was the possibility 
that the client could refer to an IFA but that was not the normal process.
If the client decided they would like to invest in say Harlequin it was only then that 
TMI would give its limited advice on whether transferring or switching their existing 
pension was suitable for them in order to invest in the type of investment the investor 
had chosen. And, I repeat, that is an investment or investments that they had chosen 
(under the normal process) without the benefit of any advice or at least not any 
advice from a regulated financial adviser. And the investments being considered 
were all exotic higher risk investments.
Further, the typical clients were retail clients whose average SIPP fund size was 
£61,000. They may have typically been dissatisfied with the performance of their 
pension, but they were also noted to be individuals who require independent advice. 
They were not non-advised clients as far as their relationship with TMI was 
concerned. But they were not receiving advice on the investment which was a crucial 
part of the overall transaction.
Heritage knew this was an unorthodox business model. And I note that it recorded 
the following in the Introducer Profile:
TailorMade appear to write a lot of SIPP business and have provided clear 
insight into their process which we are told has been reviewed by the FSA 
satisfactorily.
I do not consider such a comment would have been made in the case of a typical IFA 
business model or advice process.
Heritage did not however obtain a copy of any inspection report in which TMIs 
process was apparently considered satisfactory or otherwise obtain confirmation of 
the point from the FSA. Merely checking the FSA register (which it did) was not 
enough as inspection reports are not published there and if the FSA was not happy 
and was taking any kind of action against TMI it would take some time for that point 
to be publicised.
Heritage should have formed its own view on whether it had confidence in TMI and 
its process (as it had apparently done with other potential introducer firms) and in my 
view it should have concluded that it could not reasonably have confidence in TMI 
and the process it was operating.
Why this should have caused concern.
In my view the model operated by TMI was one that exposed the client to very 
considerable risk. There was the risk that the client would choose to invest in 
investments that were not suitable for them. There was also the risk that the introducer  who had a financial interest in the client choosing to invest  would 
encourage or even pressurise clients into choosing to invest in unsuitable 
investments.
And TMIs process would not prevent these unsuitable investments. Its process was 
such that the regulated business did not consider the suitability of the investment. It 
only advised on the suitability of transferring or switching existing pensions to a SIPP 
 something it could not reasonably or safely do without considering the overall 
transaction. It could not know, and therefore could not safely give advice upon, the 
suitability of the transfer or switch to the SIPP without considering the suitability of 
the proposed investments.
I acknowledge that the regulators reports and guidance dont specifically mention 
considering the business model of an introducer as an example of good practice. But 
the reports and guidance are not exhaustive. They only provide examples of good 
practice and are based on the overarching Principles. What is reasonable will depend 
on the circumstances. In this case Heritage did consider the business model as part 
of its due diligence on TMI. And what it asked about and noted regarding the sales 
process should have given it serious cause for concern.
Having done so I think it ought to have been apparent to Heritage that there was a 
real risk of consumer detriment in accepting this business from TMI  as was 
identified by the FCA in 2015. This is because:
TMIs business model involved it receiving introductions of business from third 
parties.
Unless the consumer chose to get advice on the investments, none was 
given.
Unregulated parties were involved in promoting the investments.
TMI was transacting large volumes of SIPP business, including unusually 
large numbers of pension transfers.
Heritage says it couldnt have known the extent of the issues that gave rise to the 
FCAs concerns. That may be so. But I think there were sufficient warning flags in 
the Introducer Profile (and from the meetings that led up to it) to reasonably have 
alerted Heritage that introductions from TMI carried a significant risk that customers 
werent receiving suitable advice.
In its Retail Conduct Risk Outlook 2011 the FSA referred to its 2009 thematic review 
and went on to say:
SIPPs have also been used by some advisers as wrappers for exotic, risky 
and potentially poor value unregulated products such as Unregulated 
Collective Investment Schemes (UCIS). In our July 2010 review of the sale of 
UCIS, nearly half of all sales considered wee within SIPP wrappers. This 
maybe because the advisers mistakenly believed that some of [the] 
restrictions on marketing UCIS to retail customers do not apply if the UCIS is 
placed within a SIPP. We have warned advisers about this, but customers 
should take care when considering placing exotic products and funds in their 
SIPP.Although the point does not really need spelling out, it is clear from the use of the 
words such as Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes, that there is a risk from 
exotic investments regardless of their precise structure. Therefore, while I have noted 
that TMI provided opinions that the investments its introducers were promoting were 
technically not UCIS, the point remains that they were still exotic higher risk 
investments. That is the sort of investments that are not normally suitable for most 
retail investors. This means they are the sort of investments where  if it is being 
considered at all  a retail investor should be given carefully considered advice, 
rather than left to choose for themselves from a promotion by an unregulated 
introducer. This is because the risks involved in this type of transaction are unlikely to 
be fully understood by most people, without obtaining regulated advice.
I think the volume of SIPP applications and pension transfers which TMI was 
conducting should have been recognised by Heritage as being anomalous and acted 
as a further warning flag.
Heritage kept a good level of management information about the number and nature 
of introductions that TMI had made. I think this is an example of good practice 
identified in the 2009 report which said:
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that 
give advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable 
SIPPs can be identified.
But I dont think simply keeping records without scrutinising that information is 
reasonable. As highlighted in the 2009 report, the reason why the records are 
important is so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
TMI was a relatively small firm. Yet it was, prior to entering its agreement with 
Heritage, arranging almost 500 SIPPs a year. And by the time of Mr Us investment, 
this number had more than doubled.
I think that Heritage should have looked at this and been concerned that such a high 
volume of introductions, relating almost exclusively to non-mainstream unregulated 
investments was unusual  particularly from a small IFA business. And it should have 
considered how such a small business was able to meet regulatory standards and 
ensure the investments were suitable for such a high volume of customers.
Heritage was aware of this increase and was aware of TMIs desire for Heritage to 
take on more of its business. Whilst Heritage did act to limit the amount of business it 
was willing to take on from TMI, the increased amount of business TMI itself was 
involved in should have raised concerns for Heritage as to whether TMIs customers 
were receiving a service that meant Heritage would be treating them fairly by 
accepting that business.
Im aware that Heritage has said that as a means of ensuring the quality of the 
investment business it limited the pipeline of new cases to twenty new introductions a 
month and required quarterly meetings with TMI. Ive considered the notes of the 
meetings supplied but, as our investigator concluded, it seems the pipeline of 
business was largely determined by Heritages capacity to take on the work. And 
whilst limiting the number of cases may have reduced Heritages exposure to TMIs 
business I dont think it lowered the risk of potential detriment for the individual 
consumers with whom it dealt.Given TMI introductions already accounted for almost half of Heritages business  
potentially doubling the workload it was handling from the previous year  it is 
perhaps not surprising that Heritage resisted taking on more business at this point. 
But limiting the number of referrals Heritage itself accepted, seems to have been 
largely due to Heritages capacity to take this work on. And whilst limiting the number 
of cases may have reduced Heritages exposure to TMIs business, I dont think it 
lowered the risk of potential detriment for the individual consumers with whom it 
dealt.
This concern ought to have been even greater where a defined benefit scheme was 
involved, as in Mr Us case. COBS 19.1.6G states:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a 
defined benefits occupational pension scheme whether to transfer or opt-out, 
a firm should start by assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. 
A firm should only then consider a transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can 
clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer or opt-out is 
in the clients best interest.
Whilst I acknowledge this aims to define the expectation of a regulated financial 
adviser when determining suitability of a pension transfer, it emphasises the 
regulators concern about the potential detriment such a transaction could expose a 
consumer to. And, being a regulated firm with a requirement to ensure its clients 
were being treated fairly, Id expect Heritage to have been familiar with the guidance 
contained in COBS  even if it didnt apply directly to it.
So, I think Heritage ought to have been aware that the chances of the introduction of 
such a large volume of applications, including Mr Us business, resulting in a suitable 
SIPP were very small.
Overall, whilst I acknowledge that Heritage did take some steps to conduct due 
diligence on TMI, I dont think it did everything it needed to do to meet its regulatory 
obligations in the circumstances or comply with good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
The FSAs actions
Heritage has said that it took comfort from the FSAs actions during the period prior 
to Mr Us investment. But this doesnt change my view about this complaint.
In a meeting with Heritage in November 2011, TMI said it has been inspected by the 
FSA and that the FSA has been satisfied with the service TMI provided. However, 
Heritage does not appear to have obtained a copy of the findings from this 
inspection. It is not known when this review took place or what its purpose was. So, I 
do not consider it is reasonable to say that Heritage could rely solely on this review 
having occurred.
I also note that the FSA was, prior to Mr Us investment, in the process of approving 
a company in the TailorMade group to act as an authorised SIPP provider. Whilst I 
appreciate Heritage may have taken some reassurance from the fact the TailorMade 
group was engaging with the regulator, the approval of this third party was not 
directly relevant to TMIs business model. TMI and the other TailorMade companies 
were legally separate, and the FSAs authorisation of the third party would not have 
involved a review of TMIs business model.Additionally, regardless of the FSAs actions, it remained Heritages responsibility to 
satisfy itself, through appropriate due diligence, that TMIs business model was 
appropriate and that it provided customers with a service that meant, by accepting 
the business, Heritage would be treating them fairly. I am not persuaded that 
Heritage did this, nor that it drew the conclusions it reasonably should have from the 
due diligence it did carry out.
I think Heritage should have recognised and acted on the warnings, that would have 
been raised through appropriate due diligence, by refusing to accept the referral from 
TMI - irrespective of any documents or disclaimers that Mr U signed. By failing to do 
so, I dont think Heritage met its regulatory obligations to treat Mr U fairly.
The underlying investments
I consider the nature of the investments the vast majority of customers were 
introduced to (often by TAI) and which were involved in the SIPPs which TMI 
recommended, and that were accepted by Heritage, was anomalous.
These were the investments that TMI was aware were going to be made via the SIPP 
it was recommending. Such knowledge is clear from the suitability reports prepared 
for customers. And, even if Heritage had not seen Mr Us particular suitability report 
prior to accepting his SIPP application, Heritage was aware that this was TMIs 
business model.
They were investments which were unusual, high risk and unregulated. Such 
investments will generally only be suitable for a small proportion of the population  
generally sophisticated and/or high net worth investors.
Heritage says that investment advice was the responsibility of TMI. Nevertheless, it 
did carry out quite extensive due diligence on the investments, including the 
Harlequin Property investment, as outlined in our investigators view. It denies that 
the investments were esoteric. That is not the view the regulator came to.
In its review of the TMI business model in 2015/2016 the FCA said: 
TMI provided advice to consumers who were considering switching or 
transferring their pension funds to a SIPP to make unregulated investments in 
biofuel oil, farmland and overseas property. Those investments were high 
risk, illiquid and esoteric and not suitable for all retail customers. 
I appreciate that Heritage thinks its unfair to use the findings of this regulatory action 
against it when it says it couldnt have known the extent of the issues that gave rise 
to the FCAs concerns. However, although the regulatory action post-dated the time 
were looking at, the nature of the investments hadnt changed.
Additionally, the risks are multiplied where further funding is necessary from investors 
to complete the purchases. This was the case with the vast majority of the 
investments involved in TMIs business model, such as most of the investments in 
Harlequin Property, which, initially at least, was deposit based  with further funds 
required on completion of the property development. The risks with such investments 
are often heightened not only because the properties might not be built, but also 
because customers will need to find additional cash at some point when the 
properties are completed. The investment also involved the uncertainties that come 
with property being overseas for UK based investors such as Mr U, as well as a high 
degree of specific risk/lack of diversity. 
Heritage has said it was unaware that the investment Mr U made into Harlequin 
Property was deposit based or that any further payment was required. But having 
carried out due diligence on Harlequin Property itself, Heritage should have been 
aware this was a common process for these investments. And even if it isnt correct 
to say Heritage ought to have known about this investment model, I think Heritage 
should have approached these introductions with caution.
Other investments were unusual and unregulated, so offered no protection for 
investors. I think that should have rung alarm bells. Such investments were unlikely 
to be suitable for most retail investors and were only likely to be suitable for a very 
small part of the investment portfolio of a sophisticated investor.
Heritage was aware that all of TMIs customers, who received a recommendation to 
transfer, were advised to transfer into a SIPP and that the majority of these invested 
in one or more of the unregulated investments promoted by TAI and its agents. 
Heritage was also aware that around a quarter of these involved pension transfers. 
This was coupled with the lack of evidence over how the assumption firms should 
take, outlined in COBS 19.1.6 G, was overcome. And this should have led Heritage 
to carefully consider whether it would be treating customers, including Mr U, fairly by 
accepting business from TMI given its business model.
I think Heritage knew that the kind of business that TMI was introducing was risky 
and that heightened caution needed to be exercised when dealing with these kinds of 
applications, even if there was a regulated advice firm involved.
From the information Heritage gleaned for itself I think it should reasonably have 
been aware that the kind of business TMI was introducing would generally be 
considered higher risk and that it needed to be very cautious.
In conclusion
Overall, I think the introductions from TMI involved anomalous features and Heritage 
knew, or ought to have known, about and acted on this. It certainly knew that TMI 
had introduced execution-only business in significant volumes. It also knew there 
were unregulated parties involved in promoting the investment.
Despite TMI being a regulated firm, Heritage should have concluded that customers 
introduced by TMI were likely being sold on the idea of the alternative investments 
by unregulated parties and, most importantly, not receiving advice about the 
investments from TMI. The applications were being introduced by TMI in high 
volumes and it was likely that most of these applications would result in unsuitable 
SIPPs. As such, Heritage should have concluded that it was not in accordance with 
its own regulatory obligations to accept introductions from TMI. I think its reasonable 
to say that Heritage should have arrived at this conclusion long before it accepted Mr 
Us application.
As such, Heritage didnt act with due skill, care and diligence, organise and control its 
affairs responsibly, or treat Mr U fairly by accepting his application from TMI. To my 
mind, Heritage didnt meet its regulatory obligations or good industry practice at the 
relevant time, and allowed Mr U to be put at significant risk of detriment as a result. I 
therefore conclude that it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances to say that 
Heritage should not have accepted Mr Us application from TMI.To be clear, I am not making a finding that Heritage should have assessed the 
suitability of the investment or the SIPP for Mr U. I accept Heritage had no obligation 
to give advice to Mr U, or otherwise ensure the suitability of a pension product or 
investment for him.
My finding is not that Heritage should have concluded that the investment or SIPP 
was not suitable for Mr U. It is that Heritage did not meet its regulatory obligations 
and should not have accepted the business from TMI.
Taking all this into account my view, in summary, is that Heritage should have 
decided not to accept introductions of business from TMI. It should have concluded 
that its sales process or business model was high risk and did not treat customers 
fairly. It should have concluded that it did not have confidence in TMI as an 
introducer as it had done with other firms that had approached it. This means no 
application would have been made to Heritage for a SIPP by Mr U or that if he had 
made the application Heritage would not have accepted it.
Did Heritages errors cause Mr Us loss?
As Ive made clear, Heritage didnt comply with its regulatory obligations or treat Mr U 
fairly. My conclusion is that had Heritage acted in accordance with its regulatory 
obligations and good industry practice at the time, it should have refused to accept 
his introduction from TMI. 
If it had done so, I think there are three possibilities:
Mr U would have decided to do nothing, and left his pensions where they 
were. In that case, he wouldnt have suffered loss as a result of making the 
Harlequin Property investment (outcome 1).
Mr U would have asked TMI to go ahead anyway, and tried to place the 
business through a different SIPP operator (outcome 2).
Mr U would have gone elsewhere and tried to arrange the investment through 
a third party (outcome 3).
If Heritage had told Mr U that its concerns meant it was not prepared to deal with TMI 
at all, I think that would have led Mr U to question whether it would be treating Mr U 
fairly by accepting his application to move his pension as a result of his contact with 
TMI. And I think hed have taken Heritages refusal to deal with TMI as reason for him 
not to have any further dealings with it either. So, if Heritage had acted in accordance 
with its regulatory obligations and not accepted Mr Us business from TMI, Im 
satisfied that Mr U would also have chosen to terminate his own relationship with 
TMI.
So, Im satisfied if Heritage had treated Mr U fairly, its much more likely than not that 
he would have decided not to go ahead with the investment, and would not have 
suffered the loss he did (outcome 1).I acknowledge that its possible that TMI would have tried to find another SIPP 
operator that would accept Mr Us application  outcome 2. As Ive said above, I think 
that is less likely than outcome 1. In any event, its not fair and reasonable to say that 
Heritage should not be responsible for its errors because another SIPP operator 
would have made the same mistakes. I think its fair to instead assume that another 
SIPP provider wouldnt have processed the transaction if it had carried out sufficient 
due diligence in accordance with its own regulatory responsibilities and good industry 
practice. Again therefore, its likely that Mr U would have remained invested in his 
existing pension and wouldnt have suffered the loss he did.
I think its unlikely that Mr U would have sought help from a third party other than TMI 
to make the investment  outcome 3. But if he had, I think its likely that a suitably 
qualified third party would have advised against the investment and Mr U would have 
remained invested in his existing pension and wouldnt have suffered the loss he did.
The involvement of other parties 
I accept that Heritage is not responsible for initiating the course of action that has led 
to Mr Us loss. It was a third party, not Heritage, who was originally in contact with Mr 
U. I note also that the Harlequin Property investment is currently subject to a criminal 
investigation by the SFO. On this basis, a court might not require Heritage to 
compensate Mr U in regard to this investment  notwithstanding Heritages failings. 
But FSMA requires me to award fair compensation and Im not therefore limited to 
the position a court might take.
I consider that Heritage failed to put a stop to the transactions when it should have 
done. If Heritage had acted in accordance with its regulatory obligations and had 
treated Mr U fairly, then the transfer to the SIPP and the associated investments 
would not have gone ahead. 
So, I conclude that it would be fair and reasonable to make an award, given the 
specific circumstances of Mr Us complaint. This is notwithstanding arguments about 
a break in the chain of causation and the remoteness of the loss from Heritages 
errors.
As a regulated firm, Heritage was in a position to protect Mr U from this level of 
consumer detriment. Had it not been for Heritages failure to meet its obligations, I 
think it unlikely that Mr U would have invested. As a result, Im satisfied that its fair 
and reasonable to hold Heritage responsible for the whole of the loss suffered by Mr 
U.
Im not asking Heritage to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its 
failings. Im satisfied those failings have caused the full extent of the loss in question. 
That other parties might also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter, 
which Im not able to determine. However, that fact should not impact on Mr Us right 
to compensation from Heritage for the full amount of his loss.
If Heritage believes other parties to be wholly or partly responsible for the loss, it 
should be free to pursue those other parties. And if Mr U is compensated in full now, 
Heritage (rather than Mr U) should benefit from any future payments that might be 
made in relation to the Harlequin Property investment. So, compensation payable to 
Mr U should be contingent on the assignment by his to Heritage of any rights of 
action he may have against other parties in relation to his transfer to the SIPP and 
the investment. It should also be contingent on Mr U undertaking to give to Heritage 
any future payments he might receive in relation to the investment.FSCS compensation
Mr U has received a sum of compensation from the FSCS. However, the terms of his 
reassignment of rights require him to return any compensation paid by the FSCS in 
the event this complaint is successful. So, I will make no allowance for what has 
been paid by the FSCS. It will be for Mr U to make the arrangements to make any 
repayments he needs to make to the FSCS.
I then went on to say how I thought Heritage should put things right and invited the parties to 
respond.
The responses to my provisional decision 
Mr U didnt have any further comments to make. However, Heritage disagreed with my 
provisional decision. 
In summary, it said the provisional decision:
1. seeks to distinguish the cases of Adams v Options in relation to the application of the 
Principles and fails to give full effect to that decision as to the proper understanding 
of the relationship between contractual and regulatory obligations. And it 
misunderstands Heritages case in relation to the limited extent of its contractual 
duties. 
2. fails to give proper weight to the suitability advice given by TMI to Mr U. It was not as 
narrow or unhelpful as the provisional decision suggests. 
3. wrongly concludes that Heritage should have had serious concerns about TMIs 
business model despite the extensive evidence pointing to it having good reason not 
to have such concerns at the relevant time. And based on an unrealistic expectation 
of the role of an execution-only SIPP provider receiving referrals in relation to which 
specialist pension transfer advice had already been given.
wrongly treats the supposed obligation on Heritage as an execution-only provider to 
decline to do business with TMI as not entailing any suitability advice. It is impossible 
to separate this supposed obligation from the making of such an assessment.
wrongly fails to take account of the extensive due diligence on the investments 
actually carried out by Heritage. It was entirely reasonable for Heritage to proceed as 
it did and not consider that the investments would necessarily be unsuitable for retail 
customers such as Mr U.
4. wrongly concludes that Heritage caused Mr U to suffer the loss he alleges. This is 
inconsistent with the finding that Heritage ought never to have accepted business 
from TMI since Mr U would have been advised to transfer to a different SIPP provider 
which was willing to accept TMIs business.
Heritage indicated that it had not seen a copy of the suitability report produced by TMI. But 
this was contained in its own submissions to this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance 
and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good 
industry practice at the relevant time.I have considered all the points made by Heritage. I will not however respond to all of these 
in detail. Rather, I will concentrate on what I consider to be the main issues in determining 
this complaint. 
Relationship between regulatory obligations and contractual relationship
I accept that it is right to consider the nature of the relationship between the parties when 
considering the regulatory obligations on the regulated firm. This applies to COBS 2.1.1R 
and it applies to the Principles.
I do not say, and did not say in the provisional decision, that the Principles or COBS 2.1.1R 
impose an obligation to advise on an execution-only SIPP provider.
Heritage is an execution-only SIPP provider. But it is, in the capacity of that limited role, as it 
accepts, subject to the Principles and COBS rule 2.1.1. As Heritage says, at issue is what it 
means to perform that role honestly, fairly and professionally and in the best interests of the 
client.
Heritage has itself said that it made checks on TMI and the investments TMI was promoting. 
Heritage has also said it made checks on other introducers and decided not to do business 
with some of them. In doing these things Heritage was not doing something outside the 
scope of its contractual (or contemplated contractual) role. It was acting in a way that was 
consistent with Heritages role as an execution-only SIPP operator.  
Heritage also made the decision to limit the amount of new business it would accept from 
TMI, To manage work performance and risk restrict new business to circa 20 per month.
The decision to limit the amount of new business accepted in this way  and to in effect 
refuse to accept further application after its cap of circa 20 applications had been received 
in a given month - was also consistent with Heritages role as an execution-only SIPP 
provider.  
In its role as an execution-only SIPP operator Heritage was not obliged to accept TMIs 
business. It could use its judgement about whether it had confidence in TMI. And it decided it 
did  albeit limited to circa 20 applications per month. It is my view that this decision was 
not the right one in the circumstances. And that pursuant to its obligation to act 
professionally and fairly and in the best interests of the client in its capacity as an 
execution-only SIPP provider it should have refused to accept any business from TMI.
The suitability advice given by TMI
Heritage says it was not its function or role to advise Mr U in relation to his investment 
choices. But if it did have some responsibility it was entitled to rely on the advice given by 
TMI. It may not have seen the suitability report at the time of the application, but it had seen 
similar reports in relation to other customer prior to Mr Us application. 
Heritage refers to the suitability report, saying Mr U had expressed an interest in using his 
pension fund to purchase a commercial property and using this property to increase the 
funding potential of his pension from its rental income. Making this specific investment was 
one of a number of objectives listed in the suitability report, alongside consolidating his 
existing pension plans, being able to control the flexibility of his plans, achieving a greater 
investment performance, being able to pass on the whole of his fund to his spouse in the 
event of his death, and being able to keep track of pension performance. The report assessed Mr Us attitude to risk as 8  high risk. Heritage says it was entitled to 
rely on this assessment made by a regulated firm with permission to give pensions transfer 
advice.  
And the report addressed the possibility of investing in certain alternative investment and 
warns there was no past performance figures that could be used in evaluating such 
investments. Heritage says it is therefore clear that the suitability advice was given for the 
kind of investment in contemplation in a report which contains risk warnings in stark terms.   
Heritage says it was not required to consider that TMI might have be wrong to conclude that 
the transfer out of a defined benefit scheme was suitable for Mr U.
Heritage says the suitability advice was appropriate for the purpose of helping Mr U to make 
his own decision, he was entitled to make the decision he did and take responsibility for that 
decision.
I note all of Heritages points, but a crucial point is that the TMI advice process relating to the 
SIPP was flawed. The standard TMI model made no provision for advice to the consumer 
about the suitability for them of the investments TailorMade was promoting through TAI and 
other introducers. Risk warnings, even from a regulated firm, are not equivalent to advice. 
Providing information about investments and then inviting the consumer to choose is not an 
advice process.  
The investments to be made in the SIPP are fundamental to the effectiveness of the SIPP as 
a means of providing pension benefits. It is necessary to ensure that the contemplated 
investments are suitable in order to assess whether the SIPP is suitable as an alternative to 
the consumers existing pension. Giving warnings that the SIPP might not provide as good a 
pension does not make up for the lack of personal advice on the suitability of the overall 
transaction being considered by the consumer.  
To be clear, I do not say that Heritage should have given Mr U advice. Nor do I say that it 
was obliged to check the advice was suitable for Mr U. It is however my view that Heritage 
can take no comfort from the advice TMI gave to Mr U. This is not a case where Mr U ended 
up with suitable advice despite there being a flawed process. The suitability report lists 
Mr Us attitude to risk as 8 out of 10, high risk, but it seems clear that a transfer of his 
defined benefit pension schemes to invest in an off-plan overseas property-based 
investment, involved more risk than was suitable for him.
There was a clear risk of such unsuitable outcomes for many clients given that TMIs typical 
client was not identified as being sophisticated and able to make decisions about complex 
investments without advice. The risk of consumer detriment was considerable. Heritage 
should have refused to accept business from TMI. 
Also, the warnings in the report were undermined by TMI when it said:
If you agree with my recommendations, and the reasons for them, you must accept 
a risk that when you come to retirement age you might find yourself worse off  
perhaps considerably so although I feel the likelihood of this happening is quite small 
and the potential for an improvement in your pension benefits at age 65 could be 
likely. [emphasis added]
Rather than being advice on the suitability of the particular financial decisions involved, this 
is a risk warning that is moderated by the emphasised part of this statement.I do not consider the suitability report shows that Mr U was given such clear warnings that it 
must be assumed he would have transferred his pension schemes and invested in high risk 
investments in any event.
Concerns about TMIs business model
Heritage says the conclusion that it should have had concerns about TMIs business model 
is wrong. It says the view is based on a misunderstanding of the law in relation to an 
execution-only SIPP provider.
Heritage says TMI had a pension transfer specialist giving suitability advice which addressed 
the customers circumstances. There was reason to have confidence in TMI.
Heritage also says that although the informal guidance is not exhaustive it is wrong not to 
treat the omission of express mention of an introducers business model as indicating that 
the FCA did not intend to impose any obligation in that respect on an execution-only SIPP 
provider. Heritage says its wrong to treat it as a guarantor of TMIs compliance with its own 
regulatory obligations. It is an attempt to impose obligations that go beyond Heritages 
contractual obligation.
I note all of Heritages points, but I do not agree. 
Making checks on introducers such a TMI was consistent with its contractual role and its 
regulatory obligations in that role. It did make checks. It sometimes refused to accept 
business from some introducers. It decided to put limits on the amount of new business it 
would accept from TMI.
Heritage asked TMI about how it did business and it found out that it did not operate in a 
conventional way. Although it had a pension transfer specialist it did not give advice on the 
investments that were promoted to the consumer. Heritage therefore knew that consumers 
were not receiving advice on a crucial part of the overall proposed transaction that involved 
transferring away from existing pensions to one of its SIPPs.  
Heritage knew TMIs sales process and business model was high risk and did not treat 
customers fairly. Limiting the amount of new business from TMI to circa 20 cases per month 
to manage work performance and risk was not enough. It did not do enough to protect 
those circa 20 cases per month it did accept from the considerable risk involved in 
unsuitable transfers to SIPPs. 
Wrong to say declining business from TMI does not entail giving advice on the suitability of 
investments
Heritage says an execution-only SIPP provider, who has contracted expressly on terms 
excluding the possibility of giving advice, cannot be obliged by COBS 2.1.1R or the 
Principles to give advice.
Heritage says the flaw in the analysis in the provisional decision is that when one asks what 
risk Mr U and others were supposedly exposed to, the answer given is a suitability risk. And 
this issue can only be addressed by carrying out individual suitability assessments which is 
not consistent with Heritages limited role as an execution-only SIPP provider.But as I have said, Heritages did carry out checks on introducers, did sometime refuse to 
accept business from some introducers and did put limits on the amount of new business it 
would accept from TMI. These acts were all consistent with its limited role as an 
execution-only SIPP provider. And It did all this without making individual suitability 
assessments for individual potential clients.  
There was in the system operated by TMI a very real risk that consumers would transfer 
away from suitable pensions to unsuitable SIPPs with unsuitable investments. There was a 
very real risk consumers would suffer considerable detriment in the form of considerable 
losses in the pensions that were supposed to provide long term financial security. It did not 
require the individual assessment of suitability for an individual client, such as Mr U, to 
understand that the business model itself involved considerable risk of consumer detriment.
The investment due diligence carried out by Heritage
Heritage says it carried out extensive due diligence on the investments promoted by TMI.  
This led it to be comfortable with the investments.
Heritage says the view that the investments were risky and unsuitable is based on an FCA 
review carried out in 2015/2016 which did not inform its view at the relevant time.
I accept that Heritage carried out due diligence checks on the three investments referred to 
in this case. It concluded the investments were appropriate to be held within a SIPP 
wrapper. 
The investments were unregulated alternative investments.  Heritage knew them to be and 
classified them as complex investments at the time. 
In addition to being complex, they did not have Financial Service Compensation Scheme 
protection nor were they subject to UK regulatory oversight. They involved overseas 
investment for a UK based investor. They involved a high degree of specific risk/lack of 
diversity. These were not run-of the mill, common place investments that posed little or no 
risk.  
The investments would generally, and reasonably at the time, have been regarded as 
complex and higher risk. That does not make them unsuitable for a SIPP. It does however 
mean that they would generally be considered unsuitable for most retail investors. And that 
means there was a high likelihood of unsuitability if the consumers were buying those 
investments without individual advice about the investment - as in the process set up by TMI.
So, while the investments may have been suitable for SIPPs the process that led to the 
investment in those investments was flawed and involved a considerable risk of consumer 
detriment. Heritage should therefore have refused to accept such business from TMI.
Mr U would have invested in the same way if Heritage had not accepted business from TMI
It is correct that TMI was doing business with other SIPP providers. However, in deciding 
how things should be put right, a reasonable counterfactual should be considered. 
Comparison should be with what should reasonably have occurred even if in practice some 
other market participants were acting in a similar way to the conduct which is found to be 
wrong in the dispute being remedied.Heritage should not have accepted business from TMI under its existing business model. If 
TMI had not been able to get business accepted from SIPP providers it is likely Mr U would 
never have been approached to consider transferring his pensions. Alternatively, he would 
have been given suitable advice from a regulated financial adviser which means he would 
have been advised not to transfer his pensions. And it is more likely than not that he would 
have accepted such reasonable advice rather than insisting on acting contrary to it.
It remains my view that Heritages conduct is one of the factors that caused Mr U to suffer 
the losses it did. Heritage should have made checks on TMI, as it did. Having made those 
checks, it should have decided not to accept business referred to it by TMI. So, Mr Us 
application should not have been accepted by Heritage. Accepting the application has 
caused a loss to Mr U which I think it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case 
to ask Heritage to compensate him for.
So, for the reasons given in my provisional decision and above I uphold Mr Us complaint 
and require Heritage to put things right as set out in my provisional decision and replicated 
below.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome is for Heritage to put Mr U in the position e would now be in 
but for what I consider to be Heritages failure to treat Mr U fairly when it received his SIPP 
application from TMI. For the reasons Ive explained above, if Heritage had done everything 
it should have, I dont think Mr U would have made the investment in Harlequin Property. 
And I think he would have left his pensions as they were.
So, Heritage should calculate fair compensation by comparing the position he would be in, if 
he had not transferred. In summary, Heritage should:
1. Calculate the loss Mr U has suffered as a result of making the transfer.
2. Take ownership of the Harlequin Property investment.
3. Pay an amount into Mr Us SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal the 
loss calculated in (1). This payment should take account of any available tax relief 
and the effect of charges.
4. Pay Mr U interest as set out below.
5. Pay Mr U £500 for trouble and upset.
Lastly, in order to be fair to Heritage, as mentioned, it should have the option of payment of 
this redress being contingent upon Mr U assigning to Heritage any claim he may have 
against TMI, or others, in respect of this loss but only in so far as Mr U is compensated 
here. The terms of the assignment should require Heritage to account to Mr U for any 
amount it subsequently recovers against the other parties that exceeds the loss paid to 
Mr U.
I have explained how Heritage should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in further 
detail below:
1. Calculate the loss Mr U has suffered as a result of making the transfer
To do this, Heritage should work out the likely value of Mr Us pensions, had he left them 
where they were instead of transferring to the SIPP.For the part of the transfer which related to defined benefits Heritage should undertake a 
redress calculation in line with the revised methodology issued by the FCA in October 2017 
(Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers).
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate actuarial services 
provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Us acceptance of the decision. 
Heritage may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Us 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the employers scheme on Mr Us SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
For any remainder Heritage should ask Mr U's former pension providers to calculate the 
current notional transfer values had he not transferred his pensions. If there are any 
difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation then the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total 
Return index should be used to calculate the value. That is a reasonable proxy for the type 
of return that could have been achieved if suitable funds had been chosen.
The total of the amounts resulting from these calculations will be the loss Mr U has suffered. 
The calculations should take account of the value of any cash held in the SIPP currently. 
2. Take ownership of the Harlequin Property
It is likely that the SIPP only exists because of the investment in Harlequin Property made in 
2012. In order for the SIPP to be closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the 
investment need to be removed from the SIPP.
To do this Heritage should reach an amount it is willing to accept as a commercial value for 
Harlequin Property and pay this sum into the SIPP and take ownership of the relevant 
investments. This amount should be taken into account for the loss calculation. 
If Heritage is unwilling or unable to purchase the Harlequin Property investment, the value of 
it should be assumed to be nil for the purposes of the loss calculation.
Provided he is compensated in full, Heritage may ask Mr U to provide an undertaking to 
account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from the investment. 
That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr U may 
receive from the investment and any eventual sums he would be able to access from the 
SIPP. Heritage will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
If Heritage does not take ownership of the Harlequin Property investment, and it continues to 
be held in Mr Us SIPP, there will be ongoing fees in relation to the administration of that 
SIPP.
Mr U would not be responsible for those fees if Heritage had not accepted the transfer of his 
pension into the SIPP. So, I think its fair for Heritage to waive any SIPP fees until such time 
as Mr U can dispose of the Harlequin Property investment and close the SIPP.3. Pay an amount into Mr Us SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal 
the loss calculated in (1).
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Us pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr U as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional deduction should be 
calculated using Mr Us marginal rate of tax in retirement. Typically, 25% of the loss could 
have been taken as tax free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Us likely 
income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
4. Interest
Pay Mr U interest of 8% simple a year on the above compensation from the date of the 
decision to the date compensation is paid  if compensation isnt paid within 90 days of 
Heritage being notified of acceptance.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period  and so any period of time where the only 
outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from the DWP may be added 
to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
5. Trouble and upset
I also think Mr U has been caused upset as a result of Heritages actions. The sudden loss 
of a significant portion of his pension fund would have come as a shock to him, and has 
clearly had a significant impact. I think it would be fair and reasonable for Heritage to pay 
Mr U £500 compensation for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Us complaint against Heritage Pensions Limited. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £150,000, plus any 
interest and or costs that I think are appropriate. If I think that fair compensation might be 
more than £150,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Heritage Pensions Limited to pay Mr U the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £150,000. 
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £150,000 I additionally require Heritage 
Pensions Limited to pay Mr U any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £150,000 I only require Heritage 
Pensions Limited to pay Mr U any interest as set out above on the sum of £150,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £150,000, I also recommend that 
Heritage Pensions Limited pays Mr U the balance. I additionally recommend any interest 
calculations as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr U.If Mr U accepts my final decision, the money award is binding on Heritage Pensions Limited. 
My recommendation is not binding on Heritage Pensions Limited. Further, its unlikely that 
Mr U can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr U may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman