DRN-3099820
The complaint
Mr G complains about charges for damage when he returned his car at the end of a hire 
agreement provided by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
In June 2018 Mr G took a hire agreement with MBFS for a brand new car. The agreement 
was taken over three years. 
In June 2021 a company Ill refer to as Q picked up the car and did an initial inspection. A 
few days later a second inspection of the car was carried out by Q. After this, at the 
beginning of July 2021 MBFS sent Mr G an invoice for the following damage to the car:
Damage Charge
Left hand front alloy - damaged £110.00
Left hand rear alloy - damaged £110.00
Right hand front alloy - damaged £110.00
Right hand rear alloy - damaged £110.00
Left hand front tyre - replacement £210.69
Front bumper - scratch £210.00
Right hand rear quarter panel - dent £35.00
Right hand front seat back cover - scratch £128.50
Right hand B post - dent £70.00
Total £1,094.19
Mr G was unhappy with these charges and complained to MBFS. It issued its final response 
and didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. It said, in summary, that it was entitled to do two 
inspections of the car. It said it was entitled to charge Mr G for the damage. It said Q had 
confirmed it didnt damage the car. And it said having reviewed Qs inspections it thought the 
damage was charged correctly.
Mr G remained unhappy and referred the complaint to our service. Mr G said he and his 
partner had both inspected the car, along with a garage, prior to Q collecting it and said 
there was no damage. And he says Q agreed the car wasnt damaged and was in great 
condition when it was collected. Mr G said any damage couldve been caused by Q.
Our investigator issued an opinion and explained he didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. In summary, he said he thought all the damage fell outside of fair wear and tear 
guidelines. And he thought the damage most likely happened when Mr G had the car.
Mr G was unhappy with this. He reiterated that he thought Q couldve caused the damage. 
And, he said as a consumer where something isnt clear the odds should be in his favour. 
The case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I should note than MBFS also charged Mr G for excess mileage when he handed the car 
back. But, he hasnt raised this as an issue so Im not going to comment on this in my 
decision.
Mr G complains about charges in relation to a hire agreement. Entering into regulated 
consumer credit contracts like this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider 
Mr Gs complaint about MBFS. 
Ive firstly thought about whether MBFS could charge Mr G for damage to the car. Looking at 
the agreement he took, this says:
you must return the vehicle in line with the Vehicle Return Standards
If you fail to take reasonable care of the vehicle and fail to maintain the vehicle in 
accordance with the manufacturers guidelines and/or the Vehicle Return Standards, you will 
have to pay our costs either of repairing and/or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the 
consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle
So, considering this, I think Mr G agreed to return the car in a condition in line with the VRS 
and he agreed to be charged if this wasnt the case. 
Ill go one to consider if the charges were fairly applied. As well as the VRS, Ive also 
considered the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guide to fair wear 
and tear. I understand MBFS are not BVRLA members, but Im happy this is a useful 
benchmark when considering whats fair and reasonable.
In relation to wheels, the VRS says the following is unacceptable:
Scuff chips and scratches exceeding 25mm
The BVRLA says:
Scuffs of up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are 
acceptable
Any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable
Looking at the photos from Q, all of the alloys have obvious damage exceeding 50mm to the 
rim of the wheel. And, three of the wheels have obvious damage to the spokes. So, Im 
satisfied all of the alloys have damage outside of fair wear and tear according to the VRS 
and BVRLA.
In relation to the bumper, the VRS says the following is acceptable:
Scuff marks up to 50mm (2), which do not adversely affect the overall appearance of your 
vehicle
The BVRLA says:surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable provided they can be polished out
Looking at the photos from Q, there is an obvious scratch to the bumper. Im satisfied this is 
both over 50mm and has gone through the paintwork. It follows Im satisfied this falls outside 
of the VRS and BVRLA guidelines.
In relation to the dents on the rear quarter panel and the B post, the VRS says the following 
is acceptable: 
Minor body dents, typically those caused by door-to-door contact, provided that:
a) They are less than 13mm (1/2) in diameter
The BVRLA says:
Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided there are not more than two per 
panel and the paint surface is not broken
Looking at the photos of the quarter panel, Im satisfied the dent is over 15mm in diameter. 
So, this falls outside of the VRS and BVRLA guidelines.
The damage to the B pillar is less obvious. A lined card hasnt been held up to it for the 
photos, so the size of the dent is more difficult to see. Im not as easily persuaded here that 
the dent is over 15mm in diameter. But, that being said, in the photo from the first inspection 
I can see the paint surface has been broken. So, on balance, Im satisfied this damage falls 
outside of reasonable wear and tear.
Ive then thought about the tyre. The VRS says the following is acceptable:
Minimum remaining tread of 1.6mm
The BVRLA says:
All tyres, including any spare, must meet minimum UK legal requirements
Its worth noting here that the minimum legal tread depth for tyres in the UK is 1.6mm.
Looking at the photo of the tyre, there isnt anything to measure the depth. But, I can see 
that the tread is extremely shallow, and in parts look like its flush with the tyre. On balance, 
Im satisfied the tyre falls outside of the guidance above.
Finally, Ive considered the damage to the seat. The VRS doesnt specifically comment on 
scratches to seats. But it says:
The interior of your vehicle must be in a good condition for the age and mileage of the 
vehicle
The BVRLA says:
The interior upholstery and trim must be clean and odourless with no burns, scratches, 
tears, dents or stainingLooking at the photos, theres a clear and quite obvious scratch to the seat. Im satisfied this 
falls outside of the wear and tear guidance.
In summary, Im satisfied all of the damage MBFS charged Mr G for falls outside of the fair 
wear and tear guidance. So, Ive gone on to consider when I think its likely this damage 
happened.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr G said. He told us himself, his partner and a garage 
inspected the car before Q collected it. He said there was no damage and the car was in 
excellent condition. And he says Q told him the car was in great condition with no damage 
when it did the initial inspection. But, having considered things I think this is very unlikely. 
I say this as the first inspection by Q, when the car was collected, identified most of the 
damage to the car that Mr G was charged for. I can clearly see damage to the alloys, the 
bumper and the B post on the photos from this first inspection. Im satisfied all of this 
damage occurred when Mr G had the car.
Ive thought about the tyre, the quarter panel and the seat. But, on balance, I think its most 
likely this damage occurred during the three years and roughly 35,000 miles the car covered 
when Mr G had it, rather than the four days and roughly 90 miles it covered between the first 
and second inspections.
Ive thought about what Mr G said about this and the fact that he believes the odds should 
go in his favour if something isnt 100% clear. But, we are an impartial service. Where there 
is any ambiguity about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I think most likely 
took place. And having done so, Im persuaded MBFS have acted fairly and reasonably by 
charging Mr G for the damage to the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman