DRN-2422175
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr P complain about a series of errors which Nationwide Building Society made 
on their current, mortgage, savings and credit card accounts.    
What happened
This complaint concerns four main issues, two of which overlap to some extent. Ill 
summarise each in turn. 
Current account
Mrs M and Mr P had a joint FlexPlus account which they wanted to change to a FlexDirect 
account. They were unable to make the switch online, so had to go to a branch. To try to 
resolve the problem of switching online, Mr P opened a sole account as well, but this 
triggered further problems (not of Mr Ps making), because Nationwides systems then had 
to check that there werent going to be two joint accounts in the same names. 
The switching process didnt automatically switch all the direct debits on the account. Since 
Mrs M and Mr P hadnt been aware of that, Nationwide agreed to carry out the necessary 
switches itself, but recommended that Mrs M and Mr P check with the payees to ensure 
payment had been made.    
Mortgage
When Nationwide agreed to switch the direct debits to the new account, it failed to switch 
direct debit instructions in respect of the mortgage, also held with Nationwide. Mr P found 
out about this when he received a credit alert telling him that a payment had been missed. 
The mortgage, like the current account, was held with Nationwide. 
Mr P contacted Nationwide and was told to contact its collections team to arrange to make 
the missing payment. He later received a further alert, however, because Nationwide had 
only resolved the direct debit issue in respect of one mortgage account, not both. 
In addition to his frustration at being asked to make a further manual payment, Mr P says he 
was concerned at the effect an incorrect credit rating might have on a job application he had 
made at the time.   
Savings account 
Nationwide acknowledges that it didnt acknowledge or action a request to close four savings 
accounts as soon as it should have done. 
Credit card account 
Mr P wanted to clear his credit card balance and close his account, so made a payment over 
the phone to do so. However, a direct debit payment was subsequently taken as well. 
Initially, Nationwide said there hadnt been error, but later acknowledged that Mr P should 
have been told that the direct debit was pending, so he could take that into account in 
deciding what to do.
What Nationwide has done
Nationwide has acknowledged errors on its part in respect of all four elements of the 
complaint that Ive summarised above. It has also corrected those errors, in the sense that: 
the current account transfer was completed and all direct debit instructions transferred; the 
credit information in respect of the mortgage has been corrected; the credit card account has 
been closed and the credit balance refunded; and the savings accounts have been closed.
In addition, Nationwide has paid compensation as follows:
£75 in respect of the switching of the current account; 
£150 in respect of the mortgage direct debit; 
£75 in respect of the savings accounts; and 
£75 in respect of the credit card account.  
Our investigation and preliminary findings
One of our investigators considered what had happened, but took the view that Nationwide 
had done sufficient to put things right. He noted that it had accepted it had made mistakes 
but had corrected those errors within a reasonable time. He thought that the compensation it 
had paid was, in all the circumstances, reasonable. 
Mr P didnt agree with the investigators assessment, however, and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, however, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator did, 
and for similar reasons. 
Theres no dispute that Nationwide made a number of errors here. Its accepted that. The 
issue I must consider, therefore, is whether its done enough to put things right. 
Because of the corrections made by Nationwide  in some cases with Mr Ps involvement  
it doesnt appear that there has been any actual financial loss in this case. This service can 
however make awards where the actions (or inaction) of a financial business has caused 
material distress or inconvenience. There is no set scale of awards or tariff, although the 
service does publish guidelines and examples; the investigator referred Mr P to them. Im 
satisfied that the payments that Nationwide made in this case were broadly in line with those 
guidelines and with comparable cases. It follows that the investigators endorsement of them 
was reasonable in my view.
I will however make some further observations. In respect of the current account, I note that 
reference was made to the Current Account Switching Service. That is however a scheme 
primarily designed to make it easier for customers to switch banking providers, not to assist 
customers who want to move between accounts with the same provider. That said, it seems 
to me that it should generally be no more difficult to move a current account with the same 
provider than it is to switch provider. Be that as it may, Im satisfied that Nationwide has paid 
fair compensation for its errors.     In respect of Mr Ps concern that the missing mortgage payments might affect his job 
application, the investigator commented that this service cant make an award of 
compensation for something that might have happened but didnt. We can however make an 
award in recognition of distress. So, whilst Nationwides actions didnt in fact affect Mr Ps 
application, they did cause him additional concern. That is something that did happen; Im 
satisfied however that Nationwide has adequately compensated Mr P for that.               
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Nationwide Building Society to 
take any further steps to resolve Mrs Ms and Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman