DRN-1910360
The complaint
Miss M complains that My Policy Ltd is claiming charges for a motor insurance policy it 
arranged for her, which she cancelled after it gave her incorrect information.
What happened
Miss M arranged a motor insurance policy online through My Policy, with cover starting on 
13 November 2019. She paid a deposit of £298.67, with the balance of the premium payable 
by monthly instalments of £128.70 over the following 11 months. This included the cost of 
fitting a telematics box - £247.
Because of the nature of a telematics policy, My Policy asks customers to contact it after 
taking out the policy to verify the policy information and explain how the policy will work. Its 
agent spoke to Miss M on 20 November 2019.
In the course of the call Miss M explained that she spent several nights each week at her 
partners address, where the car would be parked. My Policys agent said a new quote 
should be obtained to add this address. Otherwise it was likely the policy would be cancelled 
by My Policy. However, having checked on this, the agent said My Policy wouldnt cover the 
car for this address.
The agent calculated what it would cost Miss M to cancel the policy - £247 for the box 
installation charge and £25.55 for the cost of time on cover up to that date. Miss M said she 
didnt want to cancel  she just wanted to continue the insurance. She was unhappy with 
what she had been charged as she had spent her savings to take out this insurance.
Miss M spoke to one of My Policys managers, who reiterated that nothing could be done 
and she should cancel the policy by 27 November 2019 to avoid it being cancelled by My 
Policy on that date.
On 21 November 2019, a member of My Policys complaint team contacted Miss M to say 
there seemed to have been a systems issue, and cover could after all be provided for the 
additional address at an additional premium of £295.01, which could be spread over the 
remaining 11 months.
Miss M said if she had been told this sooner she would have stayed with My Policy. 
However, she had now taken out another policy which her mother had paid for. My Policy 
said it would waive half the box installation charge, so she just owed the remaining half - 
£123.50  plus £41.53 for her time on cover, making £165.03 altogether.
Miss M charged back the deposit she had paid and recovered this from her bank. So My 
Policy chased her to pay the £165.03, and employed debt collectors to contact Miss M.   
Miss M didnt think this was fair and complained to us.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. On the information My 
Policy initially gave her Miss M had little choice but to cancel the policy, though it was clear 
she would have chosen to stay insured through My Policy and pay the extra premium if she 
could. 
By the time she became aware of My Policys error it was too late as she had acted on My 
Policys misinformation and taken out a new policy. So it was unfair for My Policy to charge 
her cancellation charges, but she should pay £41.53 for the time she was on cover under 
this policy. 
My Policys error had caused Miss M distress and inconvenience, as was evident from the 
recorded phone calls between her and My Policy. The investigator recommended that My 
Policy pay her compensation of £75 for this.
Miss M accepted the investigators recommendation. My Policy responded to say, in 
summary, that:
its complaint handler pointed out to Miss M when they spoke that it wasnt too late 
then for Miss M to cancel the new policy she had taken out and most likely receive a 
full refund. But Miss M had said it was an issue to afford the extra premium for the 
additional address. So My Policy thought it was likely she would have cancelled 
anyway when faced with the extra premium; and
it didnt agree it was reasonable for it to have to remove the whole installation charge 
and pay £75 compensation
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ms childcare arrangements meant that she was in the habit of spending nights at two 
different addresses. This came to light in the course of My Policys validation phone call with 
Miss M for her policy. Unfortunately, because of a system error, My Policy told her that her 
policy couldnt be amended to cover both addresses, and would have to be cancelled, with a 
cancellation charge of over £270.
By the time the system error was discovered, and My Policy went back to Miss M to offer her 
an amended policy, Miss M had arranged an alternative insurance policy elsewhere, which 
turned out to be cheaper than the first policy. So she declined its offer of an amended policy. 
It has charged her £165.03 in respect of the cancellation - £41.53 for her time on cover, and 
£123.50 being 50% of the usual fitting cost of the telematics box.
Like the investigator, I think it is fair that Miss M should pay the £41.53 cost of her time on 
cover.
I understand that My Policy had an outlay in respect of the fitting of the box, and has 
reduced its normal charge. However, I dont think its fair that Miss M should have to 
contribute towards this cost when My Policy told her it couldnt provide a policy, and she 
should arrange insurance elsewhere.
Miss M needed her car for her work. So it was entirely reasonable for her to act quickly to set 
up alternative insurance when she did. She told My Policy, and I accept, that if it had offered 
her an amended policy when the issue first arose, she would have accepted this, budgeted 
for the extra premium involved, and continued with the first policy. However, once she had arranged the alternative insurance, and involved her mother in 
paying the cost of this, I think it was reasonable for her to continue with the second policy. 
So I dont think its reasonable for My Policy to expect Miss M to contribute towards the cost 
of fitting the telematics box.
Finally, having listened to the phone calls between Miss M and My Policy, its clear that My 
Policys error caused her some distress. She thought she had lost £247 that she could ill 
afford. So I agree that it should pay her £75 as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her.
Putting things right
To put things right, I think My Policy should take the actions, and pay the money, set out in 
my final decision below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order My Policy Ltd to:
1. waive any charge for the fitting of the telematics box and take no further action to 
require payment of any cancellation charge in respect of Miss Ms policy; and
2. pay Miss M compensation of £75 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused 
her, less the sum of £41.53 she owes for her time on cover.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman