DRN-3926203
The complaint
This complaint is about a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out with loans in 1999, 2001, 2002 and 2003. Miss G says Nationwide Building Society mis-
sold her PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Miss Gs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Miss G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they asked why a follow-on loan sold in 
2004 was refunded when the policies, as far as they were concerned, were sold in the same 
way. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Gs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Nationwide made it clear that Miss G didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out. I say this because the loan agreements described the PPI as 
optional and set out separately to the cost of the loan.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Miss G - so it didnt have to check that the PPI 
was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Miss G enough clear and timely 
information so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Miss G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Miss G  for example she 
wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. It also looks like it 
was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went 
wrong. Because of this I dont think Miss G would have declined the cover had 
Nationwide done anything more.
Miss G has questioned why her policy in 2004 was refunded. Nationwide concluded it was 
not suitable for her, which implies the policy was sold on an advised basis. This would mean 
that Nationwide had to do more during the sale to check the policy was suitable. It did not 
need to do that on the earlier sales which I have considered here  it only had to provide 
sufficient information. Where it did not, or may not have done so, Im satisfied that wouldnt 
have made a difference to Miss Gs decision to take out the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman