DRN-2400773
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with Lloyds Bank PLCs handling of their safety deposit boxes, 
and because theyve had problems accessing their current account.
What happened
In 1978 Mr and Mrs P took out two safety deposit boxes with Lloyds which were to be for 
their retirement. They also had deeds stored with Lloyds, and a current account.
When Mr P went to see the boxes in September 2018, he was very upset to see the metal 
boxes being held together by bubble wrap and packing tape. And when looking at the 
contents of the boxes themselves, it was clear the contents were damaged as theyd been in 
water. Mr and Mrs P say they were never told about the damage thatd happened. 
As a result of this Mr and Mrs P complained to Lloyds. They explained theyd experienced 
problems in trying to do so  including being given the wrong postal address to send their 
letter to and calls regularly not being returned  both when complaining, and on several 
occasions leading up to Mr P seeing the boxes in 2018. Mr and Mrs P also say they were 
told by one person at Lloyds there was flooding in 2011, and then by another person that 
Lloyds had no knowledge of the damage until Mr and Mrs P looked at the boxes. Mr and 
Mrs P have raised concerns about this and said its possible the damage occurred as far 
back as the 1980s  as Mrs P was prevented from seeing the boxes in 1985 when she went 
in to the branch and they think this is because Lloyds knew there was damage at this time.
And Mr and Mrs P complained about not being able to access their current accounts when 
they went into branch to do so  in 1985 when Mrs P tried to access them, which they say 
caused her embarrassment in branch. And more recently when Mr P tried to do so in 2018 
when he was in branch looking to withdraw money. Mr P says when he visited branch in 
2018 he couldnt withdraw money so he asked if he could use his card. He says he was told 
yes but it was turned down  leading to embarrassment for Mr P, and aggravation having to 
sort this out.
Lloyds issued a number of responses on this complaint, and Ive summarised those 
responses below:
It accepted it was at fault for the damage to Mr and Mrs Ps safe custody boxes, and 
the items contained within them.
Flooding occurred in the branch in the Spring of 2011, but there was no visible 
damage to the boxes then, or when they were moved by a separate security 
company in 2015. It believes moisture got into the boxes which is whats caused the 
damage.
It couldnt say why Mrs P had problems accessing the boxes in 1985 due to the 
passage of time.
The reason Mrs P had problems accessing the account was because her date of 
birth had been keyed incorrectly  meaning Lloyds new systems didnt recognise 
Mr and Mrs Ps older account but itd fixed this issue now. And it was sorry Mr P had 
issues as well accessing the account  which was also due to system issues.
It was sorry for the issues Mr and Mrs P had experienced with a lack of calls being 
returned, wrong postal address given to complain, and other customer service 
related issues.
Itd pay Mr and Mrs P £1,150 compensation for the issues caused.
Itd refund fees charged for the safe custody boxes from the flooding in 2011 which 
came to £175  and a further £21.65 for postage costs.
Itd consider how much it owed once valuations had been carried out on the safe 
custody boxes.
Following Lloyds responses Mr and Mrs P asked us to look into things. They said they can 
see it stopped charging them for the boxes in 2011 and say this is evidence the damage 
occurred in 2011, so Lloyds should have told them at that point the boxes were damaged.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. Overall she felt the compensation was 
fair for the issues Mr and Mrs P had. And that Lloyds couldnt do anything further until a 
valuation had been provided.
Prior to me carrying out a formal review, I noted Mr and Mrs P had said they were prepared 
to accept payment of £6,000 for the contents of their safe custody boxes due to being unable 
to carry out valuations on the items contained within this.
After some discussion Lloyds confirmed it was prepared to pay £6,000 for the contents of the 
safe custody boxes. This was in addition to the compensation itd already paid of £1,150 for 
all the issues noted above  and would make this payment in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs P accepted the £6,000, but said theyd not been compensated for being lied to, 
the cancellation of their contract, and the time and effort thats gone in to resolving this 
complaint. Our investigator felt they had. As Mr and Mrs P disagreed, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr and Mrs P Ive read and considered every letter and email theyve sent 
to our service. But while Ive taken everything both parties have said into account, Ive only 
addressed the information I think is key to explain the outcome Ive reached.
Lloyds said it was prepared to accept Mr and Mrs Ps offer of £6,000 to settle the dispute 
over the contents of the safe custody box  a figure they put forward and indicated they 
accepted. As Mr and Mrs P, and Lloyds, cant organise valuations Ive seen nothing to 
suggest this would create an unfair outcome for either party. So, Im satisfied its appropriate 
for Lloyds to pay Mr and Mrs P £6,000 for this element of the complaint.
But, its clear from Mr and Mrs Ps contact about this complaint they dont feel theyve been 
compensated for the upset caused by the issues theyve had.
Lloyds have paid out £1,150 in compensation for the issues Mr and Mrs P had. But, Mr and 
Mrs P say this doesnt cover everything thats happened since the complaint was made  and have specifically pointed to Lloyds not telling them about the damage until Mr P saw it 
himself in September 2018, amongst other things.
The explanations weve been provided by Lloyds about what happened to the safe custody 
boxes is that the damage happened in branch in 2011 as a result of flooding. Its been said 
that moisture got into the boxes at this time.
Ive seen statements from branch members saying this is what happened. Mr and Mrs P 
have said they doubt this though, because this is around the time Lloyds stopped charging 
them for the safe custody  so they think Lloyds knew in 2011 and failed to tell them.
We put those comments to Lloyds  they said itd be a strange way of telling Mr and Mrs P 
their safe custody boxes had been damaged. They explained their billing had changed at 
this point, and theyd condensed the charges into one fee, rather than the three (two safe 
custody boxes, and one deeds storage) that were being charged at this point. 
Given the passage of time, its difficult for me to know exactly what did happen, this means I 
need to decide what I think is most likely to have happened, taking into account all the 
information Ive got. 
While I understand Mr and Mrs Ps scepticism, particularly given the bad experiences 
theyve had with Lloyds, I think its unlikely Lloyds would have noted itd damaged Mr and 
Mrs Ps boxes  and its only reaction was to stop charging them. If nothing else, it seems 
quite possible Mr and Mrs P could have noticed this, called up and asked why  and then 
Lloyds would have to explain whatd happened. So, while I understand where Mr and Mrs P 
are coming from, I think Lloyds explanation of consolidating and adjusting the fees is more 
likely. I think its helpful to add Ive seen nothing in any of the paperwork Ive been provided 
with to show that Lloyds knew damage had happened to Mr and Mrs Ps boxes in 2011.
The next significant event is in 2015 when Mr and Mrs Ps boxes were moved by a security 
company employed by Lloyds. This security company required three signatures to move the 
boxes, and Mr and Mrs P have mentioned there were only two. I understand the third 
signature is CCTV  but, in any event, Ive not seen anything to show this security company 
were aware of the damage to the boxes either at this time in 2015  or that any potential 
failings in their processes has meant Mr and Mrs P have lost out  particularly since theyve 
both agreed on a settlement for the contents of the boxes.
So, in relation to the safe custody boxes, I dont think Lloyds knew there was damage in 
2011, and Ive seen nothing to suggest it knew about damage in 2015 either. Lloyds have 
explained Mr and Mrs Ps boxes were retrieved from deep storage in 2018 when Mr P came 
to see them  and the branch manager says those boxes were delivered around 30 minutes 
before Mr P arrived in branch.
Clearly by allowing so much damage to Mr and Mrs Ps safe custody boxes, and all the 
problems that have since come with that, Lloyds have let them down for which compensation 
is appropriate. What I have to consider is what the appropriate amount for this is.
In relation to accessing the account again its clear these issues were caused by Lloyds. 
Mrs Ps attempt to access the account and boxes in 1985, plus Mr Ps problems in 2018 
caused them both embarrassment. Lloyds have blamed these on the age of Mr and Mrs Ps 
account. This doesnt seem entirely unlikely given Mr and Mrs P took out these accounts in 
the 1970s, though of course this shouldnt have been Mr and Mrs Ps problem. Lloyds 
should have made sure Mr and Mrs P could always access their accounts, regardless of any 
system changes in the meantime  particularly for Mr P where we know hed asked them to make sure everything was fine, Lloyds said it was, and then his card was turned down. So, 
again, I think Lloyds should pay compensation for these errors.
But, although compensation is appropriate, I need to decide whether the compensation 
payment Lloyds has made of £1,150 already is fair  or whether more should be paid.
For the reasons Ive explained above I cant agree Mr and Mrs P have been lied to in the 
way theyve suggested, but I do think theyve been given incredibly poor customer service 
across a significant period of time.
Lloyds have made it clear the compensation theyve awarded of £1,150 is for all of their 
failings in this complaint. Mr and Mrs P dont see it that way  as theyre saying they only 
became aware of Lloyds obligations after getting us involved. While I accept that, it doesnt 
mean Lloyds didnt factor this in when calculating their compensation figure. And regardless 
of what Lloyds have offered, if I felt the compensation award was unfair, then Id order 
Lloyds to increase it.
But, I do think the figure of £1,150 is fair overall. Lloyds have made significant mistakes in 
this complaint, but the amount theyve already paid is a significant figure that reflects those 
mistakes. So, I wont be ordering them to pay any further compensation.
My final decision
It follows I partially uphold this complaint, and order Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr and Mrs P 
£6,000 for the safe custody items. This is in addition to the £1,150 compensation already 
paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman