DRN-3043447
The complaint
 Mr H complains that he was misled by Sesame Limited into taking a cash enhancement and 
transferring his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) benefits. Recently a review of the 
advice he and his colleagues received has led to compensation being paid  but, because of 
how he answered the review questionnaire, he has been refused the compensation.
What happened
 On 15 March 2010, the scheme wrote to Mr H setting out the enhanced transfer value offer, 
in particular that it was offering an immediate lump sum of £6,398.
A transfer bureau case submission form was completed on 28 April 2010.
A suitability report was issued on 18 May 2010. This confirmed that the advice was restricted
to Mr Hs OPS only. It set out that the benefits were deferred as Mr H had left the scheme in
2002, when he joined his defined contribution workplace scheme to which his employer
contributed 10.2% and he made personal contributions of 5.2%.
Mr Hs priorities were described as:
Your priorities are to maximise the tax-free cash from your pension arrangements.
You would also like to enhance your pension benefits. You are not concerned with
spouses [sic] pension or lump sum death benefits.
It set out the offer of an enhanced transfer value Mr H had received, this was:
An enhanced transfer value of £13,726 or
A transfer value of £7,328 plus a cash payment of £6,398 (less tax and National 
Insurance)
It then explained that it was Mr Hs intention to go ahead with the transfer:
Based on the offer received from [name of scheme], you have indicated that it is 
your intention to elect to transfer your benefits from [name of scheme] in order to 
obtain the enhancement as a cash payment to you. This is the sole reason for your 
desire to transfer your benefits. I would strongly encourage you not to transfer for 
these reasons, as it will have a detrimental effect on your pension benefits at 
retirement.
Details of Mr Hs OPS were set out, including his benefit entitlement and it was noted that 
these benefits were valuable and secure. But it did highlight that the scheme was 
underfunded, it said:
There is always a risk that the scheme may not be able to meet the guarantees 
under the scheme rules, for example if the employer became insolvent, however the 
Pension Protection Fund (available to members of any scheme that commences
winding-up due to insolvency after 5 April 2005) now offers protection to most of your
accrued pension.
Your existing scheme is underfunded. As a result your transfer value has been
reduced by £4,785. The scheme has no history of awarding discretionary increases.
If you remain in the scheme, over time the company may be able to bring the scheme
back to the required level. If the Scheme commences a PPF Assessment Period, it
will no longer be possible to transfer out of the scheme.
And
[name of scheme] are offering this enhanced transfer value exercise in order to
reduce their pension liabilities and the scheme deficit. The results of the 31 March
2008 actuarial revealed a deficit of £22.4M. It is important to remember that if you
transfer your benefits out of a final salary pension scheme you lose the guaranteed
pension at retirement and the PPF protection, and in return you will receive a pension
that is subject to investment returns and therefore has no underlying guarantees.
This is one of the reasons why I have recommended that you do not transfer your
benefits out of the [name of scheme] final salary scheme.
The critical yields were calculated as 7.3% utilising the enhanced transfer value and 9.5% on
the reduced transfer value. Mr H was assessed as having a moderate attitude to risk. The
report ended in confirming that it recommended that Mr H retain his OPS benefits. At the
same time Mr H was provided with a Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) report.
Mr H signed an undated declaration confirming that he wished to go ahead with the transfer,
this said:
I wish to transfer my [name of scheme] pension as I need to take the cash lump sum
on offer I understand this is against your advice.
Mr H completed and signed documentation to confirm that he wished to take a cash sum
and reduced scheme transfer value, this form is also undated.
The transfer application form for the receiving scheme was completed, this confirmed that
Mr H was around 34 and was working as a general operative in the shop front.
The adviser and remuneration details section confirmed that the sale was advised, and the
adviser was to receive 3% initial commission. This is also undated.
After a review of the sales undertaken as a result of this enhanced transfer value exercise,
Mr H was asked to complete a questionnaire to determine if he was due compensation.
Theres some dispute as to some of the answers provided. Mr H says that he originally
completed the questionnaire but that because his handwriting was unclear another form was
completed by his wife and they changed the answers because they felt they had to justify
taking the cash. The second form was then submitted to Sesame.
Mr H has provided us with a copy of the form he says he initially completed, this was signed
on 10 May 2018. In answer to a question (Q1) as to why he went ahead with the transfer
given that he was advised against it, he said:
I dont remember receiving the letter dated 18th May 2010. But I obviously did
because you have sent me a copy. I took the cash as the advice from [name of
adviser] was that my current [name of defined contribution scheme] was a good
pension and was plenty and I basically wouldnt miss this one.In relation to his understanding of the risks involved (Q2), he said:
I didnt think there were any risks.
In answer to did your circumstances at the time of advice mean that you had already
decided to transfer prior to your first contact the [name of adviser], (Q4) he answered no.
Sesame has provided us with a copy of the form it received, dated 11 May 2018. The
answers to the same questions as listed above were as follows:
Q1. I took the lump sum because at the time it was a financially difficult time.
Q2. I wasnt aware there would be any risks. I was told that either I couldnt put the
[name of OPS scheme] retirement money in my [name of defined contribution
workplace scheme] or I would be worse off if I did. I was advised that [name of
receiving provider] was the best place for my [name of OPS] pension to go.
Q4. Yes. It was a difficult time, our fixed rate mortgage was up for renewal, our
house had been valued for £10,000 less than we paid for it, meaning we owed more
than it was worth. No one would give us a mortgage which forced us to stay on a
variable rate which meant we were paying more than we needed. We spent the
money on home improvements.
Mr H maintains in his submissions to us that he was not in financial difficulty. He obtained
bank statements which show that his mortgage had in fact decreased before he was offered
the lump sum, so he is sure this was not a factor. Weve also been provided with copies of
these statements.
Based on Sesames internal review it concluded that Mr H wouldve proceeded with the
transfer irrespective of the advice provided by the adviser.
On 29 January 2019, Sesame set out the outcome of its review, it found that the advice not
to go ahead with the transfer was suitable and that Mr H instructed it to go ahead with the
transfer. It did have concerns about the fund that was recommended and thought a more
cautious fund ought to have been recommended but the redress calculation revealed that he
hadnt suffered a financial loss in respect of this.
When asked about his recollections of the sale Mr H said that Sesame came to his 
workplace after the company had been taken over and the new owner wanted employees to
leave the scheme. He said he was told by the adviser to say he wanted to go ahead against
advice.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Hs complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be
upheld. Mr H disagreed, in summary he said:
Sesame undertook a review in 2018 commissioned by the regulator looking into 
financial advice given to people who were offered enhancements to incentivise them 
to leave their employers final salary pension scheme.
He was part of a large group of people who all took cash incentives, all received the 
same advice and information.
Only four people (including himself) that he knows of didnt receive compensation 
and the common factor is that they all answered yes to question four on the review 
form and provided an answer. Those who didnt respond all received compensation.Hes provided evidence that his wifes answer, that Sesame based its decision on, 
wasnt correct.
Everyone who took the cash incentive wrote a note saying they were insistent clients.
As part of our investigation we asked Sesame for details of the review it conducted:
The review took place as a result of the regulators thematic review of enhanced 
transfer value pension transfers.
A number of issues were identified with the business conducted in respect of Mr Hs 
OPS, these included:
oThe objectives listed were the same regardless of the fact-finding process.
oAttitudes to risk were consistently assessed to be 4 and upon transfer the 
managed fund was recommended.
oThere were no letters from the firm confirming to the consumers that they were 
proceeding against its advice.
oThe sequence of events was such that the consumers made the decision to insist 
on transfer against advice before being provided with a suitability report or a 
TVAS having been run.
61 of Mr Hs OPS scheme members were advised of them 49 transferred, 48 on an 
insistent client basis.
In Mr Hs case it was established that his decision to transfer wasnt impacted by the 
failings in the advice process. So, he wasnt offered compensation.
Because agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for review. I sent my 
provisional decision to Mr H and Sesame explaining why I thought the complaint should be 
upheld. 
My provisional findings:
It has not been argued that the transfer was suitable for Mr H, instead Sesame found that
the transfer was processed on an insistent client basis and despite issues with that process,
its review fairly found that Mr H would have proceeded with the transfer even if the process
had been without the failings identified. However, for the sake of completeness I have
considered this in addition the process followed, and what Mr H would have done but for the
failings.
The Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) 19.1.6G, provides guidance on assessing the
suitability of pension transfers, it sets out that:
(2) When a firm is making a personal recommendation for a retail client who is, or is
eligible to be, a member of a pension scheme with safeguarded benefits and who is
considering whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming
that a transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable.
(3) A firm should only consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can
clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or
optout is in the retail clients best interests.
So, where a business is giving such advice it must start from the position that the transfer is
not suitable and if it recommends the transfer it must be able to clearly demonstrate that the
transfer is in the consumers best interests.In this instance I am not persuaded that the transfer was suitable for Mr H. Whilst there was
a cash incentive or enhanced transfer value on offer, I dont think this outweighed the value
of the security and benefits offered by the OPS. Particularly when taking into account that
the purpose of the pension was to provide him with an income in retirement.
The transfer was processed on an insistent basis. The review conducted has already
highlighted several problems with the process followed, in particular:
The objectives listed were the same regardless of the fact-finding process.
Attitudes to risk were consistently assessed to be 4 and upon transfer the managed 
fund was recommended.
There were no letters from the firm confirming to the consumers were proceeding 
against its advice.
The sequence of events was such that the consumers made the decision to insist on 
transfer against advice before being provided with a suitability report or a TVAS 
having been run.
I agree that the failings highlighted by the review are of concern and are indicative of a
flawed advice process and the evidence in this case supports these findings. In addition to
the issues highlighted in the review, the sheer volume of insistent clients out of the members
of Mr Hs OPS is indicative of issues with the advice process.
Having concluded that the OPS transfer was not suitable and that there were failings in the
advice process, I have gone on to consider what Mr H would have done but for these
failings.
Sesame maintains that there was no causal link between the failings identified and Mr H
transferring his OPS because, in the review form he completed, he answered that he had
already decided to transfer prior to receiving advice and provided reasons why he wanted to
access the money.
We have been provided with two completed forms. Mr H says that he completed one, but his
handwriting was messy, so a second form was completed by his wife and sent to Sesame.
The answers in the two forms are different  in particular, the questions that were used to
establish the causal link between the failings in the advice process and Mr Hs decision to
transfer. In the form Mr H says he completed he said he had not decided to transfer prior to
receiving advice and did not say he needed the funds for any particular reason. Whereas in
the other one, it was confirmed that he had made the decision to transfer prior to advice and
that he needed funds. Mr H says the reason for the difference was that they believed they
had to justify why they took the cash incentive, he has also provided some evidence (as set
out in the background to this complaint) that the reason provided in the form his wife
completed was inaccurate.
Even if I accept that Mr H had been inclined to transfer prior to receiving advice, I am not
persuaded that it necessarily follows that Mr H would have proceeded with the transfer
regardless of the advice received and the process followed. I think the cash incentive likely
made the prospect of transferring attractive and I can understand why Mr H may have been
keen to transfer. That said, I think that if Mr H had been through a proper and
comprehensive advice process and received suitable advice, he would have been
persuaded to retain his OPS. It is not uncommon for a consumer to approach an adviser with
a view to doing one thing only to be persuaded to do something different as a result of the
advice they receive, and I think that is likely what would have happened in this instance but
for the failings in the advice process.Responses to my provisional decision:
I invited both parties to submit anything else they would like me to consider. Mr H accepted 
my decision. Sesame didnt and made further submissions. Ive read and considered all of 
Sesames submissions in their entirety. Here, Ive briefly summarised what I consider to be 
the key points. As part of their submissions Sesame requested a hearing and explained why 
one was necessary to fairly decide this complaint. I responded to this request explaining that 
I declined the request as I was satisfied that I could fairly decide the complaint without a 
hearing.
What Sesame said: 
Its not clear how we could dismiss the request for an oral hearing without first 
considering the additional submissions made. 
Little detail was provided as to why the request was denied, in this case its not clear 
how we could reach findings based on the file alone where theres contradictory 
evidence. And where were deciding what wouldve happened in a counter factual 
scenario, it cant see how we can do this based on a review of the file alone. 
Mr H was advised not to transfer his OPS and he proceeded from an informed 
position on an insistent client basis, so the suitability of the advice isnt relevant  the 
only question is whether or not the insistent client declaration stands. 
Our findings should be based on contemporaneous evidence not subsequent 
allegations. 
Whilst there was a review to verify the advice process, the records from the time of 
the advice should be the starting point and these clearly show that Mr H was advised 
against transferring. 
Rules and guidance in respect of insistent client processes were limited at the time. 
Weve highlighted the number of insistent clients as evidence of an issue, but it would 
be wrong to assume that not one of the clients wouldve acted against advice 
regardless of its form or content. 
Mr H has said he completed multiple forms as part of the review with differing 
answers, we cant verify his financial circumstances at the time beyond those 
recorded at the time. Sesame reasonably relied on the final one received. The 
discrepancies bring into question the answers Mr H has provided. 
Mr H was aware of what he was giving up and wouldve proceeded regardless due to 
the attraction of the cash offer. What hes now saying is with the benefit of hindsight 
and with the knowledge he has from speaking to his former colleagues.
Because agreement couldnt be reached this case has been passed back to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 When considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account relevant law and
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what I consider to have
been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Its my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything wrong inrespect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the
business has done something wrong  award compensation for any material loss or distress
and inconvenience suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
As I explained in my provisional decision, the parties to this complaint have provided detailed 
submissions to support their position and Im grateful to them for doing so. Ive considered 
these submissions in their entirety. However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my 
decision focuses on what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose 
of this decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my findings and 
reasons for reaching them.
The responses to my provisional decision cover a number of different points and arguments.
A number of the arguments raised by Sesame in response to my provisional decision cover 
issues that Ive already considered and addressed within that decision, so I havent repeated 
my findings in respect of all of these again.
Hearing request
The parties to this complaint have been given ample opportunity to make submissions at 
every stage of the process  the option to make submissions verbally or discuss the 
complaint over the telephone was also open to them.
There are a number of issues that are in dispute, but its not uncommon for us to deal with 
complaints where the parties involved disagree as to what has happened and/or with the 
findings we reached. This doesn't necessarily mean that a hearing is required to fairly 
determine the complaint.
The events that are the subject of this complaint took place a long time ago. So, I consider it 
unavoidable that recollections may be inaccurate, and are likely to have been tainted by 
subsequent events. In any event, if a hearing were to take place, the ombudsman  unlike a 
court  doesnt have the power to require evidence to be given under oath, neither can we 
cross-examine witnesses. In the circumstances, Im not persuaded that a hearing will 
address the issues raised by Sesame in this regard.
Written submissions have been made over the course of this complaint, and I dont consider 
a hearing will necessarily make a difference or cause Mr H's recollections of an event that 
occurred many years ago to change. 
Im satisfied that I can fairly determine this complaint on the basis of the available evidence 
and by using the circumstances to infer Mr H's reasons for taking the actions he did. In 
deciding this, Ive had regard to the parties' rights under the European Convention on 
Human Rights.
Im required to take into account all of the evidence submitted by both parties when making 
my decision and I reconsidered all of the evidence before making my final decision.
I set out my preliminary view of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances in my 
provisional decision, my findings are set out above and form part of this decision. Im 
satisfied Sesames had ample opportunity to consider this and make its submissions. And, 
for the reasons given here and in my letter in response to the hearing request, I remain 
satisfied I can fairly decide this complaint without holding a hearing. My decision remains the 
same for the reasons already provided in my provisional decision, so Im issuing a final 
decision as per our usual process.
Merits of the complaintThere hasnt been any dispute about the suitability of the transfer, so Ive not addressed this 
any further here  but, for the avoidance of doubt, my findings on this remain as set out in 
my provisional decision. 
A review was conducted into the advice provided to Mr H and his colleagues. This found a 
number of issues, in particular:
The objectives listed were the same regardless of the fact-finding process.
Attitudes to risk were consistently assessed to be 4 and upon transfer the managed 
fund was recommended.
There were no letters from the firm confirming to the consumers that they were 
proceeding against its advice.
The sequence of events was such that the consumers made the decision to insist on 
transfer against advice before being provided with a suitability report or a TVAS 
having been run.
During the course of our investigations it was also established that 61 of Mr Hs OPS 
scheme members were advised of them 49 transferred, 48 on an insistent client basis.
Ive considered the contemporaneous evidence. I think its fair and reasonable to also take 
into account the findings of the review, the overall level of insistent clients and what Mr H 
has said about what happened.
Mr H has been consistent in saying that the adviser recommended he transfer his OPS 
benefits. Hes also said he was told to write the declaration saying he wished to transfer 
against advice. The declaration is undated, and the suitability letter was drafted on the basis 
that Mr H had already decided to transfer. The review found that the advice process followed 
was such that members of the scheme made the decision to insist on transferring against 
advice prior to receiving a suitability letter or a TVAS. In addition to this, of the 61 members 
advised, 48 transferred on an insistent client basis. All of this adds weight to Mr Hs 
allegations about the advice process and certainly raises serious concerns about the advice 
process followed and Mr H being in an informed position when he made the decision to 
transfer. 
Taking all of this into account I dont think Mr H was a genuine insistent client who insisted 
upon transferring from an informed position having received suitable advice following a clear 
and appropriate advice process. And, I think its most likely that Mr H wouldnt have 
transferred his OPS but for the failings in the advice process. 
I accept that there may have been individuals amongst the members of Mr Hs OPS who 
wouldve transferred regardless of the advice received/process followed. However, I dont 
think it would be fair or reasonable to assume that Mr H would most likely have done so 
without sufficient evidence that that was likely. 
Mr Hs case was reviewed but it was concluded that his decision to transfer wasnt impacted 
by the failings in the advice process, so he wasnt offered compensation. I explained in my 
provisional decision that: 
We have been provided with two completed forms. Mr H says that he completed 
one, but his handwriting was messy, so a second form was completed by his wife 
and sent to Sesame. The answers in the two forms are different  in particular, the 
questions that were used to establish the causal link between the failings in the 
advice process and Mr Hs decision to transfer. In the form Mr H says he completed he said he had not decided to transfer prior to receiving advice and did not say he 
needed the funds for any particular reason. Whereas in the other one, it was 
confirmed that he had made the decision to transfer prior to advice and that he 
needed funds. Mr H says the reason for the difference was that they believed they
had to justify why they took the cash incentive, he has also provided some evidence 
(as set out in the background to this complaint) that the reason provided in the form 
his wife completed was inaccurate.
Even if I accept that Mr H had been inclined to transfer prior to receiving advice, I am 
not persuaded that it necessarily follows that Mr H would have proceeded with the 
transfer regardless of the advice received and the process followed. I think the cash 
incentive likely made the prospect of transferring attractive and I can understand why 
Mr H may have been keen to transfer. That said, I think that if Mr H had been through 
a proper and comprehensive advice process and received suitable advice, he would 
have been persuaded to retain his OPS. It is not uncommon for a consumer to 
approach an adviser with a view to doing one thing only to be persuaded to do 
something different as a result of the advice they receive, and I think that is likely 
what would have happened in this instance but for the failings in the advice process.
My findings in respect of the forms remain as set out above. I accept there are discrepancies 
in the forms. Mr H has provided an explanation for this and some evidence that the 
responses in the second form about the reasons why he needed the money were incorrect. 
And, in any case, even if it was true that Mr H wanted to transfer prior to receiving advice, I 
dont think this in and of itself is sufficient to conclude that he would most likely have 
transferred regardless of the advice received or process followed. 
Overall, Im satisfied that there were significant failings in the advice process and that but for 
those failings its most likely Mr H wouldve retained his OPS benefits. 
Putting things right
 A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr H, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. Sesame must therefore undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Hs acceptance of the decision.
Sesame may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Hs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Hs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr H within 90 days of the date 
Sesame receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Sesame to pay Mr H.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
In addition to the financial loss suffered, I think what has happened has caused Mr H
distress and inconvenience. To compensate him for this Sesame should pay to Mr H £300.
 
My final decision
  My final decision is that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld, I direct Sesame Limited to 
compensate him as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Nicola Curnow
Ombudsman