DRN-2885380
The complaint
Mr K complains about the service he received from Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited when 
he enquired about a policy hed held with them.
What happened
Mr K held a joint term assurance and critical illness policy with Aviva between 1998 and 
2008. 
In August 2019 Mr K contacted Aviva to complain. He was aware hed had an insurance 
policy with them and he thought this was payment protection insurance (PPI). In light of the 
national awareness campaign about the mis-sale of PPI, he thought the policy might have 
been mis-sold.
Aviva was experiencing PPI backlogs at that time and so in October 2019 it sent Mr K a final 
response letter (FRL) explaining that although it hadnt yet looked into his concerns, he could 
bring his complaint to the Ombudsman Service. 
Aviva eventually looked into the complaint in February 2020 but said it couldnt locate a PPI 
policy. It did, however, find a term assurance policy and so it notified Mr K of this. It also told 
Mr K it wasnt responsible for the sale of this policy  this was the responsibility of another 
business B and so hed need to raise any mis-sale concerns with it directly.
But Mr K had been initially told to contact Aviva by B. So, he was unhappy with this 
response.
In early March 2020, in light of Avivas response, Mr K requested a copy of the policy 
document for his term assurance policy. Mr K was told the document would be sent in the 
post and Aviva said it then sent this on 3 April 2020.
But in early April 2020 Mr K contacted Aviva because he still hadnt received anything. 
On 9 April 2020 Aviva emailed Mr K the policy schedule.
Mr K then requested a copy of the policy booklet, containing the terms and conditions, on 
29 April 2020 and again on two other occasions in May 2020 but he received no reply.
Mr K was unhappy and so he complained to our service. He felt it had taken Aviva too long 
to explain to him he needed to contact B. And he didnt think Aviva had fully responded to his 
request for policy documentation, given he hadnt been given a policy booklet. We shared 
this complaint with Aviva and asked it to look into things. 
In mid-May 2020 Aviva responded to Mr Ks complaint and explained what had happened. 
It apologised that it wasnt able to respond to his concerns in its usual prompt manner. But it 
didnt address the issue of the policy booklet.
Mr K remained unhappy and asked our service to consider his complaint. 
After looking into things, our investigator didnt think Aviva needed to do anything further. 
He felt Avivas apology was sufficient in the circumstances. Mr K disagreed and so the 
matter was passed to me to decide. 
After reviewing the complaint, I asked Aviva to provide Mr K with a copy of his policy booklet 
and I asked why it hadnt responded to the emails hed sent in April and May 2020 
requesting this. Aviva told me that the email address Mr K used to request his policy 
documents was typed incorrectly which means it never received his requests for this 
documentation. 
After considering all the evidence, I contacted both parties to let them know I was thinking 
about reaching a slightly different outcome to the investigator. In brief, I didnt think I could 
look into Mr Ks concerns about the delays in responding to his complaint as I thought this 
was outside the jurisdiction of our service. I was also of the view Aviva couldnt have 
provided Mr K with the policy booklet if it didnt receive his requests for this. I let them know 
my initial thoughts so both parties had the opportunity to respond before a final decision was 
reached. 
Aviva had nothing to add. Mr K pointed out the schedule has to be read with the policy 
document  something the schedule clearly states. He felt a vastly experienced insurance 
company like Aviva should have known to provide this when he requested the policy 
document. He said Aviva could have contacted him to clarify what he meant if it was 
confused. And he stressed that Aviva should compensate him for its total lack of customer 
service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can completely understand why Mr K is frustrated that it took six months for Aviva to 
explain his policy wasnt a PPI policy. But I cant look at the delays in the handling of Mr Ks 
complaint. There are rules that govern how our service operates which are the Dispute 
Resolution Rules (DISP) rules in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) handbook. 
One of the rules (DISP 2.3.1) says this service can consider a complaint under compulsory 
jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission by a firm in the carrying on of specific activities. 
So, for me to be able to consider the merits of a complaint, I would need to be satisfied that 
the activity being carried on falls under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
Complaint handling is not an activity listed under DISP 2.3.1. The only category it could 
potentially fall within is ancillary activities which need to be carried out in connection with 
one of the regulated activities. And I dont think this part of Mr Ks complaint is sufficiently 
linked to any other regulated activity such that it would be considered ancillary.
But I think I can consider Mr Ks concerns about receiving the policy documentation he 
requested.
Mr K first requested a policy document in early March 2020. Aviva responded on 3 April 
2020, providing the schedule via post. I have seen a copy of the letter Aviva sent so its 
unclear why Mr K did not receive this. Regardless, on 9 April 2020 this was also sent to him 
via email. And overall, I dont think one month is an unreasonable amount of time for Aviva 
to take locating and sharing documentation relating to a policy which ended over ten years 
earlier. So I think it acted reasonably here. But as Mr K pointed out, its clear he wasnt sent the policy booklet. I can understand why 
Mr K might have wanted this  it is referred to in his schedule as a document that should be 
read to fully understand the policy. And this booklet wasnt provided to Mr K until our service 
raised this with Aviva. So, there was clearly an extensive delay here. But it would seem 
Aviva never received Mr Ks requests for this specific document because the email address 
used was mistyped. So, I cant say Aviva acted unreasonably in not responding to these 
emails. As to his earlier requests, Mr K clearly meant policy document to include the policy 
booklet. But I dont think this was clear such that Aviva ought to have known he was 
requesting this. With the benefit of hindsight, it might have been preferable for Aviva to have 
included this in the information it sent Mr K initially. But the schedule is the key document 
here and so I think Aviva met his request for the policy document. I say this noting that this 
was an expired policy, so I dont think its evident that Mr K would need the terms and 
conditions. I also dont think Aviva realised thered been any confusion as to what Mr K was 
requesting, so I wouldnt say it ought to have clarified this with Mr K. 
For all of these reasons, I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that part of this complaint falls outside the jurisdiction of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and I do not uphold the remaining part of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman