DRN-3516844
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain that Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR)
are asking them to pay a success fee for a payment protection insurance (PPI) claim they
said theyd cancelled.
For ease of reading I will only refer to Mr M in my decision.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr M signed a letter of authority (LoA) instructing FTR to act on his behalf
to check whether hed any mis sold PPI claims. In September 2019, Mr M said he emailed
FTR saying he no longer wanted them to do any work for him for mis-sold PPI claims for two
of his lenders, Ill refer to them as S and H. In August 2020, Mr M was told by H that
hed a successful claim and the amount of compensation they would pay to him. Shortly after
FTR asked Mr M to pay their fee for his successful claim. Mr M complained to FTR.
FTR confirmed theyd received Mr M s cancellation email in September 2019, within the free
PPI check period. But in January 2020, after being told by H that PPI had been found an
automated message was sent to Mr M telling him about the PPI and asking him to complete
a PPI questionnaire. As Mr M completed the PPI questionnaire, they took this as his
agreement for them to continue pursuing his mis-sold PPI claim. As Mr Ms PPI claim was
successful because of the claim they submitted to his lender they said their success fee is
justified.
Mr M wasnt happy with FTRs response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said that Mr M would have known by completing the PPI questionnaire that
FTR were still working for him for his mis-sold PPI claim with H. She said Mr M had
authorised FTR to act on his behalf so they could charge their fee.
Mr M didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
A provisional decision was issued in May 2022 that said:
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
FTR feel strongly that the success of Mr Ms claim was because of the submission they
made for him. Mr M is adamant that hed cancelled his agreement with FTR. And hadnt
given his authority for FTR to contact H.
Its not in dispute that Mr M cancelled his agreement with FTR in September 2019. In making
my decision I need to determine whether I think FTR was further authorised to act for him,
whether their fee is justified, and whether FTR acted fairly and reasonably in their actions
with him.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for PPI
claims to be made. Leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management
companies, such as FTR, amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected
high volume of claims. And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data
subject request. Any further information such as that provided in a PPI questionnaire could be
used to strengthen the claim that the PPI policy was mis-sold. So, for some lenders the
submission of a LoA was accepted as a claim for mis-sold PPI and no further information was
needed for them to investigate the mis-sold PPI claim. This is generally referred to as the claim
being auto converted. Any claim received after the 29 August 2019 deadline wouldnt have
been accepted by the lender(s) unless there were exceptional circumstances for doing so.
So, Ive looked at what has happened.
FTR has shown an online application for their free PPI check was made in August 2019.
They said that their terms and conditions had to be agreed to for the application to progress.
And by agreeing to the terms and conditions this would have generated the LoA populated
with the personal and lender details that had been supplied. FTR said the LoA couldnt be
submitted without a signature being added. And its not in dispute that Mr M signed the LoA
authorising FTR to act on his behalf. I can also see from FTRs records that Mr M had
provided lender details for more than just S and H.
FTRs terms and conditions say:
You may cancel Your Claim(s) at any time within 14 days from the date you sign the
Letter of Authority (Cooling-off Period) at no cost to you.
And go on to provide the various channels for doing this, telephone, in person, and in writing.
Again, its not in dispute that Mr M emailed FTR in early September 2019 asking them to
cancel the agreement for two of his lenders S and H. As this was within the free PPI
check period, Mr M wouldnt incur any charge.
FTRs terms and conditions also say:
Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR to
continue to provide You with the Claims Services.
While FTR may still have had an active claim for some of Mr Ms lenders, they should have
cancelled his mis-sold PPI claims for S and H. At the point FTR identified Mr M had PPI
with H hed already cancelled his agreement with them. But FTR sent notification to Mr M 
about PPI being found, while I understand this was from an automated system, its something
that shouldnt have been done as Mr M had cancelled his agreement with them. So, I dont
consider FTR had any authority after early September 2019 from Mr M to provide him with
their claims service.
PPI being found didnt mean Mr Ms claim was successful as it needed to be considered by
H whether the PPI had been mis-sold to him. I can see from FTRs notes that the
automated message saying PPI had been found also asked Mr M to complete a PPI
questionnaire. And that in early February 2020, after being chased for the completed PPI
questionnaire, FTR received the response done. FTR said that by Mr M completing the
PPI questionnaire hed authorised them to continue working for him. But I dont agree. FTRs
notes clearly show for Mr Ms PPI claim with H that it was auto converted. I havent seen
any evidence that the PPI questionnaire was needed or asked for by H for them to consider
whether Mr M had been mis-sold PPI. As outlined above as the claim was auto converted
H had taken the LoA as Mr Ms authorisation for FTR to act for him.While I accept FTR submitted the LoA, Mr M had followed their terms and conditions and
cancelled his agreement with them during the free PPI check period, before PPI was
identified, and without FTR providing their claims service for his PPI claim with H. I think for
FTR to provide their claims service to Mr M they would have needed a new LoA signed by
Mr M. And it wasnt enough for them to consider the PPI questionnaire as being Mr Ms new
authority to them.
While I think the success of the claim was as a result of FTR submitting Mr Ms LoA to H
before the August 2019 deadline. As Mr M had cancelled the agreement, hed with them in
line with their terms and conditions, I dont think FTR was authorised to act for him. So, I
dont think its fair or reasonable for FTR to ask Mr M to pay their fee.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M accepted the provision decision. And FTR didnt ask for any further representations to 
be considered.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and ask Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim to 
waive their fee.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman