DRN-4300349
The Complaint
Mrs T says that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (trading as Novuna) (Novuna) didnt fairly or 
reasonably deal with claims she made under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in 
relation to the purchase of a timeshare on 24 February 2013 (the Time of Sale) using 
finance from Novuna. She also says that Novunas decision to lend to her was irresponsible.
Background to the Complaint
Mrs T purchased membership of a timeshare from a timeshare provider (the Supplier) at 
the Time of Sale and used a loan from Novuna to pay for it (the Credit Agreement). A 
statement of account shows that she repaid the loan on 1 November 2013.
Unhappy with the purchase, Mrs T  using a professional representative (PR)  wrote to 
Novuna on 15 June 2021 (the Letter of Claim) to make claims for misrepresentation and an 
unfair relationship under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA. Mrs T also complained about 
Novunas decision to lend to her at the Time of Sale. 
It doesnt look like Novuna responded to the Letter of Claim. So, a complaint was referred to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. Having notified Novuna of the complaint, it issued its 
final response arguing that Mrs Ts CCA claims were made out of time under the 
Limitation Act 1980 (the LA) and rejecting her lending complaint on its merits.
The complaint was then looked at by an investigator who, having considered the information 
before her, thought that Mrs Ts CCA claims were likely to have been made too late under 
the LA  giving Novuna a complete defence to those claims. And she didnt think that 
Mrs T's lending complaint should succeed either.
Mrs T disagreed with the investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans decision 
 which is why it was passed to me.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75: Misrepresentation
A claim for misrepresentation against the Supplier would ordinarily be made under 
Section 2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And the limitation period to make 
such a claim expires six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued (see 
Section 2 of the LA).
A claim under Section 75 of the CCA is a like claim against the creditor. It essentially 
mirrors the claim the consumer could make against the supplier provided it satisfies certain 
conditions, which includes being made inside the relevant limitation period i.e., six years. 
But a claim under Section 75 is also an action to recover any sum by virtue of any 
enactment under Section 9 of the LA. And the limitation period under that provision is also 
six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. 
As Mrs T made a like claim against Novuna for misrepresentation under Section 75, she had 
six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to make the claim. The date on 
which the cause of action accrued was the Time of Sale. I say this because Mrs T entered 
into the purchase agreement based on the alleged misrepresentations of the Supplier  
which she relied on. And as the loan from Novuna was used to help finance the purchase, it 
was when she entered into the Credit Agreement that she suffered a loss. 
It follows, therefore, that she had six years from the Time of Sale to make a claim for 
misrepresentation. But as she didnt put his claim to Novuna until 15 June 2021, her claim 
was likely to have been too late under the LA even if it had been submitted to court rather 
than to Novuna directly.
Section 140A: Unfair Relationship
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between Mrs T and Novuna 
was unfair for the purpose of Section 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it 
if it applies to the credit agreement in question  which it does.
However, the LA also applies to claims under Section 140A. And it was held in 
Patel v Patel [2009] that the time for limitation purposes ran from the date the credit 
agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the time the claim was made. And as a claim under 
Section 140A is also an action to recover any sum by virtue of any enactment under 
Section 9 of the LA, the limitation period is six years.
As this claim, like Mrs Ts Section 75 claim, was only put to Novuna on 15 June 2021, I think 
Novuna was and is entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to it too, as Mrs T doesnt dispute 
that the Credit Agreement she entered into at the Time of Sale ended on 1 November 2013 
as per her statement of account. 
The Lending Complaint
The Letter of Claim suggests that Novuna lent irresponsibly to Mrs T. It isnt entirely clear 
whether that allegation was framed as part of her Section 140A claim. But as Ive already 
explained why I think a claim under that provision was and is likely to have fallen outside of 
the time limit set by the LA, that doesnt really matter.
Lending money under a regulated credit agreement of the kind in question was an activity 
covered directly by the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction at the Time of Sale. But, 
in my view, not enough has been said and/or provided to support this allegation. And even if 
I were to find that Novuna failed to do everything it should have when it agreed to lend (and I 
make no such finding), Id have to be satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for Mrs T 
before also concluding that she lost out as a result. And as I havent seen anything to 
persuade me that was the case, I dont think this is a reason to uphold this complaint given 
its circumstances.
Conclusion
Only a court can decide whether Mrs Ts CCA claims were made out of time under the LA. 
But as its relevant law, I have to take it into account when deciding a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint. As it looks like they were too late under the LA, I think Novuna is 
likely to have had (and still has) a complete defence to them. And given what Ive said about Novunas decision to lend, I dont think theres anything it has to do to put things right on this 
occasion with all of that being the case.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman