DRN-3579804
The complaint
Mr B, Mrs B, Mr B and Ms J complain that Band of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI) is not complying 
with rules regarding accurate reporting of post-bankruptcy credit information on their credit 
files.
What happened
Mr B, Mrs B, Mr B and Ms J had a number of mortgage agreements with BoI. Between 2014 
and 2017 they all became bankrupt on different dates and those bankruptcies were 
discharged according to operation of law 12 months after the Bankruptcy Orders were made. 
They had two buy to let properties with mortgages with BoI. The accounts for these 
mortgages were maintained until the date of the last bankruptcy in 2017.BoI recorded the 
accounts as being paid until then but then recorded non-payments since.
Mr B, Mrs B, Mr B and Ms J say that as they were made bankrupt a default should be 
recorded on the date of each bankruptcy. BoI says that on these mortgage agreements it 
should record the defaults as on the repossession date and then, when the mortgages were 
redeemed mark the credit files as settled in accordance with its policy. Our investigator didnt 
believe that BoI acted unfairly. Mr B, Mrs B, Mr B and Ms J disagreed and asked for a 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a complaint as to when a default in relation to two mortgages should be recorded on 
the credit files of Mr B, Mrs B, Mr B and Ms J all of whom became bankrupt. Their view is 
that the default in respect of these mortgage accounts with BoI should be recorded on their 
individual credit files on the date of each bankruptcy. BoIs view is that the default should be 
recorded when each account goes into default, not necessarily the date of bankruptcy and in 
this case the same default date should apply to each individual.
In respect of credit reporting, the Information Commissioners Office has provided a set of 
principles - Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit 
Reference Agencies - which we would expect creditors to follow. These are principles not a 
manual of specific responses to every situation. Relevant to his complaint is that a default 
should be recorded to show that a relationship has broken down .
As regards unsecured debts its clear that a bankruptcy will be a default event bringing the 
relationship between borrower and lender to an end with the lender proving its debt in the 
bankruptcy. But a bankruptcy wont always bring the relationship between borrower and 
secured creditor to an end. The borrower might want to retain the property which often 
happens with residential mortgages but also buy to let mortgages. In order to realise its 
security, the lender will usually have to repossess the property and sell it. This is clearly a 
different situation than if the debt is unsecured. 
BoI has a process for managing the credit file when its dealing with a mortgage recognising 
that the relationship can survive a bankruptcy. BoI reports information on the performance of 
an account to credit reference agencies. Generally, these simply record that payments are 
being made. But also, when they are not being made and when the account is defaulted. My 
understanding is that on these two accounts despite the bankruptcies, payments were still 
being made towards these buy to let mortgages. So, BoI recorded that those payments were 
being maintained by the joint borrowers on their individual credit files. That seems fair and in 
accordance with the directive that the information BoI supplied should be clear fair and not 
misleading. So, I dont accept that BoI should have stopped recording these payments when 
the bankruptcy orders were made or issued a default when the payments indicated that the 
relationship between BoI and Mr B, Mrs B, Mr B and Ms J on these accounts hadnt yet 
broken down. 
The question is what should BoI have done when payments stopped. If payments arent 
being made over a period of time, the lender should consider whether the relationship with 
the borrower has come to an end and whether a default should be recorded. As I understand 
it BoIs policy is that as this is secured lending it reports the accounts as default from the 
repossession date until the properties are sold and when the mortgages are redeemed the 
credit file will be updated and recorded as satisfied. BoI says that its policy is in line with 
the ICO principles. Ive looked at its policy and I can see that there is some scope for debate 
as to whether the default should be reported after the account has been unpaid for three 
months or when repossession takes place. I recognise that there should be more flexibility 
about recording a default with a mortgage account as its not always clear when, to use the 
terms of the ICO document that the relationship has broken down . The ICO principles 
notes that a default should be recorded if the account is three months in arrears but 
recognises that there are exceptions when a default can be recorded at a later stage and 
those exceptions include mortgages. 
The ICO principles then deals with bankruptcies and says  where there is joint liability and 
only one party is the subject of an insolvency order then the account should not 
automatically be marked in default if it is being maintained by the other party  I understand 
that BoI didnt register a default as the account was maintained after the bankruptcy of three 
of the partners until the final partner was made bankrupt and that seems to be in line with 
that.
Mr B has asked me to consider another decision made by an Ombudsman in a bankruptcy 
case involving a secured creditor and suggests that our investigators view was inconsistent 
with that. I dont agree. In the other case, the beneficial interest in the property had passed 
to a husband in divorce proceedings prior to a bankruptcy and the wife wanted nothing 
further to do with the property. Our Ombudsman said that Miss L wasnt liable post 
bankruptcy to pay the monthly instalments, and the failure to pay shouldnt be reported to the 
credit reference agencies. But theres a different situation here where the partners continued 
to pay the monthly instalments voluntarily after their bankruptcies and BoI recorded those 
payments. I accept that to do so was within its remit to report information that was clear 
accurate and not misleading and if payments are recorded it follows that non-payments 
should also be recorded. Nor does that other case deal with the timing of a default which is 
the central issue here.
The issue here is when should a default be recorded on these credit files. The registering of 
a default is a record of the breakdown of the relationship between the bank and its customer. 
Several of the complainants became bankrupt. But the payments on the two secured 
mortgages were maintained and I see no issue with BoI recording these payments with credit reference agencies. But it seems when the last of the joint borrowers went bankrupt 
and payments werent being made, the accounts were recorded as not being paid as, I 
assume, would be the case with any of BoIs secured borrowers. Until there is a 
repossession order - and even after that - the possibility remains of the borrower paying of 
the arrears and retaining control of the property. Non-payment is not conclusive that the 
relationship between lender and borrower has broken down. So, I dont consider that BoI has 
done anything wrong by continuing to record the non-payments on the account and that it 
will issue a default when it obtains a possession order. 
But BoI has indicated as an alternative that it could look to add the default from the last 
payment made to the accounts, but says that as  this - the addition of the default to the credit 
files - would negatively impact  the credit files of all parties it would consider doing  this 
subject to the agreement of all borrowers. That is something that Mr B, Mrs B, Mr B and Ms 
J might wish to consider. But for the reasons set out above I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint. 
Mr B has been writing to our investigator about other prospective issues that could arise with 
other creditors. My role is to make decisions on specific complaints, and I will not be 
commenting or advising on other issues that he could have with other creditors.       
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B, Mrs B, Mr B 
and Ms J to accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman