DRN-2184775
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Es complaint concerns their Nationwide Building Society ISAs. Theyre unhappy 
they werent given a full financial review in 2016 when they met with a member of staff 
following a fall in the value of their ISAs. Theyre also unhappy with the charges that have 
been applied.
 
What happened
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint. It noted that it had previously considered a separate 
complaint about the suitability of the ISAs in 2017, which it also hadnt upheld. It went on to 
explain that it had no record of a meeting with Mr and Mrs E in 2016, but that a full review 
wouldve been provided if theyd requested one. Nationwide also felt the charges associated 
with the ISAs had been fully explained in the information provided to Mr and Mrs E.
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator reached the same conclusion 
as Nationwide. He felt that the evidence showed that information about the ISA charges had 
been provided at the outset, and at several points since then, when changes had been made 
to the investments. He didnt think the charges had been misapplied at any point. 
In respect of the meeting, the investigator noted that there was no documentary evidence 
that one had taken place, so he didnt feel able to conclude that Nationwide had acted 
incorrectly. 
Mr and Mrs E didnt accept the investigators view. They said theyd requested the meeting 
because of concerns about the ISAs and it hadnt been a casual meeting, so it shouldve 
been logged and documented. If Nationwide had no evidence, then their word should be 
sufficient. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the matters been referred to 
me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
In respect of the charges, Im satisfied these were made clear to Mr and Mrs E both when 
they initially invested and on several occasions since  when they made changes to the ISAs 
and when regulatory changes demanded it. Ive seen nothing to suggest the charges were 
misapplied at any point. 
Turning to the matter of the meeting in 2016, I note Mr and Mrs Es recollections, but I have 
to balance them against the fact that there is no record of a meeting taking place. That 
doesnt mean to say that I dont think they had a conversation of some sort with a member of 
staff. But I think it does indicate that it wasnt a formal provision of advice. And I think Mr and 
Mrs E should reasonably have been aware of that when they received no documentation 
relating to the meeting, as they had done previously when they received advice. 
Ultimately, if they werent happy with the meeting/discussions and didnt feel Nationwide had 
provided what they wanted, they couldve escalated the matter. And Ive no reason to think 
that if theyd done so Nationwide wouldnt have offered a formal review. I note that in 2014 
Mr and Mrs E were offered and turned down a formal review and this was confirmed to them 
in writing. So, it seems they were aware of how this process worked. On balance, I dont 
think the evidence and a consideration of the wider circumstances supports a finding that 
Nationwide acted incorrectly in respect of the meeting. 
Finally, I note that Mr and Mrs E have also raised concerns with the way in which Nationwide 
handled this complaint. Complaint handling is not a regulated activity, so generally its not 
something we can consider. But for the sake of completeness, Id say that it doesnt seem 
that Nationwide acted incorrectly  it provided several comprehensive and timely responses 
to the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman