DRN-4099443
The complaint
Miss M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) provided a third party organisation with 
misleading information surrounding a debt she owed. This resulted in Miss M feeling anxious 
that she had debts she didnt know about.
What happened
Miss M was working with a third party debt organisation regarding the repayment of a debt 
that she had with HSBC and Breathing Space was applied on 4 March. On notification of 
this HSBC provided this organisation with incorrect information on 6 March suggesting Miss 
M had additional debt which needed to be included in Breathing Space. This particular 
account was in credit at the time.
On 8 March Miss M got in contact with HSBC as she was concerned that there was a debt 
she wasnt aware of as she believed she only had a credit card debt. Unfortunately, the 
email HSBC sent to the third party wasnt uploaded on to Miss Ms profile which meant the 
advisers she spoke with didnt have sight of this and couldnt assist in telling her what 
information had been sent regarding her accounts  though they tried to assure her that the 
only debt was her credit card.
As a result of this error Miss M says she had to spent almost three days trying to resolve this 
issue and found the whole experience very stressful causing her to become ill shortly after. 
Miss M complained to HSBC about this.
HSBC says it is required to apply breathing space to all the products a customer holds with it 
 including accounts that are in credit. HSBC accepts that the email it sent to the third party 
regarding Miss Ms accounts was misleading as it was a templated response and has 
provided feedback to the relevant team for future improvements. HSBC also accepts the 
service Miss M received wasnt as good as it should have been and that she received 
incorrect referrals and had to explain herself on numerous occasions.
HSBC apologised for the service Miss M received and confirmed the status of her accounts 
and offered £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. This offer was 
increased to £200 following Miss M bringing her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ms concerns and thought that the offer of £200 
compensation was fair and reasonable to recognise the poor service she received and the 
impact HSBCs mistake had on her. 
Miss M disagreed, she doesnt think the compensation is enough. Miss M wants £500 
compensation as she says she had to take time off work to sort the issue out and became ill 
shortly afterwards because of it. Miss M has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at the problems Miss M has experienced and see if HSBC has done 
anything wrong or treated her unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Miss M 
back in the position she wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
In this case HSBC has already accepted that it made a mistake and the misleading 
information has been corrected and Miss M has been put in the position she wouldve been 
in had the mistake hadnt happened. So all I have to decide is whether the £200 
compensation offered is a fair and reasonable way to settle this complaint  and I think it is.
Things dont always go smoothly. And not every mistake warrants compensation. From what 
I understand HSBCs mistake hasnt negatively impacted Miss Ms overall position regarding 
the account that was in arrears and I havent been made aware of any financial loss suffered 
due to the mistake.
I accept Miss Ms frustration - she had to spend some time over numerous phone calls 
having the issue fixed and getting clarification as to what debts she had. And I find it difficult 
to understand why HSBC had so much trouble confirming information that I believe 
shouldve been easily available. But by her own admission Miss M had understood she only 
had the one debt with HSBC and that her other accounts were in credit and the HSBC 
advisers also could only see the one account in arrears. 
I also note that initially Miss M had asked for £200 compensation, but this request has now 
increased to £500 as Miss M says she became ill shortly after this experience. Im sorry Miss 
M has been unwell, but from what Ive seen I cant say that Miss Ms illness is directly as a 
result of HSBCs mistake. So in these circumstances I dont think the detriment Miss M 
alleges is all due to HSBCs actions or sufficient enough to justify an award above the £200 
already offered by HSBC.
So for the reasons set out, I think HSBCs offer of £200 compensation is fair and Im not 
going to ask it to do anything else.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided that what HSBC UK Bank Plc has already 
offered to settle Miss Ms complaint is a fair way to settle her complaint and I do not require it 
to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman