DRN-3975495
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was unable to access his account with HSBC UK Bank Ltd (HSBC) 
via telephone banking when abroad and has spent a lot of time trying to resolve this issue.
What happened
Mr S says he was unable to access his account when abroad in 2022. He says he called 
HSBC trying to resolve the problem and had to wait a long time to get through to speak to 
anyone. He says that when he did get through, HSBC failed to fix the problem.
HSBC says that Mr S was using the wrong phone number when trying to access his account 
by phone from abroad. It says it has now given him the correct phone number and it can see 
no reason why it shouldnt be working. HSBC acknowledges that Mr S has had difficulty 
getting through to its service staff and gave Mr S £50 compensation for his trouble and 
upset.
Our investigator found that HSBC caused Mr S trouble and upset in this matter and said that 
HSBC should pay Mr S an additional £50.
HSBC accepted this but Mr S did not, so the case has come to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties agree that Mr S was using the wrong number initially to access his telephone 
banking when abroad. HSBC has provided evidence that it has now given Mr S the correct 
number.
Mr S says the correct number doesnt work either for him but when asked has not been able 
to provide any evidence that this is the case.
HSBC says that the number works for other customers, and it has provided evidence that it 
has checked that there are no blocks or restrictions on his account.
So, I cant see that HSBC has done anything wrong in this respect.
However, I do agree with our investigator that Mr S has experienced trouble and upset when 
trying to contact HSBC to discuss this matter, and that if HSBC pays Mr S another £50, 
bringing the total compensation to £100, this would be in line with what this service would 
normally award in such situations.
So, I uphold Mr S s complaint in this respect.
Putting things right
HSBC UK Bank Ltd must pay £50 to Mr S in addition to the £50 it has already given him for 
the trouble and upset he has experienced in this matter.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Ss complaint and award him redress as shown 
in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman