DRN-3713867
The complaint
Mrs E complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) havent paid 
enough for her car after she claimed on her car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs Es car was stolen so she claimed on her car insurance policy. AA accepted the claim 
and used two motor valuation guides to value her car, taking into account the age, mileage 
and specification. AA offered Mrs E £22,435 as the market value of her car, in settlement of 
her claim. Mrs E didnt think this was enough and complained, but accepted the amount 
offered as an interim payment. 
AA reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. They said their offer was within the range of 
the two guides, so they thought it was fair. Mrs E disagreed and brough her complaint here. 
She highlighted the specification of her car and that it had low mileage. Mrs E calculated the 
value of her car to be around £24,500 due to it having low mileage. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She found that 
AA had only used two motor valuation guides, so she looked at the value produced by the 
other two guides we have access too. When doing this she found that AAs valuation was 
within the range of all the guides, so she didnt think AA had done anything wrong. 
Mrs E disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Es policy say that if AA deem her car a total loss, they will 
pay her the market value. The policy defines market value as the cost of replacing the 
Insured Car with one of the same make, model, age, mileage, specification and condition at 
the date of accident or loss.
Our service doesnt value cars. Instead we check to see that the insurers valuation is fair
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we tend to
use motor valuation guides. I usually find these persuasive as theyre based on nationwide
research of likely sales prices.
The four valuation guides we use provided values of £21,453, £22,120, £22,700 and 
£23,038. I understand Mrs E has said her car is worth £24,500 after looking at cars for sale 
and speaking with a friend who deals in high value, low mileage cars. Mrs E has highlighted 
that her car had only covered around 5,000 miles, which shes said is around 40,000 miles 
less than average. However, Im not persuaded that means AA have acted unfairly when 
they valued her car. 
I say this because AA have valued Mrs Es car at £22,453 and used two trade guides. When 
weve used the other valuation guides we have access to, AAs valuation is still within the 
range of the guides. The valuation guides also take into account the mileage a car has when 
producing a value, and while a car with mileage as low as Mrs Es might have been more 
appealing to a potential purchaser. It doesnt mean AAs value is unfair or unreasonable. 
I appreciate this isnt the answer Mrs E was hoping for. But Im not persuaded AA have 
acted unfairly by offering Mrs E £22,453 as the market value for her car. It follows that 
therefore Im not going to tell AA to pay any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman