DRN-4430867
The complaint
Miss C complains HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct consistently failed to make 
reasonable adjustments for her and provided her extremely poor customer service at times. 
Miss C says first direct has a toxic culture and has gaslighted her at times.
What happened
Miss C had a current account, a credit card account, a savings account, ISAs and an offset 
mortgage with first direct. Most of her accounts were closed in 2022, by which time shed 
been a customer for over 20 years.
In April 2020 Miss C sustained a serious head injury that she says had and continues to 
have a significant impact on her daily life. Miss C says:
she has to limit the amount of time she uses screens; and
she cannot tolerate, for example, being put on hold and made to listen to music,
as a result of her head injury.
Miss C also says she has real problems with her post  as does everyone who lives in the 
same block as her  which means she doesnt receive letters on a regular basis.
Miss C says the impact of her head injury, combined with the problems she has with her 
post, meant that she relied on first direct staff to give her accurate information about her 
account so that she could manage her finances properly from April 2020 onwards. 
Between June 2020 and April 2022 Miss C made a large number of complaints to first direct. 
During that period, first direct issued over 10 final responses in response to multiple 
complaints  including three final responses relating to problems its migration from VISA to 
Mastercard caused  see below. Some of those complaints relate to specific incidents  for 
example, inaccurate information Miss C says she was given about her mortgage payment 
history  others relate to recurring themes  for example, members of staff wanting to put 
Miss C on hold / wanting to transfer her to another department and / or failing to make 
reasonable adjustments. As Ive already mentioned, three of those final responses related to 
problems Miss C had with a third party  who Ill refer to as A throughout the rest of this 
decision  with whom Miss A had a credit card. Miss C says she couldnt understand why 
her monthly payment to A started failing in September 2022 and that she spent hours on the 
phone trying to get to the bottom of what was happening. Miss C ultimately discovered her 
payments started failing because first direct had migrated from VISA to Mastercard.
First direct paid Miss C compensation in relation to some of her complaints, and in relation to 
others said it had done nothing wrong.
In April 2022 Miss C began referring complaints to use.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Cs complaints and said some had been referred to 
us out of time. In addition, they recommended that first direct pay Miss C an additional £300 
in compensation for the distress and inconvenience shed been caused as a result of the 
things that had gone wrong up to first directs decision to close Miss Cs account.
Miss C was unhappy and asked for her complaints to be referred to an ombudsman. So, her 
complaints were passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Last month I issued two jurisdictions decisions saying which of the complaints Miss C made 
between June 2020 and April 2022 our service could and could not consider. In addition, I 
issued a provisional decision with my thoughts on what, if anything, had gone wrong up to 
first directs decision to close Miss Cs account.
In my provisional decision I made a number of observations  having listened to over 30 
calls between Miss C and first direct and our service and having spoken to Miss C on a 
number of occasions. I said that they were the types of observations I would have expected 
first direct to have made when deciding what adjustments, if any, it needed to make to its 
services. So, Im going to repeat them here. I said:
Miss C is clearly an intelligent individual who grasps issues very quickly. She also 
doesnt like being on the phone longer than she needs to be and likes to move on from 
one point to the next as soon as shes finished. Shes also an individual who can get 
frustrated when someone else cant keep up with her or doesnt have answers 
straightaway. And shed rather people ring her back when theyve got the answer 
rather than wait or be transferred to someone else able to answer a particular question 
she has. Much of this is down to her head injury which means she cannot tolerate 
being put on hold  and hold music in particular  and has to limit the amount of time 
she spends online. The combination of her head injury, and her need to limit the 
amount of time she spends online, along with her unreliable post, means that its really 
important to Miss C that shes able to speak to someone on the phone who can 
answer a broad range of questions quickly and accurately. Its clear from comments 
that Ive heard Miss C make that she feels this was something first direct used to do 
very well, but not so much recently. In particular, its clear that she feels first direct 
having lots of different areas dealing with particular issues  what she refers to as a 
fragmented approach  isnt helpful for someone like her. I dont necessarily agree 
with all of these observations, but I do think first direct could have done more sooner to 
adapt its service to Miss Cs particular needs. I say this because its clear that first 
direct was still making mistakes two years after Miss C had explained shed had a 
head injury and the challenges that this caused. And those mistakes caused Miss C to 
become more and more frustrated and distressed over time. In other words, had a 
cumulative impact on her.
Mastercard problems
In relation to the problems Miss C had with her payments to A, I said the following in my 
provisional decision:
I do think first direct could have done more in this particular case to help Miss C 
understand the implications of its migration from VISA to Mastercard. Equally, given 
that Miss C believed shed set up a direct debit to pay [A], I dont think first direct could 
have done much more until she called them on [date] to find out why her payments to [A] were failing. At that stage, Im satisfied that Miss C didnt understand what was 
going on. To its credit, first direct did spot that shed set up a continuous payment 
authority after the call, and why this had failed, but I do think the agent could have 
worked this out too. Thats not to say that first direct should take full responsibility. I do 
think Miss C could have given the agent more time to work out what was going on, and 
I can understand why they were looking for a direct debit payment given that this is 
what Miss C said shed set up. In short, it was a call where both parties could have 
helped more get to the bottom of what was going on. Had they done so Miss C would 
have been spared some distress and inconvenience.
Reasonable adjustments and calls generally
In relation to first direct not making reasonable adjustments and the calls Id heard, I said the 
following in my provisional decision:
I can see that Miss C complained on a number of occasions that first direct needed to 
make reasonable adjustments for her  including not putting her on hold and calling 
her back and not making her repeat herself. Given her circumstances, and in particular 
how much she came to rely on first direct for information, I do think first direct could 
and should have done more to help. Equally Ive listened to calls Miss C made before 
her head injury and, having done, Im satisfied that shes someone who thinks quickly, 
likes an answer quickly and can sometimes be short with people. I dont mean any of 
those as criticisms  theyre simply observations. But I do think theyre relevant 
because they go a long way to explaining why quite a few of the calls Ive listened to  
given how Miss C is and the impact of her head injury and the problems she has with 
her post  went off track. Once Ive considered some of the other problems Miss C has 
complained about  and whether or not first direct did anything wrong  Ill say what 
compensation, if any, first direct should pay to Miss C. That will mean saying 
something about what impact, if any, anything first direct did wrong had on Miss C.
Impact
In relation to the impact the mistakes first direct made, I said the following in my provisional 
decision:
Im satisfied that Miss C has been let down by first direct on a number of occasions, 
and that first direct didnt always provide her with the accurate information she needed 
given her particular circumstances to manage her finances well. Miss C has said what 
the impact of some of these mistakes was like. For example, shes said that [agent 
one] giving her incorrect information about her mortgage payment history caused her 
to have a major panic attack. I have, however, heard the call and, having done so, Im 
satisfied that Miss C strongly believed [agent one] had made a mistake because she 
knew shed been paying her mortgage. Im also satisfied that [agent two] confirmed 
this within a couple of minutes. Taking the cumulative effect, however, and the reliance 
Miss C placed on first direct, Im minded to say that all the occasions on which first 
direct let Miss C down have a very significant impact on Miss C and that an award of 
£1,000 would be a fair award having regard to our approach to compensation. So 
thats the award Im minded to make.
Both parties were invited to comment on my provisional decision. Miss C did. First direct 
didnt. Miss Cs comments were, however, more to do with the question of whether or not 
shed referred all of her complaints in time. In other words, relevant to other decisions Ive 
issued. In other words, neither party had anything new to say about the complaints Im 
considering in this decision.Putting things right
Ive reconsidered everything both parties have said, and having done so I remain of the view 
that all the occasions on which first direct let Miss C down have had a very significant impact 
on Miss C and that an award of £1,000 would be a fair award having regard to our approach 
to compensation. So, thats the award Im going to make.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint requiring HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as 
first direct to pay Miss C £1,000 in compensation in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman