DRN-3694572
The complaint
Mrs S complains that West Bay Insurance Plc trading as Zenith Insurance declined her pet 
insurance claim. My references to Zenith include its agents.
Mrs S is represented in her complaint by her husband, but Ill refer to Mrs S.
What happened
Mrs S pet insurance policy for her dog started on 20 February 2021, insured by Zenith. 
On 25 February 2021 Mrs S and her husband took their dog to the vet as the previous 
evening hed been vomiting. Mrs S say they mentioned their dog had a swelling on his neck, 
the vet said there was some swelling but she had no concerns.
On 8 March 2021 Mrs S dog saw the vet again because his appetite hadnt fully returned 
and his stools were loose. The vet they saw then said all the dogs lymph nodes were 
enlarged and suspected lymphoma. Their dog was referred to and seen by a specialist the 
next day and lymphoma was confirmed. Mrs S claimed for treatment of the lymphoma.
Zenith declined the claim. It said evidence from Mrs S dogs vet showed he had signs of 
lymphoma at the vet appointment on 25 February 2021. As the policy terms excluded illness 
occurring within the first 14 days of the policy starting there was no cover.
Mrs S complained to us. She said:
The vet didnt identify any signs of lymphoma during the visit on the 25 February, the 
diagnosis was a gastro virus and they were told to give their dog a bland diet. 
Viruses and vomiting could cause slight swelling in the upper throat area.
If thered been any indication of lymphoma on 25 February tests would have been 
arranged, as happened on 8 March. If the vet had suggested blood tests on 
25 February tests would have happened as she and her husband had done 
everything they could to try to treat their dog.
The vets comments which Zenith relied on were an assumption or made with the 
benefit of hindsight. The vet practice later told her it couldnt be certain lymphoma 
was present on 25 February. 
Sadly, Mrs S and her husbands dog had to be put to sleep. Mrs S wants Zenith to pay her 
claim for the lymphoma.
Our investigator said Zenith fairly declined the claim.
Mrs S disagrees. In summary she added:
Our investigator hadnt considered the vet practices comments that it couldnt know 
for certain if her dog had lymphoma at the relevant time. 
At the 25 February appointment the vet said her dog appeared fine during an 
external examination. She couldnt go into the vet practice due to covid-19 
restrictions. The vet said the problem with her dog could be something he ate or a 
virus and if it continued they would need to take bloods and stool samples to 
determine what it was. Mrs S and her husband then asked if the dogs neck felt 
swollen but theyd asked about the thyroid area, not the lymph nodes. The vet said 
there was a little swelling but didnt suggest further examination or treatment.
In stark contrast on 8 March a different vet came outside to speak to her and her 
husband within two minutes of seeing their dog, showed them all the lymph nodes 
and gave the likely diagnosis. The vet said her dog needed blood tests the next day, 
which happened. Mrs S said the diagnosis was based on the lymph nodes, not the 
swelling in the thyroid/neck area.
Shed asked Zenith which vet made the statement that it relied on to decline the 
claim. It said the vet practice told her the information was from the attending vet. 
Mrs S said she doesnt know if that was the vet they saw on 25 February and 
whether the vet referred to the appointment notes.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S but I have to 
decide whether Zenith acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim, and I think it did. Ill 
explain why.
The policy excludes Any illness arising prior to or within the first 14 days of the inception 
date of the insurance. Its very common for pet policies to exclude cover for an illness which 
starts soon after the policy began, usually within the first 14 days. 
The policy defines illness as changes in your pets state of health that are not caused by an 
accident, or any which may be resulting from gradual or biological cause.
Mrs S had raised with Zenith that she didnt think the 14 day delay for cover for illness was 
clear, but she didnt specifically include that point in her complaint to us. For the sake of 
completeness, Im satisfied Zenith did provide clear information that there was no cover for 
illness within the first 14 days of the policy. The information was sufficiently highlighted 
during the online sale of the policy and the Insurance Product Information Document, which 
is a two page summary of key features of the policy, as well as the policy document.
When Zenith assessed the claim it asked Mrs S vet practice if the neck swelling mentioned  
in the vet notes on 25 February 2021 was the start of the lymphoma, and if not what the vet 
thought the swelling related to. In June 2021 the vet practices response was:
Please find information below from the attending vet:
The lymphoma must have been present from the 25/02/2021 according to clinical 
findings.
In October 2021 the vet practice told Mrs S:
We cannot give a definitive answer in regard to this first appointment and if it was 
due to lymphoma or not. I appreciate the insurance are pushing for clarification, but it 
is not possible for us to answer. They are asking for a diagnosis before an 
investigation/workup is completed.I accept the vet practice told Mrs S it couldnt definitely say whether her dogs swelling on 
25 February was due to lymphoma. But Zenith doesnt need to show the illness was 
definitely present, it needs to show that it was more likely than not.
I think Zenith reasonably understood from the vets opinion in June 2021 and the vets notes  
that the swelling seen on 25 February 2021 was more likely than not to be lymphoma.
The vet notes for 25 February 2021 include the following :
neck swollen both sides of neck, thyroid region
Adv bloods, assess for neck swelling, check TT4
Discussed fi X-ray imaging.
The notes from the different vet on 8 March 2021 say:
O(wner) also said that still notices a swelling under the jaw. 
That vet found all the dogs lymph nodes were reactive and enlarged, including in the jaw 
area.
Mrs S says on the 25 February the vet only suggested that blood tests may be needed if her 
dogs vomiting and loose stools didnt improve, not tests for the swelling. But from the above 
information in the vets notes and the vets opinion in June 2021, I think Zenith reasonably 
understood that not only was the swelling seen on 25 February 2021 more likely than not 
related to lymphoma but also on that date the vet advised blood tests in relation to the 
swelling.
I understand Mrs S point that she and her husband did all they could to try to treat their dog 
so they would have got blood tests if so advised on 25 February. But Zenith can reasonably 
understand that the vets notes are an accurate description of what happened at the time.
Zenith said to Mrs S it would reconsider its decision to decline the claim if the vet provided 
evidence that the swelling noted on 25 February 2021 wasnt related to the lymphoma, or the 
vet notes about the swelling were incorrect. It detailed what the vet would need to provide to 
show why the opinion and/or notes should change. Zenith acted fairly in offering to reassess 
if that evidence from the vet could be provided.
I would add that Zenith should also reassess the claim if Mrs S vet at the appointment on 
25 February 2021 provides evidence that she didnt advise blood or any other tests in 
relation to the swelling on that date. We generally say its only fair and reasonable for an 
insurer to decline a claim on the basis that an illness occurred within the first 14 days of the 
policy if the consumer knew there was something wrong with their pet which could likely lead 
to some investigation or treatment. On the evidence Zenith had it could reasonably believe 
Mrs S knew about the neck swelling and tests for the swelling had been advised by the vet 
on 25 February. 
Mrs S will need to ask the vet practice which vet gave the June 2021 opinion that Zenith has 
relied on. Zenith told her what it knew about who gave the information.
I find that on the available evidence Zenith fairly and reasonably declined the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman