DRN-3128236
The complaint
Miss D complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) has unfairly 
applied charges to her account after she returned the car she had acquired through a hire 
purchase agreement.
What happened
In March 2021, Miss Ds car was inspected by the collection company employed by MBFS. 
She says that the inspector was unprofessional as he kept ringing her doorbell to ask 
unnecessary questions and made inappropriate gender based comments. Miss D says at 
the end of the inspection the inspector told her stickers had been put on her car to mark 
areas of damage. She says she wasnt given an estimate of costs at that time but instead 
she was emailed this after the car had been collected with estimated costs being £330. 
Miss D says the inspector told her that it was likely any costs would be written off and so she 
wasnt expecting to have to pay anything, or at worst to pay £330. She says she wasnt told 
that there would be a second inspection.
Miss D then received an invoice for over £900 for damage charges. She says this was then 
reduced by MBFS to £540 but she doesnt think she should be required to pay this based on 
the information provided at the inspection. 
MBFS says that adverse weather conditions were recorded on the first inspection and so a 
second inspection took place at a later date. This identified further damage with costs 
totalling over £900. After reviewing the charges MBFS agreed to remove three of the 
charges leaving total charges payable of £540. It said that these charges had been applied 
in line the vehicle return conditions.
Regarding the issues Miss D had raised about the inspectors behaviour, it contacted the 
inspector and said he disputed Miss Ds comments, saying he didnt ring the doorbell on 
several occasions and wouldnt have said the charges would be written off. 
MBFS noted Miss Ds comments about her not using the full mileage allowance but said it 
didnt offer incentives for customers returning cars with lower mileage than allowed.
Miss D didnt think MBFS had done enough to resolve her complaint and referred it to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said it was reasonable that a second 
inspection took place as the first happened in wet weather and thought the damage charges 
that remained payable had been fairly applied. She noted the comments Miss D had said the 
inspector had made but said she didnt have further evidence of this.
Miss D didnt agree with our investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Miss D is upset by the charges that were applied at the end of her 
agreement. I note the comments that she has made about the inspector but also that these 
have been disputed. While I appreciate the upset Miss D has been caused through this 
process, this decision is about the actions of MBFS and in order to uphold the complaint I 
would have to be satisfied that MBFS had done something wrong.
Miss D entered an agreement with MBFS in March 2017 to acquire a new car. The 
agreement was for 48 months. She returned the car at the end of the agreement and the first 
inspection took place on 26 March 2021. The inspection records the weather as being heavy 
rain and noting poor inspection conditions. Given this I do not find it unreasonable that a 
second inspection took place. I note Miss Ds comments about not being aware that a 
second inspection would be happening, but I do not think it unreasonable a second 
inspection occurred given the weather conditions and I note the terms and conditions say an 
inspection will take place at the defleet centre.
The first inspection noted chargeable damage to three of the wheels. The charges for these 
items totalled £330. The second inspection recorded damage to all four wheels, a tyre, door 
pad and rear bumper. I understand Miss D doesnt think she shouldnt incur charges due to 
the comments of the inspector, but I find it reasonable that charges will be applied if the 
damage falls outside of fair wear and tear.
When considering what is reasonable to be charged for we consider both MBNAs vehicle 
return standards an also the industry guidelines provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA). Miss D was provided with vehicle return standards as part of 
her agreement and so I think it reasonable to say she would have been reasonably aware of 
these. 
When Miss D raised her concerns, MBFS agreed to remove three of the charges and so I 
have only considered whether the remaining charges which relate to rim damage to two 
wheels, spoke damage to the front right wheel and the bumper being scratched. 
MBFS vehicle return standards say that minor damage or scuffing under 25mm to the alloy 
is acceptable. The BVRLA guidelines say scratches or scuffs up to 50mm on the total 
circumference of the wheel are acceptable. But damage to wheel spokes is not acceptable. 
The photographs provided as part of the inspections I think shows that the damage to the 
wheels falls outside what would be considered fair wear and tear so I do not find I can say 
that MBFS has applied these charges unfairly.
Regarding the damage to the bumper, the vehicle return conditions say that light surface 
scratches not through the paintwork are acceptable. In reference to the bumper it says that 
damage through to the base material isnt acceptable. The BVRLA say scratches to the 
paintwork up to 25mm are acceptable provided the primer or bare metal isnt showing. The 
inspection information provided shows that the paintwork has been scratched and this 
appears to be down to the primer. Therefore, I do not find I can say this charge has been 
unfairly applied. 
Overall, while I understand why Miss D is upset by the experience she had when returning 
her car, I do not find I can say the £540 of damage charges that MBFS says Miss D is liable 
for have been applied unfairly therefore I do not find I can uphold this complaint. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman