DRN-2662612
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Soteria Insurance Limited (trading as Co-Op Insurance) wrongly 
settled a claim she made on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2020, Mrs Hs car was involved in a collision with another vehicle whilst in a car 
park. So, she raised a claim under the motor insurance policy she holds with Co-Op 
Insurance. 
Based on the circumstances of the incident, Co-Op Insurance decided to settle the claim 
liability on a 50/50 basis, as in share half the costs with the third-party insurer. Because    
Co-Op Insurance didnt recover all of its costs, it recorded the claim as fault. Unhappy with 
this, Mrs H raised a complaint. She strongly denied that she was at any fault for the two 
vehicles colliding. In her view, she was blameless, considering that the third-party had 
reversed into her while her car was at a standstill. 
Co-Op Insurance maintained its position on liability. It explained that the third-party insurer 
had responded with an argument that both its policyholders car and Mrs Hs vehicle 
reversed into each other  so, liability should duly be split. Co-Op Insurance also reviewed 
CCTV footage provided by the car park establishment, which it found to evidence that the 
third-party insurers position was reasonable. According to the footage, Co-Op Insurance 
agreed that Mrs H was not stationary and therefore both drivers were at fault. 
Because Mrs H disagreed, she brought the matter to our service and one of our investigators 
considered the complaint. Having done so, he concluded that Co-Op Insurance had 
considered the claim fairly and reasonably. He was unable to review the CCTV footage, due 
to the format in which it was provided. Even so, he was satisfied that Co-Op Insurance had 
acted in line with the policy terms and it was entitled to settle the claim as it did. 
Mrs H disagrees. She argues that the footage clearly shows her vehicle was not moving at 
all and therefore its imperative for the video evidence to be seen by this service. Our 
investigator still wasnt persuaded that Co-Op Insurance had acted unreasonably, and he 
reiterated that its not our services role to decide whos at fault for the purposes of a claim  
rather, to assess whether Mrs Hs insurer has considered the claim fairly.
Because Mrs H remains in disagreement, the complaint has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
There are two very opposing accounts of events in this case. Mrs H says her vehicle was 
stationary, so the liability should rest solely with the third-party as it was their car that 
reversed into hers. Conversely, the third-party insurer states that Mrs Hs vehicle was in fact 
moving when the collision happened  so she should hold some blame.
Its important to point out that my role and that of this service isnt to decide whose fault the 
accident was, or the liability of the claim. Thats a matter for a court of law and this service 
isnt a court of law; its an informal dispute resolution service for disputes between 
consumers and the providers of financial products. 
According to the policy terms, Co-Op Insurance indemnified Mrs H against any claim which 
might be taken against her by any other driver or pedestrian. Co-Op Insurance holds the risk 
of legal costs (both its own and the third-partys), should the matter of liability go to court. 
Legal proceedings can be expensive, and the outcome cant be guaranteed, so insurers will 
consider the costs involved and the likelihood of success in making these decisions. 
This is one of the key reasons why, in line with most others, the policy says that Co-Op 
Insurance can take over the settlement of a claim. It can decide whether to defend a claim or 
settle it  or it can decide whether it is prepared to defend Mrs H if the matter went to court. 
In simpler terms, this allows Co-Op Insurance to handle any claim as it sees fit given its 
extensive experience as a motor insurer. This clause also doesnt permit Mrs H to block   
Co-Op Insurances ability to settle claims, as consent for it do so was given by her when she 
took out the insurance policy. 
That said, I expect an insurer to exercise the discretion of how it records and settles claims 
in a fair and reasonable way. Including, reasonably investigating a claim and considering the 
evidence available before making its decision on liability. So, in this case, what I have to 
decide is whether Co-Op Insurance has acted fairly and reasonably in reaching its decision 
to settle the claim on a 50/50 basis.  
Looking at how Co-Op Insurance reached its decision, Im satisfied it initially planned to 
defend Mrs Hs liability based on her version of events. It relied on the details she provided 
about the claim after giving her a fair chance to make her representations. But an insurers 
position may always change on the basis that a response from the third-party may alter the 
liability of a claim. Because, in order to duly consider all of the evidence, an insurer ought to 
assess both its policyholders and the third-partys account of what happened. 
The third-party provided their own evidence to support that both drivers should be held 
responsible for the collision, which of course challenged Mrs Hs position. There were no 
independent witnesses that corroborated Mrs Hs account. And the damage to both vehicles 
was inconclusive in determining whether Mrs Hs car was stationary at the point of impact. 
Which essentially meant it was one partys version of events against the other  with the 
evidence seemingly balanced on both sides. In light of this, it was important for Co-Op 
Insurance to secure as much evidence as possible about the collision, to allow it to 
objectively distinguish between the partys arguments and representations. 
Im satisfied that Co-Op Insurance employed reasonable endeavours to retrieve the CCTV 
footage of the incident. It contacted the car park establishment and incurred a fee in order to 
obtain this evidence. It also ensured that this was acquired in a timely manner, upon being 
notified that the footage would not be retained by the establishment passed 30 days from the 
date of the incident. Co-Op Insurance placed the most weight on this footage when reaching its decision  and 
correctly so. Documentary evidence such as this tends to be recognised by the courts as far 
more reliable than oral evidence. Even more so, when the accounts provided are from those 
who have a vested interest in the outcome (as is the case here). 
For the avoidance of doubt, I have not reviewed the footage. The way in which it was 
submitted to our service restricted me from doing so. Nevertheless, according to the rules 
and complaint handling procedures our service follows, I can give direction to the way in 
which evidence should be presented  and Im satisfied that I am able to determine a fair 
and reasonable outcome to this case, based on the evidence before me. 
I say so because, the circumstances of this claim did not mean that Co-Op Insurance had to 
draw probable inferences from unclear or unconvincing material. The claim liability was not 
contentiously decided on preference of one conflicting piece of evidence against another. On 
the contrary, when determining liability, Co-Op Insurance had the benefit of 
contemporaneous documentary evidence of the matter that is relevant to the facts in dispute. 
Moreover, I have no reason to question the credibility of the footage. There would appear no 
motive for it to have been obscured or tainted by the car park establishment, given that it had 
no vested interest in the outcome. Im satisfied this evidence was reviewed by at least two 
industry professionals of Co-Op Insurance, who both concluded that this proved that Mrs Hs 
vehicle was not stationary at impact. Indeed, both assessments agreed that her car was in 
fact moving when it collided with the third-party. 
Having reviewed Co-Op Insurances records of the claim, I find that the rationale was 
adequately explained. And although Mrs H disagrees with this assessment of the footage, I 
have no compelling reason to doubt the proficiency of Co-Op Insurances review. Taking 
everything into consideration, including the insurers experience in deciding claims, Im 
persuaded it reached a reasonable conclusion. 
Mrs H says that the liability of the claim should not simply be decided on account of whether 
she was reversing. However, in all of the circumstances, I cannot safely conclude that there 
would have been a different outcome had Co-Op Insurance conducted a better or further 
investigation. Ultimately, I find it was permitted to agree settlement on the grounds that it did. 
So, while I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mrs H, its my judgment that Co-Op 
Insurance has made its decision on the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. It follows that 
I do not require it to do anything differently for this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman