DRN-2271784
The complaint
Mr J complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) gave him incorrect information 
regarding his personal loan repayments.
What happened
Mr J received a letter from NatWest informing him he needed to make alternative banking 
arrangements. Mr J says when he telephoned NatWest to discuss this and in particular his 
personal loan account, he was informed he would be contacted to arrange a payment plan. 
Mr J didnt hear from NatWest and as a result he missed several loan repayments and his 
credit file was marked with missed payments and subsequently the loan defaulted. 
NatWest have accepted they gave Mr J incorrect information regarding the future repayment 
arrangements for his personal loan and offered to amend his credit file and pay 
compensation. 
Mr J says while NatWest have accepted this information was incorrect and have apologised 
this has still impacted on his earning capacity and ability to obtain finance elsewhere and 
wants NatWest to adequately compensate him for this. Mr J was unhappy with the response 
from NatWest and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the information available and upheld Mr Js complaint. The 
investigator agreed NatWest gave Mr J incorrect information regarding the future repayment 
arrangements for his personal loan account. To put matters right the investigator asked 
NatWest to a) Remove the default and any adverse data that's been recorded b) Place any 
collection activity on hold c) Allow Mr J  60 days to refinance the loan d) Write a letter to Mr J 
explaining the situation and the steps being taken to fix it and e) Pay Mr J £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
NatWest have accepted the view of the investigator, but Mr J was unhappy with the level of 
compensation offered and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.  
I can understand that it would be upsetting and stressful for Mr J to have been told to find 
alternative banking arrangements and then to be given incorrect information regarding the 
future arrangements regarding his personal loan account. When looking at this complaint I 
have considered if NatWest, after accepting they made a mistake with the information they 
provided Mr J, took sufficient steps to put matters right and if the compensation 
recommended by the investigator was fair and reasonable. Just to be clear, I am only 
considering the issue concerning the mis information given regarding the future loan 
repayment arrangements and not of the notice to make alternative banking arrangements as 
this has been looked at in a separate complaint to this service or the impact that part of his   
complaint may have had.
What happened here was Mr J received a letter giving him 60 days-notice to make 
alternative banking arrangements. Mr J telephoned NatWest to discuss this letter in 
February 2019 and asked about the arrangements for his personal loan. Having listened to 
the call an advisor from NatWest says Mr J would be contacted to arrange a repayment plan 
and his credit file wouldnt be affected if the payments were kept up to date. From the 
information I have seen NatWest didnt specifically contact Mr J about the future 
arrangements for his loan and by their own admission the information they gave to Mr J 
wasnt correct.  It is worth mentioning that in the 60 - day notice letter dated February 2019,  
NatWest explained any loans needed to be either refinanced elsewhere and/or the payments 
to be kept up to date from his new bank account, that said, I can understand the subsequent 
telephone call would have led Mr J to possibly think otherwise. 
I can see Mr J had made payments to his loan without issue leading up to the telephone call 
in February 2019. On balance, I am satisfied Mr J would have continued to do so, if it werent 
for the conflicting information NatWest gave regarding the future arrangements for paying 
back his loan with them. 
NatWest have since apologised and have made clear what the arrangements should be 
regarding the loan in their final response letter in May 2019. In that letter NatWest also 
agreed to amend Mr Js credit file and were happy to discuss a compensation payment and 
this is what I would expect to see. Mr J says  the misinformation about his future loan 
repayments has affected his credit status and affected his ability to earn the level of income 
he previously enjoyed.  
I understand the point Mr J makes, but this service has now asked NatWest to correct his 
credit file to remove any adverse credit file data, place collection activity on hold and allow 
him 60 days to refinance the loan. While Mr J may not agree, I cant see from the information 
I have seen the conflicting information regarding the future loan arrangements can be 
attributed to any loss of earnings as he claims. In any event part of the redress is for 
NatWest to provide Mr J with a letter explaining he was given incorrect advice regarding his 
loan repayments resulting in negative data on his credit file which along with his amended 
credit file, would make clear the mistake was of NatWests making and not Mr Js. I am 
satisfied this is a fair and reasonable solution here and should allow Mr J to move on with his 
affairs. 
While Mr J will not be happy with my decision, I will instruct NatWest to carry out the 
recommendations of the investigator including the compensation payment of £200.
Putting things right
I instruct National Westminster Bank Plc to a) Remove the default and any adverse data 
that's been recorded on Mr Js credit file b) Place any collection activity on hold to allow Mr J 
60 days to refinance the loan c) Write a letter to Mr J explaining the reasons for the incorrect 
adverse credit information against him and the steps being taken to fix it and d) to pay Mr J 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct National Westminster Bank Plc to a) Remove the default and any adverse data 
that's been recorded on Mr Js credit file b) Place any collection activity on hold to allow Mr J 
60 days to refinance the loan c) Write a letter to Mr J explaining the reasons for the incorrect 
adverse credit information against him and the steps being taken to fix it and d) to pay Mr J 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman