DRN-2502822
The complaint
Miss W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (t/a Barclaycard) (Barclays) mis-sold her 
payment protection insurance (PPI) with a credit card in 2005.
What happened
Miss W took out a credit card with Barclays in 2005. At the same time she was sold PPI 
which would have covered 10% of her outstanding balance each month if she wasnt able to 
work due to an accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment. It also provided life cover 
for the balance. 
Miss W says she was unaware of the PPI and that she wouldnt have wanted it. She says it 
was added without her knowledge or consent.
Our adjudicator who considered Miss Ws complaint didnt think it should be upheld. Miss W 
disagrees, so her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set our our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Ws 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision. 
Miss W indicated to Barclays that she wanted to take out a credit card by returning a form to 
Barclays. This was followed up by Barclays with a phone call where the full application was 
made.
Theres no recording of this phone call, which isnt surprising given over 17 years have 
passed since then. But from what this service knows of Barclays processes at the time I am 
satisfied that the PPI wasnt compulsory, and Miss W would have been given a choice about 
taking it. I havent seen anything to suggest that anything different was done in Miss Ws 
case. Miss W says she was unaware of the PPI, although it appeared on her credit card 
statements. I think if she hadnt agreed to take it she would have questioned it when she saw 
it, although I appreciate she may not remember that so many years later.
So, on balance, I am satisfied Miss W was given a choice about taking the PPI and she 
elected to buy it.
Barclays didnt provide Miss W with any personal advice about the PPI, so it didnt have to 
make sure it was right for her. But it did need to make sure it gave Miss W enough 
information about the policy that she could decide for herself whether to take it.
I think its unlikely that Barclays gave Miss W all of this information. But that doesnt mean 
Miss Ws complaint should automatically be upheld. I have to consider whether, if Miss W 
had been given all the information she needed, she would have taken the PPI anyway. I 
think that she would have done so. I say this because:
Miss W was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the terms or 
exclusions which may have meant it wasnt suitable. For example, she didnt have 
any existing medical conditions which would have been excluded from cover and her 
employment status didnt prevent her from making a successful claim
Miss W had limited sick pay and was only entitled to statutory redundancy pay (which 
would have only been worth a few weeks salary at most, given her length of 
service). The PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months at a time, so it seems it 
would have provided a useful benefit if Miss W couldnt work;
The policy could have been cancelled at any time. I havent seen any evidence that it 
was unaffordable for Miss W.
On balance, while its possible that Barclays may not have done everything it should have 
done when selling the PPI to Miss W, I dont think Miss W would have acted any differently if 
Barclays had given her all the information she needed.  As a result, I dont think Miss W has 
lost out as a result of anything Barclays may have done wrong, so I do not uphold her 
complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint so it follows that Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have 
to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman