DRN-3965116
The complaint
Mr B complains Yoga Insurance Services Limited (Yoga)  did not make the changes he had 
requested on its on-line system. He said this left him uninsured on his new car.
What happened
Mr B bought a motor insurance policy through Yoga in December 2021. In June 2022 he 
bought a new car.
Mr B went on to Yogas on-line portal on 8 June 2022 and went through a process to change 
his car details. Yogas portal acknowledged a change had been made and made a charge of 
£20 and sent the updated documents to him for checking.
On 22 June 2022 Mr B realised the new documentation had the details of the car he had 
sold and not his new car. He contacted Yoga via its live chat and the advisor confirmed it still 
held the details of his old car and not the new one on his policy. They said the system had 
gone through the change process without amending the car. 
The advisor on the live chat said they could make the changes and took the details of Mr Bs 
new car. But when they tried to make the change it was declined by the insurer due to the 
age of the car. The advisor said the insurer was only able to insure vehicles over a certain 
age if owned for more than three years. Mr B was advised to cancel his policy and obtain a 
new policy elsewhere.
Mr B said he had not been insured between 8 June 2022 and 22 June 2022 and he should 
be compensated for the frustration and distress caused by this error. He said if hed had an 
accident he would have been responsible for any claims. He said hed never heard of a 
condition where an insurer would not offer cover for a car over a certain age .
Yoga said if the change had been updated correctly with the details of his new car its portal 
would have recognised it could not offer cover and would have directed him to live chat.
Yoga did not charge Mr B a cancellation fee and it refunded him the cost of his premiums 
from the date he sold his car.
As Mr B was not happy with Yoga, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said Yoga had 
responded fairly to Mr Bs complaint. They said the refund of the £20 change fee, the 
backdating of the policy cancellation date and as he was not charged a cancellation fee was 
fair and reasonable. They did not think Yoga had made an error. 
As Mr B is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case Yoga are the broker and not the insurer. Yoga is an online business and deal 
with its customers through its online portal and online chat only.
When Mr B attempted to make the adjustment to his policy on Yogas portal on 8 June 2022  
the process completed but without any amendment being made to the car. It is accepted that 
an error occurred, but I have seen no evidence to say if the update was due to human error 
by Mr B or a system error. 
Yogas system automatically charged an adjustment fee as the on-line change process 
completed. It also automatically sent a letter to Mr B on the same date to confirm the 
changes he had made along with the details of his cover.
I saw the first line of the letter that was sent to Mr B says;
Please take a moment to ensure all the details are correct and that your demands and 
needs have been met. If any details are incorrect, please contact us via our live chat service 
on your customer portal at www.xxxx-xxxxxx.co.uk.
I do accept that Mr B thought he had made the change to his policy, but it was his 
responsibility to check the change had updated correctly. If he had checked the details, as 
Yoga instructed, he would have seen that the policy was still for the car he had sold.  
Mr B said Yogas systems arent fit for purpose and it should have seen there were no new 
details after it had charged him for the change of details, and it should have contacted him. 
My decision can only look at the merits of this specific complaint. I cannot comment on 
Yogas overall operational procedures, which includes the system it uses, and potential 
issues that may occur due to the way Yoga operates its core business.
I can understand Mr B would have been frustrated and worried when he did check his 
documentation on 22 June 2022 and found he had no cover on his new car. I understand 
that thinking about the consequences of what could have happened will have caused him 
worry. However our service is only able to consider what did happen, rather then what could 
have happened. 
Yoga said if the details of Mr Bs new car had been added correctly its system would have 
shown a decline message as the insurer did not offer cover for his new car and he would 
have been directed to live chat. I cannot hold Yoga responsible for identifying the change 
had not been made as it had clearly instructed him to check the details were correct.
As Yoga are the broker it does not make decisions about policy offers. That is down to the 
insurance underwriter. All insurers constantly update their policy acceptance criteria. 
Underwriting criteria is not outlined in policy documentation. This is the same for all insurers, 
this information is private and isnt available for the public to prevent fraud and manipulation.
Each insurer will take its own view on how to underwrite. It will decide what factors to take 
into account and how much weight to put on each of them. In this case the insurer provided 
me with confidential business sensitive information that shows it would not offer cover for 
Mr Bs new car. Im afraid I cant share that document with you, but Ive checked it carefully. 
Im satisfied all customers in Mr Bs position will not have been offered cover with that 
specific insurer.Page nine of the Yoga information booklet says;
Your insurer has the right not to accept your policy due to your new details not meeting their 
criteria. If this does happen, we will cancel your policy and our normal broker cancellation 
fee will be applied.
When Mr B contacted the live chat on 22 June 2022 Yoga gave Mr B the option to cancel his 
policy because his insurer did not offer cover for his new car. Yoga said that none of its 
panel of insurers offered a policy that would cover his new car. 
Yoga acknowledged that Mr B did manage to obtain a new quote through its system, 
however it said the details he submitted had significant differences to the details it held for 
his other car. The differences included changes to annual mileage, voluntary excess, usage 
and didnt include a named driver. 
I think the actions Yoga took to repay the policy premiums back to the point Mr B sold his 
car, remove the change fee and also the cancellation fee as a good will gesture are fair. 
Mr B is concerned he will need to disclose the cancellation of his policy in the future and that 
his may penalise him. I have confirmed with Yoga that a cancellation wouldnt count against 
him, because he cancelled it himself and therefore he wont need to declare it.
 
Therefore, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint and do not require Yoga to do anything further in 
this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman