DRN-3682109
The complaint
Mr R complains about the decision by Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) 
to turn down his income protection claim. 
What happened
Mr R is covered by his employers group income protection scheme. The aim of the scheme 
is to pay benefit in the event Mr R cant work in an occupation to which hes suited by way of 
education, training or experience due to illness or injury. 
In 2020, Mr R stopped work due to problems with his right foot. Mr R made a claim to L&G; 
however, this was turned down as L&G didnt think Mr R met the scheme definition of a 
disabled member. Unhappy with this, Mr R brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought the evidence 
supported that Mr R could carry out another occupation, and so he concluded that L&Gs 
decision to turn down the claim had been reasonable. 
Mr R didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Benefit is payable if Mr R meets the scheme definition of a disabled member. This is defined 
within the policy as:
an Insured Member who at any time, 
(i) In the opinion of Legal & General, is incapacitated by a specific, diagnosed illness or 
injury so that he is unable to undertake any occupation which Legal & General 
considers to be appropriate to his experience, training, or education...
The policy schedule includes an overriding provision which says that a member must meet 
the above definition, and the medical evidence must suggest that the condition is likely to be 
permanent for the rest of the members working life. 
The medical evidence supports that Mr Rs foot problems prevented him from carrying out a 
role where he needed to wear safety boots. 
Mr R had surgery in May 2022. His specialist has advised this service that the surgery will 
have approximately 50-60% chance of improving Mr Rs symptoms over the following 12-18 
months. However, his specialist thought Mr R would still have some ongoing symptoms. He 
also said he would be surprised if Mr R would be able to manage a manual job going 
forwards.
I dont think this evidence is enough for me to conclude that Mr Rs condition is likely to be 
permanent for the rest of his working life. The impact of the surgery on Mr Rs symptoms will 
only fully be known 12-18 months after it took place. However, for completeness, Ive also 
considered whether Mr R met the definition of a disabled member.
It isnt in dispute that Mr R couldnt carry out his normal occupation due to his foot problems. 
That is because his role required him to wear safety boots. In order to decide whether Mr R 
could carry out other roles to which he was suited by way of education, training or 
experience, L&G arranged for its vocational clinical specialist (Miss D) to provide her opinion 
on this. 
Miss D accepted that Mr R wouldnt be able to work in a physically demanding role, but she 
thought he would be able to work in a sedentary role. This was based on Mr R having 
experience of administrative work, and that he had written some novels. 
L&G didnt name any specific roles that it thought Mr R could do. However, taking into 
account Mr Rs administrative and writing experience (amongst other skills), I think it was 
reasonable for L&G to conclude that he had transferable skills that could be used in a 
sedentary type role and that he could therefore work in another occupation to which he was 
suited. 
Mr R says he looked for administrative type roles with his employer, but there werent any 
available. However, as our investigator has explained, the availability of a role (with Mr Rs 
employer or another employer) doesnt need to be taken into account by L&G. 
I recognise my decision will disappoint Mr R, but Im satisfied that it was reasonable for L&G 
to conclude that he didnt meet the scheme definition of a disabled member and to turn down 
the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman