DRN-3456613
The complaint
Mr S complains that the vehicle he acquired through a Conditional Sale Agreement (CSA) 
with Moneybarn No 1 Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr S entered into a CSA with Moneybarn on 1 April 2021. He took delivery of the vehicle on 
13 April 2021. He says he returned the vehicle to the garage the next day because it had an 
oil leak and was generally in poor condition. He didnt feel it was safe to drive the vehicle. 
On 21 April 2021 Mr S wrote to the dealer stating that he was exercising his short term right 
to reject the vehicle. He said the vehicle had been mis-sold, was in a poor condition and 
falsely advertised. He said the vehicle was not as described and was not fit for purpose.
Moneybarn investigated the matter. It said the dealership was positive there was no oil leak 
and that what Mr S had reported was simply oil residue which had been steam cleaned and 
was no longer present. At this time Mr S told Moneybarn about a range of other problems 
with the vehicle. He said:
- the interior roof lining was loose;
- there was an ongoing oil leak;
- there was rust to the bodywork;
- shelving had been installed to the vehicle;
- there was a fuel smell in the cabin;
- there was a fuel leak;
- there was damage to the interior and exterior of the vehicle;
- the vehicle was filthy;
- the radio function was faulty; and
- the vehicle was not fit for purpose and was of unsatisfactory quality
Moneybarn appointed an independent expert to inspect the vehicle. The inspection took 
place on 14 June 2021. The expert said that the vehicle was in average condition 
commensurate with its age and recorded mileage. The expert also said that in his opinion 
there were no issues which required attention. There was no evidence of oil contamination 
or an oil leak and although there was evidence of corrosion to the underside of the vehicle 
this was in keeping with its age and mileage. 
There were a number of fault codes reported on the diagnostics report. Some of these had 
been present at the point when the vehicle was supplied to Mr S. But, the expert said, none 
of these fault codes related to the engine or impacted on the proper functioning of the 
vehicle.
The expert believed that the fuel filler cap was missing but subsequently confirmed that this 
was not the case because the fuel door flaps were lockable by the central locking system.
Moneybarn sent its final response letter to Mr S in July 2021. It said it was satisfied that the 
vehicle was of satisfactory quality at the point when it was delivered to Mr S. As a gesture of 
goodwill it offered to pay him £75 by way of contribution to have the vehicle cleaned and a 
further £75 to have the fault codes cleared from the diagnostic report. Mr S didnt agree. He 
said he had returned the vehicle to the dealer and he hadnt been able to drive the vehicle 
since that date. In addition, the dealer had refused to give him back the vehicle he had given 
it in part exchange. He said hed exercised his short term right to reject and he wanted the 
agreement to be unwound.
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into his complaint. She 
said the relevant legislation stated that a vehicle was of satisfactory quality if it met the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. She said the age and 
mileage of the vehicle were relevant considerations. In this case the vehicle was seven 
years old when Mr S acquired it and had travelled 98,900 miles. So, given the age and 
mileage there was a greater risk that the vehicle might need some repair or maintenance 
sooner than a younger vehicle would. 
Our investigator considered the independent experts report. She said it confirmed there was 
no evidence of an oil leak and the report didnt support the comments Mr S had made about 
the condition of the car. She thought the offer to pay £75 to clear the fault codes and £75 by 
way of contribution to clean the vehicle was fair and reasonable. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said hed provided photographs which showed there was an oil leak. 
He believed the leak was still present  but if it wasnt that was because the dealer had fixed 
it prior to the inspection. He said the vehicle was a death trap. 
Our investigator thought about what Mr S said but she didnt change her view. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss complaint is about the vehicle not being of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mr S acquired the vehicle through a CSA. Under the regulations, specifically the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 (CRA) Moneybarn can be held liable if the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. 
Satisfactory quality is defined in the CRA. It says that the quality of goods is satisfactory if 
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking account 
of the description of the goods, the price and all other relevant circumstances.
So, when considering whether the vehicle Mr S acquired was of satisfactory quality I can 
take into account a number of factors such as the price he paid, the age and the mileage of 
the vehicle when it was acquired. 
The vehicle here was almost seven years old. It had approximately 100,000 miles on the 
clock and cost just under £13,500. So, in these circumstances, Id expect a vehicle of this 
age and mileage to have much more wear and tear and serviceability issues than a new or 
younger model of the vehicle. I think its also more likely that a vehicle of this age and 
mileage would need repair or maintenance sooner than a newer or younger model of the 
vehicle.
Mr S says he selected the car by looking at photographs online. He collected the car at 
5.45pm on 13 April 2021. Because the garage was about to close he didnt carry out a close inspection of the vehicle. But he returned the vehicle the next day after he noticed the oil 
leak, smelt fumes in the cabin of the vehicle and noticed the general poor condition of the 
vehicle. Hes provided photographs which he says are evidence of the oil leak and the other 
points hes raised.
Ive looked at the photographs provided by Mr S. I can see evidence of oil residue on the 
underside of the vehicle and around the engine. Moneybarn says there was no oil leak at the 
point of delivery. The independent expert has confirmed that. There is no dispute that there 
was oil residue. But the dealer says this was residue from a repair carried out prior to the 
sale and it has been steam cleaned.
I can see that the day before the vehicle was delivered to Mr S it was subject to an MOT. It 
passed the MOT but there was an advisory which stated 
monitor and repair if necessary. Oil leak but not excessive. 
The dealer said it carried out the repair prior to the sale. And, the dealer said that in these 
circumstances it wasnt unusual for there to be oil residue. 
The independent expert examined the vehicle. And, although this was some weeks after 
Mr S had taken delivery of the vehicle, he said he couldnt find any evidence of an oil leak. 
He noted the engine oil and coolant were satisfactory and there was no fault showing on the 
diagnostics to indicate any fault with the engine. 
Having considered the independent expert report, Im satisfied the vehicle did not have an oil 
leak present or developing at the point of supply. Im persuaded, on balance, that what Mr S 
had seen was oil residue from a repair carried out prior to the time when he took delivery of 
the vehicle. 
Ive also considered the various points Mr S raised about the general condition of the 
vehicle. The independent report deals with most of the issues Mr S has raised:
-the interior roof lining was loose
the report states that although the lining was dirty it was not hanging down.
-there was rust to the bodywork 
the report states that an underbody examination was carried out and there was no 
corrosion to an excess degree albeit some of the underside was masked by the dirt 
build up.
-shelving had been installed to the vehicle
the report doesnt comment on this. But, I can see, from the photographs provided by 
Mr S that shelving had been installed in the boot of the vehicle. Ill comment about 
this further below.
-there was a fuel smell in the cabin
the independent expert said there was no evidence, at the date of inspection, to 
support what Mr S said. 
-there was a fuel leak
the independent expert said there was no evidence, at the date of inspection, to 
support what Mr S said. The expert also concluded, after examination of further 
evidence, that the fuel cap was not missing.
-there was damage to the interior and exterior of the vehicle;the independent expert said there was evidence the vehicle had scratches and a 
minor dent to the tailgate and drivers rear door. But, the expert said these were 
consistent with general in service wear and deterioration and as expected for the 
vehicles age and mileage.
-the vehicle was filthy
Ive looked at the photographs Mr S provided. These do show that the vehicle was 
dirty both inside and outside. The expert also said the underside of the vehicle was 
masked by dirt build up. Ill comment further below about what Moneybarn offered to 
do to contribute to having the vehicle cleaned. 
-the radio function was faulty
The independent expert checked the radio and confirmed it was functioning in all its 
options.
-the vehicle was not fit for purpose and was of unsatisfactory quality
The independent experts opinion was that there were no issues which required 
attention. The vehicle started first time from the ignition key. The independent expert 
carried out a road test and concluded that the vehicle was operating generally in a 
condition commensurate with its age and mileage.
The independent experts report did refer to several fault codes that were present on the 
diagnostic report. But, he said none of these fault codes related to the engine and it wasnt 
clear if they were historical fault codes that hadnt been cleared. Ill comment further below 
about what Moneybarn offered to do regarding these fault codes.
Having read the independent experts report, examined the photographs Mr S provided and 
considered the MOT result dated 12 April 2021, Im not persuaded the vehicle was of 
unsatisfactory quality at the point it was supplied. Im satisfied, on balance, that there wasnt 
an oil leak present or developing at the point of delivery. Im also satisfied that none of the 
issues hes mentioned were such that a reasonable person wouldve considered the vehicle 
to be of unsatisfactory quality taking into account all relevant circumstances, including the 
age and mileage of the vehicle.
Because Ive decided that the vehicle was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, the 
right to reject the goods does not arise.
Mr S also said the vehicle had been misdescribed. Hes referred to shelving in the boot area 
of the vehicle and the general appearance of the vehicle  both inside and outside. I asked 
him to provide evidence about the online advertisement for the vehicle. He hasnt been able 
to provide a copy of the advertisement. He says the pictures have been taken down from the 
online website and he didnt keep a copy of this at the time. So, he hasnt been able to 
provide any evidence to support what he says.
Mr S says he collected the vehicle without carrying out a detailed inspection. He says it was 
late in the evening and it was only the next day he had the opportunity to look at everything 
in more detail. But, despite collecting the vehicle late in the evening, I think it would be 
reasonable for Mr S to have carried out some inspection of the vehicle prior to taking 
delivery as some of the things hes mentioned wouldve been readily visible to him  such as 
the shelving in the boot area, and the condition and appearance of the exterior and interior of 
the vehicle. So, I wouldve expected him to have raised some comments at the time and, if 
he had concerns, to have delayed the delivery of the vehicle until a later time. He didnt do 
that. In these circumstances, Im not persuaded theres sufficient evidence to support what 
hes told us about the vehicle having been misdescribed.There is evidence to support what Mr S said about the vehicle being dirty. And, although I 
can understand why Mr S found this unacceptable, Im not persuaded it meant the vehicle 
was of unsatisfactory quality. Ive noted that Moneybarn has agreed to pay £75 towards 
having the vehicle cleaned. Its also agreed to pay £75 towards having the historical fault 
codes cleared from the diagnostic report. I think thats fair and reasonable. I dont require it 
to have to do anything else to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint, in part, about Moneybarn No 1 Limited.
Moneybarn No 1 Limited has already made an offer to settle this complaint. Its offered to pay 
Mr S £75 by way of contribution to have the vehicle cleaned and £75 to have the historical 
fault codes cleared. I think that is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Moneybarn No 1 Limited should pay Mr S £75 by way of contribution 
to have the vehicle cleaned and £75 to have the historical fault codes cleared.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman