DRN-4054086
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE didnt agree to provide her with inclusive 
travel insurance.
What happened
As the background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, I havent set this out in 
detail here. Instead, Ive set out a summary of what I think are the key events.
Mrs R held inclusive travel insurance alongside her holiday bookings, which were arranged 
by a company Ill call S. S also acts as an insurance broker. I understand an underwriting 
assessment had been carried out in 2018, based on Mrs Rs medical history at that time. 
However, in January 2022, Mrs R provided S with new information about her health. This 
included new diagnoses and the fact that Mrs R had also undergone heart surgery. So S 
referred this information on to Great Lakes. Great Lakes weighed up whether it was still 
prepared to offer Mrs R inclusive travel insurance alongside her holiday bookings.  And, 
following a new assessment in line with Great Lakes underwriting criteria, it confirmed that it 
wouldnt offer Mrs R inclusive cover.
Mrs R was very unhappy with Great Lakes decision and she asked us to look into her 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld. She explained that we cant 
tell insurers what risks they should cover. Great Lakes had provided information about how it 
had reached the decision not to offer Mrs R inclusive insurance. She said that as a result of 
the changes in Mrs Rs health since 2018, Great Lakes concluded that the overall risk to it of 
Mrs R making a claim was too high. It had provided evidence to show that it could no longer 
provide inclusive cover. So our investigator didnt think Great Lakes had treated Mrs R 
unfairly.
Mrs R disagreed and Ive summarised her responses to our investigator. She felt information 
recorded in her medical records was incorrect and was defamatory. Shed answered Great 
Lakes questions accurately and honestly. She wanted her medical records to be corrected.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs R, I dont think Great Lakes has 
treated her unfairly and Ill explain why.
First, I must make it clear that this decision will only consider whether it was fair for Great 
Lakes to decline to offer Mrs R inclusive travel insurance in January 2022. Mrs R has since 
provided new medical evidence in support of her position. This information wasnt available 
to Great Lakes when it decided not to offer cover. I understand that, separate to this 
complaint, our investigator has now sent that information on to Great Lakes so that it can 
consider whether its prepared to offer inclusive cover going forwards. If Mrs R is unhappy 
with the outcome of such a review, she may be able to make a new complaint about that 
issue alone.
I must also make it clear that this decision will only look at Great Lakes actions as the 
insurer of the inclusive travel insurance policy. I appreciate that Mrs R has concerns about 
the information noted on her medical records. But this is a matter between Mrs R and her 
medical providers. Great Lakes isnt responsible for any of the information detailed on Mrs 
Rs medical notes.  And I think it was reasonable for Great Lakes to rely on the medical 
information it was given in January 2022. 
It might be helpful if I explain how we look at complaints like Mrs Rs. We dont generally tell 
insurers how they should calculate risk or whether or not they should offer insurance cover.  
Great Lakes is entitled to decide whether or not it wants to offer insurance cover for a 
particular risk - in this case, whether it was prepared to provide Mrs R with an inclusive 
policy. 
So in 2018, Great Lakes assessed the risk of Mrs R needing to make a claim due to her 
medical conditions and decided that it was prepared to offer her an inclusive policy. 
However, in January 2022, Great Lakes reassessed the risk of Mrs R needing to make a 
claim after she told S about changes to her health (and in particular, that shed undergone 
heart surgery). And following that assessment, Great Lakes decided the risk was too high 
and declined to offer cover.
It's clear that Mrs R is very upset by Great Lakes decision not to offer her an inclusive travel 
insurance policy and I appreciate she feels its decision is unfair.
In complaints like Mrs Rs, I generally consider whether an insurer has assessed the risk in 
line with its underwriting criteria. This is so that I can be satisfied that Mrs R has been 
treated in the same way as any other Great Lakes customer in similar circumstances and 
hasnt been singled out in any way. 
Great Lakes has provided me with underwriting evidence which shows the medical factors it 
took into account when it considered whether or not to provide cover in January 2022. Im 
afraid I cant share this with Mrs R because its commercially sensitive and therefore, its 
confidential. But I hope it reassures Mrs R to know that I have considered this evidence 
carefully. 
What I am able to tell Mrs R though is that based on what Ive seen, Great Lakes made its 
decision not to offer her inclusive travel insurance following an assessment in line with its 
underwriting criteria and based on the medical evidence available to it in January 2022. So 
whilst I sympathise with Mrs Rs position, Im satisfied Great Lakes has treated Mrs R in the 
same way it would treat any other policyholder in the same or very similar circumstances to 
her own. So I cant reasonably say its treated her unfairly or that shes been singled out in 
any way.
Overall, I find that Great Lakes didnt act unfairly or unreasonably when it decided not to 
offer Mrs R inclusive cover in January 2022.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman