DRN-3997429
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as M, complains that TSB Bank plc unfairly closed its current 
account and terminated its Bounce Back Loan facility.
Ms A is Ms director and brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
M opened a current account and savings account with TSB in March 2020. 
M successfully applied to TSB for a loan of £25,000 under the government-backed Bounce 
Back Loan Scheme in May 2020. 
Ms A approached TSB for a top-up loan under the Loan Scheme in April 2021. This 
prompted TSB to review Ms eligibility for the original loan it had obtained. Under the 
Scheme rules, applicants had to be trading on 1 March 2020 and could borrow no more than 
25% of their annual turnover. So TSB asked Ms A to provide evidence that M met these 
requirements.
Ms A provided some further information to TSB but the bank ultimately concluded that M 
hadnt been eligible for the Bounce Back Loan it had obtained. It also considered that the 
company had breached the terms of the agreement in using the loan proceeds for purposes 
other than Ms business. So it terminated the agreement and demanded immediate 
repayment of the loan balance. It also closed Ms accounts, and applied the funds held 
within them  of around £4,000  to reduce the amount M owed on the Bounce Back Loan.
As TSB considered Ms application to have been fraudulent and the loan facility to have 
been misused, it registered information to this effect on the database administered by Cifas 
(a fraud prevention agency).
Ms A doesnt think TSB has treated M fairly. In summary, she says:
M met the Loan Scheme eligibility criteria, including having the requisite turnover to 
qualify for the loan it obtained. And shed actually understated Ms turnover in the 
original loan application  shed declared a figure of £115,000, but it was £259,000.
TSB initially approved the application, after Ms A had provided the bank with some 
financial information to demonstrate Ms eligibility. And this decision came only after 
the bank had declined Ms initial request for a loan of £50,000. 
TSB shouldve done more checks at the time if it was unwilling to lend  and if it had 
declined the initial application, M couldve appealed and/or borrowed elsewhere.
TSB froze Ms accounts while it was conducting its review, during which time it 
rejected incoming and outgoing payments in breach of its own terms and conditions.
The loan funds had been used to help M recover from the impact of the coronavirus 
pandemic, as intended under the Loan Scheme rules, by paying creditors and 
wages.
TSB didnt have valid grounds for the Cifas filings it had recorded, as the application 
and supporting documents had been genuine and as the loan funds hadnt been 
misused.
My provisional decision
I sent a provisional decision to both parties last month, explaining why I didnt intend to 
uphold the complaint. I said:
Under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, applicants could borrow no more 
than 25% of their annual turnover (which was to be based on turnover during the 
2019 calendar year). 
M obtained a Bounce Back Loan of £25,000, meaning it needed to have generated a 
turnover of at least £100,000 during 2019. In making Ms application, Ms A declared 
that the company had the requisite level of turnover to qualify for this loan. But on 
review, TSB concluded that the companys turnover wasnt at the requisite level. I 
think the banks position was reasonable, as:
Statements for Ms main account  held elsewhere  show a significantly 
lower amount of turnover through 2019 than the £100,000 needed to qualify 
for the loan amount (or the other, higher amounts declared by Ms A on 
separate occasions). Even accepting that all the payments received into the 
account represented turnover for M, this only totals in the region of £20,000.
Ms A has suggested that M received £258,000 in cash during the financial 
year 2018/19. But there is little by way of evidence to substantiate this, other 
than the documents that Ms A has created herself. The level of cash 
payments  none of which appear to have been banked  and total absence 
of any card payments strike me as somewhat unusual, given the nature of the 
business. 
Ms level of income is also substantially higher than the company declared in 
its previous year  which was just £86. And while such growth isnt 
impossible, it is hard to reconcile the two figures given the absence of 
evidence to verify the alleged activity during 2019.
I understand Ms A doesnt think TSB handled things fairly by approving the 
application initially, only to review it sometime later and conclude that M wasnt 
eligible. But I dont think it did anything wrong in this respect. TSB wasnt obliged to 
verify Ms eligibility before providing it with the loan. In keeping with the nature of the 
Loan Scheme, applicants self-attested to eligibility with minimal checks by lenders in 
order to process applications and provide funds quickly. So the bank was entitled to 
rely on the information Ms A provided it when making the application. The application 
form that Ms A completed also made clear the importance of providing accurate 
information, and the consequences of not doing so.
I can see that TSB did carry out some checks on Ms initial application, in that prior to 
approving the £25,000 loan it had declined Ms As request for £50,000 and had 
asked for some evidence of the companys trading activity. But I cant say it was at fault for proceeding to approve the £25,000 loan, given that it was still entitled to 
accept at face value what Ms A was saying at the time. The bank satisfied itself of 
Ms eligibility at the time, and proceeded in good faith on that basis. It was only when 
it conducted a more thorough review in 2021 that the bank had cause to consider M 
ineligible, and I dont think it ought necessarily to have done so any sooner.
Under the terms and conditions of Ms Bounce Back Loan agreement, TSB was 
entitled to terminate the loan and demand its immediate repayment in certain 
circumstances. This included where any representation or statement made by M to 
the bank proves to have been incorrect or inaccurate. Given all Ive said above, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for TSB to terminate the agreement on that basis. 
TSB also had concerns as to how the Bounce Back Loan funds had been utilised. A 
Bounce Back Loan could only be used to provide economic benefit to the business, 
and not for personal purposes. The bank noted that Ms A transferred £23,000 from 
Ms account to her own in September 2020. Sometime later, £20,000 was transferred 
from Ms As account to a firm of solicitors in order to complete a property purchase in 
Ms As name. TSB believes this to have been a misuse of the loan funds.
Ms A says that the £23,000 transfer to her own account was a directors loan and 
that, in any event, it didnt utilise the loan funds. She says it was from income 
generated by the company in the preceding months. It is difficult for me to be sure 
what Ms As intentions were, and the various transfers of funds also make it hard to 
determine the exact origin of funds used for any particular transaction. Ultimately 
though, I think there is a clear enough connection between the transactions that 
justify the banks position. I say this because:
The Bounce Back Loan funds were immediately transferred out of Ms current 
account on receipt, to the companys savings account. They remained there, 
untouched, until £23,000 was transferred to Ms As personal account on 
25 September 2020.
Ms account balance at the time of this transfer was around £4,000  meaning 
that most, if not all, of the £23,000 that was transferred originated from the 
loan.
Once these funds were in Ms As personal account, she transferred them to 
her personal savings account. They remained there until Ms A transferred a 
larger amount from her savings to the solicitors in April 2021.
With the Bounce Back Loan funds having been hived off as soon as they 
were received, I dont think it can be said that they were ever utilised for the 
business purposes that Ms A describes. While they sat in the companys 
savings account (and later, Ms As personal account), the business met its 
commitments through the remainder of funds held in the account and 
subsequent credits.
So it also seems that the loan wasnt used for the requisite purpose, ultimately being 
utilised in a personal property purchase by Ms A. This also entitled TSB to terminate 
the agreement, being a breach of the terms and conditions. 
Under the terms and conditions of Ms account and the loan agreement, TSB also 
had the right of set off  in short, it was entitled to use any credit balance held by M 
in any other account with TSB towards the repayment of any amounts the company owed to the bank. So I dont think TSB did anything wrong in removing the funds 
from Ms accounts and applying these to reduce the amount it was owed under the 
Bounce Back Loan agreement. 
The actions TSB took when restricting and later closing Ms accounts  including its 
rejection of payment instructions while it was reviewing the Bounce Back Loan  
were in line with the applicable terms and conditions. And, given all Ive said about 
the validity of the banks concerns over Ms entitlement to (and use of) the loan, were 
reasonable steps for it to take. 
Ms A is also unhappy that TSB recorded information about the application and use of 
the funds with Cifas. But those filings were in her personal name and as such, 
wouldnt be something that I could consider as part of this complaint brought by M. 
And while Ive also noted that Ms A is unhappy with TSBs attempts to recover the 
outstanding debt, those werent matters raised within this complaint originally and so 
Im unable to comment on them in this decision. Ms A would need to raise those 
concerns with TSB in the first instance, so that it has the opportunity to investigate 
and provide its response. 
Ms A didnt accept my provisional decision. She replied to say, in summary, that:
The income received into Ms bank account might legitimately differ from its overall 
level of turnover, which here was down to the companys cash transactions. And the 
receipt of payments in cash and use of those to pay suppliers wasnt unusual.
Businesses were able to borrow up to 25% of their annual turnover under the Bounce 
Back Loan Scheme rules, with no criteria as to how this income was received (i.e. in 
cash or otherwise).
Id not evidenced that M didnt have the requisite turnover to have qualified for the 
Bounce Back Loan, nor why the evidence shed provided of Ms cash receipts wasnt 
credible. There were also records to evidence Ms customer and supplier 
relationships.
Although TSB hadnt been required to conduct any checks before approving the 
Bounce Back Loan application, it had nevertheless chosen to do so and had 
reviewed a number of Ms supporting documents in the process. It hadnt evidenced 
which documents it had deemed to be false that led to it filing an entry with Cifas. 
She didnt agree that this wasnt a point I couldnt consider, seeing as it related to the 
Bounce Back Loan and therefore fell within this complaint. 
A complaint had been lodged with TSB about its recovery action in light of the 
default, and to which it had already issued a final response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not seen reason to depart from my provisional decision. Ill explain why 
the further points that Ms A has raised havent led me to a different conclusion.
I explained in my provisional decision why I thought TSB had reasonably concluded that M 
didnt have the requisite turnover to qualify for the Bounce Back Loan it obtained. Ms A says Ive not evidenced that position, but it is not for me to provide evidence to her. I set out the 
reasons for my conclusions and have provided Ms A with the opportunity to provide 
evidence to support her position. 
I accept Ms As point that the amount of turnover a business generates may not necessarily 
be visible through its account activity, or otherwise. People deal in cash, and revenue 
generated in this way may not be banked, and might instead be used to pay suppliers or 
other costs. I also agree that there was no particular criteria in this regard within the Bounce 
Back Loan Scheme rules  with the eligibility requirements being based solely around an 
applicants turnover, and no restrictions applicable to cash or other means of payment. I 
didnt suggest otherwise in my provisional decision.
However, although I agree that dealing in cash isnt necessarily unusual in and of itself, I still 
think it is unusual to deal exclusively in cash, with all customers and all suppliers. Especially 
generating a sum as large as £258,000, and to have banked none (or very little) of it. And, 
as I said in my provisional decision, the turnover that M declared in the previous year was 
just £86  rendering it even more unusual. 
The only evidence I have been given to substantiate the turnover figure that M declared are 
documents created by Ms A herself, which  in light of all Ive said above  I do not consider 
sufficient. Despite saying that some other documentary evidence is available, in respect of 
her customer and supplier relationships, Ms A has declined to provide it.
Even if I were to accept that M generated the requisite turnover, I also explained in my 
provisional decision that the way in which the loan funds had been used would also have 
been legitimate grounds for TSB to have terminated the agreement. Ms A didnt comment 
any further on those points in her response, so Ive not reached a different view on that 
either.
On the issue of the Cifas filings, I explained in my provisional decision that this wasnt a 
matter I could consider within the complaint brought by M and that remains the case. Under 
our rules, the eligible complainant here is M  whereas the Cifas filing is in Ms As own 
name. I appreciate that puts Ms A in a frustrating and disappointing position, but I have no 
discretion to operate outside of these rules.
Lastly, I note that Ms A has already complained (on Ms behalf) to TSB about the banks 
recovery action and received a final response. It is still, however, not something we can 
consider in the context of this complaint. We may be able to do so by way of a separate 
complaint, so Ms A should let us know if she would like us to look into that matter further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman