DRN-4508961
The complaint
Ms N complains about how Bastion Insurance Company Limited handled a claim she made 
on her key protection insurance policy.
Reference to Bastion includes its agents.
What happened
Ms N held a key protection insurance policy with Bastion. Unfortunately, her car was stolen. 
It was recovered by the police, but the keys werent, so she made a claim to Bastion for the 
replacements.
Bastion werent able to reprogramme the new keys to her car on two occasions. It says this 
was because of other issues with the car. But Ms N disagrees and thinks Bastion should 
have been able to carry out the required work. Shes said because it wasnt, shes incurred 
extra costs, such as recovery to the dealership, and storage costs while in police custody.
Ms Ns complaint remained unresolved, so she brought it here. Our Investigator ultimately 
thought it should be upheld. He thought Bastion should have been able to carry out the 
required work, and that if it had, Ms N wouldnt have incurred the costs she did. He 
recommended Bastion pay Ms N £410 for the recovery and storage of her vehicle.
Bastion didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said it gave Ms N the option 
to take her car to the dealership after the first visit, so doesnt think it should be responsible 
for any storage charges after that. And ultimately it maintains it wasnt at fault for not being 
able to carry out the required work to the keys.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why.
Its not abundantly clear whether Bastion should have been able to carry out the 
required work in relation to replacing Ms Ns cars keys. Theres conflicting 
information about why this wasnt possible and whether thats Bastions responsibility 
or not.
But from what Ive seen, all the storage costs (and the recovery cost) were charged 
after Bastions first failed attempt to reprogramme the keys.
Bastion said it gave Ms N the option to take it to the dealership after this visit, but it 
was agreed with Ms N that this wasnt the best course of action.
Thats not what Ive seen. From the information available it looks like this is an action 
Ms N wanted, and Bastion advised wasnt the best thing to do.
Bastion has ultimately refunded the cost Ms N had to pay the dealership to 
reprogramme and connect the keys, so Im satisfied this is something it would have 
done if this option was taken up sooner.
And if this option was taken up when first requested, Ms N wouldnt have incurred 
any storage costs. So, Bastion should reimburse Ms N for these.
Strictly speaking the policy is clear in that it doesnt include recovery fees, and Ms N 
would have had to pay this if the option of taking the car to the dealership was carried 
out when first requested. But, in light of the journey of this complaint, to compensate 
for the distress and inconvenience caused, Bastion should reimburse her for this too.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right, I require Bastion 
Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay Ms N £410 (made up of the extra storage and recovery fees). 8% simple interest 
should be added to this payment too. Interest should be calculated from the date Ms 
N paid the charges, to the date Bastion pays her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman