DRN-2958040
The complaint
Mr J says Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr J took out an 18-month instalment loan from Loans 2 Go in July 2020. It was for
£700 and the monthly repayments were £159.99. The total repayable was £2879.82. I
understand the loan remains outstanding.
Mr J says the amount of interest Loans 2 Go charged is unfair. 
Our adjudicator found that the loan should not have been given. He said Loans 2 Go had
completed proportionate checks but as these showed Mr J was struggling financially in the 
months before he applied it was not responsible to lend.
Loans 2 Go disagreed saying whilst there was some adverse information on Mr Js credit file 
this was to be expected given the type of loans it provides. It shared copies of Mr Js bank 
statements that it had used for its complaint review saying they showed no signs of 
significant financial distress. It remained of the view the loan was affordable for Mr J.
As agreement wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Loans 2 Go lent to Mr J required it to carry out a
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Loans 2 Go had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr J. In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr J.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing
to lend to Mr J. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mr Js loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in
a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
- did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Loans 2 Go asked for some information from Mr J before it approved the loan. It
asked for his monthly income and expenditure. It then completed an income verification
check with a third party and it says it adjusted his declared expenditure to ensure it was
reasonable. It checked Mr Js credit file to understand his existing monthly credit
commitments and credit history. From these checks combined Loans 2 Go concluded Mr J 
had enough disposable income (£145 after the loan repayment) for the loan to be affordable.
I think these checks were proportionate given the size and term of the loan but I dont think 
Loans 2 Go made a fair lending decision based on the information it gathered. The credit 
check it carried out showed Mr J had taken out at least ten payday loans in the previous 
year. And he had struggled to repay four of them, defaulting on three before eventually 
settling them three to four months before this application. Whilst Mr J was at the time of his 
application up-to-date on his active credit commitments, I think there was sufficient evidence 
for the lender to be concerned that Mr J was in a cycle of high-cost borrowing to make ends 
meet and/or to repay other debts. And this was something it needed to consider to meet its 
regulatory obligations. CONC 5.2A.12(R) sets out:
The firm must consider the customers ability to make repayments under the agreement:
(1) as they fall due over the life of the agreement and, where the agreement is an open-end
agreement, within a reasonable period;
(2) out of, or using, one or more of the following:
(a) the customers income;
(b) income from savings or assets jointly held by the customer with another person, income 
received by the customer jointly with another person or income received by another person in 
so far as it is reasonable to expect such income to be available to the customer to make 
repayments under the agreement; and/or
(c) savings or other assets where the customer has indicated clearly an intention to repay 
(wholly or partly) using them;
(3) without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(4) without failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory obligation to
make; and(5) without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation.
It argues that Mr Js bank statements show no significant signs of financial distress. The 
bank statements are however dated June and July 2019, not June and July 2020. So over a 
year before Mr Js application. The lender also pointed to another decision we have made 
where the ombudsman concluded a level of adverse information on a credit file wasnt a 
reason not to lend. I can only comment here on this case  we review each complaint on its 
individual merits and outcomes will vary as whilst cases may seem similar, the exact 
circumstances will rarely be identical. 
Overall, I think Loans 2 Go ought to have been concerned that there was a risk the loan was
unlikely to be sustainably affordable for Mr J. 
It follows I think Loans 2 Go was wrong to give this loan to Mr J.
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr J in some other way?
I dont find that it did, Ill explain why. Mr J says the interest rate was too high and that was 
unfair. I accept it was high, but Mr J had to actively engage in the loan application process, 
so I think its likely that he was aware of what he was agreeing to pay. I havent seen 
anything which makes me think that Loans 2 Go treated Mr J unfairly or breached industry 
practice regarding interest charges. But in any event, the interest and charges will be 
refunded as Ive concluded this loan shouldnt have been given.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr J to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to him.
It seems Loans 2 Go hasnt sold the outstanding debt. But if it has it should buy it back if it is
able to do so and then take the following steps. If Loans 2 Go is not able to buy the debt
back, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Mr J
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Js loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking the account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then Loans 2 Go
should work to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr J, bearing in mind its
obligation to treat him positively and sympathetically in these discussions. Loans 2
Go should not pursue any outstanding balance made up of capital it has already
written-off.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Js credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go should
give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.  
My final decisionI am upholding Mr Js complaint and Loans 2 Go Limited must put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman