DRN-3697283
The complaint
Miss R has complained about her building warranty insurer National House-Building Council 
(NHBC) as it has refused her claim for damage caused by a broken soil pipe.
What happened
Miss R bought a house with a ten-year defects warranty which began in 2014. In 2021 she 
noticed damage to a boxed in area in her lounge, which contains the soil pipe. Investigations 
showed the pipe was cracked. Miss R felt the pipe had been installed incorrectly with not 
enough clearance given between it and the surrounding timber. She made a claim on her 
warranty.
NHBC said that at this point in the warranty, in respect of section 2 and 3 of cover, the defect 
and the damage it had caused werent covered. So it couldnt assist. Miss R said it was 
clearly a defect in the building of the property, so there should be cover under the warranty 
for it and the damage which had resulted. When NHCB refused to change its mind, Miss R 
complained to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She explained that we can only look at the 
warranty. And when the pipe was installed and NHBC checked the building  that was 
before the warranty began. The warranty itself only offers certain cover at certain times. So 
the problem with the pipe might have been covered if it had been noticed within the first two 
years of the warranty (section 2). But neither it nor the damage caused were covered in year 
seven (section 3). 
Miss R said Section 4 of the NHBC warranty should apply; it would give cover for the faulty 
pipework, so NHBC should assist. She asked for an ombudsmans consideration. The 
complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NHBC isnt an insurer in the conventional sense. And not everything it does falls under 
our remit for consideration. As our Investigator explained, we cant usually get involved 
with what NHBC does during the build process when considering whether or not to 
implement the warranty. And the fact of the warranty doesnt mean the house is being 
held out as defect free. Rather the warranty offers certain cover for when certain things 
are found to be defective or go wrong during the first ten-years after the build is complete. 
During the first two years of the warranty NHBC provides a dispute resolution service. 
This is intended to help the developer and the homeowner resolve any differences they 
may have in that period where defects in the build have been identified. The primary 
responsibility for putting right defects during this time lies with the developer. But NHBC 
will sometimes become involved if things cant be resolved. Importantly though defects 
that are found outside of the first two years arent subject to that same level of cover.  
In years three to ten of the warranty there is cover for major damage caused by defects. 
Rather than there being cover for a defect itself. But the cover is limited. So it isnt the 
case that any damage which is caused by a defect in years three to ten will be covered. 
Only if damage is caused by certain defects, as listed in the warranty, will the cover apply. 
And the problems Miss R has faced simply arent listed in this section as being covered 
by the warranty in this period.  
So, with regret for the disappointment I know this will cause Miss R, I think NHBC has 
responded to her claim in line with the general terms and conditions of the warranty which 
apply to all warranty-holders in years one to ten, as reflected in sections 2 and 3 of the 
cover. As such, Im satisfied that its decline of liability is fair and reasonable.
I see Miss R has recently raised issues in respect of section 4 of the NHBC warranty. This 
section applies if NHBC issued the Building Control Final Certificate for her home. The 
parties dont seem to have discussed the availability of cover under section 4 before. They 
will need to do that before this service can consider a complaint about that issue.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against National House-Building 
Council.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 October 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman