DRN-3165241
The complaint
Mr C complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund transactions on his account he says he 
didnt make or authorise. He also complaint about the closure of his account. 
What happened
 Mr C had an account with Monzo.
 
On 30 October 2020, two transactions were made from Mr Cs account totalling just over 
£51. Monzo says the transactions were authorised using Apple Pay, on Mr Cs mobile phone 
so it thought the payments must have been made using Mr Cs phone with his knowledge or 
permission.
 
On 31 October 2020, Monzo reviewed Mr Cs account. Following its review, it decided to 
close Mr Cs account immediately. And it wrote to him to let him know he needed to make 
alternative banking arrangements.
 
On 2 November 2020, Mr C contacted Monzo to find out why it was closing his account and 
to raise a fraud claim for the two transactions that had been made on 30 October 2020. 
Mr C said hed never made the transactions and had sold his mobile phone before the 
transactions were made. And hed ordered a new phone on 28 October 2020. He provided a 
receipt for the sale of his phone. He also said that the bank card used to make the 
transactions had been lost and hed reported this to Monzo. 
Mr C provided a taxi receipt which he says placed him over a hundred miles away from 
where the transactions were made and a copy of the invoice for the sale of his phone to 
support what hed said.
Mr C wants Monzo to explain why it closed his account. He said he had trouble paying his 
bills due to the disputed transactions. And had to use his credit card instead. He wants 
Monzo to pay him compensation for the trouble and upset he suffered and refund the 
transactions.
   
Monzo looked into the transactions and said it thought Mr C authorised them. So, it didnt 
refund him. In summary, Monzo said:
The payments were authenticated using Apple Pay using a mobile phone
The mobile phone that was used was registered for Apple Pay on 2 June 2020
Mr C told Monzo hed sold his mobile phone the week before the disputed 
transactions were made and bought a new phone. However, only one device has 
been linked to the account
The card used for Apple Pay (ending 2907) was activated on 25 October 2019
Mr C told Monzo there was no security on the phone he sold, but its not possible for 
Apple Pay to be used on a device if there is no security in place
The first disputed transaction was facilitated by an inbound undisputed faster 
payment for the same amount, one minute prior to the disputed transaction being 
made
Monzo also said it had closed Mr Cs account in line with the terms and conditions. However, 
it accepted it had taken too long to return Mr Cs balance of £17 to him and offered to pay 
Mr C 8% interest for loss of use of the funds.
 
Mr C disagreed with Monzos decision. He said he didnt authorise the transactions and says 
hes out of pocket. So, he brought his complaint to this service where an investigator looked 
into the matter. 
The investigator said Monzo hadnt acted unfairly when it declined Mr Cs fraud claim. She 
noted there were some variances in the explanation Mr C had given Monzo about losing his 
bank card, and the technical evidence showed Mr C was moving money into and out of his 
account using his sold mobile phone minutes before the disputed transactions were made.  
The investigator said that Monzo hadnt done anything wrong when it had closed Mr Cs 
account and the banks offer to pay interest was fair and reasonable.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators opinion. He maintained he never made the 
transactions. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, the disputed transactions, 
the relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Mr C and Monzo have read the 
investigators view. So, I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of 
my decision. However, I can assure Mr C that Ive read the file, including his comments and 
the evidence hes provided.
 
The basic position is that Monzo can hold Mr C liable for the disputed transactions if the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr C made them or authorised them. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017). That means Monzo needs to show that the payment was authenticated via Mr Cs 
personalised security credentials and payment instruction, and that he consented to it being 
made. 
Im satisfied that the payments were authenticated using personalised security credentials 
and a Monzo approved payment instruction  in this case Apple Pay. This involved using a 
passcode sent by text to set up Apple Pay on Mr Cs phone, his card details being 
registered, and then the payment being requested through this service. So far as Im 
reasonably aware, Apple Pay is secure, utilising a passcode known only to the 
accountholder and/or unique personal identifiers such as fingerprints, a PIN or face ID 
technology.
Whats in dispute here is whether Mr C consented to the two disputed payments. To help me 
reach a conclusion about whether Mr C or someone acting on his authority made the 
payments, Ive considered what Mr Cs said happened, and looked at the paperwork hes 
provided regarding the sale and purchase of his mobile phones. Ive also considered Monzos records, including the technical data behind each transaction, his account activity 
and mobile banking records along with the call recordings of Mr C disputing the transactions. 
Having looked at all the evidence and considered Mr Cs explanation carefully Im not 
persuaded by what Mr C has said.  And on balance Ive ruled out that a third-party fraudster 
was responsible. Ive considered what the PSRs say about apparent authority too and Im 
satisfied that Mr C did consent to the transactions he is disputing. So, I dont think it would 
be fair or reasonable to say Monzo needs to refund him. I say this for the following reasons:
When Mr C contacted Monzo on 2 November 2020 to make a fraud claim, he told the 
bank that he was still in possession of his bank card ending 2907 which was linked to 
Apple Pay and used to make the disputed payments. And that hed last used the card 
on 29 October 2020. But when he brought his complaint to us, he told us that hed 
lost the card some time ago and reported this to Monzo. 
Mr C hasnt provided any evidence to support hed lost his bank card. And Monzo 
dont have any record of Mr C reporting the card used to make the payments was lost 
at any time. I note too that Mr Cs card was used to make two undisputed online 
payments on 29 and 30 October 2020, which suggest to me that Mr C hadnt lost his 
card. This makes it very difficult for me to place much weight on what hes said. 
The technical evidence shows that the disputed payments were made using Apple 
Pay, through Mr Cs card ending 2097 being loaded onto a mobile phone device 
enabling it to be used for contactless transactions  which is what happened to make 
the two payments on 30 October 2020
Mr C says he sold his mobile phone on 29 October 2020. And bought a new phone 
on 28 October 2020. And hes said the phone he sold had no security on it. But 
security is required on a device to authenticate Apple Pay transactions. This can be 
Face ID, a passcode, or fingerprint. In other words - no payments can be made 
without completing security. So again, there are discrepancies in what Mr C in what 
has told us. Given the type of security required it seems unlikely that an unknown 
person made these transactions without Mr Cs knowledge or permission. I say this 
because they wouldve needed Mr Cs security details to make the payments as well 
as physical possession of Mr Cs mobile phone.
Monzo has provided evidence to show that one mobile device and the one used to 
make the disputed transactions, is the only device on which Apple Pay is set up 
using Mr Cs card ending 2907. 
I know Mr C has provided a receipt he says shows that he sold his mobile phone 
before the disputed transactions. But when asked for more information by our 
investigator regarding the sale such as an advert, or any communications arranging 
the sale he wasnt able to provide anything, which I find unusual.
Monzo has provided evidence that shows Mr C was accessing his Monzo account 
from his sold mobile phone before and after the disputed transactions. I note too 
that Mr C sent £30 to his Monzo account a minute before the first disputed 
transaction and this was for the same amount as the disputed payment. Prior to this 
there wasnt enough funds in the account.
Mr Cs sold mobile phone was used by Mr C on 31 October 2020, when Monzo sent 
Mr C an account closure email, Mr C used the phone to speak to the bank via the in-
app chat, to provide his account details to receive his closing balance. So, Im 
satisfied that Mr C was still in possession of the mobile phone which was used to 
make the disputed payments via Apple Pay.
Mr C says he was in a different location at the time the disputed transactions were 
made  more than a hundred miles away. And hes provided a taxi receipt in support 
of what hes said. Im afraid I dont find this evidence compelling. I say this because Mr C told Monzo he was in another location to the one relating to the taxi ride. Ive 
also kept in mind that its possible for Mr Cs taxi account to make bookings for third 
parties. 
So, when I weigh everything up, I find on balance, that Mr C made or otherwise authorised 
the disputed transactions. It follows that Monzo is entitled to hold him liable for them. I know 
Mr C will be disappointed, but for the reasons Ive given I cant ask the bank to refund him.
I then turn to the banks decision to close the account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed. As long as they reach their decisions about that in a legitimate manner, 
this service wont usually intervene. Im satisfied here that the banks decision to stop 
providing Mr C with banking facilities was reached legitimately and fairly.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Metro closed Mr Cs account without notice. Having looked at all the evidence, in my view 
that wasnt unreasonable. And Im satisfied that the bank acted in line with the account terms 
and relevant regulations. So, whilst I accept the banks actions caused Mr C inconvenience, I 
cant say the bank has done anything wrong when it closed Mr Cs account without notice. 
Ive kept in mind that Mr C had access to at least one other bank account at the time so I 
think the impact of the immediate closure would have been reduced. The bank also isnt 
obliged to provide Mr C with an explanation for its decision.
I can see that at the time Monzo closed Mr Cs account his balance was £17. Monzo accepts 
it should have retuned this money to Mr C sooner than it did. And took around a month 
longer than it should have. It has agreed to offer Mr C interest for loss of use of these funds. 
Im satisfied that this is a fair and reasonable way to settle this aspect of Mr Cs complaint. 
So, I wont be asking Monzo to do anything more. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that to resolve Mr Cs complaint Monzo Bank Ltd should pay Mr C 8% 
simple interest on the balance of his account, which was £17. Monzo should pay the interest 
from 10 November 2020 until the date they released the money , which was 10 December 
2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Ombudsman