DRN-4097455
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited irresponsibly gave her a hire purchase 
agreement she couldnt afford. 
What happened
In May 2015, Mrs R acquired a used car using a hire purchase agreement from Startline. 
The cash price of the car was £7,299. Mrs R paid a deposit of just over £1,000 and the rest 
of the purchase price was financed by the hire purchase agreement. She was required to 
make an initial monthly payment of around £310, followed by 58 monthly repayments of 
around £160 and a final optional payment of around £310 if she wanted to own the car at the 
end of the agreement. 
In May 2022, Mrs R complained to Startline to say that the agreement had been 
unaffordable to her and that adequate affordability checks werent completed before granting 
her the finance. Startline didnt uphold her complaint. It said that it had completed 
appropriate checks before lending which showed the finance was likely to be affordable. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought that Startline ought 
to have completed more thorough checks before lending, however, he hadnt been provided 
with enough evidence from Mrs R to demonstrate that further checks would have shown the 
finance was unaffordable. He therefore wasnt persuaded Startline had made an unfair 
lending decision. 
Mrs R didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so Ive had in mind  amongst other things  the rules and guidance for lenders set 
out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (known as CONC) within the regulators handbook. 
Prior to granting credit, Startline needed to ensure the borrowing was likely to be affordable 
and sustainable for Mrs R. There isnt a set list of checks it needed to complete, but it 
needed to ensure that any checks it did were proportionate in the circumstances. This 
means that different checks will be necessary in different lending situations. What is 
considered proportionate will therefore vary, but in deciding what checks to complete 
Startline needed to take into consideration things such as (but not limited to): The amount 
borrowed, the total repayable, the size of the regular repayments, the term and Mrs Rs 
circumstances. 
As part of the application Mrs R declared that she was employed and renting. She provided 
a payslip as proof of income which showed that her monthly income was around £900. 
Startline says it also completed a credit check which showed Mrs R had a current account 
with a £1,000 overdraft and two mail order accounts. It said all of these accounts were well 
maintained. It said there was a record of one historic default, but this was around four years 
prior to the application. It said that based on this information it was satisfied the payments of 
£160 were affordable. 
However, I dont think the checks Startline completed went far enough. I say this because 
Mrs Rs income was relatively modest and Startline was aware that she was already paying 
towards two other credit commitments and utilising her overdraft. It understood she would 
also have to pay rent and essential living costs and the hire purchase payments were almost 
twenty percent of her monthly income. I think it ought to have been concerned that Mrs R 
might be overindebted if she took on more credit. I think it would have been proportionate for 
it to have got a more thorough understanding of her regular committed expenditure.
Weve asked Mrs R to provide us with details and evidence of her financial circumstances at 
the time of the application to understand what Startline would likely have discovered if it had 
done appropriate checks. However, she has only provided a copy of a credit report which 
details the credit commitments Startline has already told us about. She hasnt given us any 
evidence of her other regular commitments at the time, such as housing and other living 
costs. I therefore havent seen anything to persuade me that more detailed affordability 
checks by Startline would have revealed any affordability concerns. This means that based 
on the information and evidence Ive seen, I dont think Startline made an unfair lending 
decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman