DRN-3949285
The complaint
Mr H complains about Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) poor level of repair, 
following a claim under his gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H held a gadget insurance policy with Assurant. His phone became damaged, and he 
made a claim. Assurant accepted the claim and repaired the phone and returned it to Mr H. 
Mr H went abroad with the phone, and he said that during wet weather, the phone stopped 
functioning. He contacted Assurant from aboard to make a warranty repair claim. But as he 
said that the phone had water damage, Assurant declined the claim and advised Mr H that 
he would have to make a fresh claim, which would attract another excess payment of £100. 
Mr H was unhappy with this and took the phone to an authorised phone manufacturer repair 
centre. A report was written after the phone had been inspected by them. The conclusion of 
the report was that the condition of the phone had numerous sub-standard repairs. The 
repairs were such that they rendered the phone to be no longer watertight. Mr H said 
because of the poor repairs, his phone was now damaged. And he had been advised that 
the warranty with the phone manufacturer was now voided due to the repairs carried out by 
Assurant. So, he raised a complaint.
In its final response, Assurant said that as there had been water damage a new claim would 
need to be made by Mr H and a further excess would need to be paid. It said that under the 
policy terms, it was permitted to use non-standard parts for repairs, so it had complied with 
the policy terms and conditions. It also said that Mr Hs phone had been quality checked 
before it left, and it passed all the tests. So, it said a warranty repair wouldnt be carried out. 
Mr H was given his referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She said that Mr H 
had provided expert evidence that showed that there were numerous issues with the repair 
of the phone. And that the phone had lost its watertightness. She said that Assurant ought to 
accept the repair or replace the phone. As well as offer Mr H £100 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused. 
Mr H accepted the view, Assurant did not. It provided proof that the phone had been quality 
checked before it left. It said that it was permitted to use non-standard parts in the repair of 
the phone. So, it had complied with the policy terms and conditions.  It also said that the 
phone manufacturer doesnt guarantee water resistance, as it says on its website that water 
resistance effectiveness can decrease as a result of normal wear. And as Mr Hs phone was 
purchased in 2020 (nearly two years prior to his claim) this could account for the decreased 
level of water resistance. So, it asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint, and for much the same reasons as our 
investigator, and I will explain why I think this outcome is fair.            
I have considered all the comments by both parties, as well as the expert evidence Mr H 
provided. I note that Assurant hasnt provided me with any expert evidence that refutes the 
expert evidence that Mr H has relied upon.
The main issue of this complaint I think relates to the watertightness of the phone. Mr H said 
that prior to the phone becoming damaged, the phone had no issues to watertightness. It 
had a watertightness rating that was sufficient enough for it to be submerged in water for up 
to 30 minutes, without any issue. On the day that the phone became damaged, after rain, 
water ingress occurred. He supported this with expert evidence, that indicated that the sub-
standard repairs that were carried out (that invalidated the manufacturers warranty) had 
contributed to the loss of water tightness. 
Assurant said that under the policy terms and conditions, it was permitted to use non-
standard parts. It said that the water tightness effectiveness can reduce under normal use 
and as Mr Hs phone was at the time, nearly two years old, its possible that this contributed 
to the loss of watertightness. 
As Ive mentioned, Assurant hasnt refuted any of the expert evidence that Mr H provided. 
That evidence as well as the accompanying photos that Ive seen, concluded that there was 
loss of watertightness (amongst other things) due to the sub-standard repairs, that had been 
carried out on Mr Hs phone. 
Assurant said that Mr Hs phone manufacturer had indicated on their website that over time 
there could be loss of watertightness effectiveness. Whilst I accept that this may be true, 
what I cant accept is that for a phone that is relatively new (less than two years old) would 
have lost its watertightness to such a degree that it would now allow water to enter. Further, 
Mr Hs expert (as well as Mr Hs testimony that the phone had been watertight prior to the 
repair) makes it clear that the repair had compromised the watertightness of the phone. 
Consequently, in the absence of any expert evidence from Assurant that refutes this, Im 
persuaded by Mr Hs expert that the watertightness had been compromised by the repairs 
carried out by Assurant. 
I have next looked at the quality check carried out. And although its correct that a LED 
screen was replaced, I do think that this shows that the phone was opened. And as it was 
opened, it follows that it would need to be closed again. But the expert that Mr H relied upon, 
said that the phone hadnt been re-sealed to the phone manufacturers specifications. Whilst 
I understand that Assurant is permitted to use non-standard parts to complete a repair, I do 
think that those parts and the repair should be to the phone manufacturers specification, 
which, Assurant hasnt provided proof of. 
Accordingly, in the absence of any expert evidence that can refute Mr Hs expert findings, 
Im persuaded that the repairs carried out by Assurant contributed to the lack of the 
effectiveness of the watertightness of Mr Hs phone. So, in line with the policy terms and 
conditions, I think its fair and reasonable for Assurant to accept the claim and to either repair 
or replace the phone. In addition, Im satisfied that given the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr H, Assurant ought to pay compensation of £100. Putting things right
To put matters right, I think that Assurant ought to settle the claim, as indicated below. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. 
Assurant General Insurance Limited ought to pay Mr H £100 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused.
Assurant General Insurance Limited should repair or replace Mr Hs phone, in line with the 
policy terms and conditions.
Assurant General Insurance Limited should pay the above compensation within 28 days of 
the date we tell it Mr H has accepted my final decision. If it doesnt, Assurant General 
Insurance Limited should pay 8% simple interest on the amount from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman