DRN-3580697
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) declined a claim he 
made under his mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
Mr O made a claim to Great Lakes for the loss of his mobile phone.
Great Lakes interviewed Mr O about the circumstances of the loss. Mr O explained that he 
had been in a bar/nightclub and had stowed the phone in a laptop bag underneath the table 
of the booth he and his friends were sitting at. He said he was away from the table at various 
points, but either he or one of his friends were sat at the booth at all times.
Great Lakes declined the claim on the basis that Mr O had left his phone unattended and so 
had not taken reasonable precautions to prevent the loss or theft of his phone.
One of our investigators considered Mr Os complaint and thought it should be upheld. She 
said Great Lakes hadnt done enough to show that Mr O hadnt taken reasonable care. So, 
she didnt think it was fair for Great Lakes to decline Mr Os claim on that basis. She 
recommended that Great Lakes should settle Mr Os claim, subject to the remaining policy 
terms.
Great Lakes didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, as no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, for the following 
reasons:
Great Lakes has said Mr O failed to take reasonable precautions to safeguard his phone 
because he left it unattended. It has made reference to the following policy terms when 
declining Mr Os claim: 
General exclusions
We will not pay for:
4. any claim where you have failed to take reasonable precautions to prevent 
damage, theft or loss. This will include, but not limited to:
a. using your gadget in accordance with the manufacturers instructions;
 
b. if left unattended in a vehicle or premises, you are to ensure that the 
gadget is out of sight and that all locks and security devices are actioned;
c. not handing your gadget to a person who is not known to you or a third 
party, other than your immediate family.
.
24. any claim where you knowingly leave your gadget somewhere where you can't 
see it, but others can and it is at risk of being lost, stolen or damaged. For example - 
in a restaurant or a pub where you go to the toilet or bar leaving your gadget on a 
table instead of taking it with you.
Mr Os policy doesnt provide a definition for unattended. Because it doesnt, I consider it 
reasonable to apply our services definition in its place. Our service considers an item to be 
unattended if the policyholder (or a trusted person) isnt in a reasonable position to be able 
to prevent someone interfering with it.
In addition to the above, when considering whether a policyholder has taken reasonable 
care, we use the test of recklessness. Wed consider actions to be reckless where a 
policyholder recognised a risk but took no measures at all to lower the risk or they knew the 
measures they took were inadequate.
Ive listened to recordings of calls between Mr O and Great Lakes. In these calls, Mr O says 
he placed his phone in his bag because it was falling out of his pocket and that the bag was 
placed beneath the table of a booth where he and/or one of his friends were always sat. In 
my view, this means that Mr O recognised his phone was potentially at risk of being 
damaged, lost or stolen, by falling out of his pocket, and he took measures to lower that risk 
by putting it in his bag beneath the table. Based on this, I dont think I can reasonably 
conclude that Mr O acted recklessly.
Great Lakes says that by leaving the bag beneath the table, Mr Os phone had been left 
where he couldnt see it, but others could (exclusion 24). But I dont agree. I think the phone 
was stored where nobody could see it, as it was inside the bag. And as Mr O says that he, or 
one of his friends, were sat at the booth at all times I dont think it would be reasonable to 
conclude that he left his bag (or the phone within it) unattended either.
Ive thought about the fact that the bag, and the phone inside it, were ultimately lost/stolen. 
But I dont think this, in itself, demonstrates that Mr O or a trusted person werent in a 
reasonable position to prevent that. After all, an item in someones direct possession is still 
able to be stolen by a pickpocket, despite that person being in a reasonable position to 
prevent it. In my view, somebody sat at a table in a booth is in a reasonable position to 
prevent a bag beneath the table from being interfered with. So, in this case, by placing the 
phone out of sight (in a bag) beneath a table where somebody was sat, I think Mr O took 
reasonable precautions to prevent it being damaged, lost or stolen. 
Great Lakes says that none of Mr Os friends meet the policy definition of immediate family. 
So, it says by leaving his phone with his friends, Mr Os loss still wouldnt be covered under 
exclusion 4c. But I dont think this exclusion applies either, as the phone wasnt handed to a 
third-party. It was stored in a bag somewhere Mr O or a trusted person were in a reasonable 
position to prevent it being interfered with.Great Lakes says Mr O cant say, with certainty, that someone was always sat at the booth 
because its possible his friends may have left the table while he was personally away from 
it. I accept this is a possibility. But its also possible that someone managed to extract the 
bag whilst Mr O and/or his friends were at the booth, without them realising it. 
Ultimately, where an insurer seeks to rely on a policy exclusion to decline a claim, its for the 
insurer to show that the exclusion applies. But Great Lakes hasnt provided any additional 
evidence to support that the booth was left empty. So, in the circumstances of this complaint, 
I dont think Great Lakes has done enough to demonstrate that Mr O left his phone 
unattended, or that he failed to take reasonable precautions to prevent its loss/theft.
It follows that I dont think Great Lakes decision to decline Mr Os claim, based on any of the 
exclusions it has highlighted, is fair or reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Great Lakes Insurance SE must reconsider Mr Os claim, in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of his policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman