DRN-2863416
The complaint
Ms K complains, on behalf of her business N Ltd, that Lloyds Bank PLC gave her incorrect 
information about the timescales for a chargeback on a debit card and didnt provide updates 
when they said they would. She complains that after four months Lloyds told her they 
wouldnt be taking the chargeback any further.  
What happened
Ms K, as the sole director of N Ltd, purchased a car from a garage on 31 May 2020 using a 
Lloyds debit card for the account of N Ltd. The following day Ms K returned to the garage 
and said she wasnt happy with the car and wanted a full refund. The garage refused. Ms K 
says she called Lloyds from the forecourt to cancel the payment, but it was still pending. She 
says Lloyds told her once it was cleared she could call back and raise a dispute. Ms K was 
able to raise a chargeback with Lloyds on 17 June.
Lloyds began the chargeback process on 24 August and emailed Ms K to confirm this. The 
chargeback was defended, so Lloyds submitted an appeal. The chargeback was once again 
defended, and on 18 November Lloyds wrote to Ms K to tell her why theyd decided not to 
continue with the chargeback.
Ms K complained to Lloyds twice during the chargeback process. On 1 September, Lloyds 
agreed theyd provided some misleading timescales when she initially raised her dispute 
with them. They enclosed a cheque for £75.00 with their response letter and apologised. Ms 
K says she didnt receive the complaint response dated 1 September. Lloyds provided a final 
response to Ms K on 19 November and acknowledged they couldve handled the claim and 
updated Ms K better than they did. Lloyds cancelled the original cheque for £75.00 and 
offered Ms K £275.00 for the poor service theyd provided during the chargeback process. 
Ms K didnt accept the offer from Lloyds and brought her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into things for her and thought that Lloyds had acknowledged their 
communication about how long the chargeback would take couldve been better. But our 
investigator thought their offer of £275.00, and an offer to consider any reasonable costs Ms 
K had incurred, was a fair and reasonable one.
Ms K didnt agree with our investigator. She says she returned to the garage the day after 
she purchased the car which she thought would be in a cooling-off period. Ms K didnt feel 
that our investigator had taken into account Lloyds had extended the deadline for the 
merchant to respond to the chargeback, and she felt we shouldve requested call recordings 
from Lloyds to hear what was said. Ms K has asked for an ombudsman to decide her 
complaint and the case has now been passed to me for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms K will be disappointed with my final decision but for very much the same 
reasons as our investigator, I consider the offer Lloyds have already made is a fair and 
reasonable one. I will now explain why.
At the core of this dispute is whether the car bought by Ms K was fit for purpose. This is a 
civil matter between Ms K and the garage that sold her the car and it isnt something I can 
comment on. I can however consider how Lloyds dealt with the chargeback process. 
I havent heard the telephone calls between Ms K and Lloyds, but Ive seen the timeline of 
events provided by Ms K and the call notes provided by Lloyds. I consider theres enough 
information here for me to make a fair and reasonable decision about what happened in this 
case. For example, Im satisfied that Ms K took the car back to the garage on 1 June 2020 
and its likely she spoke to Lloyds the same day. It also seems likely Lloyds told her to retain 
the car and that the chargeback process couldnt reasonably be started until the payment 
had been processed and the garage had been given the opportunity to put matters right.
When Ms K spoke with Lloyds on 17 June, Lloyds notes record she told them she had a 
dispute with the garage and wanted to raise a chargeback. Ms K called Lloyds several times 
for updates and was promised call-backs in some of these calls. Im satisfied that Lloyds 
didnt call Ms K back on several occasions. On 1 June, Lloyds did tell Ms K that the garage 
had 45 working days from 17 June to deal with the dispute and Ms K continued to contact 
Lloyds for an update. 
On 17 September, Ms K asked Lloyds for an update and was told the garages bank was 
contacted on 24 August and they have until 25 September to respond or defend the 
chargeback. Ms K chased Lloyds several more times and was told the deadline for the 
garage to respond had been extended to 14 November. I looked at the note relating to the 
extended date and Im satisfied it wasnt a fair representation of what had happened here. 
The garage had defended the claim much earlier than this. Lloyds then submitted a further 
claim to the garage on 15 October and the garage had a further period to respond. So, Im 
satisfied there was no extension period provided, rather it was both Lloyds and the garage 
going through a claim and rejection process. 
The chargeback process allows a card user to ask for a transaction to be reversed if there's 
a problem with goods or services paid for. There's no automatic right to a chargeback, nor is 
chargeback a guaranteed method of getting a refund. There are rules for chargebacks. 
These rules are not set by Lloyds, but they must follow these rules. Im satisfied part of the 
delay occurred when the garage defended the claim and Lloyds made a further attempt to 
obtain the chargeback. However, I consider that after submitting two claims it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to decide the chargeback wouldnt succeed and Ive concluded they 
followed the process correctly.
At times Lloyds provided Ms K with misleading information about how the process was 
proceeding and the timescales, and they didnt call her back at other times. Im satisfied this 
wouldve caused Ms K frustration and the inconvenience of having to call Lloyds for updates 
more often than she shouldve needed to. Lloyds has already made an offer to pay Ms K 
£275.00 to recognise the poor service they provided during the chargeback process and to 
cover any reasonable costs. I consider this is a fair and reasonable remedy to reflect the 
times Ms K had to chase Lloyds for updates, and for the confusion and frustration Lloyds 
caused Ms K when they were dealing with the chargeback.. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Ms K £275.00 and cover any 
reasonable costs Ms K incurred. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N Ltd to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman