DRN-2365310
The complaint
Mrs L has complained that Protector Insurance UK wont replace the laminate flooring it 
installed after she made a claim under her buildings insurance policy following an escape of 
water.
What happened
In February 2020, an escape of water from under her kitchen sink caused damage in Mrs Ls 
kitchen/diner, including to the laminate flooring. She made a claim under her policy.
After arranging for the property to be dried, Protector arranged for its contractor in May 2020 
to replace the laminate flooring. 
Mrs L was unhappy with the new laminate flooring which was fitted. She said it was slippery 
and thus a hazard for her disabled child. She considered Protector had failed to give her a 
proper opportunity to select a suitable flooring. She wanted Protector to replace the flooring 
with something which was less slippery.
Protector wouldnt agree to this. It said the laminate flooring which had been installed was a 
like-for-like replacement and Mrs L had given her agreement to it beforehand.
Mrs L was unhappy at Protectors stance. She referred her complaint to us and said 
Protector had told her on 10 June 2020 that its decision was final. She also raised a concern 
that the flooring was bouncy and uneven.
While the complaint was under investigation, Mrs L continued to raise other concerns about 
other aspects of the claim. Protector and its contractors continued to have dealings with 
Mrs L over the flooring and other aspects of the claim.
In September 2020, our investigator issued a view recommending that the complaint should 
not be upheld. The investigator said that he was considering matters only up to 
10 June 2020 which was when Protector had indicated it had given its final decision. He 
considered Protector had acted reasonably and it was under no obligation to replace the 
flooring with a different laminate.
Mrs L didnt accept the investigators findings. She referred to evidence which had come to 
light since 10 June 2020, including a loss adjusters report which apparently found that the 
floor had been laid incorrectly.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mrs L raised her complaint with Protector on 2 June 2020, it was based solely on the 
fact that the floor was slippery and that she didnt feel she had been given an adequate 
opportunity to choose a suitable floor. It was this complaint to which Protector had 
responded when it said it would not replace the flooring with a new flooring, and which it 
apparently said on 10 June 2020 was its final response.
As far as I can see, it wasnt until the next day that Mrs L first raised concerns over the 
quality of the fitting of the floor, when she mentioned that it was bouncy. And since then, as 
well as continuing to pursue the complaint that the floor was uneven, Mrs L has raised other 
concerns about the flooring, including that it may be wet underneath, as well as about other 
aspects of the claim, including the level of policy excess.
The investigator said although there was no formal final response letter from Protector, in the 
interest of urgency he would nonetheless consider matters up to 10 June 2020 and both 
parties apparently agreed to this. In this decision, I am therefore simply going to consider the 
fairness of Protectors decision to refuse to replace the flooring with new flooring as of that 
date. This means the only issue to consider is Mrs Ls concern over the type of laminate 
installed, as her concerns about the quality of installation were not raised until later.
Protector has explained that it presented Mrs L with a catalogue from its supplier and invited 
her to choose a laminate flooring. It has provided a copy of an email from Mrs L in which she 
confirmed her choice, and it has shown that this was laminate which was installed.
Mrs L has objected that she wasnt presented with a sample beforehand. However, the 
selection of the flooring was being made just at the time the country was entering lockdown 
due to the coronavirus. As a result, businesses were not operating normally and many were 
shut altogether. This was outside Protectors control. It was open to Mrs L to try and obtain a 
sample herself if she had felt strongly that this was necessary, though I imagine that this 
would have been likely to hold up the claim and she had already expressed concern to 
Protector about having no flooring in place. Furthermore, Protector says that a laminate 
flooring pack was delivered to her property before installation so she could have inspected it 
and raised concerns then if she had wanted but she did not do so. Overall, I have no 
reasonable grounds for saying that Protector did anything wrong.
It is unfortunate that Mrs L found the laminate flooring unsuitable. Protector advised her that 
the laminate was likely to become less slippery over time but that didnt allay her fears. 
However, while I understand Mrs Ls concerns for the safety of her son, it appears to me that 
Protector replaced the damaged flooring with a similar quality flooring to which she had 
given her agreement. I therefore consider that, in this respect, it had fulfilled its obligations 
under the policy and, as of 10 June 2020, its decision not to replace the flooring with new 
flooring was reasonable.
I recognise this decision will be dissatisfying to Mrs L because it appears that the above 
complaint has been overtaken by more recent events. Protector has now apparently agreed 
that the flooring was not installed correctly and that this needs to be rectified. Mrs L has 
raised other issues and has also described the difficulties which have been caused to her 
and her family. But the investigator hasnt fully looked into these issues and I am therefore 
not in a position to comment on them.
I consider that in respect of events since 10 June 2020, if Mrs L is unhappy with the way her 
claim has been handled she should make a fresh complaint to Protector and allow it an 
opportunity to issue a final response letter. If she remains unhappy following that, she may 
refer a new complaint to this service for us to consider.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman