DRN-3594106
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G, who are represented by a professional representative (PR) complain that 
Shawbrook Bank Limited unfairly declined their claim under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in respect of holiday products they purchased in 2014, 2015 and 
2016.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G made a number of purchases from a holiday provider I will call D. These are 
as follows:
In September 2013, they purchased membership at a cost of £3,000 This was funded 
by a loan from another lender. They also purchased a one-off VIP Preview Week 
holiday at a cost of £795 which was paid by credit card.
In March 2014 they traded in their 2013 membership towards the purchase of a full 
membership and 10,000 points at a cost of £9,205 paid in part by card and in part 
with a finance agreement with Shawbrook Bank.
In April 2015, they purchased an additional 10,000 points at a cost of £7,899 paid in 
part by card and in part with a finance agreement with another lender.
In August 2015, they purchased an additional 10,000 points at a cost of £8,699 paid 
with a finance agreement with Shawbrook Bank.
In September 2016, they purchased an additional 10,000 points at a cost of £8,699 
paid with a finance agreement with Shawbrook Bank.
Mr and Mrs G relinquished their membership (with Ds agreement) in December 2019. 
According to D they made 27 reservations for themselves and others many of which they 
subsequently cancelled. 
In March 2020 the PR submitted a claim under s 75 in respect of the purchases funded by 
loans from Shawbrook. It said that Mr and Mrs G were initially happy with their purchase, but 
there was a serious lack of availability. They also were concerned the ownership was in 
perpetuity and the resorts were available to non-members.
At one point they tried to sell their membership points but were unable to do so and they 
were persuaded to buy more points and upgrade. The PR says they only later discovered it 
was illegal to sell these products as investments.
Shawbrook rejected the claim and said there was no evidence that Mr and Mrs G were 
reluctant to make the purchases. They also had a 14 day cooling off period which they did 
not exercise. It confirmed the points were not held in perpetuity and did not pass to 
beneficiaries on death. At the various times of sale theyd been given key information details 
which included current management charges. It noted that they had also signed the 
compliance statement which included the following:
We understand that the Points system offers us the flexibility of choosing the location, 
season, size of accommodation and length of stay to meet our particular needs, subject to 
availability.
We understand that there is currently no resale or buyback programme for our Points and 
that you therefore cannot assist us in selling our Points. We may however sell our ownership 
privately if we so wish, subject to the Articles of Association of the European Collection.
We understand that the purchase of our Points is an investment in our future holidays, but 
that it should not be regarded as a property or financial investment and that any subsequent 
resale will depend on market conditions.
We confirm that we have read the purchase agreement and key information document, 
together with our finance agreement (if applicable) and are happy to proceed with our 
purchase.
It said there was no evidence that they had struggled to book accommodation and the fact 
that D had been sold had no impact on the ability to book holidays.
A complaint was brought to this service and it was considered by one of our investigators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. He said there was no evidence of misrepresentation by 
D and no basis for Shawbrook to uphold the claim. The PR didnt agree and said Mr and Mrs 
G had been led to believe they could sell the products back. It also argued the terms of the 
loan were unfair as Mr and Mrs G stood to lose their rights over the products. They had been 
sold these products as an investment. They had not been given a valuation of the products 
and they had to end the agreement as they were unable to pay the ongoing fees.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. 
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision.
In this case, section 75 of the CCA is relevant to the complaint, which says:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor. 
This means that, in certain circumstances, if Mr and Mrs G paid for goods or services using 
certain types of credit (even in part), and there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the supplier of those goods or services, the creditor can also be held responsible. 
The key issue I need to decide in this case is whether Shawbrooks decision to decline the 
section 75 claim was fair. To decide this, I must consider whether Mr and Mrs Gs claim 
meets the requirements of section 75, as set out by the CCA. These criteria include the 
following points, which are in dispute in this case: (a) There must be the required relationship between the debtor, creditor, and supplier; 
and 
(b) There must be a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the part of the supplier. 
Unless the above criteria are met in the circumstances of this case, I wouldnt consider 
Shawbrook to have acted unfairly when refusing Mr and Mrs Gs claim. Ill consider each of 
these points in turn, but first I note there is no dispute that the required debtor, creditor, 
supplier link is intact.
Was there a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier? 
Turning first to misrepresentation; in summary, from what the PR has told us, I understand 
Mr and Mrs G feel the product was misrepresented to them by the seller because they were 
told these were investments and there was sufficient availability of accommodation. 
Ive considered the common law position, as well as the Misrepresentation Act 1967 when 
deciding whether a misrepresentation is most likely to have been made in the circumstances 
of this case. For me to conclude there was a misrepresentation on the part of the supplier in 
the way Mr and Mrs G have alleged, generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based 
on the available evidence, that the supplier made a false statement of fact when selling the 
holiday products in 2014, 2015 and 2016. In other words, that they told Mr and Mrs G 
something that wasnt true in relation to one or more of the points they have raised. I would 
also need to be satisfied that the misrepresentation was material in inducing Mr and Mrs G 
to enter the contracts. This means I would need to be persuaded that Mr and Mrs G 
reasonably relied on the false statement when deciding to buy the holidays.
The claim is based on what Mr and Mrs G say they were told at each of the meetings when 
they made purchases. I am aware such meetings can last for a number of hours and the 
agents for D can be very persuasive. I recognise the salespeople will emphasise the positive 
benefits of membership and the access to accommodation. That of itself does not 
demonstrate that statements were made which might amount to misrepresentation.
The documentation I have seen clearly refers to the products not being investments and 
while they might be seen as investments in future holidays there is nothing I have seen that 
shows they were sold as financial investments. Nor does the paperwork refer to the ability to 
sell the memberships or points back to D. In fact it says the opposite.
As far as availability is concerned it seems that Mr and Mrs G were able to make numerous 
bookings albeit they appear to have cancelled most of these. Quite simply, I do not have 
sufficient evidence to allow me to conclude Shawbrook was wrong to decline the claim on 
the basis of the alleged misrepresentation.
Breach of Contract
Turning then to whether there was a breach of contract on the part of the suppliers; that is, 
generally speaking, whether the suppliers broke any terms of their contracts with Mr and Mrs 
G, whether implied or explicit. I havent seen sufficient evidence that D failed to comply with 
the terms of the agreements Mr and Mrs G entered into. 
I have addressed the issue of availability above and I am satisfied that D provided the 
accommodation as set out in the contract. Nor were the contracts to be held in perpetuity as 
is evidenced by the fact they were terminated with Ds agreement in 2019.
Nor have I seen any evidence that the sale of D to another company prevented Mr and Mrs G from obtaining the agreed benefits of the contracts. 
In summary, I think Mr and Mrs G took out several holiday agreements that were fairly 
straightforward. Their agreements entitled them to stay at a number of different properties 
run by D. Each property had a different cost in points and they had a lot of points to use in 
each year. Mr and Mrs G were able to book from 2014 onwards and every year they had to 
pay maintenance fees to access their points. None of this was in any way unusual or 
unclear, in my view, so I do not think there was any reason why this agreement was 
breached for the reasons put forward by the PR.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman