DRN-3516220
The complaint
Mr P complains that Cynergy Bank Limited provided him with poor customer service when 
he attempted to transfer Cash Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs) to them.
What happened
Mr P says that around May 2021, he went online to arrange a transfer from cash ISAs he 
held with a third party bank to Cynergy, but he heard no response from Cynergy, so he 
contacted them to chase this up. Mr P says he was told by Cynergy that they had no record 
of this, so he started the online transfer process again, however, he was told this failed as 
there was a mismatch of information on the application. 
Mr P spoke to Cynergy to confirm the accounts he wanted to transfer to them and the 
transfers took place. Mr P made a complaint to Cynergy. He said Cynergy had no record of 
his original application, the transfers were rejected by the third party bank because of a 
mismatch of information and that he missed out on the 0.65% interest rate.
Cynergy did not uphold Mr Ps complaint. They said they only had records of Mr P applying 
for on Online ISA (OISA) on 30 June, 18 August and 8 September 2021. They said as they 
keep a record of successful and unsuccessful applications, they would have been able to 
trace an earlier application Mr P would have made. Cynergy said that on Mr Ps application 
form on 8 September 2021, their ISA team requested the transfer from the third party bank 
on this date, but the third party bank rejected their request on 13 September, citing a 
mismatch of information.
Cynergy said Mr P contacted them on the same day and they confirmed the correct 
information with him and they resubmitted the application for him. Cynergy confirmed they 
received two payments into his OISA from the third party bank on 21 September 2021 and 
they backdated the interest at 0.6% to 13 September 2021, so he did not miss out on any 
interest when he gave them the correct information on the phone. 
Regarding Mr P missing out on the 0.65% interest rate, Cynergy said that the OISA Mr P 
opened on 18 August 2021, was at 0.65%. Mr P had transferred funds from another OISA on 
this date and then transferred the funds which were received from the third party bank into 
the OISA he held earning 0.6% into the OISA earning 0.65% on 22 September 2021, so they 
were not upholding his complaint. Mr P brought his complaint to our service. He said he 
wanted £200 compensation for additional time, effort and chasing things up with both banks 
as he had to talk with both banks to finally get things right. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ps complaint. She said the ISA transfer section of the 
OISA application in August 2021, was not completed and thats why no transfer took place. 
She said the September 2021 application was rejected by the third party bank as the 
information didnt match, but Cynergy resubmitted his application on 13 September. This 
was successful and they received the funds on 21 September. Cynergy backdated the 
interest to 13 September. Our investigator concluded Cynergy made no errors.
Mr P asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said he felt Cynergy let him 
down by not communicating with him when he made his initial transfer request, where there 
was a whole month before his third party ISAs matured. He queried if the transfer 
information was missing, why did they not contact him and he asked why his application was 
accepted. He also said that the response to his complaint by Cynergy did not address where 
his online application record was and he had to try and ring them to find out the transfer 
hadnt happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
I must explain to Mr P that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and as 
such, the issues hes raised that relate directly to how Cynergy have investigated his 
complaint, such as Cynergy not addressing where his online record was, doesnt come 
under my powers to consider. But I can look into what happened with Mr Ps ISA transfer 
requests.
I need to let Mr P know that I can only look into the actions of Cynergy as part of his 
complaint and not the external bank he was transferring his ISAs from. This is because the 
complaint Mr P brought to our service is brought against Cynergy only.
Ive considered what Mr P has said about originally applying for the OISA around May 2021, 
but Cynergy have no record of this. Cynergy said they keep a record of successful and 
unsuccessful applications, so they would have been able to trace an earlier application Mr P 
would have made. They have shown that Mr P made three applications, 30 June, 18 August 
and 8 September, but have no records of an attempt in May 2021. I asked Cynergy if there 
were any known errors of transferring an external ISAs to themselves and they confirmed 
there wasnt. But as Ive not been able to evidence any attempt at opening an ISA in May, 
then I cant say Cynergy have done anything wrong here.
Ive then considered what happened with Mr Ps August application. I asked Cynergy 
whether they have an in depth audit to see what Mr P would have clicked and entered into 
the August application (and at what time each item was input), but unfortunately Cynergy do 
not have this level of detail to provide me.
So Ive looked at the application data that Cynergy had for this. Mr Ps August application 
data shows there were no ISA details entered to transfer to Cynergy. This is why no 
transfers were attempted from external providers as opposed to his June and September 
transfers, where there were details entered in this section on those applications.
Mr P queried if the transfer information was missing, why did Cynergy not contact him and 
he asked why his application was accepted. But Im persuaded the reason that Cynergy 
didnt contact him is because they did not believe he was transferring an ISA to them as part 
of this application. I say this because the OISA can not only accept transfers, but it can also 
accept contributions for that tax year into the account. So not everybody who would be 
opening an OISA would be also transferring an external ISA into the OISA. So Im satisfied 
that Cynergy accepted the application based on the data Mr P provided and they did not 
believe Mr P was transferring in an ISA to them as part of the August application as there 
was no data in this section. So I cant say they let him down here.Ive listened to three calls which Mr P had with Cynergy on 8 September. On the first call he 
informs the call handler that his transfers should have happened on that day and he wanted 
to find out what was happening. The first call handler confirms that there were no transfers 
showing but she would escalate this for him. 
The second call handler rings Mr P. She also confirms that there were no transfers showing 
on his application and that he should try and go online to try a fast track application, which 
would enable him to transfer over the ISAs he wanted to transfer. She explains that while 
the new OISA he would need to open to facilitate the transfers is at a slightly lower interest 
rate than the OISA Mr P opened in August, he would be able to make an internal transfer 
once they received the funds. Mr P agrees to do this.
Mr P makes a call to Cynergy later on in the day and he explains that he is having an error 
when entering the details of his external ISAs on the application. The call handler suggests 
he uses the roll number option if this is 10 digits long, but Mr P says it is 14 digits long. 
I can see from Mr Ps application data that he did manage to submit the application after the 
third call he had with Cynergy and this was sent to the external ISA provider. But the 
external ISA provider came back to Cynergy to say that the transfers had been rejected on 
13 September.
Ive listened to the phone call that Mr P had with Cynergy on this date. He discusses the ISA 
requests being rejected. During the call Mr P realises that its because the wrong bank name 
is on the transfer requests. The bank name Mr P tells the call handler does start with the 
same word and he gives her the name of the bank, but when the call handler tries to edit this 
record for him and suggests a similar named bank, Mr P confirms that the call handler is 
correct. 
Although Mr P says that hes sure he put the right bank name, the call handler confirms 
Cynergy dont edit the forms. So Im satisfied that Mr P made a genuine error and this is why 
the transfers were not initially accepted and sent by the third party bank. I can confirm from 
the history of this transfer, the records show it was created on 8 September and it was not 
amended until 13 September when the call handler amended this on the call with Mr P.
Ive considered what Mr P has said about wanting £200 compensation for additional time, 
effort and chasing things up with both banks as he had to talk with both banks to finally get 
things right. As I explained earlier, I can only look into what happened with Cynergy and not 
the external bank. So I cant agree it would be reasonable to ask Cynergy to pay him 
compensation for communicating with the other party here.
But Im not persuaded that it would be proportionate for Cynergy to pay Mr P any 
compensation here. I say this as there is no evidence of an application in May, so Cynergy 
would not be aware of his intentions to transfer an ISA(s) here. The application in August did 
not include the ISA transfer details, so Cynergy werent aware that there was an issue until 
Mr P called them on 8 September. 
But Im satisfied that Cynergy acted quickly by making an outbound call on this date by 
informing Mr P what he needed to do. Im persuaded that Mr P selected the incorrect bank, 
as Cynergy confirmed to him on the phone call on 13 September. So this is likely to be why 
the third party rejected the transfer requests. I cant hold Cynergy responsible for Mr P 
appearing to select a different bank on the transfer request on 8 September. Cynergy 
backdated the interest despite the incorrect bank name, to 13 September so Mr P didnt lose 
out on any interest, from when he confirmed the correct details to Cynergy, which Im 
satisfied was fair. So it follows, I dont require Cynergy to do anything further.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman