DRN-3432223
The complaint
Mr M complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended. 
What happened
In January 2017 Mr M was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with MBFS.
At the end of the agreement the car was collected and inspected. The inspection identified 
damage to the front bumper, the A post (LH), the QTR panel (LH) and the rear bumper.
Mr M disputed the charges. He said the photos taken when the car was inspected didnt 
show the damage, but that even if they did, the damage was within fair wear and tear. Mr M 
said that if he was wrong about that, no charges should be applied in any event because 
MBFS hadnt suffered any loss because it hadnt provided any evidence that the repairs had 
been carried out, or any evidence that the car sold for less than expected as a result of the 
damage.
In response, MBFS said it had provided Mr M with the vehicle returns standards before the 
car was collected and inspected, so that he had the opportunity to familiarise himself with the 
fair wear and tear expectations and have any repairs carried out. It sent Mr M a link to the 
inspection report including the photos. MBFS reviewed the charges and agreed to remove 
the charge for the rear bumper but said the rest of the damage had been correctly charged. 
MBFS noted that Mr M had a contractual mileage allowance of 42,500 and that he had 
returned the car with 30,585 miles recorded but said it didnt offer incentives for customers 
who returned cars under mileage.
Mr M wasnt happy with the response from MBFS and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. He reviewed the damage and said that MBFS 
should remove the charge for damage to the QTR panel because the photos didnt clearly 
show that the damage was outside of acceptable wear and tear. The investigator said that 
the rest of the charges had been correctly applied. In relation to loss, the investigator said 
that the BVLRA guidelines allowed MBFS to apply end of contract charges even if it made a 
commercial decision not to complete repairs.
Mr M accepted the removal of the charges for the QTR panel but said his video evidence 
showed that there was no damage in the other two areas. Mr M also said that he didnt 
agree with the approach taken to loss. He said that the agreement stated that loss was 
calculated by evidence of the cost of repairs, or (if no repairs had been undertaken), the 
depreciation in value of the vehicle. Mr M said that MBFS had failed to provide any evidence 
to show that repairs had been carried out, and that the chances of MBFS having incurred a 
loss when they sold the car was unlikely given the cars low mileage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr M must return the car in good 
condition and in line with the vehicle returns standards. The vehicle returns standards set out 
what is an acceptable level of damage.
Ive set out the damage being charged for and why its being charged, the repairs needed 
and the cost MBFS intend to charge. I havent included the rear bumper charges because 
these were removed in MBFSs final response.
Front bumper  scratches are over 50mm  requiring refinish - £210
Left hand A post  scratch over 25mm  requiring refinish - £70
Left hand rear QTR panel  scratch over 25mm  requiring refinish - £170
As well as MBFSs vehicle returns standards, the BVLRA has produced industry guidance to 
help determine what a leasing company can charge for when a car is returned. This is my 
starting point because the BLRA guidance represents good practice across the industry and 
is very detailed. Ive taken the BVLRA guidelines into account as well as the vehicle return 
standards when deciding whether MBFS acted fairly and reasonably in applying the charges.
Ive looked at the photos of the damage from the inspection report provided by MBFS. Ive 
also looked at the video evidence provided by Mr M.
Mr M has said that the damage hes been charged for isnt visible on his video evidence. 
However, Im satisfied that I can see the damage on the photos which form part of the 
inspection report. Theres nothing to suggest that the photos in the inspection report arent 
photos of Mr Ms car. Nor have I seen anything to suggest that the damage occurred after 
the car was collected. Im satisfied that the photos represent the damage.
In relation to the damage on the front bumper, the BVLRA guidelines permit a maximum of 4 
scratches. Im satisfied  based on the photos  that there are more than 4 scratches on the 
front bumper and that some of them have exposed the primer or the metal. Based on what 
Ive seen, Im satisfied that this item of damage is chargeable in accordance with the 
guidelines.
In relation to the damage on the A post, the BVLRA guidance says that scratches which 
exceed 25mm or which expose the primer or metal are chargeable. Im satisfied, based on 
the photos, that the scratch on the A post exceeds 25mm and is chargeable in accordance 
with the guidelines.
In relation to the QTR panel, I agree with the investigator that the photos dont clearly show 
that the damage goes beyond acceptable wear and tear. So I dont think its fair for MBFS to 
charge for this damage.
Mr M has said that he doesnt think its fair for MBFS to charge for damage because it hasnt 
provided evidence that the repairs were carried out before the car was sold at auction. Ive 
taken what Mr M has said on board, but theres no requirement for MBFS to have the car 
repaired. Its up to them if they want to sell the car at auction with damage. A car with 
damage will achieve a lower price at auction than a car without damage, so its more likely 
than not that MBFS will have suffered a loss because of the damage. Even if Mr M is right about MBFS not having carried out any repairs before selling the car (and I dont have 
information to say whether MBFS carried out repairs or not), I still think MBFS is entitled to 
charge for loss of value at auction for damage which is outside of acceptable wear and tear.
Putting things right
To put things right, MBFS must refund the charges for the QTR panel.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold the complaint. Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited must remove the charge for the QTR panel of £170.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman