DRN-2733194
The complaint
Mr R complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined his pet 
insurance claim and about its poor service. My references to Red Sands include its agents.
What happened
On 2 August 2017 Mr R took out pet insurance for his dog, the insurer is Red Sands. The 
policy gives lifetime cover while the policy is in force subject to the policy terms and limits. In 
August 2019 Mr Rs dog needed vet treatment to remove a lump on his nose and Mr R 
claimed on the policy.
When assessing the claim Red Sands saw that the vet notes said the dog had the lump 
since he was a puppy. Red Sands asked Mr R when hed first noticed the lump. Mr R said 
hed first noticed a very small lump/pimple on the dogs nose when he got him as puppy in 
July 2017. He thought it was nothing unusual and when he registered his dog with the vet a 
few weeks later the vet said it was just a small lump and to keep an eye on it if it should get 
any bigger. Mr R said the lump grew as his dog got older and when he took his dog for a 
check-up in August 2019 the vet advised the lump be removed as it was much larger since 
his last visit.
Red Sands declined the claim on the basis that it was for a pre-existing condition, which the 
policy didnt cover. The lump was ultimately diagnosed as a type of cyst and Red Sands also 
added a specific exclusion to the policy for all claims with respect to cysts and warts 
backdated to take effect from the start of the policy.  
Mr R complained to us and wants the claim paid. He sent photos of his dog as a puppy and 
just before the surgery to show how the lump had grown. He said he followed the vets 
advice to have the lump removed and been honest but Red Sands made him feel hed acted 
fraudulently. His vet had written to Red Sands in support of his claim. Mr R also complained 
about the poor service from one of Red Sands representatives.
Our investigator said Red Sands fairly declined the claim. Red Sands had already accepted 
one of its representatives had used unprofessional language in a call with Mr R and had fed 
back to the representatives manager, which our investigator thought appropriate.
Mr R disagreed about the claim and wanted an ombudsmans decision. He said the small 
pimple/lump on his puppys nose could have been anything at the time  an insect bite or a 
knock from playing  and could be a totally separate condition to the large lump that had 
been removed.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to partly uphold this complaint. I said:
I have to decide whether Red Sands fairly and reasonably declined the claim, and I dont 
think it did. My reasoning on that matter also means I think Red Sands didnt fairly add the 
retrospective specific policy exclusion. But I think Red Sands did take appropriate action on 
the poor service Mr R received. Ill explain why.
Claim
The policy is clear Red Sands doesnt cover:
Any pre-existing condition or claim for costs relating to an injury or illness that relates 
to or results from an accident, injury, illness or clinical signs your pet had before the 
commencement date or within 14 days of the commencement date.
The policy defines pre-existing condition as:
any condition, symptom or sign of a condition occurring or existing in any form and at 
any time prior to the commencement date; or 
any illness, symptom or sign of an illness occurring or existing in any form during the 
first 14 days of the commencement date.
Mr R saw a small lump/pimple on his puppys nose when he got him home on 29 July 2017, 
before he took out the policy. The vet notes for the 2019 treatment say the dog had the lump 
since he was a pup but would advise surgical excision + histopath now as growing. 
Theres no evidence to suggest that the small lump Mr R saw on his puppys nose was 
different to the lump that had grown and needed removing in 2019.
I think there was a symptom or sign of the lump before Mr R took out the policy. So on a 
strict interpretation of the policy terms Mr Rs dog did have a pre-existing condition.
However, I can depart from a strict application of the policy terms if I think that produces an 
unfair result. I generally say its only fair and reasonable for an insurer to rely on a pre-
existing condition exclusion if when the consumer took out the policy they should have 
reasonably known there was something wrong with their pet which was likely to need 
investigation or treatment.
In this case, Mr R noticed a small lump when he got his puppy home but he wasnt 
concerned there was a problem to take him to the vet. The photo of his dog when a puppy 
shows no noticeable lump, so theres no evidence that Mr R should have been reasonably 
concerned.
Mr R said he talked to the vet about the lump at the dogs first visit to the vet and was told it 
was nothing just a small lump and to keep an eye on it to see if it got bigger. The vet notes 
show the dog first visited on 10 August 2017 for first vaccination and check-up so Mr Rs 
discussion with the vet about the lump was within the first 14 days of the policy. But the vet 
notes dont mention a lump on the dogs nose and as the notes detail some other aspects of 
the dogs appearance and health I think the lack of mention supports Mr Rs evidence that 
the vet wasnt concerned about the lump at that time. I cant see that the vet notes mention 
the lump being a problem until August 2019, two years after Mr R took out the lifetime cover.
In these circumstances, at the time Mr R took out the policy, and within the first 14 days of 
the policy, I think he reasonably understood the small lump on his dogs nose wasnt a 
problem and wasnt likely to need investigation or treatment. So I dont think Red Sands 
reasonably relied on the pre-existing exclusion to decline the claim.
Red Sands must pay the claim subject the remaining policy terms and limits. If Mr R has 
already paid the costs Red Sands must add interest as Ive detailed below.There are circumstances when I think an insurer can fairly add a retrospective exclusion 
relating to a pre-existing condition to a policy. But as I dont think that on a fair and 
reasonable basis Red Sands can say the lump was a pre-existing condition I dont think it 
fairly add the specific exclusion for cysts and warts to apply retrospectively. It must remove 
that exclusion from the policy.
Service
Red Sands accepts its representative used an unprofessional term when discussing the 
claim with Mr R. I think Red Sands took appropriate action in feeding back and doesnt need 
to do any more on the issue.
Responses to my provisional decision
Red Sands accepted my provisional decision. Mr R didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Red Sands accepted my provisional decision and Mr R didnt respond I have no reason 
to change my mind. I partly uphold this complaint.
For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings I dont think 
Red Sands reasonably relied on the pre-existing exclusion to decline the claim. As I dont 
think that on a fair and reasonable basis Red Sands can say the lump was a pre-existing 
condition I dont think it fairly added the specific exclusion for cysts and warts to apply 
retrospectively. I think Red Sands took appropriate action in feeding back to its 
representative and doesnt need to do any more on the service issue. 
Putting things right
Red Sands must pay the claim subject the remaining policy terms and limits plus interest as 
Ive detailed below. Red Sands must also remove from the policy the specific exclusion for 
cysts and warts which applied retrospectively.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited 
to:
pay the claim subject to the remaining policy terms and limits. If Mr R has already 
paid the vet costs interest* must be added to the settlement at 8% simple a year from 
the date of claim to the date of settlement, and
remove the exclusion for claims with respect to cysts and warts from the policy.  
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr R how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr R a certificate showing this if he asks for one, 
so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriateUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman