DRN-2774471
The complaint
Mr P complains that My Finance Club Limited trading as Monkeydosh was irresponsible in 
its lending to him.
What happened
Mr P was provided with a loan for £150 by Monkeydosh in February 2013. The loan was 
repayable the following month. Mr P says that adequate affordability checks werent carried 
out before the loan was provided.
Monkeydosh says that before the loan was provided it gathered information about Mr Ps 
income, employment and expenses. It also carried out credit checks. It says that after the 
checks were completed it offered to provide Mr P with a loan for £150. It says Mr P 
contacted it in March 2013 to extend the loan and discussions then took place to establish 
Mr Ps financial situation. An extension was agreed but Mr P contacted Monkeydosh again in 
April 2013 asking for an extension which again was agreed and again in May 2013. The 
payment wasnt made as agreed in June 2013 and Monkeydosh agreed to a repayment 
plan. Payments were made for several months, but these then stopped. Monkeydosh say 
that there is still an outstanding balance on the loan
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think that the information gathered 
raised concerns that would have required further verification to take place.
Mr P didnt accept our adjudicators view. He reiterated his belief that the checks carried out 
before the loan was provided werent adequate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P was provided with a loan in February 2013. He raised his complaint more than six 
years after this but I have nothing to suggest that he was reasonably aware of his cause for 
complaint more than three years before he raised this. Because of this I have considered the 
merits of Mr Ps complaint. We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-
term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Monkeydosh needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr P could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Monkeydosh should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Monkeydosh was required to establish 
whether Mr P could sustainably repay his loan - not just whether the loan repayment was 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
At that time of the loan the relevant guidance was provided by the Office of Fair trading 
(OFT) and this set out the need to make a reasonable assessment of whether a borrower 
can afford to meet repayments in a sustainable manner. This refers to issues such as being 
able to make the repayments without undue difficulties throughout the life of the agreement 
and without having to realise security or assets. It then further sets out that without undue 
difficulty means without having to borrow further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Before Monkeydosh provided the loan to Mr P it gathered information about Mr Ps income 
and expenses and carried out a credit check. I note the comments Mr P has made about the 
checks but given this was his first loan and noting the size of the loan compared to his 
declared income, I find that the checks carried out were proportionate. Having looked 
through the information gathered from the checks I do not find that these raised concerns 
that meant Monkeydosh needed to carry out any further verification of the information it had 
received. 
Because I think the checks were proportionate I have looked at the information gathered and 
as this suggested the repayment was affordable I do not find I can say this loan shouldnt 
have been provided.
Information has also been provided to show that Monkeydosh tried to work with Mr P when 
he asked for loan extensions and a repayment plan. I would expect Monkeydosh to continue 
to work with Mr P and to treat him positively and sympathetically if he is experiencing 
difficulties repaying the outstanding balance on the loan. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against My Finance Club Limited 
trading as Monkeydosh.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman