DRN-3741333
The complaint
Mr H complains that Equifax Limited charged him for a membership subscription despite 
cancelling. 
What happened
On 10 April 2022 Mr Hs existing Equifax membership ended after he cancelled his 
subscription. On the same day, Mr H signed up for a new membership with Equifax and it 
sent him an email confirming the free trial would end on 10 May 2022 and he would be 
charged £7.95 a month from that point. 
In August 2022 Mr H complained that Equifax had taken payments from him despite 
cancelling his membership. Equifax confirmed the membership was restarted on 10 April 
2022 and Mr H had accessed his online account and credit report information in the months 
that followed. Equifax cancelled Mr Hs membership in August 2022 but didnt uphold his 
complaint or refund any of his payments. 
An investigator at this service thought Equifax had dealt with Mr Hs complaint fairly and 
didnt ask it to refund any of the payments made. Mr H asked to appeal, so his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Equifax has provided systems evidence and emails to show what happened on 10 April 
2022. Whilst I can see Mr H cancelled his existing membership, he started another. That 
membership was subject to a free trial of one month and Equifax emailed Mr H to confirm 
payments would become due from 10 May 2022. 
Equifax has also supplied systems evidence that shows when Mr H accessed his online 
account. The system shows Mr H regularly accessed his Equifax account in the months after 
he reinstated his membership in April 2022. As Mr H accessed the service after the free trial 
ended, Im satisfied it was fair for Equifax to charge him. 
Mr H also says Equifax failed to respond to a Data Subject Access Request he made. But 
we cant look at a complaint until a business has first been given the chance to deal with it. 
And Ive not seen any evidence Mr H raised this issue with Equifax. Before we can look at 
this part of Mr Hs complaint, it will have to be considered by Equifax. I leave it to Mr H to 
decide whether he wishes to raise this as a separate matter with Equifax. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but as Im satisfied Equifax dealt with his complaint fairly Im not 
telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman