DRN-4395451
The complaint
Miss S complains about how Automobile Association Insurance Services (AA) dealt with 
her policy renewal. In particular that payment was taken from the wrong card. 
What happened
Miss S had AA breakdown cover and had been a customer for many years. At one point she 
says her mother paid for her breakdown service but in the last two years she took over the 
payments. 
Miss S says the AA mistakenly debited her mothers account to renew the membership in 
July 2022. Since her mother hadnt paid for the cover for a number of years she didnt 
recognise the transaction and contacted her bank to claim the money back; which it did. 
In October 2022 Miss S received an email from AA saying her account provider recently 
asked for a refund so she would no longer be covered if she broke down. Miss S says this 
was the first she became aware there was an issue with her breakdown cover. 
Miss S contacted AA and was told her membership rate had increased since she hadnt 
renewed her cover. And if she wanted to retain her gold membership status she would need 
to pay more. Miss S wasnt happy since she had been a customer for over 20 years and 
wanted to pay the same amount as she had been prior to the issue with the renewal. 
Miss S contacted the AA again in December 2022 and it agreed to revert her premium to 
what she was previously charged. The following day she received an email saying her new 
membership would expire in July 2023. 
Miss S is unhappy. She says AA debited the wrong account for her 2022 renewal, and she 
was only informed of this in October 2022. She says it took until December 2022 to resolve 
and so her policy year should begin in December rather than July 2022. Miss S says AA 
made it clear she wasnt covered to use its services until she renewed, so she doesnt think 
its fair to charge her for that period. 
Miss S says she has spent hours on the phone, on hold, and writing emails in order to 
resolve the matter. She says she wants her renewal to start in December since shes paid 
for membership for a year but in reality she is only able to use it for six months. So she 
complained to AA. 
AA said the account that payment was taken from is one that has been used previously. It 
said since payment hadnt been made for the year 2022/2023 the membership was in 
arrears and was on hold. To resolve the complaint AA agreed to reinstate the policy at the 
amount paid the previous year and said Miss Ss gold tenure wouldnt be affected. 
Miss S was satisfied with this outcome until she received an email from AA explaining her 
policy would be renewed in July 2023 rather than December 2023 as she was expecting. So 
she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into things for her. She upheld the complaint. She said she 
could see AA hadnt provided Miss S with enough information regarding her policy, and there 
was a clear miscommunication between the parties. She said AA should pay Miss S £50 to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by the matter. 
Miss S didnt agree. She said £50 didnt accurately reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused. So the complaint come to me to decide. 
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the key complaint points 
and how I thought matters might best be resolved. I said; 
Based on what Ive seen so far I intend to uphold Miss Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
Its clear how strongly Miss S feels about her complaint. I want to assure her that Ive carried 
out an independent review and considered everything that both parties have submitted. We 
provide an informal complaints handling service as a free alternative to the courts and this is 
reflected in the way Ive approached this complaint. Its part of my role to identify and 
concentrate on the core issues I need to address in order to reach a fair outcome  this 
means I might not mention everything Miss S has said. But I will comment on anything that 
makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint. 
Payment for policy renewal 
When AA processed the payment from Miss Rs mothers card it did so as it had the 
payment details from when the card was used to pay for the policy. It isnt clear why this card 
was used over Miss Ss most recently used payment method. I asked AA for evidence of 
what payment method was used in each year of renewal but the information I received didnt 
provide any clarity on that. 
Miss Ss mother then recalled the payment as she didnt recognise the transaction. So AA 
thought Miss S had recalled her payment and put the policy on hold. Its clear something 
went wrong somewhere in AAs system. And this led to Miss Ss policy being put on hold 
before the matter was resolved in December 2022. 
Based on the evidence its not clear to me whether AA retained Miss Ss mothers card on 
file since it was used for payments previously. And in order for it not to be used for future 
payments it would expect Miss S to remove it from her policy. Or whether the payment was 
taken from that card due to an issue with AAs payment system. In the absence of any 
definitive evidence AA reinstated the policy and agreed a discounted rate for the renewal in 
resolution of the complaint, as a gesture of goodwill. And I think this is fair in all the 
circumstances. 
Renewal date of policy 
I know Miss S says after the issue with the payment her membership was put on hold until 
December 2022 when payment was made. She later received a letter confirming renewal 
was July 2023 when she thought it would be December 2023. Miss S was unable to benefit 
from her policy from July 2022 to December 2022. But Miss S hadnt paid for the period from 
July 2022. So I dont think its unfair she wasnt able to benefit from her membership at that 
point. AA subsequently reinstated the policy and took payment from the date of the original 
renewal in order for Miss S to retain her gold member benefit and I think thats fair and 
reasonable, and what I would have expected it to do.I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions. 
Response to my provisional decision
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or arguments they wanted me to 
consider. Both parties accepted the findings in my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of the fact that both Miss S and AA agree with my findings set out in my provisional 
decision (which Ive reproduced here and which forms part of this final decision), Im satisfied 
it represents an appropriate way to resolve the dispute. For the reasons set out above Im 
upholding Miss Ss complaint. 
Putting things right
AA have backdated the policy so it is continuous. This means Miss S wont lose her gold 
member status. AA has also discounted the premium. And I think thats fair and puts Miss S 
back in the position she would have been in had the issue with payment not occurred. 
However, it is clear to me that Miss S has gone to a lot of trouble contacting AA and this 
service to resolve her concerns. Miss S was also without roadside assistance for a period 
which caused her a level of distress. And so to reflect this, and inconvenience caused, I think 
compensation in the amount of £100 is fair and reasonable and is broadly in line with the 
awards which we make for trouble and upset as set out on our website. So I intend to direct 
AA to pay Miss S a total of £100. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ss complaint about Automobile Association Insurance 
Services Limited and direct it to put things right by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman