DRN-3283007
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Finance, 
breached the terms of her hire purchase agreement by repossessing the car without 
obtaining a court order. 
What happened
In 2016, Mrs L acquired a used car using a hire purchase agreement from Audi Finance. The 
cash price of the car was around £43,000. Mrs L was required to make 48 monthly 
repayments of around £680, followed by a final optional payment of around £23,000. 
In 2020, Audi Finance was informed by the police that they had seized the car. Audi Finance 
sent Mrs L a notice of default because it said she had breached the terms of the hire 
purchase agreement. The agreement was then terminated and Audi Finance collected the 
car from the police. 
Mrs L complained to say that Audi Finance were in breach of the hire purchase agreement 
because it had repossessed the car without first obtaining a court order. She said the effect 
of this was that she was entitled to a refund of everything she had paid under the agreement. 
This was set out in the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). 
Audi Finance didnt uphold her complaint. It said that it didnt repossess the car from Mrs L 
because it wasnt in her possession at the time it collected it  it was held by the police. It 
said it offered Mrs L the opportunity to voluntarily surrender the car, but she chose not to do 
so. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He was satisfied that Audi 
Finance hadnt repossessed the car from Mrs L and therefore he didnt consider it was in 
breach of the CCA.
Mrs L didnt agree. In summary, she said that she didnt believe Audi Finance had treated 
her fairly. She said they didnt respond to her initial letter of complaint and she was unable to 
get in contact with them on several occasions to discuss the issue. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs L says that Audi Finance is in breach of s.90 of the CCA, which says:
(1) At any time when
(a) the debtor is in breach of a regulated hire-purchase or a regulated 
conditional sale agreement relating to goods, and
(b) the debtor has paid to the creditor one-third or more of the total price of 
the goods, and
(c) the property in the goods remains in the creditor,
the creditor is not entitled to recover possession of the goods from the debtor except 
on an order of the court.
The remedy for a breach of s.90 is set out in s.91 of the CCA, which says:
If goods are recovered by the creditor in contravention of section 90
(a) the regulated agreement, if not previous terminated, shall terminate, and
(b) the debtor shall be released from all liability under the agreement, and 
shall be entitled to recover from the creditor all sums paid by the debtor under 
the agreement.
Audi Finance says that s.90 is clear that it applies only where the goods have been 
repossessed from the debtor. It says as the goods were not repossessed from Mrs L, it 
isnt in breach of s.90 of the CCA. However, Audi Finances interpretation isnt quite right. 
Case law supports the view that repossession from the debtor can include, in certain 
circumstances, repossession from a third party1. However, this would generally only seem to 
apply where that third party was holding onto the goods on behalf of the debtor and with their 
consent.
In this specific case, Im satisfied that the police were not holding onto the car on behalf of 
Mrs L. By that I mean Mrs L didnt instruct them to keep it, nor did she even consent to it (as 
she says she has complained about the seizure to the police). Mrs L was in not in a position 
whereby she would be able to gain possession of the car from the third party as its clear the 
police were not prepared to release it to her. This means that Im not persuaded that Audi 
Finance recovered possession of the car from the debtor meaning it did not breach the 
requirements of s.90. 
However, even if my analysis of the relevant law is wrong, Im satisfied that Audi Finance 
acted fairly and reasonably in taking possession of the car. I say this because Ive seen the 
police would only release the car to Audi Finance, so there was no reasonable alternative 
but for Audi Finance to take possession of it. Given Mrs L was in breach of the hire purchase 
agreement when the car was seized, I dont think Audi Finance acted unreasonably in not 
releasing it back to her. 
Further, Mrs L had also had use of the car for four years at this time, so it wouldnt be fair 
and reasonable to say she shouldnt pay anything for that use. And given she was in breach 
of the agreement, I cant see that it was unfair or unreasonable for Audi Finance to terminate 
it and seek to recover all the payments that were due. 
Lastly, Audi Finance accepts that it failed to respond to Mrs Ls contact attempts in a timely 
manner and it has apologised to her for these delays. As I dont think this delay in 
responding to her had any meaningful impact on Audi Finance taking possession of the car, 
or the amounts due to be repaid under the agreement, Im satisfied that the apology is 
sufficient in putting things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
1 Kassam v Chartered Trust plc [1998] RTR 220Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman