DRN-3516865
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) have failed to refund over 
£26,000 he lost as part of an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not set out everything 
again in detail here. In summary, Mr W fell victim to an investment scam, where he made 
around 10 payments between October 2017 and April 2018 that totalled over £26,000. The 
payments were made by bank transfer and debit card as a result of discussions Mr W had 
with two fraudulent investment/binary options merchants (Braxton Knight and Millennium 
FX) whom the FCA have published warnings about. The following payments were made by 
Mr W from his First Direct account:
 
Date Merchant Payee Amount
3 October 2017 Braxton Knight Faster payment to 
SVV Enterprise£,1000
20 February 2018 Braxton Knight Faster payment to 
CIBA LTD£8,000
8 March 2018 Braxton Knight Faster payment to 
CIBA LTD£10,000
13 March 2018
 Braxton Knight Faster Payment to 
Valiant
Consultancy
 £1,000
3 April 2018 Millennium FX Debit Card 
transaction to BO 
Trader
Podgorica£71.38
3 April 2018 Millennium FX Debit Card 
transaction to BO 
Trader
Podgorica£285.52
3 April 2018 Millennium FX Debit Card 
transaction to BO 
Trader
Podgorica£1,427.61
3 April 2018 Millennium FX Debit Card 
transaction to BO 
Trader
Podgorica£1,712.42
3 April 2018 Millennium FX Debit 
Card transaction to 
BO Trader
Podgorica£1,713.14
3 April 2018 Millennium FX Debit Card £1,713.14
transaction to BO 
Trader
Podgorica
   Total: £26,923.21
Mr W realised he had been scammed when he was unable to withdraw the money he had 
invested, where he also discovered warnings about the merchants had been published by 
the FCA. He raised a dispute with First Direct in April 2018 for assistance in recovering his 
lost funds. The bank was able to recover £2,997.83 from the receiving bank of the faster 
payments that had been sent but said that no other funds remained. First Direct refused to 
provide Mr W with a refund as he had authorised the payments. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought that First Direct ought to have intervened 
from the payment Mr W made on 20 February 2018, which would have likely prevented any 
further loss. However, the investigator didnt think that First Direct should refund the 
Millennium FX payments as a result of Mr Ws contributory negligence towards the loss. 
Mr W agreed with the investigators assessment, but First Direct failed to respond. As a 
result, the matter has been escalated to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
to uphold it. Ill explain why.
First, it isnt in dispute that Mr W has been the victim of a scam. Both Braxton Knight and 
Millennium FX have had warnings published by the FCA on the 31 January 2018 and 7 May 
2019 respectively. And there are several reports in the public domain also stating that these 
merchants were scammers. 
It also isnt in dispute that Mr W authorised the disputed transactions which were requested 
by him using his legitimate security credentials provided by First Direct. And the starting 
position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for 
legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether First Direct should have done more to prevent Mr W from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, 
if it was particularly out of character for him.
In Mr Ws case, I dont think the first payment would have appeared unusual, as it was for 
£1,000, which wasnt out of character for him to spend from his account. There also wasnt 
any warning in place about Braxton Knight at the time he made this payment in October 
2017.
However, in terms of the second payment of £8,000, Mr W called First Direct where he 
spoke to an agent to instruct her to make the payment from his account. Mr W said he 
wanted to put some money into an account that he had paid into last year, as he had some 
money with this firm and wanted to add to it. The First Direct agent asked for the company 
name, to which Mr W responded Braxton Knight. The agent could not find any payee of 
that name listed on the account that had been paid previously, so Mr W gave them the 
account details, but said the payee name was CIBA Ltd.Given the size of the payment, along with the fact that it was being sent to a different payee 
compared to the name Mr W gave (i.e. Braxton Knight, whom he said he had paid before but 
was not listed on his account), I think this ought to have struck First Direct as unusual, such 
that they should have probed further into the nature of the payment he was making.
If First Direct had asked further questions about the payment, and for more of the basic 
surrounding context, I think its likely Mr W would have explained what he was doing and that 
he was making an investment after being told to send money to a third party broker, which 
did not match the name of the account he was attempting to pay  all of which can be typical 
features of these sorts of investment scams. First Direct could have asked Mr W to check 
the legitimacy of the broker on the FCA website, where he would have discovered a warning 
about Braxton Knight that had been in place since 31 January 2018.
Overall, Im satisfied that a warning to Mr W from his trusted bank would have probably led 
him to discover the various scam warnings online and exposed the brokers false pretences. 
First Direct had a clear opportunity to prevent Mr W from falling victim to the scam when he 
phoned them on 20 February 2018, where it could have made further enquiries about the 
payment and asked more probing questions. But they failed to do so, despite the unusual 
circumstances described above, which ought to have put them on notice that something was 
not right, and that Mr W was at risk of financial farm. Had they have intervened and issued a 
scam warning, Im satisfied they would have prevented Mr W from sending any further 
payments to this merchant. Therefore, I consider First Direct should refund the payments 
Mr W made to Braxton Knight from 20 February 2018 onwards. 
In terms of the Millennium FX scam, Mr W made several online payments using his debit 
card on 3 April 2018 to payee BO Trader Podgorica, which totalled around £7,000. When 
Mr W reported the scam, First Direct declined to pursue a chargeback claim for the 
payments he made. As the investigator has explained, Mr W did not have the necessary 
evidence required for a successful chargeback claim to have been made under Visa reason 
code 53 (later re-coded to 13.5). So, I dont think First Direct acted unreasonably by failing to 
pursue a chargeback for the debit card payments Mr W made to Millennium FX in these 
circumstances. So, Ive gone on to consider whether the bank ought reasonably to have 
prevented the payments.
At the time Mr W made the payments, no active warning had been published about the 
merchant by the FCA, so I would not have expected First Direct to have blocked the 
payments automatically. Even if there was a warning, the payee name did not match the 
name of the merchant in any event. However, I think the unusual pattern of spending ought 
to have alerted First Direct to the risk of fraud, given that six separate payments were made 
to the same merchant within the same day. By at least the third payment of £1,427.61, for 
example, First Direct ought to have intervened by blocking the payment and questioning 
Mr W further, which I consider would have also prevented any further loss if the bank had 
intervened. There is also strong cause to suggest that Mr W wouldnt have fallen for the 
scam with Millennium FX in the first place if First Direct had intervened from the second 
payment made to Braxton Knight, as he would have been more aware of investment/binary 
options scams and how they tend to operate. 
So, in theory, First Direct would also be liable to refund the payments made to Millennium FX 
as well. However, Ive also got to consider whether Mr W contributed to his overall loss and, 
if so, whether a deduction would be appropriate.
Contributory negligenceDespite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000). And in this case, I do think that Mr W should bear some 
responsibility for what happened, as I think there were various signs that he was being 
scammed, which he appears to have ignored. 
First, I note that he didnt question why the name of the company he was paying (CIBA Ltd) 
did not match the name of the merchant (Braxton Knight), despite the fact that he had 
supposedly paid money to the broker before. This ought reasonably to have raised concerns 
with Mr W, or he should have at least looked into who the payee was or why the payment 
wasnt going directly to Braxton Knight.
Second, I can see that Braxton Knight were promising returns of between 12-20% in their 
promotional literature (as well as saying that he wouldnt ever stand to lose any more than 
5% of his total investment). This all seems quite unrealistic. Even those with limited 
background knowledge of investing would have likely known that investments havent 
enjoyed anything over a few percent in growth per year since the financial crash of 2008. So, 
I think this ought to have led Mr W to question whether the growth promised by the merchant 
was realistic or too good to be true, such that he ought to have considered whether it was a 
legitimate opportunity. 
As a result of Mr Ws contributory negligence, our investigator recommended that First Direct 
only refund the payments he made to Braxton Knight on 20 February 2018 (£8,000) 8 March 
2018 (£10,000) and 13 March 2018 (£1,000), resulting in a total deduction of £6923.21 
(being the payments made to Millennium FX, for which First Direct would also otherwise be 
liable to repay). This works out to be a reduction of around 25% of Mr Ws total loss. Mr W 
has accepted this proposal, and I also consider it to be a fair reduction in light of his 
contributory negligence in these circumstances. 
I also note that First Direct were able to recover £2,997.83 from the beneficiary banks of the 
transfers Mr W made to Braxton Knight, so this amount would also need to be deducted from 
the total award. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC Bank UK Plc (trading 
as First Direct) to:
Refund the payments Mr W made on 20 February 2018, 8 March 2018, and 13 
March 2018 (totalling £19,000) less any funds recovered by First Direct.
As this was a current account, First Direct should pay 8% simple interest per year to 
this sum from the respective dates of loss to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman