DRN-3617719
The complaint
Miss L complains that Rooftop Mortgages Limited didnt help her when she was going 
through a difficult time. She feels that they have been unsympathetic of her circumstances. 
What happened
Miss L took an interest only mortgage for £78,724 with Platform Homeloans in December 
2005. This loan was transferred to Rooftop. 
Miss L says that due to the impact of Covid-19, she couldnt work and because of this, she 
encountered financial difficulties. She says she tried to contact Rooftop at the beginning of 
the pandemic, but they were not taking any calls. She says she left a message regarding a 
payment deferral in April 2020 which Rooftop commenced in May 2020. 
Miss L says the agents she spoke to at Rooftop were unsympathetic towards her and she 
felt they didnt believe that she couldnt work. 
Rooftop instructed a field agent to visit Miss L, but Miss L says she wasnt informed of this. 
She also said the field agent was unprofessional and wasnt happy as he started to discuss 
matters in front of one of her neighbours. 
Miss Ls mortgage account has fallen into arrears and in order to clear those arrears, she 
proposed paying £50 in addition to her contractual monthly payment (CMP), but Rooftop 
didnt respond to her, so she feels they are not working with her. 
Miss L says that Rooftop are also charging her £50 arrears fees which is making it difficult 
for her to reduce the arrears balance. 
Rooftop explained that they started the payment deferral at the earliest opportunity they 
could have, and Miss L has had six months worth of payment deferrals. They said they did 
write to Miss L on numerous occasions for her to get in touch with them, but she didnt so 
they felt they had no choice but to instruct a field agent  which they did notify Miss L of. 
Rooftop are satisfied they didnt do anything wrong. 
Miss L disagreed with Rooftop, so she brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator considered the 
complaint but didnt think that Rooftop had done anything wrong  so she didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Our investigator explained to Miss L that Rooftop hadnt been made aware of Miss Ls 
concerns about the fees, so they needed a chance to consider this. Miss L agreed to set up 
a new complaint about this to give Rooftop a chance to investigate the matter. 
However, Miss L was still unhappy that Rooftop instructed a field agent to visit her at home. 
She asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I agree with our investigator so wont be upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Id like to clarify that I will not be addressing the concerns that Miss L has raised with regards 
to the arrears charges as this is being dealt with under a separate complaint.
Payment holiday
Miss L said she contacted Rooftop in April 2020 to discuss a payment deferral and having 
looked at the contact notes, I can see she did this on 24 April 2020.
Rooftop processed this request and started Miss Ls payment deferral from May until July 
2020. There was a further payment deferral approved from September to November 2020. 
I understand that Miss L is unhappy that Rooftop didnt start the payment deferral from April 
2020 and that she was trying to contact them since March 2020. However as Rooftop have 
explained, they were also trying to adjust to the pandemic and what it meant for them, which 
I think is reasonable. Businesses had to adapt to a very unprecedented situation. They also 
had to adjust with their employees working from home which meant they were unable to take 
any calls for a short period of time. 
Rooftop have also explained that they were only able to start the payment deferral from May 
2020 because Miss Ls CMP was due on the 15 April so it wouldnt have been enough time 
to start it for the month of April. Im therefore satisfied that Rooftop applied the payment 
deferral at the earliest opportunity they were able to. Miss L hasnt lost out as she has still 
had the full six months that she was entitled to. 
Field agent visit
After the payment deferrals had ended, Miss L contacted Rooftop in January 2021 to explain 
that she was still unable to work. Rooftop agreed a nil payment concession for one month to 
allow her to consider her options and allow her to look for a job. 
Miss Ls mortgage was in arrears and Rooftop tried to contact Miss L on numerous 
occasions to discuss the situation with her. Miss Ls mortgage had been in arrears prior to 
the pandemic.
I have looked at the letters that Rooftop have provided us, and I can see they sent letters to 
Miss L in February, March and April 2020. They also attempted to contact Miss L, but they 
were unsuccessful.
The letter dated 19 April 2021 states that Rooftop had been unable to get through to Miss L 
and they explained the account was still in arrears and she was being charged additional 
fees and interest as a result. This letter explained that if they didnt hear from Miss L, they 
would instruct a field agent. 
On 10 May 2021, Rooftop wrote to Miss L again highlighting that the mortgage account was 
in arrears by £2,151.53 with a fee balance of £5,485.20 and that additional interest was 
£240.83. This letter explained that as they hadnt heard from Miss L, they had instructed a 
field agent to work with Miss L to manage the repayment of the mortgage. 
The letter also explained how much the field agent cost would be and that this fee would be 
up to a maximum of £120  and paid for by Miss L. This isnt unusual. 
These letters are clear of Rooftops intention in that if they didnt hear back from Miss L, they 
would indeed instruct a field agent. And they sent her another letter letting her know that 
they were going to do this. So I cant agree that Miss L didnt know one would be visiting her 
property. 
A field agent visited Miss Ls property in May 2021. Miss L wasnt happy that the agent 
visited and said he was unprofessional as he attempted to discuss the situation outside of 
her property. Due to the pandemic, I understand why the field agent didnt enter Miss Ls 
property and why he attempted to discuss the situation outside. And the letter that Rooftop sent confirming that a field agent would be visiting, did explain that they would take into 
account the pandemic.
I can understand why Miss L didnt want to discuss her situation outside of her property. She 
said that her neighbour was also outside and felt this was unprofessional. Miss L did say she 
didnt want to discuss anything, so the field agent left the property. While I accept this may 
not have been the right way to go about things, its reasonable to say that Miss Ls personal 
situation and circumstances were not discussed at this time. 
The field agent wrote to Miss L on the 17 May 2021 explaining they were unable to discuss 
her situation, and he asked her to contact him to discuss the matter further. Miss L was 
advised to contact Rooftop to prevent any further visits. 
Due to the level of arrears on the mortgage account and the unsuccessful contact made by 
Rooftop, I dont think they were unreasonable in sending out a field agent. However, I do 
completely understand why Miss L wouldnt have been comfortable discussing matters 
outside her property because the field agent wouldnt have been able to go inside due to the 
pandemic. But as nothing was discussed, I dont believe that there has been any detriment 
to Miss L. 
Poor service and Rooftop not working with Miss L
Miss L has explained that when she called Rooftop to discuss her situation, she felt that the 
advisers were rude and that they didnt believe she wasnt able to work. 
Ive listened to the calls that Miss L had with the Rooftop advisers. The first calls on 7 and 12 
January are when Miss L calls to explain that her situation hasnt changed. The adviser 
explained that Miss L had already had six months payment deferral and they would need to 
carry out an income and expenditure to understand her current situation.  After listening to 
both calls, I cant say that the advisers were rude or unprofessional. They were just trying to 
explain the next steps to Miss L which I think was reasonable. 
There were a further two calls made on 12 and 13 January 2021 which I have listened to. 
But both call recordings ended before the calls had finished. Rooftop havent been able to 
provide us with the remainder of the calls. During the call of 13 January 2021, the adviser 
explained that the job that Miss L did was in high demand in her area so she could possibly 
explore that. I dont think this meant that the adviser didnt believe Miss L was unable to 
work. I think they were just trying to be helpful in letting Miss L know she could explore other 
options if she wanted to. Again, from what I heard, the advisers on both calls were not 
unhelpful or unsympathetic towards Miss L.
Having looked at the history of Miss Ls mortgage account, I can see that she fell into arrears 
initially in 2017 and then in 2018. The pandemic also had an impact on Miss L. After Miss L 
contacted Rooftop in January 2021, and they agreed a one-month concession on the 
account, Miss L didnt make contact again with them until May 2021. 
The contact notes show that Miss L contacted Rooftop on 19 May 2021 and said she could 
pay the CMP for May 2021 and from June 2021, she would be able to pay the CMP plus an 
additional £50 towards the arrears balance. The notes suggest that Miss L didnt want to set 
an arrangement or complete an income and expenditure with Rooftop. 
The notes show that a further call was made on 20 May 2021 where Miss L proposed to pay 
the CMP and an overpayment towards the arrears. She was told by the adviser that this 
could be put in place once they completed an income and expenditure with her. I can see 
that Miss L has been paying the CMP and an additional £50 since June 2021. 
Miss L initially said she wrote to Rooftop on 24 May 2021 with her proposal, but she didnt 
receive a response.  Its not clear if Rooftop received this letter, but they did have a 
discussion with Miss L about her proposals and what she needed to do. Her proposal to pay 
the additional £50 a month was accepted by Rooftop. Having considered everything carefully, I cant say that Rooftop didnt work with Miss L. They 
tried to discuss her situation with her numerous times and make it clear what the next steps 
would be. Im therefore satisfied that Rooftop did what they could to try and help Miss L.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss L, but I wont be upholding this complaint. 
Miss L still has approximately £2,000 worth of arrears on her mortgage so she should 
continue to engage with Rooftop to discuss any further options that may be open to her. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman