DRN-4034184
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd declined their claim on their 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E had a home insurance policy that was underwritten by Accredited. In October 
2020 they made a claim after noticing cracks in the conservatory. Accredited arranged for 
further investigation into the cause of the cracks. It concluded that they were due to 
subsidence. However it said the foundations of the conservatory were insufficient and didnt 
meet buildings guidance at the time it was built. It therefore said the claim wouldnt be 
covered as the exclusion for faulty workmanship would apply.
Mr and Mrs E made a complaint. They didnt think it was fair that the claim was declined as 
there had been no sign of problems before 2020. Further they said Accredited had provided 
poor customer service and delayed the claim. 
Accredited responded and maintained its position on the claim. However it agreed it had 
offered poor service and caused delays. It offered £400 compensation to apologise for this.
Mr and Mrs E were unhappy with this and brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. He said 
in order to fairly apply the exclusion for faulty workmanship, Accredited would need to show 
that the builder of the conservatory hadnt met applicable rules or guidance at the time of the 
build. He said Accredited had relied on guidance issued for new builds that the builder 
wouldnt need to be bound to. He said a fairer indication of good practice were the building 
regulations at the time, which the foundations met. He also thought Accrediteds offer of 
£400 compensation was fair. 
Mr and Mrs E accepted our investigators outcome, however Accredited didnt. It said 
websites of leading conservatory builders recommend a minimum depth of 1,000mm and Mr 
and Mrs Es were only built to 450mm, so this wasnt in line with industry best practice.
As agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made it is for the insured to prove that there is an insured peril  
a problem thats covered by the policy. It is then for the insurer to either accept the claim or  
to prove an exclusion in the policy applies.
In this case, Accredited has accepted that there is an insured peril  subsidence. However it 
has said that the subsidence has occurred because the foundations of the conservatory 
werent built deep enough into the ground. And it says this means the exclusion for faulty 
workmanship applies. 
In its assessment of Mr and Mrs Es claim, Accredited has pointed to new buildings guidance 
to show that the exclusion applies. However building regulations and the guidance dont 
apply to conservatories, but instead to brick builds and the new build properties built by the 
new home builder. So I agree it wouldnt be fair to say that just because the structure didnt 
meet these requirements, that the conservatory was poorly built. 
However, that doesnt mean we wouldnt consider buildings regulations at all. We would 
expect builders to ensure that any structure they built would be suitable, and the foundations 
would support the structure for a reasonable period of time. To ensure that, wed expect 
them to consider a number of factors, including good building practice. And building 
regulations are a good indicator of this as they set out the requirements for other single 
storey structures.
The building regulations in place in 2008 when the conservatory was built considered a 
minimum depth of 450mm to be suitable. As the conservatory has foundations of 450mm, I 
can see this meets these requirements. 
Accredited has referred to guidance in new home guidelines that require foundations to be 
much deeper. However these guidelines are in place specifically for builders registered to 
one of the leading new home builders, in order to meet the requirements for a warranty it 
provides with new homes. This service would only expect these guidelines to be the 
measure of whether foundations were poorly built where the builder was registered by the 
company who issue the guidelines. I therefore dont think these are a fair guide as to 
whether the conservatory was built correctly.
Further, the conservatory was built in 2008 and cracks werent noticed until 2020. This 
means the conservatory has stood without any problems for 12 years. Which means the 
foundations were suitable enough to hold the structure for that time.
Based on this Im satisfied that even though conservatories arent required to meet building 
regulations, Mr and Mrs Es conservatorys foundations were built in line with regulations at 
the time. And the structure has stood for a significant period without problem. I therefore 
dont agree Accredited has acted fairly or reasonably by applying the exclusion for faulty 
workmanship.
I therefore agree with our investigator that Accredited should reassess Mr and Mrs Es claim 
in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions, without applying the exclusion for 
faulty workmanship.
Mr and Mrs E have also complained about the service they received and the amount of time 
it took for Accredited to progress the claim. Ive looked at the timeline of the claim and the 
correspondence provided and agree the claim took much longer than it should have to 
progress. There are times when Accredited didnt provide information in reasonable 
timescales and when there appeared to be no progress on the claim. This would have 
caused additional distress and inconvenience as it prolonged the time it took for Accredited to confirm its decision on the claim. Its offered £400 compensation to apologise for this and I 
agree this is fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint and require Accredited 
Insurance (Europe) Ltd to reassess Mr and Mrs Es claim without applying the exclusion for 
faulty workmanship. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman