DRN-3161559
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint is about problems he experienced logging on to Studio Retail Limiteds
website and the way they dealt with that.
What happened
On 29 November 2020, Mr P was sent two links to reset his password which didnt 
work.
He called Studio about the problem  they said theyd send a temporary password. 
Mr P said that wouldnt help him update his password. He asked to speak to a 
manager and the staff member refused. In the end, Mr P said they hung up.
Mr P tried calling again several times, using different numbers  but he couldnt get 
through to anyone that could help.
Mr P raised a complaint using the form on Studios website. He received two emails 
back  one saying theyd be in touch and another saying they needed details to verify 
his account before they could respond.
Mr P replied, unhappy with the conflicting messages, and provided the details 
requested. He received a further email acknowledgment.
Because Mr P didnt receive the temporary password and couldnt log on, he rang in 
again. He was told there was a problem with the emails to reset passwords that was 
being investigated.
Later that day, Mr P was able to reset his password. He also received an 
acknowledgment to his complaint.
On 8 December 2020, Mr P was sent a link to reset his password.
On 1 January 2021, Mr P received an email from Studio saying they sent a link to 
reset his password. Mr P responded, unhappy it didnt arrive and wouldve since 
expired. He received an acknowledgement, saying he had to respond using the form 
on Studios website.
Mr P did this, raising concerns that he couldnt reply by email. He received two 
emails in response  one saying theyd be in touch and another saying they needed 
details to verify his account before they could respond.
In February 2021, further to our services involvement, Studio contacted Mr P to 
acknowledge his complaint. Mr P replied to say our service was mistaken, as the 
time for Studio to reply had already passed. 
On the same day, Studio called Mr P about his concerns with logging on to the 
website. Mr P was unhappy with the assumption of his complaint, and that theyd not 
seen his recent email. Studio asked if he needed help logging on and Mr P explained 
it was with the ombudsman.
Further to this call, Studio sent its final response  saying it hadnt been upheld as Mr 
P wouldnt let them help him. Mr P replied, unhappy that this wasnt a true reflection 
of the call. 
On 10 November 2021, I sent my provisional findings. In summary,
oI said our service had the jurisdiction to investigate, because it wasnt just 
about how Studio handled Mr Ps complaint. It was also the problems he 
experienced logging on. 
oWhile I didnt agree Mr P shouldve been able to speak with a manager 
straightaway, I acknowledged the problem he had logging on and that Studio 
didnt deal with the complaint well. Given Mr Ps circumstances, I intended to 
award £50 to reflect the impact this had on him. 
Studio disagreed. In summary: 
oThey said the financial aspect was dealt with successfully as he managed to 
log on and place an order. And that sending a temporary password was the 
right thing to do. 
oMr Ps complaint isnt about the financial aspect, which was dealt with, its that 
he couldnt be transferred to a manager. 
oThe customer service aspect isnt a regulated activity, so theyre concerned 
compensation is paid against something we cant look at. 
Mr P also responded. He said the staff member on the phone didnt seem to want to 
help, and he thinks they didnt pass him through so they wouldnt get into trouble.
Our jurisdiction 
DISP 2.1.4G of the Financial Conduct Authority handbook explains that an activity includes 
the manner in which a respondent has administered its business, provided that the business 
is an activity subject to the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction. 
Here, Im satisfied that Mr Ps complaint  the service he received while trying to access his 
online account  relates to the way Studio has administered its business in relation to a 
financial service. And while Studio say that the financial aspect was resolved quickly, that 
doesnt affect our jurisdiction to investigate the complaint. 
Mr P also has concerns with how his complaint was dealt with. Because thats a continuation 
of his concerns with the way Studio provided the underlying financial service, Im satisfied I 
can investigate these too. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Studio submit that sending a temporary password was the right thing to do. But even so, it 
seems Mr P didnt get it, hence why he called again later and found out there was a problem 
with the password reset emails. So this doesnt change my mind that £50 is fair 
compensation here. 
In saying this, Ive also considered Mr Ps point that the staff member he spoke to wasnt 
helpful and didnt want to pass him to a manager as they would get in trouble. But, even if 
the staff member had ulterior reasons for not passing Mr P through, I still dont think its 
unfair or unreasonable not to get help from manager straightaway, for the reasons I 
explained in my provisional decision. 
So, in all, Ive not changed my provisional findings. For completeness, Ive included a copy 
of these below: 
Our jurisdiction
Our rules explain that a complaint needs to be about the provision or failure to 
provide a financial service. And that we can consider a complaint about Studio if it 
relates to a regulated activity and how the activity was carried out.
Our investigator said this wasnt a complaint we could help with, because Mr P was 
unhappy with how his complaint was handled, which isnt a financial service.
But Mr P is also unhappy about the issues he experienced logging on and how they 
handled that. So Im satisfied the complaint is about the way Studio provided a 
financial service  and that his concerns about how they handled the complaint are a 
continuation of that. 
It follows that this complaint is one we can help with.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend to uphold 
the complaint for the following reasons:
Ive considered the first call Mr P had with Studio. Theres no call recording, 
so Ive considered Mr Ps recollections. He said the staff member refused to 
put him through to a manager and ended the call. I dont think that was unfair 
or unreasonable. A manager is responsible for their team  so its 
understandable they wont be immediately available to customers. And I 
wouldnt expect the staff member to continue with a call if it wasnt productive. 
So Im with Studio on this point.
After the call, I acknowledge Mr P struggled to get through to anyone that 
could help, and he received confusing acknowledgments from Studio.
Mr P was able to log on later that day  but that was because he called Studio 
again and found out about the problems they were experiencing. I note that 
Studio didnt respond to his webform query for a month.And ultimately, Im mindful that Mr P wouldnt have gone through any of this 
had the password reset email worked in the first place.
I also dont think Studio dealt with the complaint well  it took them a long 
time to respond, and when they did, I can see how Mr P didnt feel listened to.
Ive considered the impact this customer service had on Mr P. I acknowledge 
that some people wouldve brushed off Studios mistakes as a minor 
annoyance or dealt with the situation differently. But my role is to consider 
how this affected Mr P as an individual. Hes explained he has agoraphobia 
and how that causes anxiety and distress, particularly when he doesnt feel 
heard. So I do think something more than an apology is needed here. And I 
intend to ask Studio to pay £50 to reflect how things affected Mr P.  
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ps complaint. Studio Retail Limited must pay Mr P £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman