DRN-3996655
Complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) recorded a fraud prevention 
marker against him.
Background
In January 2022, Barclays received a notification from a third-party bank stating that one of 
its customers had reported being deceived into making 42 transactions, totalling thousands 
of pounds, into Mr As account. Barclays carried out a review and as a result of its 
investigation, it decided to close Mr As account and record a fraud prevention marker.
Mr A subsequently complained about Barclays actions. Barclays didnt uphold Mr As 
complaint. As Mr A remained dissatisfied, Mr A referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr As concerns. He didnt think that Barclays had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr A disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Barclays has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr A is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous.
What this means in practice is that Barclays must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr As account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Barclays also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr A was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr A allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr As complaint, I need to decide whether I think Barclays had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr As account and that his actions 
suggest he was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Barclays did 
have enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more 
detail. 
Mr A doesnt dispute having received the funds in question. However he disputes having 
received them fraudulently. Hes said that the funds were willingly transferred to him by his 
ex-partner and they made false allegations against him after their relationship ended. Mr A 
has provided copies of messages between him and the individual who made the allegation, 
which he says shows the funds were transferred to him willingly rather than fraudulently.
Ive thought about what Mr A has said and what he has provided. Its clear that the individual 
who made the allegation was known to him. But I cant see that this has ever been in 
dispute. Indeed Mr A has been told that the individual concerned told their bank that they 
had made the transfers in question to Mr As account  albeit this was done under false 
pretences. 
Mr A has referred to the fact that at least one of the payments was referenced as loan. But 
hes declined to confirm whether these funds were repaid, when he was questioned about 
this matter by our adjudicator. Furthermore, the messages Mr A has provided clearly show 
that he was told he much he owed  (albeit I understand Mr A disputes the total amount) and 
that the individual who reported the matter to their bank had regularly and repeatedly asked 
for their money to be returned and a timescale for when this would happen. 
For the sake of completeness, Id also add that Ive not seen anything at all that clearly 
demonstrates that Mr A used the funds for the purpose he requested them for in the first 
place either. For example, Mr A says that some of the funds were paid for IVF treatment  
but there isnt anything at all  either in his account statements or anything else hes 
provided  which shows that he did in fact pay for such treatment. I do accept that in the 
messages provided there are references to some of the purpose of the requests. But Ive not 
been provided with anything at all to show that the funds were utilised in that way and most 
crucially that Mr A repaid them as he promised to. 
So Im afraid that there are a number of factors which call into question the plausibility of 
what Mr A has said. And when all of this is weighed against the fact that Barclays received a 
notification from a third-party bank regarding funds that had entered into his account and 
wasnt provided with any clear evidence to corroborate Mr As version of events, I think that 
Barclays was reasonably entitled to conclude that Mr A acted fraudulently. 
Mr A has questioned why Barclays did not report him to the police if it believed that he had 
acted fraudulently. But thats something Mr A will have to take up with Barclays and it isnt a 
matter for me to consider. My role here is limited to determining whether Barclays had 
sufficient evidence and information such that it was reasonable for it to record a fraud 
marker. And for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that it was unfair for Barclays record 
a fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that it did here.So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Barclays acted unfairly 
towards Mr A and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr A  especially as I know Mr A is concerned about his inability to open 
another account. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
appreciate why a fraud marker has been recorded against him. Mr A might also find that hes 
able to open an account with another bank as long as he applies for a Basic Bank Account, 
rather than a full Current Account or any such equivalent.
As our adjudicator has explained, Barclays has indicated its offer of £100 for the delay in 
responding to his concerns remains available to Mr A. I leave it up to Mr A to decide whether 
he wishes to accept this and should he wish to do so, he should get in contact with Barclays 
to confirm this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman