DRN-3274071
The complaint
Mr M complains about New Day Ltd closing his credit card account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
New Day agreed to place a hold on the account until August 2021, meaning no 
interest or charges would accrue in this time. 
During the call in April 2021, New Day told Mr M his account would continue to 
accrue arrears which in turn could affect his credit file. But it didnt mention that this 
could result in the account being closed. 
Mr M told New Day he was unable to make payments for a few months, so I think 
New Day would have been aware it was possible his account could be closed and I 
think this should have prompted it to better manage Mr Ms expectations.
Had it done so Mr M would have been able to make an informed decision before he 
travelled abroad about how he managed the account.
New Day closed the account in July 2021, before the payment hold ended. Mr M was 
abroad at the time due to a family emergency, and while he may have had access to 
his account statements and notifications online, its reasonable he didnt check this in 
the circumstances.
However, I can see Mr M didnt make further payments on his account until October 
2021. Mr M has also explained he had advised New Day he would not be receiving a 
salary until September 2021. 
So, while I think New Day could have provided clearer information to Mr M the 
account could close, he was aware it would be accruing arrears and he continued to 
be unable to make payments after the hold ended. So Im not persuaded this would 
have made a difference to the account eventually closing. 
I do think New Day should pay compensation for the inconvenience it caused Mr M, 
but for the reasons Ive set out above, I think £100 compensation fairly reflects this. 
So I dont intend to alter the award recommended by our investigator.
Putting things right
To put things right, I direct New Day to pay Mr M £100 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint.
I direct New Day Ltd to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman