DRN-1713205
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 1995 Mr and Mrs M bought PPI, most likely at the same time as they were re-mortgaging. 
Neither party can confirm where or how the sale took place. The policy was in Mr Ms sole 
name and gave him protection against accident, sickness and unemployment. They paid a 
monthly amount for it. Halifax told us the policy was cancelled in 1997.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In response to our adjudicators view Mr and Mrs M said we had shown an unfair bias 
towards the lender as there was no evidence of a discussion and agreement about PPI. I 
have weighed up the available evidence from both sides, and as some of it is incomplete my 
decision is based on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most 
likely given the evidence we do have and what we know about how Halifax sold PPI at the 
time. As an independent and impartial organisation we dont act on behalf of either 
consumers or banks - theres no benefit for us to find in the favour of one party over the 
other.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs M that the PPI was optional, and they had to 
agree to take it out. Mr and Mrs M say they were unaware they had PPI, they didnt agree to 
it and there is no documentary proof of the sale. And their bank statements showed only a 
single payment per month to Halifax.
Not surprisingly after such a long time, the paperwork from the sale is no longer available. 
And there arent any records of what was discussed about PPI when Mr and Mrs M applied 
to re-mortgage. Halifax says its more likely than not that it obtained Mr and Mrs Ms explicit 
consent to purchase the PPI policy before the sale was concluded. 
Whilst I cant be sure that Halifax followed its normal sales process on this occasion, I 
havent seen anything that shows me it didnt. I cant fairly say Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs 
M a choice or get their agreement just because it no longer has the paperwork from around 25 years ago. And I dont think its surprising Halifax would have systems records relating to 
the PPI, but not copies of relevant documents. 
I have thought about Mr and Mrs Ms comments carefully, but I also have to consider how 
long ago the sale was and how that might impact what they remember. I dont doubt they 
have given us their honest recollections. But theyre having to recall things from around 25 
years ago and I dont think its reasonable to expect that anyone can accurately remember 
all the details of a sale after such a long time.
Overall, and on balance, I think its likely Mr and Mrs M decided to take PPI for Mr M 
knowing they had a choice.
I dont know whether Halifax recommended the PPI for Mr M to Mr and Mrs M. But Im 
looking at the complaint as if it did, and this puts more responsibility on Halifax. It means it 
had to check that the PPI was suitable as part of the sale. Based on what I know of their 
circumstances, I think it seems to have been right for them based on what Ive seen. 
Mr M told us he was entitled to less than three months sick pay and the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to his work benefits and for up to 12 months for all accident and sickness 
claims. It also gave him redundancy protection for up to 12 months. They recall they had 
savings of between £2000 and £10,000, but the PPI would have allowed them to use these 
for other living costs whilst Mr M wasnt working, or to keep them intact for their future needs. 
They also said family would have helped but thats not suitable alternative protection  its 
not guaranteed and peoples circumstances can change. 
Mr and Mrs M were borrowing quite a large sum over a long period, secured on their home. 
Given how serious the effects of not keeping up with their mortgage repayments could have 
been, I think the PPI would have been useful for them if Mr M was sick, had an accident or 
lost his job. And they could cancel it any time without further cost if their situation changed or 
if they decided they no longer wanted it, as the banks records show they did in 1997. 
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs M all the information they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. I cant know when the cost was made clear but the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. And Mr M doesnt appear to have been 
affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations (such as those affecting people with 
pre-existing medical conditions or on certain types of employment contract). So, I dont think 
better information wouldve changed their decision.
Overall, Ive looked carefully at everything Mr and Mrs M have said and sent us. This 
includes their point about their bank statements only showing one single payment to Halifax, 
but for the reasons set out above this doesn't change my conclusion about the sale. I know 
they will be frustrated and disappointed with my conclusion. And its not easy to decide a 
case like this where the available information about how the PPI was sold is very limited. But 
based on all the available evidence I cant fairly and reasonably say the policy was mis-sold. 
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs M have lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
My decision is I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman