DRN-1362343
The complaint
Mrs Y complains about the charges PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) applied when she 
returned a car acquired under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
Mrs Y entered into a hire purchase agreement for a car with PSA in 2016. After she returned 
the car in 2019 PSA asked her to pay a sum for damage to the car as well as a charge for 
cleaning the car.
Mrs Y disputed this was fair. She said the damage was fair wear and tear and she had been 
given the impression during a recent service that she would not be charged for damage to 
the wheels.
PSA removed the cleaning charge it had applied because it didnt think that would impact the 
cars value, but it said that it thought the rest of the damage was beyond fair wear and tear. 
However, it offered to reduce the total amount Mrs Y was required to pay by 25% as a 
gesture of goodwill. 
Unsatisfied with PSAs response, Mrs Y referred a complaint to our service. She said that 
damage was fair wear and tear. She also said that PSA had been heavy handed by sending 
her four emails and four texts in the space of three weeks in relation to the matter.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They were satisfied that PSA had adequately 
demonstrated that the damage it had charged for was not fair wear and tear as defined by 
Mrs Ys contract with PSA as well as industry standards. She also thought that the prices 
PSA had charged were proportionate to the damage and costs itd likely incur in putting 
things right. 
Mrs Y disagreed. She said;
- the damage wasnt beyond fair wear and tear for a three year old car
- because PSA had charged to clean the car but later removed that charge it showed 
that PSA was dishonest
- its possible some of the misaligned parts PSA charged for couldve been 
manipulated to appear that way during the inspection as she was not present.
- the prices PSA had charged were too high, based on her own research and PSA 
hadnt shown that it had completed the work
- PSA continued to contact her despite having sent a cheque for payment and that 
although she sent another cheque because PSA said it didnt receive the first, she 
has evidence to show that both were delivered.
Our investigator maintained that she thought the charges had been raised fairly and priced 
reasonably. She didnt find it necessary to comment on the fairness of the cleaning charge 
which PSA had applied because it had subsequently removed it. She also said that PSA was 
not required to repair and that the costs charged were representative of the likely effect on 
the cars value. Our investigator also accepted that Mrs Y may have had to send two 
cheques to PSA, but it wasnt clear why the first had not been received, but overall she didnt 
think the frequency of contact from PSA and overall handling of the situation was 
unreasonable.
The case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ys hire purchase agreement was a regulated product and one that we have the power 
to look into a complaint about. The agreement was accompanied by terms and conditions 
which set out what was considered fair wear and tear. It also said that Mrs Y would be 
responsible for any damage to the car. 
In deciding whether or not it was fair for PSA to apply the charges it has, Ive taken into 
account the terms of Mrs Ys agreement with PSA as well as industry guidance on whats 
considered fair wear and tear issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA). Ultimately though, Ill base my decision on what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable.
The car supplied to Mrs Y was new, so its fair to say that any damage it featured at the point 
it was returned was not present at the point it was supplied. Mrs Y has made a point about 
the car being just three years old, with reference to whats considered fair wear and tear. Ive 
taken this into account in determining whether the charges PSA applied were fair. Overall 
though, I think most people wouldnt expect a three year old car to show serious or obvious 
signs of wear and tear, as its still a relatively young car. Nonetheless Ill address the 
charges PSA applied individually.
The damage PSA has charged for takes various forms, its charged for;
- loose, broken and misaligned bumper mouldings, panels and a grill
- Chips and scuffs to painted and unpainted bodywork; and
- scuffs to the alloy wheels. 
Mrs Ys agreement with PSA set out that misaligned parts caused by misuse, collision, 
impact or substandard repairs would be deemed abnormal wear. I agree that if a car was 
returned featuring misaligned parts for those reasons, itd be fair to apply a charge for a 
remedy as it would likely affect the vehicles value. 
Im satisfied that PSA has adequately demonstrated that the parts in question here are 
misaligned. Taking into account that Mrs Y was supplied with a new car, I think its fair to say 
that they likely came to be misaligned or broken for one of the reasons PSA set out. As a 
result, Im satisfied that the charges PSA applied for misaligned parts were fair and 
reasonable.With reference to damage to the bodywork, the BVRLA guidance on what constitutes fair 
wear and tear says that chips of 3mm or less are acceptable provided they havent rusted. It 
also says that scuffs and scratches of 25mm or less on unpainted panels are acceptable as 
long as the moulding has not been broken. 
Ive reviewed the pictures PSA has provided of the chips and scuffs its charged for. Having 
done so, Im satisfied that the chips to a painted panel they charged for exceed a total of 
3mm. Im also satisfied that the scratches to an unpainted bumper clearly exceed 25mm, 
and that a bumper moulding had been broken. So, it follows that I think PSA applied those 
charges fairly, and in line with industry guidance.
The BVRLA guidance also sets out a standard regarding fair wear and tear to alloy wheels. It 
says that any damage to the wheel spokes, facia and hub is not acceptable. The pictures 
PSA has provided of the alloy wheels show clearly that two of the wheels feature damage to 
the spokes. So, it follows that I think this charge was also applied fairly.
Given all of the above, Im satisfied that the charges PSA asked Mrs Y to pay were applied 
fairly and in line with relevant industry guidance. I also think that the value of the charges 
were proportionate and reasonable taking into account the potential effect on the value of 
the car, as well as the costs PSA would likely incur in putting things right, So, overall, I find 
that PSA has acted fairly in respect of the charges it applied.
Lastly, like our investigator, I find that PSA provided a reasonable level of service and the 
frequency with which it contacted Mrs Y wasnt unreasonable. I accept that Mrs Y may have 
had to send PSA two cheques and its a possibility that PSA misplaced the first. But its not 
clear thats the case  PSAs records only reflect that it told Mrs Y it hadnt received her 
cheque and she should send another. Even if I were to accept PSA misplaced Mrs Ys first 
cheque, and although I appreciate it wouldve been frustrating for her, I dont think this in 
itself warrants me making an award.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman