DRN-4088082
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt credit the correct amount into his account 
following a cash deposit he made in branch.
What happened
In June 2022, Mr H visited a Lloyds branch to make a cash deposit into his account. He says 
he handed the member of branch staff three envelopes containing a total of £7,750, and that 
the money had been gifts from his wedding. The member of staff went to a separate room to 
count the cash but, when they returned, they told Mr H that the envelopes had only 
contained £5,640.
The member of staff suggested Mr H could have left some of the cash at home, so he 
agreed to go and check. But, after checking, Mr H was sure he had handed over the full 
£7,750 and so asked Lloyds to pay him the difference it said was missing.
Lloyds investigated but said it didnt agree it had made an error. It said the till the cash was 
paid in to didnt have the missing funds in it and the room the cash was counted in was 
checked but no missing cash or envelopes were found. So it didnt agree to pay Mr H the 
missing amount. Mr H wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so referred a complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They thought Lloyds had carried out 
reasonable checks but no error had been found. And they didnt think there was enough 
evidence to say a member of staff had taken the funds. So they didnt think Lloyds should 
have to pay the missing amount to Mr H. Mr H disagreed with our investigator, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it would be fair to require Lloyds to refund the missing amount 
to Mr H. Ill explain why below.
Mr H says the money he was depositing had been gifts from his wedding, and that it was 
counted a number of times by both him and his family before he took it to the Lloyds branch. 
But while this is a completely plausible explanation for where the money came from and I 
dont doubt what Mr H says, it also means it is not possible to independently confirm how 
much money there was  for example, by checking bank statements or cash machine 
records.
Both Mr H and Lloyds accept the money Mr H deposited was taken to a back room and 
counted there, rather than being counted at the counter in front of Mr H. And Mr H feels this 
was incorrect. But Ive seen a copy of Lloyds branch processes for accepting deposits, and 
this doesnt mention that cash deposits should be counted in front of the customer. So I cant 
say Lloyds has acted incorrectly or failed to follow the correct process in counting the money 
in a back room.
The member of staff who counted the deposit has also provided a statement about what 
happened when Mr H deposited the money and how they counted it. In the statement, the 
member of staff says they separated and organised they money before running it through a 
counting machine. They also say they counted the money a second time after the total didnt 
match what Mr H had originally told them. And the statement is very clear and detailed, and 
so I find it persuasive.
Lloyds has also sent us copies of the balance sheets for the branch Mr S made the deposit 
in, covering the day he made the deposit. These show a small discrepancy in the balances, 
which matches what the member of staff said in their statement. And while a discrepancy in 
the balances does suggest some error by Lloyds over that time, the amount of the 
discrepancy is much smaller than the amount Mr H says is missing from his deposit. So I 
dont think the balance sheets suggest an error was made with Mr Hs deposit. Instead, I 
think they suggest his deposit was counted correctly and some other smaller error was made 
elsewhere in the branch over that time.
As well as providing the balance sheets, Lloyds has said the back room where the deposit 
was counted, and the confidential waste, were checked for any extra money  but none was 
found. So Im satisfied Lloyds investigated this as I would expect it to do.
Mr S has suggested a member of staff could have stolen the missing money. But I havent 
seen any additional evidence to support this. Lloyds has said there are no records of any 
other similar incidents at this branch. And a member of staff trying to steal a customers 
money would know they were risking their job by doing so. So I dont think its likely a 
member of staff stole the missing money.
Mr S has also suggested that the errors Lloyds has accepted it made, such as the 
discrepancy in the branch balance sheets and the member of staff initially missing some of 
the money in one of the envelopes, means it should be held responsible for the money he 
says is missing. But I dont agree it would be fair to hold Lloyds responsible just because 
some other errors on its part have been identified. I still think the evidence we have suggests 
there werent any errors relating to the amount now missing.
Its not possible to know for certain what happened here. I appreciate how strongly Mr H 
feels about this case and Im not suggesting at all that either he or his family acted 
incorrectly. But where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my 
decision on what I think is likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have. And, 
based on what Ive seen, I think its most likely there was some confusion or 
misunderstanding about the amount Mr H thought he was depositing, and that he actually 
brought less than he thought to the branch.
I dont think the evidence Ive seen suggests there was any error by Lloyds which led to the 
amount Mr H says is now missing. So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to require 
it to refund the missing amount.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman