DRN-3285564
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the early repayment charge applied by Nationwide Building 
Society when they redeemed their mortgage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B held a residential mortgage with Nationwide. They had a balance of around 
£219,000 on a variable (base mortgage rate) of 2.1%. Their mortgage (made up of several 
sub accounts) was on part repayment and part interest terms and they had a monthly 
repayment of £1,044.73. No Early repayment charge (ERC) was applicable on this deal.
Mr B says his employment was impacted as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. He and Mrs 
B took a six-month payment deferral on their mortgage from April 2020 to September 2020. 
During this time Mr and Mrs B explored other options to help them financially. Nationwide 
recommended they switch deals to reduce their monthly payments. In June 2020 Mr and Mrs 
B switched to a 5-year fixed rate product on a rate of 1.34% saving them around £150 per 
month. 
Their financial situation didnt improve so they later decided to sell their home. This was not 
something they had intended on doing previously. They accepted an offer on their property 
in October 2020 and discussed redeeming their mortgage with Nationwide. They discovered 
a 5% ERC applied on their current deal  something they say they were not made aware of 
when switching. 
Mr and Mrs B raised their concerns with Nationwide. They thought it was morally wrong for 
Nationwide to apply the ERC in the circumstances. Nationwide didnt agree to waive the 
ERC, as it thought it had been charged fairly in line with the mortgage terms which were 
clearly set out to Mr and Mrs B. Nationwide did apologise for initially issuing the wrong offer 
redemption figure to their solicitor and paid £100 compensation for the mistake. 
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to our service. 
As a resolution theyre seeking a full refund of the approx. £11,000 ERC applied and the 
costs they incurred when switching deals. 
Our investigator looked into things, he didnt uphold the complaint. Ultimately, he thought 
Nationwide had fairly charged the ERC in line with the mortgage terms. He was also 
satisfied those terms were made clear to Mr and Mrs B at the time of switching deals. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree and asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B say their circumstances changed due to the impact of the pandemic. It's very 
unfortunate that they found themselves in this position and I do empathise with their 
situation. It's clear Mr and Mrs B made every effort to engage with Nationwide during their 
period of financial difficulty and proactively took steps to protect their creditworthiness. 
In response to the pandemic, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) released
specific guidance for mortgage lenders  including allowing customers to defer up to a
maximum of six-monthly mortgage payments. Where a payment deferral is offered, the
lender needs to ensure that a consumer is given adequate information to understand any
implications this may have.
In response to Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances, Nationwide agreed a six-month payment 
deferral for them. Mr and Mrs Bs account would not be reported as in arrears. The FCAs 
guidance said that after the six-month deferral period had ended, it expected lenders to 
consider tailored ongoing support for customers if needed, but normal credit reporting would 
resume. 
When Mr and Mrs Bs payment deferral ended, they discussed their options with Nationwide. 
They say Nationwide made them aware of the implications any further concessions could 
have. They didnt want their credit files to be impacted so said theyd continue to make their 
contractual monthly payments as normal. By this time, it appears Mr and Mrs B had already 
decided to put their property on the market as they say they were struggling to keep up with 
payments and an offer on their property was subsequently accepted in October 2020.  
When considering everything Im persuaded Nationwide acted positively and sympathetically 
to Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances. It offered the right support in line with the FCAs guidance 
and explored other options to help Mr and Mrs B during their period of financial difficulties - 
including offering a rate switch to help reduce their monthly payments. It appears from 
Nationwides call notes and Mr and Mrs Bs testimony that adequate information was given 
regarding the possible implications of any follow-on concessions. This influenced Mr and Mrs 
Bs decision to resume payments as usual. 
Unfortunately, as Mr and Mrs B financial position hadnt improved, they decided to put their 
property on the market. It wasnt until after they accepted an offer, that they say, they 
discovered an ERC was applicable. 
Ive considered the information provided to Mr and Mrs B at the time of switching deals. In 
June 2020 various calls took place between Nationwide and Mr B. During the calls with the 
mortgage advisor, Mr and Mrs B were presented with different fixed rate options and the 
ERC terms were explained. Mr and Mrs B opted for the 5-year fixed rate and an offer was 
issued to them on 19 June 2020 setting out the full terms of their new mortgage. 
The offer included full details of the ERC terms applicable. As common with 5-year fixed rate 
deals a 5% ERC was applicable on the amount repaid (over the 10 % overpayment 
allowance) in the first year. On some 5-year fixed rate deals the 5% ERC is applicable for 
the full duration of the fixed term. Mr and Mrss offer explained that with their mortgage the 
ERC would be charged on a sliding scale reducing by 1% each year.
During a follow up call, Mr and Mrs B confirmed theyd received the mortgage offer, read and 
understood the terms. Consent was sought to make the relevant changes to the mortgage 
from July 2020.
So, when considering everything Im satisfied Nationwide provided information about the 
ERC terms applicable in a clear, fair and not misleading way  both in the mortgage offer 
and during calls. Whilst this may be the case, Mr and Mrs B still feel its morally wrong for Nationwide to apply 
the charge in their individual circumstances.
Under the relevant rules, lenders are entitled to apply an ERC. And Im satisfied that the 
ERC was set out clearly and prominently in the mortgage offer, which Mr and Mrs B 
accepted when they took out the current mortgage deal. So, it is difficult for me to say that 
Nationwide cant apply the ERC that Mr and Mrs B agreed to when they took out the 
mortgage. 
When a lender offers a fixed rate mortgage product, both the lender and borrower are tied 
into the fixed rate for the duration of the term. The ERC reflects the pre-estimated costs a 
lender incurs across a range of mortgages where the borrower redeems the mortgage within 
the benefit period. 
I need to consider what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances for both parties. The ERC 
forms part of the contract Mr and Mrs B had with Nationwide, so I can't say it's been unfair or 
unreasonable in applying the ERC. 
I know this will come as a disappointment for Mr and Mrs B, but I will not be asking 
Nationwide to refund the ERC paid or any other fees paid as a result of the product switch 
and redemption.
Im satisfied Nationwides offer of £100 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. It 
acknowledges the mistake made when issuing the redemption figure. The issue was rectified 
within reasonable timescales and a revised settlement figure was provided to the solicitor 
which didnt impact completion in any way. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman