DRN-2109732
The complaint
Miss T complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited refused to let her reject a faulty car. 
What happened
In August 2018 Miss T acquired a second-hand car costing £14,198 funded by a part 
exchange worth £10,700 and a hire purchase agreement for the balance. It was three years 
old and had covered 64,605 miles. She also took out warranty cover.
A few months later Moss T encountered some issues with the car. In summary: 
6 November 2018 - Miss T contacted the warranty provider and said the parking brake light 
and the engine management light (EML) had illuminated intermittently. The warranty 
provider referred her to a garage that replaced the handbrake switch.
January 2019 - the same garage replaced the turbo actuator and NOX sensor.
During this time Miss T also said there was an intermittent fault with the brakes. She 
explained she went to the garage on three occasions to have this looked at, and on 
one visit they re-set the dashboard which appeared to resolve the issue.
21 January 2019- Miss T complained to the supplying dealership. It advised her to 
get a diagnostic to identify all the faults which they said they would cover the cost of
13 March 2019- diagnostic completed- this found several issues which included the 
wiper blades needing to be replaced, the AdBlue warning light was illuminated on the 
dashboard, the rear-side lights were inoperative, the EML was illuminated (fault 
found with NOX sensor), there was a static fault with fuel flap monitor and the brake 
fluid needed to be replaced.
Miss T complained to MotoNovo in April 2019 and it spoke with the dealer. It concluded 
there was no evidence to show the faults were present at the point of sale and said the onus 
was on Miss T to demonstrate otherwise as she hadnt raised the issues with it until more 
than six months had elapsed. It said she should get an independent report and if that 
confirmed the faults were present at the point of sale the cost of the report would be 
refunded.
Miss T brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. Initially she didnt consider it should be upheld, but Miss T provided more 
evidence in support of her complaint.
Our investigator noted the evidence showed the EML was still illuminated and there 
appeared to be a fault with the rear lights. These were the same as were shown in the 
diagnostic of 13 March 2019. She also thought the EML fault seemed to have been present 
since November 2018 (three months into the agreement).
She noted Miss T had continued to use the car, but had done so as she was continuing to 
pay the monthly payments and she had no other means of transport. Furthermore, she said 
she had delayed taking her complaint further initially as she was trying to resolve the 
problems with the dealer.
As for an independent inspection she recognised the reasons behind MotoNovos request, 
but the current faults were the same as those first diagnosed in March 2019. She concluded 
it was reasonable to regard the faults as persisting.  She said that Miss T had first reported 
the faults to the dealer very soon after she took delivery of the car. 
Two repairs had been carried out and the car was still faulty and our investigator thought 
rejection was the right outcome. MotoNovo didnt agree and said Miss T hadnt told it about 
the problems until some seven months had passed and it was her responsibility to 
demonstrate the car was faulty at the point of sale. It thought the diagnostic report could 
have been biased as it could have resulted in the garage getting more work.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Motonovo is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for 
a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Miss T has told this service that she first complained to the dealer in January 2019 and it 
didnt tell her that the matter should be referred to MotoNovo until April. I consider it 
reasonable to conclude that Miss T first raised the problems with the six month period even if 
she didnt contact the business initially. I think it only fair that the dealer should have told her 
about the need to talk to MotoNovo or to have contacted it direct.
In January the dealer suggested that she take the car to a local VAT registered garage for 
diagnosis. It says she refused, but she did have one carried out in March and I dont 
consider the results to have demonstrated any bias by the garage. I think it simply showed 
the faults remained unresolved.
Miss T sought to ensure her car remained roadworthy and had work carried out under 
warranty as one would expect. This was done by an approved garage and regrettably the problems remain. I have looked at the more recent evidence from Miss T which shows that 
the EML light is still showing. 
It would seem that the fault was identified shortly after the point of sale and it remains some 
time later. While an independent report might add some further evidence, I think the point 
has passed for one being conducted. I am satisfied from the evidence which I have reviewed 
that the car wasnt fit for purpose at the point of sale.
Putting things right
I consider Miss T should be allowed to reject the car.
My final decision
 decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct MotoNovo Finance Limited to:
Allow Miss T to reject the car, and arrange to collect it at no cost to her
Refund the part exchange value of £10,700 + 8% simple interest from the date the 
payment was made until the date it is refunded
Pay £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused
Remove the record of the credit agreement from Miss Ts credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman