DRN-3799123
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that a lifetime income plan (the plan) recommended to them by 
HSBC UK Bank Plc was unsuitable as theyve incurred a tax liability upon surrender. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C originally received advice from HSBC in 2014. They were recommended the 
plan to meet an objective of using part of their savings - £130,000 - to generate a 
guaranteed income for life. The plan was set up to pay monthly income reflecting a 
guaranteed annual return of 4.1%.
In 2021 Mr and Mrs C received further advice from HSBC, and it was recommended that the 
plan be surrendered with the proceeds re-invested into alternative products. This surrender 
created a chargeable event, resulting in a tax liability of around £6,600. 
Mr and Mrs C complained to HSBC about this unexpected liability, unhappy that they hadnt 
been made aware of the risk that it could occur. They said they wouldnt have proceeded 
with the plan if theyd known. But HSBC didnt consider it had done anything wrong. 
In brief, it was satisfied that its adviser, having gathered information about their needs and 
circumstances, had made a suitable recommendation to invest for the greatest possible level 
of guaranteed income for life to supplement their retirement. HSBC noted that the 
documentation provided to Mr and Mrs C had noted key features and risks of the product, 
including the potential for a chargeable gain to occur if surrendered. It had also been noted 
that they didnt anticipate the need to access the invested capital. 
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator also didnt think it should be 
upheld. She was satisfied the advice had been suitable for Mr and Mrs C given their 
documented requirement of a guaranteed income for life. She too noted that the financial 
planning report issued to Mr and Mrs C had mentioned the possibility of a chargeable event 
upon surrender.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept the investigators view. They said, in brief, that the report issued 
by HSBC had heavily emphasised the general tax efficiency of the plan but, conversely, had 
failed to stress the possibility of a liability upon surrender. And thered been no indication 
given as to what such an amount might be. Also, the report issued later in 2021 following the 
receipt of further advice had said that the plan wasnt tax efficient and was no longer right for 
them due to the level of risk involved and associated charges. 
The investigator responded to say that the amount of tax liability couldnt have been 
predicted at the outset. She remained satisfied that the recommendation had met the 
required criteria and been a suitable way to provide a guaranteed income. She noted the 
comments about the 2021 advice but stressed the need to consider the 2014 advice in the 
context of Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at that time.
Mr and Mrs C added final comments, stressing that while the plan had been a lifetime 
product it had nevertheless been open-ended, and it was reasonable to review investments 
as time passed. They reiterated that no examples of a potential tax liability had been 
provided and said that the plan could not have been tax efficient as liability of nearly £7,000 
had been incurred. They reiterated that they wouldnt have proceeded with the plan if theyd 
known this was a possibility. Theyd been happy to lose the guaranteed income in 2021 as 
the projected income on the newly recommended products had been tax free, as they were 
ISAs, and would provide a similar, if not better, level of income than the plan. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
The documentation associated with the 2014 advice makes clear that Mr and Mrs C had an 
objective at that time of using the money in question to provide a guaranteed tax-free income 
for life. And the plan served that purpose. There was no tax to pay on the monthly income 
generated by the plan (unless the amount received was increased above a certain level) and 
that would have continued had nothing changed and Mr and Mrs C had maintained the plan 
as originally envisaged. 
I understand that their circumstances and needs changed and accept that its reasonable for 
them to have sought a review of their finances in 2021 in light of this. But I think the 2014 
advice must be judged on their circumstances at that point, and in that respect, it seems 
clear that a guaranteed lifetime income was the objective. I think if a shorter period had been 
required the adviser would more likely than not have considered different products and made 
a different recommendation. But based on the information available to him at that time and 
Mr and Mrs Cs requirements at that point, the plan was a suitable option. 
I note whats been said about the 2021 advice and the comments made about the plan no 
longer being suitable. But that doesnt mean it wasnt suitable at the time. Any new 
recommendation in 2021 was made considering Mr and Mrs Cs current circumstances and 
needs, which had clearly changed. There were other ways that the money couldve been 
invested in 2014 (and it was documented that several were considered) and utilising them 
may well have led to a different tax situation. But the key point is that the alternatives 
available in 2014 wouldnt have also met the clear objective of providing a guaranteed 
lifetime income. 
In respect of the limited information provided in 2014 about chargeable events and potential 
tax liabilities, I can understand why Mr and Mrs C feel that there shouldve been more focus 
on this. But the possibility was mentioned in the documentation, and its important to 
remember that the plan was a product intended to be maintained for the long-term, with early 
surrender as such being unlikely. 
And, as the investigator noted, there was no way in which to predict what any specific liability 
would be, as the timings and amounts couldnt be known. And I think that even if there had 
been an example provided using hypothetical figures, given that in 2014 there was no 
intention that the plan be surrendered, Im not persuaded the provision of such an example 
would necessarily have prompted Mr and Mrs C not to proceed.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman