DRN-3460546
The complaint
Mr D complained that when he contacted Covea Insurance plc about making a claim under
his motor insurance policy they decided that his car was uneconomical to repair.
What happened
After Mr Ds car was damaged in an incident, Covea obtained an estimate for its repair. This
was from a garage that Mr D chose. Covea said that the repair estimate made his car
uneconomic to repair ( a total loss) and so theyd pay him his cars market value instead.
They also put a Category N total loss marker on his car. This meant that the car had non- 
structural damage and was repairable.
Mr D didnt agree with Coveas decisions to deem his car a total loss or to place any total
loss marker on it. He felt that Coveas engineer couldnt have made a proper assessment
because he hadnt made a physical inspection of the cars damage. So he decided not to go
ahead with his claim. Instead he kept his car and got his garage to repair the car for less
than their estimate to Covea.
He wanted Covea to remove the Category N total loss marker as he felt that it would reduce
his cars future resale value. But Covea wouldnt remove it. They said as follows. They had a
public safety obligation to keep the marker whether Mr D claimed under the policy or not.
Their qualified engineer had made the decision about it and they had to disclose it under
their insurance associations salvage code of practice. They werent liable for any loss in the
cars value as a result of the marker. They would have paid out Mr Ds cars market value if
Mr D had proceeded with the claim, but he didnt.
The investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He thought Covea hadnt
treated Mr D fairly. This was because Coveas engineer didnt carry out a physical
inspection, and because the car repair work was completed for less than the garages
estimate. The investigator thought that if Covea had used the actual repair costs, they most
likely would not have deemed the car uneconomical to repair. And, if so, they wouldnt have
put the Category N marker on it. So the investigator thought that they should remove it.
Covea didnt agree and so the case was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 23 March 2022. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said as follows:
We dont assess or decide repair costs for damage to a car. This is a matter for the experts
in these situations, the insurance companies, and engineers. Our role in these complaints is
to determine whether an insurance company has considered all the available evidence and
whether it can justify its decision to deem a car a total loss.
Mr D feels strongly that Covea shouldnt have decided to write off his car, because it was
repairable. He said that his garage repaired it for less than the estimate they gave Covea ,
and they checked the car for any further damage but didnt find any.
I do understand his frustration. But an insurer can decide to deem a car a total loss even if
its repairable. Indeed here Covea accepted that his car was repairable because they
marked it a Category N loss.
The insurers decision is based on an assessment of whether its more economical for them
to pay for a car to be restored to the condition it was in before the incident happened, or to
pay the cost of replacing it with another car of the same make and model and of a similar
age and condition (the market value).
Insurers normally use their own network of approved repairers. But Mr D wanted Covea
to get a repair estimate from a garage of his own choice and Covea agreed to that. His
garages repair estimate provided for Covea was £3,866.29. This included replacing the
cars rear wing. Covea thought that was necessary because in their engineers
professional opinion the cars rear outer wing was damaged beyond repair and theyd have
had to remove it to allow inspection of the inner wing which might also be damaged. If that
was so, the salvage category would be different.
Because the repair estimate was about £3,800,and Covea thought his cars market
value was about £5,200, Covea decided that it was not economical to repair. We think
its not necessarily unfair for an insurer to decide a car is a total loss if the cost of the
insurer-required repairs is more than about 60-70% of a cars market value.
Mr D decided not to proceed with the claim, kept his car, and had his garage repair it for
about £1,600, as per the different estimate theyd given Mr D. This was much less than
the estimate Mr Ds garage had given Covea. The repair work the garage did for Mr D
didnt include replacing the wing, only repairing it, as the garage thought that was
enough. Its not clear if the repair of the wing rather than the replacing it does fully account
for the garages price differential. But in any event, just because in the end Mr D s garage
did the repair for about £1,600, that doesnt mean that Covea were wrong to deem his
car a total loss. Covea acted on the estimate the garage gave them for the repair work
that Covea thought necessary and that was at Coveas discretion.
Covea were entitled to think that the garages estimate for the work they instructed was
reasonable. They wanted the garage to remove and replace the wing so that they could
check the full extent of the damage. Thats what Covea estimated for and there was no other
expert evidence to suggest it was unreasonable. As the repair estimate was more than 60-
70% of the cars market value, I dont think that was unfair of them to deem it a total loss.
I do see that Mr D is frustrated that Coveas engineer made his decision without a physical
inspection, but I dont think thats a requirement of a proper assessment. Coveas engineer
was qualified, and looked at the photos of the cars damage, and at Mr D s garages
estimate which Covea had instructed for the work they thought necessary. Im satisfied that
this was enough to enable an experienced engineer to assess effectively. So I think that was
fair and reasonable. And Ive seen no evidence from another expert engineer to suggest that
it was incorrect. Any repairs that Covea instruct would have to be safe and effective. So
even if a garage may have been able to do repairs cheaper, that doesnt mean thats Covea
decision was incorrect or that the process they used to achieve it was incorrect. So I dont
think Covea did anything wrong there. They were prepared to pay Mr D his cars marketvalue, but Mr D didnt want that. Mr D thinks that it is unfair for Covea to still apply a category 
N marker to the car when he didnt make a claim. But Covea explained to us that they have 
a duty of care to follow their insurers associations salvage code of practice and it still 
applies even if Mr D has chosen to withdraw his claim. And thats in line with the reasoning 
behind the system, that cars are only returned to the road if they are safe ,and that potential 
buyers of the car can find out if its been in an accident.
What this means is that overall I think that Covea were not unreasonable to decide that Mr
Ds car was a total loss or to put the marker on it that they did. And so I dont intend to
require them to do anything else.
In response to my above provisional decision, Covea had nothing to add. Mr D still felt that it 
was unfair but didnt add anything new. In these circumstances, I dont see any reason to 
change my decision and so I dont require Covea to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
