DRN-3026281
The complaint
Mr H, who is represented by a claims management company, (CMC), complains that 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited rejected his claim under S 75 Consumer Credit Act 
1974 in respect of mis-sold timeshare membership.
What happened
In January and May 2011 Mr and Mrs H acquired points-based memberships from a 
timeshare company I will call C. These were funded by point of sale loans in the name of Mr 
H. The agreements were in joint names but as the loans were taken out by Mr H that means 
this complaint is in his name alone.
Mr H says he and his wife were unduly pressurised into taking out the original membership 
and the products were misrepresented. He made a S 75 claim which Clydesdale rejected 
due to it being outside the time period set by the Limitation Act.
The CMC brought a complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He also considered the claim was out of 
time. The CMC raised additional points about the situation which had not been raised with 
Clydesdale and one of which had arisen in 2020 after the S 75 claim had been made. Our 
investigator explained that his role was to consider Clydesdales handling of the claim and so 
the additional points fell outside the scope of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, Im 
required to take into account: relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and standards and codes of practice.
Under s.75, Clydesdale is jointly and severally liable with the supplier of the goods or 
services for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. This means, Mr H 
has a like claim against Clydesdale just as he would have against the supplier. So, if Mr Hs 
claim against the supplier of the timeshare has likely expired under the Limitation Act, then 
that is something Clydesdale could take into account when it considers his claims against it.
The Limitation Act sets out the time limits which apply to different types of claims. Mr H has 
said the timeshare Mr H bought was misrepresented to him and his wife.
Under the Limitation Act, Mr H would have six years from the date upon which Mr H suffered 
a loss as a result of the misrepresentation to bring a claim. 
As Clydesdale steps into the shoes of the supplier for the purposes of the s.75 claim, to work 
out when the clock starts running under the Limitation Act, we need to work out when it 
would start if the claim had been brought directly against the supplier.
Misrepresentation claims can be made once the person bringing the claim has experienced 
damage and or loss as a result of the misrepresentation.  In this case, given the nature of 
the complaint, I think damage occurred when Mr H suffered a financial loss as a result of 
purchasing the timeshare. Ill explain why below.
 Mr H says that as a result of the suppliers misrepresentation, he paid to enter an 
agreement which has caused him to suffer a loss. Mr H says that but for the 
misrepresentation, he wouldnt have entered into the contract at all and wouldnt have paid 
any money to the supplier.
So, I think the point of loss was the point at which the transactions were entered into, which 
were in January and May 2011. Thats the moment when Mr H accepted any potential 
benefit under the contract, and it was also the moment he accepted the cost under the 
contract.
The time limit applicable to misrepresentation is six years from the date of loss. So, Mr H 
needed to raise his claim no later than January and May 2017. As I understand it, Mr H 
raised his claim in January 2019, which is some eight years after the losses occurred.
Mr H may say that he and his wife werent aware they could raise concerns about the 
misrepresentation until much later. But the time limits set out for misrepresentation claims 
such as this, start to run from the date of loss, which may fall earlier than the date Mr H 
became aware that something might have gone wrong.  
Ive also considered section 140A (s.140A) of the Consumer Credit Act when looking into Mr 
Hs complaint. Under s.140A, the courts may make an order under section 140B in 
connection with a credit agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor 
and debtor arising out of the agreement is unfair to the debtor due to a number of factors. 
Only a court has the power to decide whether a relationship between the credit and debtor is 
unfair, but it is relevant law we need to take into consideration. 
The Limitation Act still applies for these types of claims. For a s.140A claim, Mr H would 
have six years from the date the related finance agreement ended. From the information I 
have, Mr Hs finance agreement ended in June 2011 so a s.140A claim needed to be raised 
no later than June 2017. As I understand it, Mr H raised a claim in January 2019, which is 
nearly eight years after his finance agreement ended.
Ultimately, it is for the courts to decide whether or not any claim Mr H may have against the 
supplier or the creditor has expired under the Limitation Act.
However, given the above, it seems to me that Mr Hs misrepresentation claim against the 
supplier and the like claim against Clydesdale more than likely exceeded the relevant time 
limits set out in the Limitation Act. So, it would not be unreasonable for Clydesdale to take 
this into account when considering Mr Hs s.75 claim against it. 
So, given that Mr Hs claim now is more than likely time barred under the Limitation Act, I 
think Clydesdales decision not to look into this claim was fair. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman