DRN-1481268
The complaint
Mr J complains that Chubb European Group SE has underpaid his personal accident claim. 
To resolve his complaint he wants to be paid the higher claim value that he was originally 
promised.  
What happened
Mr J was a member of his employers group personal accident and travel scheme until late 
2018, when his employment ended. During his employment, the cover offered by the policy 
provided lump sum benefit of four times salary should any of the employees in the scheme 
suffer from an accident resulting in a defined injury or disability. Depending on the severity of 
a disability, a percentage of salary calculation will be paid.  
In July 2018, Mr J suffered a farming accident overseas, which led to an injury to his foot. 
Sadly, it was necessary to have the big toe on one of his feet amputated the following 
month. He therefore pursued a claim to Chubb on 31 August 2018. Unfortunately, Chubb 
told Mr J he had not attached the required claim form. This was then followed up by Mr Js 
employer through the broker that arranged the policy, as Chubb required its consent to 
proceed with the claim. 
Chubb received the completed claim documentation in October 2018. As part of the claim 
process, it asked Mr J to provide the last three months of pay statements, in order to 
ascertain his gross and net monthly salary. This was because, in the event of a successful 
claim, the policy provided a payment of four times Mr Js annual salary, with a proportion 
paid depending on the severity of the injury.  
Chubb agreed to pay a claim and initially wrote to Mr J on 4 December 2018 with a 
calculation of his claim value, which it believed totalled £150,000. This was worked out using 
Mr Js salary multiple, on the basis that the limit for loss of a big toe was a 15% payment. 
The figured was then converted from US dollars to reach the settlement sum.  
However, when this was communicated back to Mr Js employer, it queried the salary 
calculation.  
On 20 December 2018, Chubb wrote to Mr J again with a revised claim calculation. It said 
the actual value was £85,500 and the earlier value had been sent to Mr J in error. It also 
didnt need to convert the payment to any other currency.   
Mr J complained to Chubb. He said he was unhappy that Chubb had reduced the value of 
his claim and he wanted it to honour the original calculation. He further noted that he felt 
Chubb had caused unnecessary delays and failed to communicate with him properly.  
In January 2019, Chubb issued a full written response to the complaint. In this letter, it said it 
partially upheld Mr Js complaint. It did not agree that it ought to pay Mr J the difference 
between the first and the second calculation. It explained that the first letter of December 
2018 had been sent based on an error made by its claims handler when looking at Mr Js 
pay statements.  
However, Chubb did recognise that the error caused Mr J upset and a loss of expectation. 
Further, though it was not at fault for Mr J failing to attach the claim form in August 2018, it 
did accept that it should have acted quicker than it did once the form was submitted on 2 
October. Mr J contacted Chubb on 10 October, but his claim form was not uploaded into its 
system until 15 October. Chubb did not think it had caused any other delays but accepted 
this could have been dealt with promptly.  
Finally, it was noted that in December 2018 Mr J had sent various emails with queries in 
relation to the settlement, but these hadnt been addressed in full. Chubb recognised it 
should have replied to those emails and it apologised for the oversight. For the errors and 
delay it had caused, Chubb offered Mr J £300 in compensation.
Mr J was unhappy and referred his complaint to this service. He said the reason Chubb 
ignored his queries after it sent the £150,000 settlement proposal was because he had 
discovered that the settlement sum could be paid in other currencies, and Chubb hid this 
because it was advantageous to him. Despite also contacting the broker of the policy for 
help, Mr J said Chubb merely reissued the claim valuation, then paid £85,500 into his bank 
account before any discussion was had about which currency he wanted it paid in. Mr J said 
that Chubb has insinuated that he gave it false information about his wages to deny him the 
higher claim payment.  
  
Chubb explained that Mr J is not the insured party under the policy, his former employer is. 
This means a claim payment is due to the employer for it to pass on accordingly. 
Chubb also said that Mr J had never raised grounds of complaint relating to how the £85.500 
was paid (both the currency and issuing without a discharge form) and it had not had any 
chance to address this in its final response letter. 
An investigator from this service reviewed the complaint but he did not think it should 
succeed. 
He said he thought Chubb did cause delays during the claim, but the overall time it took to 
provide Mr J with his claim settlement and correction wasnt unreasonable. Chubb made an 
error in calculating its offer to Mr J, but he was never entitled to £150,000. Had that error not 
happened Chubb wouldve paid £85,500, so he didnt think Mr J has lost out. He also 
thought that the offer of £300 for the issues Mr J had faced during the claim was fair. 
Mr J disagreed. He said during his conversations with the insurance broker, it alluded to 
Chubb having said Mr J misled it about his claim. This is what formed the basis of the 
reduction to the claim payment. Chubb falsely put blame on him, and it should be forced to 
stand up to the original settlement amount, as promised. He also questioned what would 
have happened if it had actually paid him £150,000 by mistake. Mr J said it was unfair for 
Chubb to continually change the goalposts as to the process of paying the claim and the 
currency it chooses. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise Mr J feels strongly about this matter and I can see from his various submissions 
how upset he is with Chubbs actions. I was sorry to learn of his accident and need to claim. 
But, notwithstanding the errors accepted by Chubb, I do not think it has done anything else 
wrong and I disagree that it ought to pay Mr J any more money now. I therefore will not uphold this complaint. Ill explain my reasoning for that below.  
Before I go any further, if Mr J wishes to raise the distinct outstanding points about 1) the 
payment to his bank account without a second discharge form and 2) his concerns about the 
payment being in pound sterling, then Mr J is entitled to make another complaint about these 
points if he wants to  as Chubb has confirmed it is prepared to treat those as a fresh 
complaint. However, the content of this decision does overlap with those issues and it is for 
Mr J to consider if he still wishes to do that.  
Chubb has now paid the correct claim value to Mr J. When Mr J first supplied a completed 
claim form, he quoted his gross and net annual salary as £687,205 and £391,476 
respectively. He also provided details of the bank account he wanted the claim payment 
issued into. 
Some of the delays that occurred after the claim form was returned in October 2018 were 
not the fault of Chubb. It has accepted that the form has taken too long to upload into the 
system, and this is factored into the offer of £300 compensation. 
However, Chubb needed confirmation from Mr Js employer to proceed with the claim. That 
was correct. The contract of insurance is not between Mr J and Chubb. He is a beneficiary 
as an employee under the group scheme, which the employer took out for the benefit of its 
staff. But the liability for the claim and the processing of it sits with the insured party, which is 
Mr Js employer.  
Further, Chubb had to obtain further medical evidence from Mr J. The information he initially 
supplied was not sufficient to satisfy a claim. Chubb explain this to Mr J in an email dated 21 
November 2018, where it said:
Thank you for your email.  I am sorry you believe my previous email to be an 
excuse.  However, we did require your previous employers authorisation to proceed 
with your claim, which was requested on sight of your completed claim form and 
received on 12/11/18.
The document you provided does not note credentials for the author and is not on 
headed paper for the hospital.  Whilst I appreciate a [named country] hospital may 
not follow the routines we have in the UK we will require further verification of injury 
and treatment before we can finalise your claim. 
I would be grateful if you could therefore provide the name and address for your UK 
GP so I can write to confirm the details of your injury. 
I do not see anything wrong with this, and it is a reasonable step to take to ensure it has 
correctly validated the claim.  
Chubb then went on to pay both the wrong claim value and it mistakenly suggested a 
currency conversion which wasnt required. It accepts it made these mistakes and it has both 
apologised and proposed the £300 compensation to account for those errors, the earlier 
delay in uploading the form and it not fully replying to each and every email Mr J sent 
thereafter. 
I believe this is sufficient. This figure is within the moderate banding of awards we would 
make of this nature, where a consumer is inconvenienced by administrative errors. We are 
not the regulator and these payments are not a punishment. They are intended to provide 
some compensation within modest banding, based on the upset, trouble, inconvenience or 
distress caused to a consumer.  I realise Mr J feels that the previous claim payment offer ought to be paid to him, but I 
disagree. Some confusion arose because the quoted salary Mr J gave on his claim form 
differed to his basic gross salary on his pay statements, which was £142,500. Chubb has 
rightly used the salary Mr J was actually paid across the thirteen weeks to calculate the four 
times salary benefit from which the percentage claim value is derived - £85,500 is 15% of 
£580,000 (4 x £142,500). 
I have seen no objective evidence that Chubb has said Mr J was at fault for the first incorrect 
calculation, to either him or the broker. Contrastingly it has expressly said the calculation 
error was human error caused by one of its claims handlers. It has apologised and put the 
mistake right. I dont need to go further and assess what would have happened if Mr J had 
been paid the wrong claim value, because Chubb didnt do that. Within the same month it 
corrected its error, apologised and made a fair and reasonable offer of compensation for the 
disappointment Mr J was caused.  
Our investigator rightly explained that the right resolution to an erroneously quoted claim 
value isnt to pay the mistaken amount to the insured (and in this case, the beneficiary 
employee). That Chubb quoted an incorrect calculation does not alter what the terms of the 
insurance between it and Mr Js employer says. Those terms clearly set out the required 
calculation, and Mr J was never entitled to a payment greater than the £85,500 he has 
received. The error was promptly resolved, and Mr J was not paid the first sum before the 
second, correct calculation had been paid. 
Chubb has also explained the additional mistake in quoting US dollars on the first claim 
calculation was because the insurance policy does set out that the insured can choose from 
a number of different currencies for a payment, if so required. That is the choice of Mr Js 
former employer as the insured party, not Mr J. In any event, this payment was not made, 
and Mr J has not been impacted in any way by the quoted exchange rate.  
It is unclear from the evidence I have seen whether the £300 payment for inconvenience 
offered before the complaint was forwarded to his service has been paid to Mr J. If it remains 
unpaid, I trust it will now provide this to Mr J if he notifies Chubb that he wishes to claim it. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint, nor do I make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman