DRN-3792275
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, unfairly handled 
her claim for reimbursement for the fitting of windows and a door which had been of an 
unsatisfactory quality and which she had paid for by using the credit card she held with it.
What happened
In August 2021, Mrs S agreed with a retailer to have five windows and a door supplied and 
fitted at her home. In October 2021 Mrs S used two credit cards to pay for the supply and 
installation. She paid £1,200 using her credit card with Tesco and used a separate credit 
card with another credit provider to pay the remaining balance.
After the door and windows were fitted, Mrs S says the door kept sticking and the retailer 
attended her property three times to repair it. She says these attempts to repair the door 
were unsuccessful. Mrs S also says she was told by her local authority that, as the retailer 
couldnt provide an insurance backed guarantee and wasnt FENSA or building control 
registered, the installation had been illegal.
Mrs S made a chargeback claim to Tesco for reimbursement of the £1,200 shed paid 
towards the cost of the door and windows. Tesco contacted Mrs S and requested that she 
provide copies of the invoice and any correspondence between herself and the retailer. It 
also asked Mrs S to contact the retailer setting out that she wanted a full refund and to 
arrange for an independent report to be prepared setting out that the goods were not as 
described. Tesco explained that without this information it wouldnt be able to proceed with a 
chargeback claim, as these were the requirements made by Mastercard, the provider of the 
credit card. 
Tesco says that because it didnt receive the required information it had contacted Mrs S in 
March 2022 and said it wouldnt now be able to proceed with a chargeback because the 
time-limit had expired. However, Tesco said it would review Mrs Ss claim under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 if she wished to pursue it.
Tesco says it received a section 75 claim in May 2022 from Mrs S. For this claim although 
Mrs S hadnt provided a sales invoice, she did supply email confirmation of the order. Tesco 
contacted the retailer who said that the door only needed a minor adjustment and that Mrs S 
was refusing them access to her home to undertake this. The retailer said there was a 
guarantee, and that they would issue a building control notice in accordance with the 
councils requirements on completion of the necessary adjustment to the door.
Mrs S informed Tesco that, in May 2022, the other credit provider of the second credit card 
she had used to part pay for the door and windows had refunded the transaction she had 
made to the retailer.
In June 2022, Tesco declined Mrs Ss claim, saying that there was no evidence there had 
been either a misrepresentation or a breach of contract, as the contract didnt set out that the 
retailer was FENSA registered when they werent. It also noted that the retailer had said they 
would issue a building control notice in accordance with the councils requirement once the 
door had been adjusted.  Tesco added that it wasnt able to comment on the other credit 
providers decision to reimburse Mrs S.
Mrs S arranged for an independent inspection of the windows and door and a report was 
prepared. The report set out that the installation of the windows and door had been poor, 
and the windows were not up to current building regulations. It concluded the door and 
windows would need to be replaced. The report was passed to Tesco in July 2022, and it 
allowed Mrs Ss section 75 claim and refunded her the £1,200.
Mrs S complained about Tescos handling of her claim. It agreed that it should have called 
her back when a call had dropped and also should have registered her complaint about its 
handling earlier. It offered her £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this 
would have caused her. 
Mrs S was unhappy at Tescos decision and complained to this service. She said Tesco had 
unnecessarily required a report and had questioned her integrity, as the door and windows 
had all been fitted illegally. Mrs S said that the other credit provider hadnt required a report 
before refunding her.
Mrs S also said she had been distressed to be told by the installation company, that had 
inspected the windows for the report, that they werent supplied with toughened glass and 
could have been broken or removed from their frames by someone wanting to get into the 
property. She said the offer of £50 as compensation wasnt fair.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. He said that the 
installation of the windows and door hadnt been illegal as, although it was recommended 
consumers use FENSA approved contractors, this wasnt a legal requirement. Nor was it a 
specific requirement that a builder provided a warranty and insurance backed guarantees for 
their work. He didnt agree that Tesco had acted unfairly by not immediately agreeing to 
refund the cost of the work.
Our investigator said there hadnt been evidence, before the independent report had been 
provided, that there had been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. The retailer hadnt 
purported to be FENSA approved. He said once the independent report had been provided, 
Tesco had agreed Mrs Ss claim for reimbursement under section 75 as a breach of contract 
had been established regarding the quality of the installation. Our investigator said that 
Tesco had acted fairly. 
Our investigator also said he didnt think Tesco had acted unreasonably in requesting the 
inspection report, as it wasnt bound by a decision of another credit provider. He said the 
report had provided the necessary evidence.
In respect of the compensation offered by Tesco, our investigator said that he thought the 
£50 was a fair amount for the way Tesco had handled Mrs Ss claim.
Mrs S disagreed with our investigators view. She said that there is a clear case, contrary to 
the view of our investigator that, because the retailer was not registered with building control, 
CERTASS or FENSA nor had an insurance backed guarantee in place, the windows were 
put in illegally. The illegal fitting had been her primary reason for seeking the reimbursement 
and the subsequent evidence that the windows and doors had been fitted poorly was 
actually secondary.
Mrs S said that the compensation was inadequate for the distress caused to her by having 
her integrity questioned, and by learning that she had been at risk of being broken into due 
to the windows not being installed with toughened glass. Mrs S said the obtaining of the report had been unnecessary and Tesco should have settled her claim earlier allowing her to 
have the windows and door replaced far sooner.
As the parties had been unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S made a claim to Tesco to be reimbursed for the amount she had put on her credit card 
when paying for the supply and fitting of the door and windows to her home. Mrs S says that, 
although she had been unhappy at the quality of the installation, her primary concern had 
been that the fitting had been illegal. She says that Tesco should have settled her claim for 
reimbursement as soon as she had explained that the retailer wasnt entitled legally to fit the 
items.
When dealing with disputes of the type raised by Mrs S there are two ways in which they can 
be considered by a business, being chargeback or a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. And the issue for me to consider here is whether Tesco has 
handled Mrs Ss claim for reimbursement of the cost of the door and windows fairly. 
Ive seen that Tesco first considered using the chargeback scheme when it received Mrs 
Ss claim in October 2021, for reimbursement of the £1,200. Chargeback is a process that 
involves the card issuer disputing payments made on the card through a dispute resolution 
scheme operated by the companies which run the card networks, here thats MasterCard. 
It allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if there's a problem with the 
goods or services they've paid for. There's no automatic right to a chargeback and it isnt a 
guaranteed method of getting a refund.
The Card Scheme sets out the necessary conditions under which a claim can be 
processed. These are that the cardholder engaged in the transaction, the cardholder 
contacted the merchant to resolve the complaint and the merchant refused to adjust the 
price, repair the item or replace it. It also says that, for disputes involving goods, the 
cardholder must have either returned the item or have informed the merchant that the 
goods were available for pick-up. Chargeback claims are time-limited and so, if a claim 
isnt made within the required timescale, then they cant proceed.
Tesco says it contacted Mrs S and asked her to provide the required evidence to support 
her claim and that it warned her without this information it wouldnt be able to proceed. In 
March 2022, Tesco said that, as the necessary information hadnt been received, it would 
review the matter under section 75. This was because a claim under the chargeback 
scheme was now out of time.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 may apply when the goods purchased via 
a credit agreement cost over £100 and up to a limit of £30,000. The general effect of 
the section is that if a consumer has paid for goods or services with a credit 
agreement, and they have a claim against the supplier of those goods or services for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract, they are given a like claim against the credit 
provider, which here is Tesco.
However, when making a claim, it is for the consumer to provide evidence of the breach 
and/or misrepresentation. Mrs S responded to Tesco in May 2022 and it then contacted 
the retailer who disputed the claim. They disagreed there had been a misrepresentation or breach of contract.
Tesco, on reviewing Mrs Ss claim, said in June 2022 that her claim couldnt proceed as 
there was no evidence there had been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
retailer. After this decision was made Mrs S arranged for the door and windows to be 
inspected by an independent installer. This report highlighted that there was a breach of 
contract due to the poor standard of installation of both the door and windows. Tesco then 
looked again at Mrs Ss claim and allowed it.
Mrs S says that she shouldnt have been required to get the report as the installation itself 
had been illegal due to the retailer not being registered with FENSA, CERTASS or 
building control. She says that she should have been reimbursed far sooner than she was 
and that this is supported by the other credit provider having refunded her without the 
need of a report.
Ive seen that the other credit provider appears to have reimbursed Mrs S in May 2022 
and, although I accept it doesnt appear she sent it a copy of the inspection report, I dont 
think I can reasonably say that this decision would tie the hands of Tesco. The basis of 
that repayment is unknown. 
It isnt disputed that the retailer wasnt FENSA or CERTASS registered but, while I am aware 
it is recommended that consumers use companies registered under these schemes for the 
installation of windows, this isnt a legal requirement. If windows are installed without the 
certification provided by these two schemes, then it will be for the householder to obtain a 
building regulations certificate to show that the windows comply with the necessary 
regulations.
Ive seen Mrs S says the retailer wasnt registered with building control, but window installers 
dont need to be registered as this isnt how that system works. To be legally fitted, the 
windows must comply with building regulations and if an installer, as here, isnt registered 
then approval is sought from the relevant Building Control Body which is either undertaken 
by the local authority or by an approved inspector.
Ive seen that the retailer was prepared to obtain the building regulations certificate once 
theyd adjusted the door, meaning he would liaise with either the local authority or an 
approved inspector rather than Mrs S. 
I havent seen that the building regulations applicable to new windows requires an insurance 
backed guarantee to be in place, but I also havent seen any evidence that retailer didnt 
provide this type of guarantee either. Insurance backed guarantees are again something that 
is recommended for consumers but arent a legal requirement.
So, I cant say that Tesco should have immediately reimbursed Mrs S the £1,200 shed paid 
on her credit card towards the door and window installation, since the fitting by the retailer 
wasnt illegal. It was only after the installation report had been obtained that there was 
evidence the windows wouldnt meet building regulations, due to the lack of trickle vents and 
that they had been poorly installed which was a breach of contract.
Tesco, on receipt of the inspection report, did look again at its decision and reimbursed Mrs 
S in full, which was fair. I dont think Tesco acted unfairly when requiring the report since it 
was for Mrs S to support her claim. Ive also seen there was no charge to Mrs S for this 
inspection and report.
Tesco offered Mrs S compensation for some aspects of its handling of her complaint.  Mrs S 
says this is insufficient when looking at the distress and inconvenience she has been caused by having to pursue her claim for reimbursement, and at learning the windows werent up to 
standard. She also feels strongly that Tesco questioned her integrity.
I am aware that my decision will disappoint Mrs S, but I dont think Tesco asked her to do 
anything more than would have been reasonably expected under either the chargeback 
scheme or to make a claim under section 75. And while I appreciate Mrs S feels her integrity 
had come under scrutiny, I dont think Tesco was questioning her honesty. It was asking for 
evidence regarding her claim which, as set out above, I think was a reasonable request in 
the circumstances.
I also appreciate Mrs S was anxious about the windows after they had been inspected for 
the report. Looking at the inspection report, Im not clear why she was told the windows 
werent of the required safety glass or that she may be vulnerable to someone breaking in as 
these issues dont appear in it. The breach of the building regulations appears to relate to 
the lack of trickle vents. But I accept Mrs S was worried about the windows. However, I think 
that Tesco acted fairly and promptly once in receipt of the inspection report and I dont think 
it delayed reimbursement once it had received the evidence.
I therefore think the offer of £50 as compensation, for the aspects of her complaint that 
Tesco upheld, is fair and Im not asking it to do more.
For the reasons set out above and although Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S Im not upholding 
her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman