DRN-3295002
The complaint
Mrs M complains that she was mis-sold a Royalties Gold Account (RGA) by The Royal Bank 
of Scotland Plc (RBS) in 2009.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M says it was not made clear to her that she could have an overdraft or mortgage 
without a premium account, so she felt she had to take one out.
RBS says it gave Mrs M the information about the RGA and she decided to take it out based 
on that information.
Mrs M had a fee free account before she took out the RGA, so she knew these were 
available. And mortgages and free bank accounts with overdrafts which didnt require the 
opening of a premium account were widely advertised and available at the time. 
Ive not seen that Mrs M took out a mortgage or an overdraft immediately after the sale. And 
the application form she signed, which RBS has supplied, didnt suggest in any way that she 
was required to take out the RGA to get a mortgage or overdraft.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mrs M knew she had a choice whether to take out an 
RGA and she chose to do so based on the information she received about its cost and 
benefits.
Ive not seen any indication of advice being given on the application form or any evidence of 
a suitability check being done, as I would expect to see if a recommendation had been 
made.
So, I think its more likely than not this was a non-advised sale where only information was 
provided. So, RBS was not required to ensure the RGA was suitable for Mrs M, it was only 
required to provide enough information to her to make an informed decision. And I think its 
more likely than not that it did.
I say this because both parties say there was a discussion about the RGA, and the 
application form which Mrs M signed refers to her being given information. 
I can also see why she might have been interested in the RGA.
The RGA benefits included worldwide travel insurance, home emergency cover, mobile 
phone insurance, car breakdown cover, card protection, extended warranty, better rates on 
savings, credit cards, loans and mortgages, offers on leisure breaks and hotels, UK airport 
lounge access and 25% off restaurants, theatre and concert tickets.
Mrs M says she that at the time of sale she travelled regularly, and she owned a car and her 
own home. She later made a travel insurance claim and registered a mobile phone.
So, overall, I think its more likely than not that RBS didnt do anything wrong in selling her 
the RGA.
For completeness, Mrs M says she tried to close the RGA but was told she couldnt due to 
having to pay off her overdraft. She hasnt provided any dates or evidence relating to her 
request and RBS says it doesnt have a record of it. If Mrs M wished to complain about this, 
she would need to raise the complaint specifically with RBS first and then if the matter was 
unresolved, she could come to this service.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman