DRN-1779618
 
The complaint
Mrs L complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited (John Lewis) blocked her 
credit card without telling her. It then blocked her card again while she was on holiday 
overseas. She said this ruined her trip, and she wanted John Lewis to pay for it.
What happened
Mrs L said she started having problems with her John Lewis credit card in February 2019. A 
number of transactions declined. She eventually contacted John Lewis. It said her card was 
blocked. She hadnt been told. She was very unhappy about the situation this left her in. 
Not long after this, Mrs L went on holiday overseas. She told John Lewis where she was 
going. Mrs Ls card was blocked again while she was overseas. She said she called John 
Lewis, and was told the block had been lifted, but it hadnt. Mrs L had only taken this card, 
and not much cash, so she couldnt go out. Her phone bill was much higher because of the 
calls shed made from abroad. And she said her holiday was ruined. She wanted John Lewis 
to pay for the calls, and for her ruined trip.
When Mrs L got back, she saw shed been charged for some of the transactions that she 
was told had declined. John Lewis said it would pay her that money back, but it didnt. She 
said shed been charged interest on those transactions instead. She had to contact John 
Lewis again before it removed these transactions and responded to her complaints. 
John Lewis said it had awarded Mrs L 1,000 of loyalty points when the first block was put on 
her card. It didnt try to contact her by SMS at that time, because of the sort of transaction 
that was done. Then it blocked her card while she was overseas. It left her a voicemail 
message then to say it needed to talk to her. Mrs L said John Lewis had told her she would 
be notified of any block or security alert by SMS, and just asked to confirm the transaction. 
But John Lewis said that there were so many transactions declined while she was overseas 
that it needed to speak to her.
John Lewis doesnt think that these security alerts were a mistake. It did think it shouldve 
refunded Mrs Ls failed transactions for her when it first said it would. It paid Mrs L £25 to say 
sorry, and it refunded £23.60 for her transactions, and a small amount of interest she was 
charged on those.
Our investigator thought Mrs L had been inconvenienced by the blocks placed on her card. 
But she didnt think the blocks themselves were a mistake. They were done to protect Mrs 
Ls account.
Our investigator said John Lewis told Mrs L it couldnt guarantee that there would be no 
blocks on her account while she was overseas. But she thought the block shouldve been 
removed from Mrs Ls card when she rang from overseas, because Mrs L had confirmed the 
transactions were hers. And she thought that John Lewis shouldve texted Mrs L, as it said it 
would, if transactions were declined.For those reasons, our investigator thought John Lewis should pay for the costs of calls 
made while Mrs L was overseas, which she said was £49.70. But she didnt think that John 
Lewis had to pay for Mrs Ls holiday. She thought Mrs L shouldve had another form of 
payment with her.
Mrs L replied. She said the first block on her card, when she couldnt get a taxi, happened in 
November 2018, not February 2019. And shed been told then that John Lewis would text if 
there was any problem. It didnt text. 
Mrs L said she was told the block had been lifted when she rang from overseas, but it hadnt 
been. She was very unhappy with how John Lewis had treated her, and she still wanted it to 
refund the full cost of the holiday it had ruined for her. 
Our investigator said she thought the first block happened in February 2019 because thats 
what Mrs L had initially told us. She repeated that Mrs L was warned her card could be 
blocked while she was overseas. And she said Mrs L was being put through to the security 
team when the call disconnected. Mrs L didnt seem to have called again, so our investigator 
didnt think John Lewis had been unfair. Our investigator also thought it did matter how much 
cash Mrs L had taken with her.
John Lewis said there was only one call to it, which cost Mrs L £33.60. It would pay that. 
Because John Lewis didnt agree with our investigator, and because Mrs L said she still 
wanted an ombudsman to consider this complaint, it was passed to me to resolve.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed to uphold it. 
This is what I said then: 
This complaint covers two occasions when John Lewis blocked Mrs Ls card. Id like to 
start by saying that I dont think John Lewis did anything wrong by blocking the card on 
those occasions. Ive not seen anything to suggest to me that this was for any other 
reason than to protect the security of Mrs Ls account.
Mrs L said her card was blocked in February 2019. She later said this was November 
2018, but John Lewiss records say February 2019. I think thats when this happened.
Mrs L didnt realise at first her card had been blocked. John Lewis didnt contact her 
about this. I think its unfortunate that Mrs L wasnt told, and John Lewis hasnt 
explained why not. Mrs L was inconvenienced then. She only realised when her card 
continued to decline that the card could be the problem. Ill come back to that when I 
think about compensation. 
Mrs L then went overseas. I think she was expressly warned that there could be 
blocks on her card while she was away. The call handler said Mrs L could just call if 
something went wrong. Mrs L said repeatedly then that she didnt want to have to call 
John Lewis and she wasnt prepared to do so.
Mrs Ls card was blocked while she was overseas. John Lewis tried to call, it didnt 
text. I dont think John Lewis had actually said to Mrs L that the only way it would try to 
contact her would be by text. It had said to Mrs L in a letter sent in early February 
2019, that it tried to contact customers by phone or text when there was a security 
concern. In this instance, it tried to ring her, because of the number of declined 
transactions. I dont think John Lewis made a mistake when it tried to call Mrs L.Mrs L then rang John Lewis. I listened carefully to this call, and Mrs L wasnt confident 
all the transactions she was asked about had been made by her. The call cut before 
she spoke to the security team. I dont think John Lewis should have unblocked her 
card at that point. 
John Lewis hasnt said if it tried to call Mrs L back. She was overseas, so Id expect 
that she would be charged for incoming calls or voicemails. There are a number of 
incoming call charges on Mrs Ls bill after she called John Lewis. Considering the 
timing of these calls, I think its likely that John Lewis did try to call Mrs L back, and 
she didnt answer. 
I think its likely that Mrs Ls card could have been unblocked, if she had called John 
Lewis back, or accepted a call from John Lewis. I think that would have solved the 
problem.
Mrs L told us she didnt have another card at this time. But I have to bear in mind that 
John Lewiss advice, and the advice of the UK government for travellers, is that they 
should have more than one method of payment with them if theyre going overseas. 
For those reasons, I dont think its John Lewiss fault if Mrs Ls holiday was spoiled. 
So I dont think John Lewis has to pay for Mrs Ls holiday. I do think it should pay the 
costs of her call to it from overseas, which was £33.60. Its not John Lewiss fault that 
Mrs L was overseas. But it knew she was, and this was a long call, when Mrs L spent 
a considerable time on hold. I think its reasonable to ask John Lewis to cover the cost 
of that. 
Mrs L was then inconvenienced again when she discovered shed been charged for 
some transactions she thought had declined. John Lewis agreed to refund those, but 
didnt. She had to contact it again. 
I know John Lewis has paid £25 in compensation, and made an award of 1,000 loyalty 
points to Mrs L, for the problems shes faced at different points. But I dont think thats 
quite enough to make up for not being informed that her card was blocked in February, 
and for having to contact John Lewis twice to obtain a promised refund. I think John 
Lewis should pay an additional £125 because of the distress and inconvenience this 
has caused to Mrs L.
I know Mrs L will be disappointed by my proposed award, but I dont think John Lewis 
has to do more than that.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
John Lewis accepted my proposed decision. Mrs L wrote to object.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed my mind.
Mrs L wanted to know why John Lewis hadnt agreed with our investigators original 
decision. John Lewis told us it would only pay for one call on Mrs Ls bill, which was the one 
she made to it. It didnt set out reasons for this.
Mrs L asked why John Lewis hadnt checked its system when it tried to call her. Shed told it 
she was going overseas, and it had said it could text her as well as call. She thought it made 
a mistake by just calling her. John Lewis told us it needed to speak to Mrs L, because of the number of declined 
transactions. John Lewis does ask Mrs L about a number of transactions on that call. Ive 
taken account of the fact that Mrs L had said she didnt want a call while overseas, but I still 
think that it was reasonable in these circumstances for John Lewis to call Mrs L. 
Mrs L told us this was a long call. She said I didnt think John Lewis shouldve unlocked her 
card on that call, but she went through all the security checks. 
Mrs L also said that Id commented that she wasnt confident all the transactions shed been 
asked about were made by her. She was surprised and saddened by this judgmental opinion 
about her. She noted that she was in a foreign country, and stressed, for me to expect her to 
remember every detail of transactions she made was inconsiderate and unprofessional. 
Ive listened again to this call. It shows on Mrs Ls bill as being for a little over 20 minutes, 
which is consistent with the call recording Ive listened to. It sounds to me as if Mrs L did 
clear security. But, as I noted, she wasnt sure all the transactions she was asked about had 
been made by her. 
I mentioned this in my provisional decision, because I thought this was important, when 
deciding whether John Lewis shouldve unblocked her card after this call, even though she 
didnt talk to the security team. And I didnt think John Lewis shouldve done that, because I 
didn't think it could be sure, after this call, that it was safe to unblock Mrs L's card. 
I mentioned the content of this call solely to explain why I reached that view. It wasnt my 
intention to judge Mrs L in any way. And I didnt intend to upset Mrs L by mentioning this. Im 
sorry if Ive done so.
Mrs L also wanted to know if John Lewis was at fault at all on this call. I cant be sure what 
happened when the call disconnected, so I dont know if that was a mistake by John Lewis. I 
also said I do think that this was a long call, when Mrs L spent a considerable time on hold. 
And John Lewis did know Mrs L was overseas. So I have included that when I thought about 
what award to make here.
Mrs L also noted Id said it was likely that John Lewis had tried to call her back after she was 
cut off, because there were incoming calls on her phone shortly after her call with John 
Lewis ended. She said she wanted proof that any of these calls were from John Lewis. She 
said that wasnt negotiable, and was vital to the outcome of the case. 
It often isnt possible to prove beyond any doubt at all what has happened in a case. What I 
have to do is look at the evidence that is available to me, and to decide what, on balance, I 
think happened. Mrs L had a lengthy call with John Lewis on the afternoon of 9 March. 
Within about twenty minutes of this call ending, she had an incoming call. Then, about 
twenty minutes later, she had a second incoming call. These may not have been answered.
Mrs L received very few incoming calls while she was overseas, and the ones she did 
receive are clustered around the time that she had problems with her card. I think, on 
balance, that its more likely than not that the two incoming calls after her call was cut off 
were from John Lewis, trying to get back in touch with her.
Mrs L said Id set out what John Lewis had already done. But she said John Lewis hadnt 
paid her any compensation, and shed refused the offer of 1,000 loyalty points. 
John Lewis sent us a letter dated 16 May 2019, which says it has credited her account with 
£25 in compensation, separately to the £23.60 plus interest that it has waived from her bill. 
These payments are shown on her statement dated 19 May 2019. And it told us it awarded her 1,000 loyalty points after she experienced problems in February 2019 with payments not 
clearing. This award of points is shown on her statement dated 18 February. Those points, 
along with her pre-existing points, were redeemed that month for vouchers. For those 
reasons, I do think those awards were made. 
Mrs L wanted to know what it meant, when I said The call handler said Mrs L could just call 
if something went wrong. Mrs L said repeatedly then that she didnt want to have to call John 
Lewis and she wasnt prepared to do so. I think this explains that Mrs L didnt want to call 
from overseas. That helps us to understand why she didnt call John Lewis back, when it 
was discussing the block on her card on 9 March. But I dont think this means that John 
Lewis cant call Mrs L while shes overseas, or that it would be wrong for it to do so in any 
circumstances.
Ive considered Mrs Ls comments carefully, but I havent changed my mind. I still intend to 
tell John Lewis to pay Mrs L £33.60 in call costs, and £125 in compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that John Lewis Financial Services Limited must pay Mrs L £33.60 in call 
costs, and £125 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman