DRN-3400744
The complaint
Mr T complains on behalf of Mrs T and Mr T that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) gave 
misleading information to him about the costs involved to remove his daughters name from 
a buy to let mortgage and it breached their data, when corresponding with Mr Ts solicitors.
What happened
Mr T says he approached Barclays in February 2021, following an earlier conversation he 
had with a member of its staff, to discuss the arrangements to remove his daughters name 
from their joint buy to let mortgage (BTL). Mr T says he was previously told by Barclays staff 
this was a simple process and no costs would be incurred. Mr T says this was important as 
his daughter wanted to apply for a mortgage but could only benefit as a first-time buyer, if 
her name was removed from the existing BTL. Mr T says he had to chase Barclays several 
times to have this arranged and discovered Barclays had on several occasions sent the 
mortgage paperwork to his previous solicitors  who had nothing to do with this transaction. 
Mr T says Barclays have breached their data and additionally he incurred extra costs 
including stamp duty fees, which cost him several thousand pounds. 
Mr T says Barclays also charged him an early repayment charge (ERC) and although it 
refunded this, Barclays have still not properly compensated him for the time this has taken, 
the stress it has caused and the extra legal costs he has incurred. Mr T feels the £650 
compensation payment Barclays have offered him isnt sufficient. 
Barclays apologised to Mr T and accepted it sent information to his previous solicitor in error 
and this data breach has been reported in line with its standard process. Barclays says it has 
no record of Mr Ts original conversation, where he says he was told no fees would be 
payable on removing his daughters name from the BTL they held. Barclays apologised for 
the delays in completing matters but says the new mortgage was completed within its 
current service level agreement of 13 weeks. Barclays says it feels the offer of £650 is a fair 
amount of compensation for the inconvenience Mr T has been put through.
Mr T wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld Mr Ts complaint. The 
investigator didnt agree Barclays could be asked to refund Mr Ts legal costs. The 
investigator says although Barclays apologised for the mistakes it made regarding the data 
breach, he didnt feel the compensation offered to Mr T was sufficient, and asked Barclays to 
increase it to £850. 
Neither Mr T nor Barclays were happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter 
to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said :
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting and frustrating for Mr T to have his details 
sent to an incorrect firm of solicitors and incur extra legal costs, he says he was told by 
Barclays wouldnt be payable. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Barclays were responsible for the extra costs 
he incurred when removing his daughter from their joint BTL they held. Additionally, I will 
consider if the compensation Barclays offered was sufficient for the breach of data and the 
service issues Mr T says he experienced.
The first thing to say here is, and by its own admission, there is no question Barclays were at 
fault for sending on more than one occasion, details of Mr Ts BTL transaction to the wrong 
solicitors. I can understand this would have been upsetting for Mr T and may have made it 
uncomfortable for him dealing with that firm going forward. Barclays have apologised for that 
and have told this service it correctly reported this matter and has given feedback to the 
members of staff involved, which is what I would expect to see in these circumstances.  
Mr T says when he initially raised the matter of removing his daughters name from their joint 
BTL with Barclays, he was informed there would be no costs involved. I havent been 
provided with any evidence to support this and Barclays says it has no record of this either. 
It may be a conversation was held previously but its difficult for me to comment on this other 
than to say Barclays would have in all probability been referring to its own costs here. I say 
this as it wouldnt have been in a position to understand what legal costs Mr T would incur, 
that would be between him and his solicitor - including any stamp duty that might be 
payable. Its worth saying this could depend upon whether a name was simply being 
removed from the legal title or a new person added as a new joint owner, as it was here with 
Mr Ts wife replacing his daughter as joint owner and mortgagee. 
So here, I cant say that Barclays can be held responsible for any legal costs Mr T may have 
incurred by altering the ownership of his BTL property. Its fair to say that was a decision Mr 
T took to ensure his daughter could take advantage of the benefits of being a first-time 
buyer, which would not have been available to her, had she not been removed from the 
property title and BTL.
I can see that Barclays have refunded the ERC in full and although they could have perhaps 
explained this a little clearer to Mr T at the time, I am satisfied it acted fairly here. 
As I have mentioned earlier Barclays accept it made mistakes when it forwarded Mr Ts 
details to his previous solicitors, unconnected to the property transaction, and this would 
have no doubt been upsetting for Mr T and added to the delays he says he experienced. 
What is important here is Barclays have accepted it made mistakes and have firstly 
apologised for that and taken remedial action, as I would expect. 
So when coming to a full and impartial decision here, it leaves me to consider if the level of 
compensation it has offered Mr T is sufficient. Its not my role to penalise banks when 
mistakes are made, but to ensure an apology is made, reasonable compensation is paid and 
corrective actions are taken, and Im satisfied it did here. With that in mind I am satisfied the 
amount offered in compensation of £650 is fair in the circumstances and I will leave it with 
Mr T to contact Barclays, should he wish to accept it.
While Mrs T and Mr T will be disappointed with my provisional decision I dont propose to 
ask anymore of Barclays here. Both Mrs and Mr T and Barclays responded to my provisional decision, so the case has 
been passed back to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mrs T and Mr T and Barclays until 29 March 2022 to accept or reject my 
provisional decision. Barclays have accepted my provisional decision, but Mrs T and Mr T 
didnt feel the compensation offered by Barclays was sufficient for the errors it had made. 
While I understand Mrs T and Mr T feel strongly about this, as I have already explained, its 
not my role to penalise banks like Barclays when mistakes happen, but to ensure it 
apologises for that, take corrective action and offer reasonable compensation. Although Mrs 
T and Mr T may not agree, Im satisfied that is what happened here. With that in mind I see 
no need to add or change my provisional decision and so my final decision remains the 
same.
I suggest Mrs T and Mr T contact Barclays, should they now wish to accept its offer of £650 
by way of compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman