DRN-4078803
The complaint
Ms R complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) declined a claim for storm damage to 
her roof, under her home buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms R discovered water entering her home through an upstairs ceiling. She thought that this 
was caused by recent bad weather and contacted Ageas to make a claim. She says it 
initially refused the claim but later agreed to send an assessor to inspect the damage. Ms R 
says she hasnt heard back from Ageas to confirm if her claim was accepted. 
Ms R contacted our service in December 2022. As she hadnt complained to Ageas, we 
provided details of her complaint and asked it to respond. 
Ageas responded to Ms Rs complaint about a week later. In its response it says there was 
no delay in it arranging an inspection of Ms Rs property. It says she called on 17 November 
2022 and its assessor visited on 23 November. Ageas says this took four working days. In its 
complaint response Ageas says the weather records dont support there being a storm 
around the time Ms R reported the damage. It says its assessor found the roof to be in a 
very poor condition, with many poorly executed patch repairs. 
Ageas says its policy doesnt cover defects that have occurred gradually over time. Because 
of this it declined to cover Ms Rs claim, which its assessor confirmed at the time of his visit.
Ms R didnt accept this outcome and asked our service to consider the matter. Our 
investigator didnt uphold her complaint. He says the records dont show storm conditions, as 
defined by Ms Rs policy, had been experienced around the time of her loss. Our investigator 
referred to Ageass assessors report that says the roof was poorly constructed and had 
worn over time. He didnt think the business had decline Ms Rs claim unfairly in light of this. 
Ms R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is to not uphold Ms Rs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint her 
but I will explain why I think my decision is fair.  
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether a claim for 
damage relates to a storm. These are:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If any of the answers to the above questions is no then an insurer can generally,
reasonably decline a claim.
Ive looked at weather data from around the time the damage was reported to have 
occurred. From this I cant see that storm force winds were experienced close to Ms Rs 
property. Ive read her policy terms to see what it says about storm conditions. The terms 
say:
Storm  Strong winds of over 55mph or damage by extreme rain, snow or hail. Rainfall is 
extreme if 30cm or more falls in a 24 hour period and hailstones are extreme if they exceed 
20mm in diameter. 
Conditions matching this definition werent experienced at the time of Ms Rs loss, or in the 
weeks prior to this. So, Im satisfied the answer to question one is no. This means Ageas 
didnt behave unfairly when declining Ms Rs claim for storm damage. 
Ive also read the assessors report from the inspection that was carried out in November 
2022. Ive copied the relevant excerpts from this below:
The roof was inspected and found to be in a very poor state. The roof is the original slate 
roof and the slates have been completely coated over with bitumen. This is bad 
workmanship. The roof has had a vast amount of poor patch repairs. This roof has reached 
the end of its life span and needs fully renewing.
Water has been leaking in over a very long period of time. The ceiling is lathe and plaster 
and has started to collapse. This needs fully renewing and the ceiling and walls painting.
No damage was seen that was due to an insured peril and therefore the claim was declined 
in full. The insured was advised at the time of survey and accepted the decision. No damage 
was seen to any other property in the street. The houses were all built at the same time and 
are of similar design and construction.
I think its reasonable that Ageas arranged for an inspection of the damage. But its expert 
didnt think the damage was the result of a storm or other insured event. The photos 
supplied support the findings set out by the assessor. 
I can see from the policy terms that the following exclusions apply:
We do not cover any loss or damage that happens gradually over a period of time, such as 
rust, corrosion, fading and shrinkage. 
As with most insurers, you are not covered for any loss or damage resulting from wear, tear 
and depreciation.  
Ageas referred to these exclusions in its complaint response. Based on its assessors 
findings and its policy exclusions, I dont think it acted unreasonably when relying on this to 
decline Ms Rs claim. 
Ive looked to see whether Ms R has any other cover that might apply in relation to the 
internal damage she reported to her home, such as accidental damage insurance. I can see 
from its records that Ageas says it also checked for this and found that Ms R doesnt have 
this cover. I cant see that she has either. Ive thought about Ms Rs concerns that the assessor didnt inspect the area of the roof that 
she says was the source of the problem. Also, her reference to different language that was 
used to describe parts of the roof. But Im not persuaded that this impacts on the decline 
decision. I think Ageas has clearly shown that Ms Rs roof is in a poor condition and in need 
of renewal. This has happened gradually over time not as the result of a one-off storm event. 
Ive also thought about Ms Rs comments that Ageas didnt send a copy of the assessors 
report when she requested it. I cant see that this formed part of her complaint to Ageas. So, 
I cant consider it here. But I can see that a copy of the report has now been provided.
When Ms R first contacted Ageas about the damage, the records show that she described 
damage to her bedroom ceiling as a result of strong winds blowing leaves into her guttering 
causing it to overflow. Ageas declined the claim due to no storm conditions being 
experienced at this time. I dont think this was unreasonable. There was no insured cause 
identified that couldve resulted in the damage. 
It was around ten days later that Ageas received a call from Ms Rs broker asking it to call 
her. The records say it called her back. Ms R then described how her neighbours properties 
had also suffered damage due to gale force winds. This is when Ageas agreed to sending an 
assessor to inspect the damage. 
I think Ageas behaved reasonably in arranging to inspect Ms Rs property in light of her 
comments. But I havent identified any failings with its decision to decline the claim. Because 
of this I dont think Ageas has treated Ms R unfairly, and so I cant reasonably ask it to do 
anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman