DRN-2337474
The complaint
Mr M complains Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited didnt explain the impact of smoothing 
on the value of his pension, which meant he received less at retirement than he expected. 
Mr M is represented in this complaint by his financial advisor Mr A. 
What happened
Mr M started a retirement annuity contract with F, a predecessor business of Aviva in 1984. 
He made monthly contributions of £43.65, and in 2001 made a single premium contribution 
of £50,000. Each element of the plan secures a certain income at retirement and the plan 
has a Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR). It was invested in the With Profits fund. Mr Ms 
normal retirement age of 70 was February 2019.
In November 2017 Aviva provided Mr A with annuity quotes and transfer values for 
immediate retirement, and for 2018 and 2019. Mr M decided to wait until he was 70, being 
aware his GAR would increase each year until then. However when he came to take his 
benefits in February 2019 the value had fallen sharply which Mr A was told related to the 
final bonus applied to the single premium element of the policy.  
Mr A complained on Mr Ms behalf saying Aviva hadnt explained the final bonus calculation 
could lead to such a big drop in value. Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. It referred to the 
wording in the quotations which makes clear the values are not guaranteed, and the amount 
received will depend on the final bonus rate applied at the time. Mr A asked for a valuation of 
Mr Ms fund and Aviva explained the policy was a conventional annuity, so there was no 
underlying managed fund. It said all valuations were subject to change, and the reduction 
was due to smoothing in the With Profits fund. It couldnt predict future bonus rates or even 
when theyd change, and it wasnt possible to compare policies which started in different 
years. 
Mr A complained to this service saying his advice to Mr M was based on information 
provided by Aviva in November 2017 about the calculation of the final bonus which didnt 
mention smoothing. He thought Aviva should backdate Mr Ms claim to July 2018. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and said all the policy valuations provided 
by Aviva clearly stated the bonuses or valuation figures werent guaranteed. As the 2017 
figure was calculated using one bonus level it was reasonable to anticipate the possibility the 
2019 valuation could be different if a lower final bonus rate applied. Smoothing was common 
within the With-profits industry, so she saw no reason for Aviva to specifically highlight this. 
So she didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr A disagreed. He accepted the valuations werent guaranteed, but in 2017 hed specifically 
asked Aviva how final bonus rates were determined. If the smoothing policy had been 
disclosed in November 2017 Mr M would have surrendered the policy prior to maturity, most 
likely in July 2018.
So its been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Let me explain why.
Although hes a financial advisor, I think its clear Mr A isnt familiar with how With-profits 
funds operate, as hes repeatedly requested valuations of Mr Ms fund and Aviva has 
explained he doesnt have one, instead his plan has a guaranteed cash value. Put simply 
With-profits is a pooled investment with a sort of profit-sharing arrangement which grows 
through the addition of annual bonuses plus a final (terminal) bonus when benefits are taken. 
Each single premium, or series of regular premiums, secures a guaranteed benefit which is 
payable at normal retirement date. The allocation of any bonus isnt guaranteed in the plan 
terms and conditions, so Aviva is entitled to exercise its commercial judgement as to the size 
of any final bonus it decides to give. So in 2017 it couldnt know what final bonus rate would 
apply in the future when Mr M decided to take his benefits. Bonus rates are reviewed twice a 
year, so dont change as often as the underlying assets. Smoothing is an inherent part of 
the management of the With-profits fund whereby some of the profits in the good years are 
held back to boost the profits in bad years, to avoid big fluctuations from one year to the 
next. Any bonuses already declared and added to the policy cannot be taken away, but any 
projected figures will be based on assumptions which could turn out to be different when the 
bonus is actually calculated. 
Because Mr Ms policy was made up of regular premium and single premium elements 
which commenced at different dates and for different amounts, any final bonus applicable 
would be different for each. Aviva has provided copies of several letters sent to Mr As firm 
prior to November 2017. It said it hadnt provided this service with copies of every letter 
because at some points the advisor was making enquiries every couple of months, so the 
contents were repeated but with different figures. 
Fs letter to Mr As firm dated 19 June 2017 included tables showing the transfer values 
broken down into cash, current bonus and final bonus figures for both the regular premium 
and single premium elements of Mr Ms policy. And the 30 June 2017 letter said The with-
profits fund provided an annual regular bonus between the inception of the policy and 2003, 
after which time no regular bonuses have been added to any policies of this type. So I think 
Mr A knew prior to November 2017 the final bonus would be calculated separately for each 
element. 
Ive looked at the figures given to Mr A in November 2017, which were based on current 
final bonus rates. The valuation figures quoted are transfer values, which is an estimation of 
the cost of providing the benefits under the policy. The immediate retirement transfer value 
was given as £188,940, and after taking free cash Aviva provided various annuity quotes 
based on the different options open to Mr M (such as single or joint life, level of spouse 
pension, guarantee period etc). The single life annuity, in arrears with no guarantee gave 
him an annual income of £17,349. As at February 2018 it would be £15,747 and February 
2019 (his normal retirement date) £16,381. 
Aviva responded to Mr As queries by referring to its actuaries and technical specialists. It 
explained the 2018 and 2019 transfer values and annuity quotes were lower due to the final 
bonus rates, but it expected theyd be more in line with current rates. Aviva apologised for an 
error in the earlier quotes whereby the GAR applicable to the regular premium element had 
been applied to the whole transfer value, rather than applying the lower GAR to the single 
premium element (based on it being invested for a shorter time, only 16 years since 2001). I can see this was confusing, and perhaps Aviva saying it expected future bonus rates to be 
similar to current rates even though the quotes were lower made Mr A think Mr M should 
delay taking his benefits. But I think it was made clear the future figures werent guaranteed 
and were subject to change.  
It doesnt look like Aviva specifically mentioned the impact of smoothing at this point. But that 
doesnt mean it failed to disclose its smoothing policy. Since 2004 the regulator has required 
providers of With-profits funds to publish a document known as the Principles and Practice 
of Financial Management (PPFM). It sets out the fund providers discretion in the setting and 
application of bonus rates and the application of smoothing to ensure all policyholders are 
provided with a fair and prudent share of the fund over the long term. 
Aviva provided Mr A with a link to the PPFM in 2019 with its response to the complaint. But 
having reviewed a selection of communications Aviva (and formerly F) sent to Mr As firm 
and to Mr M directly over the years, I can see attention was drawn to the PPFM and other 
information about the management of the with-profits fund including bonuses and 
smoothing). F wrote to Mr As firm in December 2016 and twice in June 2017 responding to 
various queries, and these letters didnt include a link to the PPFM. The 30 June 2017 letter 
enclosed a factsheet about the standard With-profits fund.  I havent seen that fact sheet, 
but Ive looked at the latest version on Avivas website which contains sections explaining 
bonuses and smoothing. So I think its likely the earlier version would have included 
reference to smoothing as this is an inherent feature of a with-profits fund.  
I can see each year Mr M was sent an annual statement of benefits and yearly bonus 
statements. The statement of benefits in July 2017 (for the year to May 2017) gave a 
transfer value of just under £180,657. Under the heading Current bonus it says We are 
currently paying an annual bonus of 0.00%. Please bear in mind future bonuses cannot be 
guaranteed. Under Final bonus it reads We may pay a final bonus when you retire, transfer 
to another arrangement or die. Please remember that we may change our final bonus rate at 
any time or cease to pay it altogether. Please contact us if you would like details of the 
current rate. 
Under With-profits information it explains the with-profits business is managed in 
accordance with the PPFM which as well as a with-profits summary guide and an annual 
report for with-profits policy holders, were available on its website. It provided a brief 
explanation of the calculation of 2016 bonus rates consistent with the PPFM. In summary it 
said a minimum return was needed to provide the guaranteed benefits to all policyholders, 
cover the administration costs and tax due, and add any regular bonuses to plans. In 2016 it 
had earned a bit more than the minimum so was able to add to the reserves set aside to pay 
a final bonus. But it warned that expectations for future returns had reduced, so the regular 
bonus was the same as last year. I think this signalled that bonuses in future years may be 
lower.  
In October 2017 F became part of Aviva, and Ive seen its PPFM from October 2017 for 
policies like Mr Ms. Under How are bonus rates determined? it reads Our primary aim is 
to ensure all guarantees are met and all policy holders are treated fairly. Future bonuses 
cannot be guaranteed as they come from profits that have not yet been earned. This is why 
Mr M couldnt rely on the indicative value he was given in November 2017 for what it would 
be in February 2019. It says final bonus rates are normally reviewed twice a year (January 
and July), but they can change at any time, and they may be reviewed more frequently if 
investment markets are volatile. 
On the following page it explains Smoothing by saying investment values rise and fall and 
that the value of a policy is controlled using bonuses, but these dont change as frequently 
as the underlying investments, with the aim of achieving pay-outs that are close to the value of the underlying investments. It also says they aim not to change pay-outs for similar 
policies by more than 20% from one year to the next. 
In June 2018 Mr M was sent his 2017 annual bonus statement. This letter also referred to 
information about the With-profits fund (including the PPFM) available on the website. The 
statement shows Mr Ms guaranteed annuity at retirement in February 2019 as £13,907 and 
goes on to say Weve not shown the final bonus rate on the statement because investment 
conditions mean the figure could change during the year.  So overall, information about the 
operation of the With-profits fund in accordance with the PPFM, including smoothing was 
available to Mr M and to Mr A throughout. 
Im sorry for the position Mr M finds himself in, but he didnt elect to take his benefits in 
November 2017 or July 2018, so it would be unfair to expect Aviva to backdate his claim 
simply because hed be better off with the benefit of hindsight. The valuations provided in 
2017 indicated Mr Ms transfer value and annuity would be lower in 2019, and he knew all 
along the final bonus rates werent guaranteed. If Mr A mistakenly assumed the value of     
Mr Ms plan couldnt fall below the November 2017 valuation I cant hold Aviva responsible 
for that. Mr A acknowledges it was made clear valuations and bonuses werent guaranteed, 
and as Aviva made information relating to the operation of the With-profits fund including 
smoothing publicly available as wed expect, there was no reason for it to specifically draw 
Mr As attention to smoothing in November 2017.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Jen Moody
Ombudsman