DRN-3880048
The complaint
Mr K complains that because of errors by Nationwide Building Society he has to date been 
unable to obtain a suitable mortgage as a replacement for his present one and if he does, he 
will have to pay a higher interest rate than he should have had to pay.
What happened
Mr K has a repayment mortgage on his current property with Nationwide since December 
2016. Presently it is on a capital repayment basis fixed with two fixed interest rate products. 
The balance outstanding in February 2022 was just over £100,000. The terms of the 
products expire in 2026. 
In January 2022 Mr K called in with Nationwide and looked for advice about extending the 
fixed interest rate term on his mortgage. As switching to another rate would involve paying 
an early repayment charge (ERC) Nationwide suggested that he consider a Lifetime 
mortgage and Mr K applied for one. There was an issue with a discrepancy with Mr Ks 
address and it had to be re-keyed with another application number (1st application). Then a 
further application for a Lifetime mortgage was begun (2nd application) but following the 
valuation which referred to timber cladding, Nationwide didnt deem the property suitable for 
a Lifetime mortgage, but the Society said that it would consider an alternative product in its 
range of mortgages for older borrowers. Mr K then applied for a Retirement Interest Only 
mortgage (3rd application). As there was an Estate Service Charge, Nationwide asked for a 
Deed of Variation (DoV) or letter from the Developer / Management Company waiving its 
rights under the section 121 of the LPA and that it would give the mortgage company two 
months notice to remedy any arrears. On 27 September Nationwide told us that this 
application is on hold pending Mr Ks decision as to how he wants to proceed. In respect of 
its mistake during the first application Nationwide offered compensation of £125.
Our investigators view was that Nationwide had acted fairly. Although Nationwide had made 
an error on the first application it had addressed that error in a timely manner honouring the 
same interest rate in the second application as the first although interest rates had risen; 
Nationwide was entitled to consider the cladding under its current lending criteria which led 
to the second application being declined; it wasnt unreasonable for Nationwide to ask for a 
Deed of Variation; our investigator also thought that the compensation offered by Nationwide 
was fair. Mr K disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K wanted to transfer to another mortgage with Nationwide. Mr K complains that because 
of delays and the more onerous conditions that Nationwide has added that he has not yet 
got the mortgage and that the interest rate will be higher which is unfair. I understand that 
this process started when Mr K contacted Nationwide about switching his mortgage product 
to a longer term fix. But this would have triggered an ERC and Nationwide then asked him to 
consider its range of products for older borrowers.
Its accepted that there was a delay with the first application for a Lifetime mortgage in 
keying in the address which involved Mr K on a journey to a Nationwide branch for which 
Nationwide paid him compensation of £125 which seems fair. Although interest rates had 
risen during the course of the application, Nationwide took the decision to maintain the 
interest rate on the application which also seems fair. A mortgage illustration issued on 1 
February 2022 advised Mr K that there would be a valuation. But, following the valuation the 
application for a Lifetime mortgage was refused.  
Ive seen the valuation report which values the property at £485,000. I note that the valuer 
raised the issue of cladding, Nationwide raised queries about this and the valuer confirmed 
that the property had 100% timber cladding. This fell outside Nationwides criteria for 
properties that were acceptable security for lifetime mortgages. Nationwide told Mr K about 
this on 12 March.  Nationwide then suggested that it may be acceptable for some of its other 
over-50 type mortgages. Mr K understandably considers that its unfair for him to have a 
mortgage on a timber cladded property with Nationwide thats acceptable to the lender but 
that it wont provide him with one of its other mortgages on the same property. The answer is 
that they are different types of mortgages. Mr Ks existing mortgage is Nationwides standard 
mortgage and will have criteria about the type of building acceptable for that mortgage. 
Nationwide has developed another type of mortgage  the Lifetime mortgage and has 
developed criteria about what properties that it will consider an acceptable risk for that type 
of mortgage. 
A lender will decide what risk it wishes to accept and part of that risk is the type of property 
that its willing to lend on. Nationwide has decided that a property such as Mr Ks with 100% 
timber cladding is unacceptable security for its Lifetime mortgage. Its also explained that the 
reason for that is that this is a different type of mortgage as the title says a Lifetime mortgage 
and that there is more of an emphasis on the future valuation and marketability of the 
property on a mortgage that is meant to last a lifetime. It has decided that its unwilling to 
include this type of property in its Lifetime mortgages range. Mr K may not like that but its 
not an unreasonable decision for Nationwide to come to. As Nationwide is a commercial 
organisation we have to respect the lenders decision as to what properties it wishes to 
accept as security for a particular type of mortgage and what properties it is unwilling to 
accept. So, although I understand Mr Ks puzzlement, I cant say that in refusing to accept 
Mr Ks property for this type of mortgage that Nationwide did anything wrong. 
I note that Mr K on several occasions says that when he made the application at the 
beginning of 2022 that Nationwide already knew about the cladding. But there is nothing on 
the file to suggest it did. I appreciate that Mr K is annoyed that by applying for the Lifetime 
mortgage, he may have missed out on the interest rates that were applicable at that time, 
But apart from the short delay Nationwide did nothing wrong. It considered the application 
and as the application didnt meet its criteria it was refused. Theres nothing unfair about 
that.
Nationwide as an alternative to the Lifetime mortgage suggested that Mr K apply for another 
mortgage in its range of mortgages for over-55s. Mr K said that he paid an estate service 
charge to the managing agents. Because of this, under Nationwides lending criteria it 
required the landlord to waive its rights either not to exercise any of its rights under Section 
121 of the Law of Property Act 1925 or if there was a default in payments that the lender is 
given two months to remedy any arrears before action is taken. The landlords agreement to 
this could be evidenced by a DoV or a side letter from the management company. 
Nationwide told Mr K of its requirements in April 2022.So, this is a case where, if Mr K wants to take advantage of this type of mortgage with 
Nationwide, he has to either obtain a DoV or a letter in the terms set out. I dont consider that 
its unreasonable for Nationwide to require such a waiver. Ive seen other lenders request 
similar waivers and it offers some protection for the lender and indeed the borrower if the 
service charge is unpaid. I note that Nationwide only requires a letter from the management 
company.
Mr K says in theory that Nationwide should pay for the DoV. I disagree. Its up to Mr K to 
meet the conditions that a lender requires before it approves a mortgage.  Nationwide has 
set out the terms on which it will consider applications for this type of mortgage as its 
entitled to do. I see nothing wrong with that. It makes the point that this isnt a case where it 
will involve a solicitor to act on its behalf and so, it wont be adding a condition to an offer 
requiring the DoV to be approved by its solicitor. As a result, it wants to see the Deed or side 
letter before it considers the application. Thats its process for these applications and I must 
respect the terms in which it will consider such applications. Unfortunately for Mr K he is then 
in the hands of the managing agents and what cost they wish to charge him for the letter or 
DoV, but that expenditure is out of Nationwides control.  I cant fairly require Nationwide to 
meet Mr Ks costs of meeting one of the conditions that allows him to qualify for the loan. 
That is for Mr K to pay if he wishes to proceed.
I also note that in an effort to provide comfort to Mr K, in June 2022, Nationwide said that if 
the DoV or side letter was acceptable and should the valuation raise no concerns not 
previously addressed, it didnt anticipate any further complications that could potentially stop 
Mr Ks application going ahead. It seems that Mr K was then proceeding to obtain a DoV 
rather than a side letter but the application seems to have halted when Mr K received notice 
of the landlords solicitors fee for processing the DoV and it hasnt progressed.
In summary, Ive given this complaint a great deal of consideration as Mr K feels strongly 
about it and refers on several occasions to Nationwides unethical behaviour. The problem is 
that Mr Ks property didnt meet Nationwides criteria for a Lifetime mortgage and Nationwide 
requires, to meet its lending criteria for the RIO type mortgage, a DoV or side letter, which 
Mr K has not yet obtained. There is certainly nothing unethical about that or, in my view, 
unfair. So, I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman