DRN-2607043
The complaint
Miss G has complained about the service she received when undertaking a rate change on 
her buy-to-let mortgage with The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
We cant order TMW compensate Miss G for the cost of her calls as shes 
unfortunately been unable to provide any evidence of either the calls made or the 
costs she incurred in making them.
Miss Gs previous rate came to an end on 30 June 2020, and despite Miss G not 
undertaking the rate change in time TMW backdated it. As Miss G only accepted her 
rate change offer on 8 July, the change should have taken effect from 1 August with 
Miss G paying the higher standard variable rate (SVR) for all of July. Instead TMW 
backdated that change, saving Miss G from paying interest at that much higher SVR. 
TMW didnt have to do that.
Miss G paid the £1,995 product fee when she accepted the offer on 8 July, but as the 
rate change was backdated to 1 July the fee had become due on that date. So for the 
period of 1 July to 8 July Miss Gs mortgage balance was £1,995 higher as the fee 
was added to the debt. As the fee was outstanding at the point TMW worked out 
Miss Gs payments these were then set at £423 a month (based on the higher debt), 
rather than the £420 a month she had been quoted on the basis the fee would be 
paid upfront rather than be added to the mortgage. 
Once Miss G paid the fee that amount came off the balance, and the interest was 
then calculated on the lower balance, but TMW didnt recalculate the monthly 
payments. This meant Miss G paid £423 a month for July, August and September. 
That extra £3 a month has immediately come off the balance of the debt, so Miss G 
has benefited from it. TMW has said she could have the £9 back, but then her 
mortgage balance will increase by the same amount.
TMW has admitted to some customer service failings so I dont need to make any 
findings on that. All I need to consider is whether I feel the £100 it has already paid in 
compensation is enough, and having considered everything Im satisfied it is.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Miss G to accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman