DRN-2936361
Complaint
Miss H is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) irresponsibly increased her overdraft 
limit and then treated her unfairly when she fell into financial difficulty. 
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Hs concerns. He didnt think BOS had done 
anything wrong or treated Miss H unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Miss H disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Miss Hs complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Hs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
BOS needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
BOS needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss H 
would be able to repay what she was being lent before providing any credit to her. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
BOS says Miss H applied for her overdraft limit increases online. On the other hand, Miss H 
says she was encouraged to do this after shed been declined after a telephone application. I 
dont know what happened at the time when Miss H called BOS. And I know that Miss H 
feels strongly about this. But the truth is I dont think it makes too much of a difference here 
anyway, because whatever the circumstances or platform used at the time of the application, 
Id expect the checks to be proportionate to the circumstances. 
Im not wholly persuaded by the accuracy of the information BOS proceeded with. And as 
there were a number of limit increases, albeit for relatively modest amounts, over a short 
period of time, its fair to say that this in itself could have been viewed as a reason to take a 
closer look at Miss Hs circumstances. 
That said, given the credits going into the account and the amount of non-committed, non-
contractual and discretionary transactions being made, I dont think that it was unreasonable 
for BOS to conclude Miss H would be able to repay what she was being lent within a 
reasonable period of time. And this means that I dont agree a closer look at Miss Hs 
circumstances would have led BOS to conclude it was increasing Miss Hs overdraft limit 
unfairly or irresponsibly. 
However, even though Miss Hs overdraft limit wasnt increased irresponsibly, BOS still wont 
have acted fairly and reasonably if it applied any interest, fees and charges to Miss Hs 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been 
aware Miss H was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were 
instances where BOS didnt treat Miss H fairly and reasonably. 
I dont think that BOS did treat Miss H unfairly or unreasonably though. I say this because 
Miss Hs statements show BOS froze the interest on Miss Hs overdraft when she got into 
difficulty in July 2019. It then carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Miss H 
to work out how much she could pay and whether this was enough to repay the outstanding 
balance within a reasonable period of time. As Miss Hs disposable income was no longer 
enough to do this, I dont think it was unreasonable for BOS to pass Miss Hs account to 
collections. 
Im mindful of the concerns Miss H has regarding the impact of adverse information being 
recorded on her credit file. But I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for BOS to allow 
Miss H to continue delaying dealing with the consequences of a debt that had become 
unsustainable and charging her for the privilege of doing so, simply because she didnt want 
adverse information on her credit file. As a regulated firm, at some point, BOS had to take 
corrective action and Im satisfied that BOS took fair, reasonable and appropriate steps to 
resolve matters before taking such action in relation to Miss Hs overdraft.   
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that BOS treated Miss H unfairly 
or unreasonably and this means that Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this 
will be very disappointing for Miss H  especially as shes been waiting some time for this 
answer. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel 
her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman