DRN-1499582
 
The complaint
Mr S says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr S took out a PPI policy at the same time as he applied for a mortgage in 1994. The sale 
took place in one of the banks branches. The policy gave him accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover. He paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr S disagreed so 
the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete (as 
some of it is here) I've made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. So on what I 
think is most likely given the available evidence and what we know about how Halifax sold 
PPI at the time. The policy document from the date of the sale isn't available, so I have used 
the one from the nearest available date. 
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive 
followed it here.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make clear the PPI was optional and Mr S had to agree to take it out. Mr S 
says he wasnt told PPI was being added to his mortgage, it wasnt presented to him at all. 
And he wouldnt have taken it out had he been given the choice. I cant know what was said 
in the meeting, there are no meeting notes or records available, and Halifax doesn't have 
any paperwork from the sale. But that's not surprising or unreasonable given how long ago it 
was. The bank says it's more likely than not that it obtained Mr S's explicit consent before 
the sale was concluded. 
I have thought carefully about everything Mr S has told us about the sale. And whilst I dont 
doubt these are his honest recollections of the meeting, I have to take into account that it 
was 25 years ago and that this might affect what he now remembers. Overall, without 
stronger evidence, I cant fairly uphold his complaint on this point. 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr S so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. I 
know he feels strongly that he didnt need it. But based on what I know of his circumstances 
at the time, I think that it was suitable. Mr S says he was entitled to six months' sick pay and 
a redundancy package. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to his work benefits and for 
up to 12 months. It would have allowed him to protect any lump sum redundancy payment, 
giving increased financial stability at a difficult time whilst not working.Mr S also said he had savings worth around six months salary but the PPI would have 
allowed him to use these to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep them 
intact for his future needs. He said family would have helped but that's not suitable 
alternative protection, it's not guaranteed and people's circumstances can change. Mr S was 
borrowing a large sum over a long period, secured on his home. So the effects of not 
keeping up the repayments could have been serious for him. Overall, I think the PPI would 
have been useful for Mr S if he was sick, had an accident or lost his job.   
Mr S says he was told nothing about the PPI  it wasnt mentioned, he was given no 
information. I accept its possible Halifax didnt give Mr S the clear and complete 
information he needed before deciding to buy PPI. I don't know when the cost was made 
clear. But the PPI was competitively priced and apparently affordable. And I dont know that 
the bank pointed out the main things the PPI didnt cover. But Mr S doesnt appear to have 
been affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI wouldve changed his mind about buying it.
It follows I dont think Mr S has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
My decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman