DRN-3997586
The complaint
Miss B complains Novaloans Ltd trading as cash4unow (Novaloans) gave her loans without 
carrying out sufficient affordability checks.
What happened
Miss B was advanced three loans between June 2021 and March 2022. A summary of her 
borrowing can be found below.  
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
repaymentshighest 
repayment
1 £150.00 09/06/2021 28/09/2021 4 £58.09
2 £200.00 28/09/2021 28/03/2022 6 £66.16
3 £500.00 28/03/2022 28/09/2022 6 £166.65
Following Miss Bs complaint Novaloans wrote to her to explain why it wasnt going to uphold 
the complaint because it had carried out proportionate affordability checks before the loans 
were granted. Unhappy with this response, Miss B referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. 
The case was then considered by an adjudicator, and she didnt think Miss Bs complaint 
should be upheld because in her view, Novaloans carried out proportionate checks which 
showed it Miss B would be able to afford these loans. 
Miss B didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment because Novaloans hadnt checked 
the information she had provided was correct. She also said that she was using the loans to 
gamble and so the information may have been altered and her medical condition hadnt 
been considered nor the impact on her mental health. 
The adjudicator replied to Miss B and outlined why these points hadnt changed her mind 
about the case. She didnt think it had yet reached the point where Novaloans needed to 
verify the information Miss B had provided. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Novaloans had to assess the lending to check if Miss B could afford to pay back the 
amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Novaloans checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Miss Bs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Novaloans should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss B. These factors include:
Miss B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss B. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to Miss Bs complaint. 
Novaloans was required to establish whether Miss B could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss B was able to 
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Bs complaint.
Loan 1
As part of her application, Miss B declared a monthly income of £1,370. She also declared 
monthly outgoings of £1,108. 
Novaloans believed, based on the information Miss B provided that she had around £262 a 
month in disposable income  and after the loan repayment was factored in Miss B wouldve 
had around £204 left over to cover any unexpected costs. 
Based solely on the information Miss B declared to Novaloans  and information in my view 
it couldve relied on, it wouldve been reasonable for it to believe Miss B would be able to 
afford her monthly repayments. 
Novaloans has also said it carried out a credit search and it has provided the 
Financial Ombudsman with a summary of these results  which can be found in its final 
response letter. It is worth saying that there is no requirement within the regulations at the 
time to have carried out a credit search let alone one to a specific standard. But what Novaloans couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then not react to any concerning 
information that it may have seen. 
Having reviewed the credit check results, Novaloans knew that Miss B had a satisfied 
County Court Judgement. However, based on what Ive seen there wasnt anything else that 
wouldve been of a concern to Novaloans such that it wouldve prompted it to have carried 
out further checks.  
Miss B had seven active credit accounts, no defaulted or delinquent accounts within the last 
12 months  it is possible that there were and are defaults recorded before this date, but 
Novaloans didnt appear to have asked for this information. It also knew that Miss Bs total 
outstanding debt was around £1,787.
Thinking about the credit checks results as well as the income and expenditure information 
and that there was nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Novaloans 
to believe that it needed to go further with its checks it carried out  such as verifying the 
information Miss B had provided. So, I dont think that Novaloans needed to have reviewed 
Miss Bs bank statements. 
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for Novaloans to 
have relied on the information Miss B provided. There also wasnt anything else to suggest 
that Miss B was having financial difficulties or that the loan repayments would be 
unsustainable for her. So, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint about this loan. 
Loans 2 and 3
Loan 2 was taken on the same day that loan 1 was repaid. Loan 3 was taken on the same 
day loan 2 was repaid. Miss Bs capital borrowing also increased with each loan. 
Novaloans has shown the same sort of checks were carried out before these two loans were 
approved. For both it asked Miss B about her income and expenditure. Miss B declared the 
same income for loan 2 as she had done for loan 1, and this had increased to £1,687 for the 
third loan. 
Miss B declared monthly outgoings of £711 for loan 2 and £771 for loan 3. Based on what 
Miss B told Novaloans it was reasonable for it to have believed she couldve afforded her 
monthly loan repayments of £66 and £166. 
Credit searches were also carried out  and the same caveats about the information 
Novaloans received still apply  as I detailed above. 
There was still no adverse credit file information reported with the last 12 months in relation 
to either a default or delinquency. However, Novaloans did know that Miss Bs overall 
indebtedness to other creditors had increased. By the time of loan 3, she owed other 
creditors just over £5,000  a significant increase compared to her indebtedness at loan 1. 
However, even though Im aware of this increase, Miss B appeared to be managing her 
other credit commitments without any undue difficulties. And the information given to 
Novaloans suggested the increase in the borrowing wasnt connected to her taking out other 
payday loans. 
And even taking account of this increase in overall debt  I still think it was reasonable for 
Novaloans to believe that Miss B wasnt in financial difficulties and could sustainably repay 
these loans. Im sorry to hear about Miss Bs health problems and I know things must have been difficult 
for her. But given the number of loans and the checks that Novaloans carried out, firstly I 
think it was reasonable for it to have relied on the information she gave. And secondly, in my 
view, it hadnt yet reached the point in the lending relationship where Novaloans needed to 
have verified the information she had provided  perhaps through her bank statements. As a 
result, Novaloans wouldnt have been aware of Miss Bs gambling. 
Im therefore not upholding any of Miss Bs loans. I appreciate this will be disappointing for 
her, but I do hope my explanation has been useful in detailing why Ive reached the decision 
that I have. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman