DRN-3624216
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy that Moneybarn No.1 Limited declined her application for car finance.
Miss P is being represented in this complaint by Mr V. However, for ease of reference, my 
decision will only refer to Miss P.
What happened
In March 2022, Miss P was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn. She paid a deposit of £2,000, and the agreement was for £10,168 over 36 
months. This application was approved on the basis that Miss Ps net monthly income was 
not less that £2,500, and her non-discretionary monthly expenditure wasnt more than 
£1,246.45. However, the car was found to be of an unsatisfactory quality when supplied to 
Miss P, so the car was returned, and the agreement unwound in April 2022.
Miss P wanted to finance a replacement car and was initially told by a credit broker that 
Moneybarn would offer her £25,000. However, once Miss P had provided the credit broker 
with details of her current expenditure, this amount was reduced to £5,800.
Miss P found a car to fit the reduced budget and made an application for finance through the 
credit broker. As part of this application, she provided the credit broker with bank statements 
to verify her income. Moneybarn said that the information they were provided with showed 
that Miss Ps regular monthly expenditure was more than her monthly income. So, they 
declined her application.
Miss P complained to Moneybarn as she was unhappy that Moneybarn hadnt taken her 
savings into consideration, or the money she received from Mr V. But Moneybarn said theyd 
made a fair lending decision based on the information theyd been provided with. And they 
didnt overturn their decision to decline Miss Ps application.
Miss P wasnt happy with Moneybarns response, and she brought her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said that Moneybarn have an obligation to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that any lending was both affordable, and that the 
affordability was sustainable over the lifetime of the agreement. She said that the information 
provided to Moneybarn didnt match the information theyd been given when Moneybarn said 
they would consider lending Miss P £25,000. So, she thought it was reasonable for 
Moneybarn to reduce the amount to £5,800 based on this information.
The investigator also said that, when Miss P made an application for the £5,800, the 
supporting information provided by the credit broker didnt show that this was affordable for 
Miss P. As such, she thought Moneybarn had acted reasonably by declining the application.
Miss P didnt agree with the investigator. She said that her expenditure wasnt more than her 
income, and her bank statements show this. And she didnt think that Moneybarn had 
accurately calculated her expenditure. So, shes asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Miss P applied for finance with Moneybarn, which they declined because she didnt fit their 
lending criteria  based on the information provided to them by the credit broker, they didnt 
think the loan was affordable.
Moneybarn have said that the information they were provided with showed that Miss Ps 
outgoings exceeded her income. Theyve also said that they were only provided with the 
income and expenditure figures by the credit broker, not the bank statements themselves.
In circumstances like these, its reasonable for Moneybarn to rely upon the information 
theyve been given to make their initial assessment. And Id only expect then to validate the 
information provided if the application passed their lending criteria. Which in this case it 
didnt.
Miss P has said that the bank statements supplied to the credit broker dont show that her 
outgoings exceed her income. And shes provided copies of what she gave the credit broker.
This is a summary statement for the period 3 March 2022 to 1 April 2022, showing the total 
incoming and total outgoing during that period. She also provided part of a bank statement 
showing partial transaction for two different days.
While the summary shows that Miss P spent around £2,000 less than what went into her 
account for this period, its not a breakdown of her regular monthly income and expenditure. 
And the partial transactions shown dont provide this information either. As such, had this 
information been provided to Moneybarn, it wouldnt have provided anything to show that the 
figures supplied by the credit broker were wrong.
Given all the above, Im satisfied that Moneybarn acted reasonably by not approving the 
credit when Miss P applied for it. Theyve also said that Miss P can apply for finance at any 
time, so long as the documentation you provide meets our criteria and confirms 
affordability. Which I also think is reasonable. As such, I wont be asking Moneybarn to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint about Moneybarn No.1 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman