DRN-3744149
The complaint
Mr O complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) didnt do enough to protect 
him when he fell victim to a scam and wont reimburse the money he lost.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it for these reasons:
Ive carefully considered whether the payments were made to a scam, rather than for 
legitimate investment training or a high-risk investment. There isnt much information 
about the company Mr O paid  which Ill call W. However, W does now appear on 
the International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) portal which 
receives alerts and warnings about firms that arent authorised to provide investment 
services. While this was added some time after the payments were made, and 
doesnt specifically state this was a scam, it states W wasnt authorised to provide 
investment services. And it appears that it was providing some form of investment 
service. So, while its not clear that W was operating a scam, Im prepared to accept 
that it may have been, and will proceed on that basis.
Its not in dispute that Mr O authorised the payments from his Nationwide account, 
albeit not realising that he was potentially falling victim to a scam. Statements show 
that he paid around £226 on 22 June 2020 and around £4,300 on 1 July 2020. So, 
the starting position  in line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017  is that 
hes liable for the transactions. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Id 
expect Nationwide to have systems in place to monitor for indications of fraud. In 
some circumstances, when such a risk is identified, Id expect it to make additional 
checks before processing a payment. If it failed to do so, and that failure led to a 
fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold Nationwide liable.
Ive considered whether Nationwide ought to have made additional checks on the 
disputed payments. And I dont think it ought to have. I say this is because there 
werent any warnings about W  which is who the payments were being made to  on 
the Financial Conduct Authority register or on IOSCO at the time, so I wouldnt 
expect Nationwide to have stopped them based on the merchant. 
In addition, while the disputed payments were made in euros, this wasnt unusual for 
Mr O when considering his account history in the months prior. Going on to consider 
the amounts of the payments, I note that the first payment was relatively low, so I 
wouldnt expect this to have flagged with Nationwide. The next payment was made 
just over a week later to the same merchant. I acknowledge that Mr O has told us 
how significant the amount of money is to him. But I dont consider it to have been 
such a large amount that it would have appeared unusual or out of character to the 
extent that it ought to have been regarded as suspicious, or indicating that Mr O 
might have been at risk of falling for a scam. There was also nothing else to indicate 
that Mr O was in the process of being scammed. 
So, I dont think Nationwide can fairly be held liable for Mr Os loss here. I note that 
Mr O has referred to how his actions would have differed if Nationwide had 
intervened with the payments. But Im not persuaded there was any obligation on it to 
intervene or prevent the payments in these circumstances  so it isnt necessary to 
consider what would have happened if it had.
Ive also considered whether Nationwide acted reasonably in terms of its attempts to 
recover the funds. As the payments were made on a credit card, there would be the 
potential for a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. However, 
there would need to be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship for this to 
succeed. But there appears to be an additional party involved in the chain which 
invalidates it. Id also need to be satisfied there was a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract. But I havent seen sufficient evidence to support this  instead Ive seen a 
declaration of purchase and reference to gaining knowledge and skills, alongside 
evidence suggesting Mr O logged in to the site on 12 occasions. So I dont consider 
theres enough to support a misrepresentation or breach of contract from this.
Ive thought carefully about Nationwides handling of Mr Os chargeback claim. When 
Mr O disputed the payments, Nationwide raised a chargeback claim which was 
defended by the merchant. W claims to have provided investment training, and it 
issued Nationwide with evidence to show Mr O had purchased and accessed its 
content, demonstrating he had received services paid for. I understand Mr O disputes 
this. But I dont think Nationwide ought to have done anything further in relation to the 
chargeback dispute in light of the evidence sent by the merchant to defend the claim 
- I consider it took the appropriate action here. 
For completeness, I did want to acknowledge that Mr O received a partial refund of 
around £900 from W. But this doesnt affect anything Ive outlined above. 
Im very sorry that Mr O has lost this money and I recognise the impact, both financially and 
emotionally, this will have had on him. But I dont think it would be fair to hold Nationwide 
responsible for the loss. So I wont be asking it to reimburse the funds or take any further 
action here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman