DRN-3453154
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) lost her marriage certificate when it 
was processing her annuity after her husbands death. 
Mrs D is represented in her complaint. But Ill only refer to her in my decision. 
What happened
Mrs D and her husband had a joint life last survivor annuity with Phoenix. She contacted 
Phoenix on 8 June 2021 to let them know her husband had died. I understand he passed 
away on 14 May 2021.
On 11 June 2021, Phoenix wrote to Mrs D. It included an annuity claim form. And asked her 
to provide it with the original death certificate, birth and marriage certificates. It said this was 
so the joint life last survivor annuity shed held with her husband could be transferred into her 
name only. 
On 17 June 2021, Mrs D said her son called Phoenix to ask why it needed the original 
marriage certificate. And that Phoenix had told him it was needed. But that due care would 
be taken, for example the original documents would be returned by recorded delivery.
On 23 June 2021, Phoenix said it received paperwork from Mrs D. It said it had scanned the 
original death certificate and a copy of Mrs Ds passport that had been included in her reply. 
But it hadnt found the original marriage certificate which Mrs D said had been folded and 
placed in the envelope alongside the other enclosures. 
Phoenix returned the original documentation to Mrs D. But didnt return the original marriage 
certificate.
On 28 June 2021, Mrs D contacted Phoenix to tell it that it had failed to return the original 
marriage certificate alongside the rest of the documentation. She complained about this. 
Phoenix issued its final response to the complaint on 15 July 2021. It apologised. And 
agreed that its service had failed Mrs D on this occasion.
Phoenix said it had passed on Mrs Ds comments to the relevant areas as feedback. It also 
said that it had looked for the missing marriage certificate but as the envelope Mrs D had 
sent it in had been discarded it had been unable to find it. Phoenix agreed that it shouldve 
cross-referenced the enclosures with the letter. And apologised that it hadnt.
Phoenix also said that as it already had a copy of Mrs Ds marriage certificate and her 
passport on file from August 2010, it shouldve only requested the death certificate. It said it 
was very sorry for the distress and inconvenience it had caused Mrs D.
Phoenix offered Mrs D £250 compensation for the trouble and upset it had caused Mrs D for:
not cross-referencing the enclosures with the letter, 
not being able to check the envelope as it had been discarded,
asking for Mrs Ds original marriage certificate when it already had a copy on file
the cost of the replacement marriage certificate.
Mrs D didnt find Phoenixs response wholly satisfactory. She said the loss of the original 
marriage certificate had caused her significant distress. So she felt that a higher amount of 
compensation was in order. She made the following points:
Shed been afraid that her original marriage certificate may be lost if it was sent  
which it was. This was why her son had called Phoenix to ask it why the original was 
needed. She felt Phoenix shouldve checked its files to see if it already had a copy. 
She also felt that Phoenix couldve found the information it needed from a marriage 
certificate online. And questioned why Phoenix couldnt have verified her marriage in 
this way.
She didnt feel that Phoenix had adequately addressed her point that someone with 
seniority shouldve opened the envelope containing originals of the death certificate 
and marriage certificate. 
Mrs D also felt that it hadnt told her what steps it would take to ensure that another 
customer didnt have the same poor experience. She didnt think it was enough for it 
to have said that itd passed her feedback to the relevant teams.
Phoenix replied to Mrs D on 4 August 2021. It confirmed that it always asked for original 
certificates as copies could be amended. And noted that the marriage certificate it had on file 
from 2010 was a copy, which it couldnt accept at the time. But it acknowledged that it 
couldve done more to settle the claim with the documentation in its possession. 
Phoenix also repeated that all Mrs Ds comments and suggestions had been passed to the 
relevant areas as feedback and for consideration to change its process so that other 
customers didnt have the same experience.
Unhappy, Mrs D brought her complaint to this service. She didnt think the compensation 
Phoenix had offered was high enough. She said she was emotionally distraught by what 
happened so soon after her husbands death. She wanted a clear explanation from Phoenix 
about the changes it would make to its procedures so that no other customer had the same 
experience. 
Our investigator didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that Phoenix 
had apologised for its errors. And had taken Mrs Ds feedback on board. He also felt that the 
compensation it had offered was fair under the circumstances of the complaint. Overall, he 
considered that Phoenix had done everything he wouldve expected it to have done whilst 
dealing with the complaint. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I consider that Phoenix has taken reasonable steps to put things right. I know my decision will be disappointing to Mrs D. Ill explain why 
Ive reached it.
Before I start, I want to offer Mrs D my sincere condolences for the loss of her husband. Im 
also very sorry to hear about the lost marriage certificate. I can imagine that it was extremely 
distressing to have lost such a meaningful document at such a sad time. I have no doubt that 
Phoenixs actions have caused distress to Mrs D and I think its right that it has apologised 
for and acknowledged this by offering compensation.
I hope its helpful if I explain our role. We provide an informal dispute resolution service and 
we have no regulatory or disciplinary role. That means we cant tell a business how to 
operate its systems and we cant punish a business, or tell it to change its processes. If we 
find that something has gone wrong, we consider how to put things right, on a fair and 
reasonable basis. 
So, while I acknowledge that Mrs D is unhappy with the steps Phoenix has taken to ensure 
the same thing doesnt happen to another customer, I cant reasonably ask it to make 
changes to its procedures. Therefore I cant require it to give Mrs D a clear explanation 
about the changes its going to make, even though I acknowledge that Mrs D is only trying to 
prevent another customer from going through what she went through. 
However, Im happy to note that Phoenix has confirmed that it has passed on Mrs Ds 
feedback to the relevant areas. As our investigator has already noted, I consider that this 
should help Phoenix to improve its service to avoid similar errors in future.
Mrs D also feels that the compensation Phoenix has paid her so far isnt sufficient given the 
emotional distress shed suffered. 
Ive carefully considered what Mrs D has told this service about the impact of the lost 
marriage certificate. And while I absolutely understand how important it was to her, I agree 
with our investigator that its impossible to place a value on the lost item, as it was of such 
great sentimental value. I acknowledge that losing it so close to her husbands death 
wouldve caused additional distress. However, taking into account the other steps Phoenix 
has taken to put things right, I consider that its offer of £250 compensation is reasonable 
under the circumstances. 
I understand that Mrs D will be disappointed with this decision. But Im satisfied that Phoenix 
has acknowledged where its service fell short and has apologised. I also consider that the 
£250 compensation Phoenix has paid was reasonable under the circumstances. Therefore I 
dont uphold the complaint. And I dont require Phoenix to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman