DRN-3468440
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the way Great Lakes has settled a claim she made on a travel
insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2019, Mrs W booked a two-stage holiday abroad through a travel agent. She was
due to travel to a country Ill call N on 12 March 2020, before flying onto a country Ill call S
on 31 March 2020. She was due to fly back to the UK on 4 April 2020. Mrs W took out an
annual travel insurance policy in August 2019, which provided cover for her trip.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic.  
Mrs W flew abroad as planned on 12 March 2020. However, Mrs Ws airline cancelled her 
return flights to and from S. And on 19 March 2020, Ns government closed its borders to 
non-nationals. The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advised all UK
nationals abroad to return to the UK on 23 March 2020. And on 25 March 2020, Ns
government imposed national lockdown.
Mrs W wished to return to the UK but was unable to find an available flight which could
transport her ahead of her planned return date. She was able to travel to stay with friends in
a city in N whilst she waited for a new flight to be arranged. Ultimately, Mrs W was able to
board a return flight to the UK on 12 April 2020  eight days later than shed planned. She
was able to recover her unused expenses from the travel agent. So she made a curtailment
claim on her travel insurance policy for the cost of a new business class flight back to the
UK.
Great Lakes didnt accept Mrs Ws trip had been curtailed. It said that the trip had been
extended, not curtailed. However, it considered that Mrs W had a valid claim under the travel
delay section of the policy. So it paid her £400 in line with the travel delay policy limits.
Mrs W was unhappy with the way Great Lakes had settled her claim and so her
representative asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. She felt that Mrs Ws trip had
been effectively curtailed on 23 March 2020  the date the FCDO advised all UK nationals to
return to the UK. And she noted that Ns government had imposed some restrictions on the
same date, which had affected Mrs Ws travel plans. She considered that if Mrs W had been
able to arrange a return flight sooner, she wouldve done so and would likely have been
covered under the policy terms. So she felt it was reasonable for Great Lakes to treat        
Mrs Ws holiday as having been curtailed on 23 March 2020. She recommended that Great
Lakes should review the claim in line with the curtailment section of the policy from this date
onwards.
Great Lakes disagreed. It maintained that Mrs Ws holiday hadnt been curtailed, it had been
extended. So it concluded that the claim had been settled correctly.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 March 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought Great Lakes had settled Mrs Ws claim fairly. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mrs Ws policy and the circumstances of her claim, to decide whether Great Lakes
treated her fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mrs Ws
contract with Great Lakes. Mrs W considers that her claim should be covered under the
curtailment section of the policy. So Ive turned to look at the applicable policy terms. These
say:
This section of the Policy sets out the cover We provide to each Insured Person in total per
Insured Journey, up to the sum insured shown in the Table of Benefits, following necessary
and unavoidable Curtailment of, or Loss of Holiday on, an Insured Journey as a result of
The Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) declaring that the country or area in which You
are travelling is unsafe and recommending evacuation.
Great Lakes has defined what it means by curtailment within the contract terms:
Returning to Your Home in the United Kingdom before the scheduled return date.
In my view, Great Lakes has clearly set out that it will only cover curtailment claims in the
event that a policyholders trip is cut short before theyre due to return to the UK because of
something the policy covers. In some circumstances, I might decide that that it would be fair
for an insurer to step away from a strict interpretation of the policy terms. But I dont think it
would be fair for me to do so here for reasons Ill go on to explore.
Theres no dispute that the FCDO advised all UK nationals abroad to return to the UK on 23
March 2020. This was around 11 days before Mrs W was due to return to the UK. So if shed
been able to arrange an earlier flight back to the UK ahead of her scheduled return flight, Id
agree that its likely at least some of her claim wouldve fallen within the scope of the policy
cover. I note though that the curtailment section states that Great Lakes will pay additional
travel costs equivalent to economy class flights. As Mrs W booked a business class flight, I
think its unlikely that Great Lakes wouldve met her full flight costs, even if the claim itself
had been covered by the policy terms.
However, that wasnt what happened here. While I understand Mrs Ws travel plans were
seriously disrupted by Covid-19, this seems to have been down to Ns governments own
restrictions and the airlines decision to cancel her flights rather than due to the change in
FCDO advice. This advice was given after Mrs Ws representative told Great Lakes her
plans had already changed and after her trip had already been disrupted, which he stated
was on 20 March 2020. So it seems to me that Mrs W would always have needed to change
her plans and pay for a new flight home following the cancellation of her return flight by the
airline, irrespective of the subsequent FCDO advice.
More importantly, whats clear is that Mrs Ws trip wasnt cut short, it was extended by eight
days. I dont think I could fairly find then that her trip was curtailed
I note too that the curtailment policy terms include a list of Additional Conditions. One of
these says:
You must advise Us or Our Assistance Company immediately of the need to Curtail Yourtrip, obtain Our prior approval before incurring any expenses and allow Us to make the
necessary travel arrangements to bring You Home.
Mrs W accepts that she didnt call the assistance company before making new travel
arrangements. While I accept this mustve been a stressful time for her, given it seems     
Mrs W was aware that her trip plans would need to change and shed need to make new
arrangements at least 11 days before her planned return date, I dont think it was
unreasonable for Great Lakes to conclude that Mrs W couldve called the assistance line
before incurring costs. Its possible that Great Lakes may have been in a position to offer
support to Mrs W, or have informed her about the extent of cover, to potentially mitigate her
own losses. However, Mrs W didnt comply with this condition. And as such, taking the
totality of the circumstances into account, I dont think I could fairly find that Mrs Ws trip was
curtailed or that Great Lakes should reassess her claim under this section of the policy.
Instead, Great Lakes settled Mrs Ws claim under the Travel delay section of the policy. This
says:
This section of the Policy sets out the cover We provide to each Insured Person in total
per Insured Journey, up to the sums insured shown in the Table of Benefits, in the event of
Your unavoidable delay in departure of at least 12 hours from Your original scheduled
departure time from Your first departure point on Your outward journey or Your last
departure point on Your return journey as a result of:
Cancellation by the transport provider of Your scheduled pre-booked international flight,
ferry, train or coach.
What is covered
In the event of 4. (cancellation by the transport provider), corresponding to the delay in
departure that You would have experienced had You waited for the earliest replacement
travel arrangements offered by Your original transport provider, in the event that You choose
to make earlier alternative travel arrangements.
The policy summary says that Great Lakes will pay £20 for each 12 hours of delay, up to a
limit of £400. Its clear that Mrs Ws return flight was cancelled by her airline. She didnt fly
back until 12 April 2020  11 days after she planned to leave N. This is equal to 22 periods
of delay, which equals £440. I think that Great Lakes fairly assessed Mrs Ws claim here in
line with the applicable limits and under the appropriate section of the policy.
Overall then, I currently find that Great Lakes has settled Mrs Ws claim fairly and I dont
intend to direct it to pay anything more.
I asked both parties to send me any further information they wanted me to consider.
Great Lakes didnt provide any additional comments.
Mrs Ws representative disagreed with my provisional findings. In summary, he said he had 
difficulty in understanding the logic of the views Id expressed. The pandemic had been the 
reason for the cancellation of the flights and also the FCDO advice. He felt it seemed unfair 
to give weight to the date of the flight cancellation when the difference was due to the speed 
of reactions by Ns government and the UK government respectively. 
He said the trip had been due to be a vacation, which had had to be curtailed. Mrs W had 
taken steps to mitigate her losses and she hadnt claimed for all of the expenses shed 
incurred. He felt that given the situation, expert travel providers had had difficulty in finding 
new flights and so he didnt think Great Lakes assistance company couldve provided meaningful support but may have exacerbated the situation. Great Lakes has the chance to 
review the situation overall and show some understanding  perhaps by paying the cost of 
an economy class seat. It hadnt done so and therefore; he didnt agree that Great Lakes 
had acted fairly and reasonably in dealing with this claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mrs W, I still think Great Lakes has settled her 
claim fairly and Ill explain why.
I understand that the situation in which Mrs W found herself was completely unprecedented 
and outside of her control. I also understand, that when the holiday was booked in April 
2019, the circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 couldnt have been foreseen 
by either policyholders or by insurers. I dont doubt what a stressful situation this mustve 
been for Mrs W and I sympathise with her position. 
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide 
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore, 
Great Lakes obligations under its contract with Mrs W are limited by the terms, conditions 
and exclusions which are set out in the policy.
It's clear Mrs Ws representative feels strongly that her trip was a vacation which had to be 
curtailed due to the restrictions imposed by Ns government and the change in FCDO 
advice. Ive thought about this. But its clear that while Mrs W may not have had the holiday 
shed planned due to the impact of Covid-19, the trip itself was extended. I say that because 
she flew back to the UK eight days later than shed planned. So Im still satisfied that rather 
than Mrs Ws trip being cut short, she was delayed abroad for an extended period due to the 
disruption caused by the pandemic  both the impact on flights and because of government 
advice and restrictions. In my view, this is the key point in this particular case. This means I 
dont think I could fairly or reasonably direct Great Lakes to settle Mrs Ws claim under the 
curtailment section of the policy.
I appreciate Mrs W took steps to mitigate her losses and I also understand shes out of 
pocket for costs she couldnt have anticipated shed need to incur when she booked the trip 
or took out the insurance contract. But I still find that the only section of the policy which 
covered Mrs Ws period of extended delay abroad was the Travel delay section. And Great 
Lakes has settled Mrs Ws claim in line with the applicable Travel delay policy limits. So Im 
not telling it to pay anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman