DRN-2170391
The complaint
Ms P complains that a remortgage arranged for her by a representative of Openwork Limited
was unsuitable. She says that the advice was given to her now ex-husband (who Ill refer to 
as Mr O) and she wasnt present, so she wasnt aware of what was discussed, even though 
the mortgage was taken out in her sole name.
What happened
The remortgage was what is generally called a let-to-buy. Ms P was remortgaging the 
property she lived in onto a buy-to-let mortgage rate and increasing the mortgage at the 
same time. That extra borrowing was used for the deposit to buy a new home on a 
residential basis. Openwork gave advice for the two transactions at the same time.
Ms P already owned 6W, having bought it in her sole name in February 2006. At the time the 
advice was given the outstanding mortgage (also in her sole name) was around £59,000.
In 2012, Ms P and Mr O wanted to buy one of the neighbouring properties to live in, 9W, and 
so a new mortgage was arranged on 6W for £110,000 which gave £51,000 towards the 
costs and deposit for buying 9W. That new mortgage on 6W was arranged on an 
interest-only basis in Ms Ps sole name.
9W was bought for £229,950, and a mortgage was arranged on it of around £149,000 on a 
repayment basis in the joint names of Ms P and Mr O.
In August 2017 Mr O left the joint home, and at about the same time their tenant gave her 
notice to leave 6W and Ms P lost her job. Ms P says Mr O refused to pay the mortgage and 
took all the money out of their joint account.
9W was put on the market in August 2017 for £220,000 and sold in January 2018 for 
£205,000. Ms P say they accepted the offer for a quick sale, and they split the £60,000 
equity between them.
As the tenant had left 6W Ms P moved in there, but when she notified the mortgage lender in 
November 2017 it said it couldnt authorise that as the mortgage was granted on a buy-to-let 
basis. Ms P says she sought financial advice but couldnt source a replacement mortgage 
due to being out of work. 6W was sold in January 2020 for £156,000
Ms P complained to Openwork in 2019 about the remortgage. It rejected her complaint.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt recommend that it be upheld. 
As Ms P didnt agree it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Ms P wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way that 
I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what 
I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
This hasnt been an easy case to decide as were looking at matters from 2012 where one of 
the parties - Mr O - isnt involved with this complaint so we havent got his testimony of what 
he remembers happening. Ive carefully considered everything Ms P has told us about her 
circumstances, and the independent reports and letters she has provided. Ive a great deal 
of sympathy for the situation she was in and its clear shes been through some very difficult 
times. I wont mention any detail of that in this decision to protect her privacy.
Ms P has said she intended to sell 6W rather than renting it out. But having considered 
everything Ms P and Mr Os decision to keep that property and rent it out wouldnt have been 
considered a bad decision at the time. Ms Ps also questioned why it was in her sole name, 
as if shed put Mr O on the deeds then it would have been a joint responsibility.
According to the mortgage offer, the monthly mortgage payments for 6W were £405 and 
Ms P has told us she received rent of £620 a month. This shows the rental property was 
self-funding; that is, the rent covered the mortgage payments. If her circumstances hadnt 
changed, Ms P could have left that running for however many years she was able to get a 
mortgage for (the one arranged was for 22-years, but she may have been able to arrange a 
longer term at some point in the future). As long as the tenant paid the rent and the 
mortgage payments didnt go above that amount, then the mortgage would be covered each 
month and Ms P could benefit from whatever increases there were in the property value.
There was nothing inherently wrong with this type of arrangement in 2012, and it was 
something some people would choose to do if they were able to raise the deposit to buy their 
new home without selling the old one. It seems this had already decided before the emails of 
28 February 2012 as the adviser made mention of not being able to raise a £200,000 
mortgage in just Ms Ps name. But if 6W was going to be sold then the residential mortgage 
for 9W would only have needed to have been around £100,000 as the equity in 6W would 
have gone towards putting a larger deposit down on 9W. 
All the adviser did was arrange for a larger mortgage against the rental property (which 
would be covered by the rental income, and would have been more tax efficient) rather than 
against the new residential property; so rather than a £59,000 / £200,000 mortgage split 
(rental property / residential property), the adviser set up a £110,000 / £149,000 mortgage 
split (rental property / residential property). The total debt is the same at £259,000, just the 
split being different which arguably made it more tax-efficient (due to the way mortgage 
payments were treated on rental properties at the time).
In any event, I cant consider the decision to keep 6W and rent it out as that doesnt come 
under mortgage advice and isnt in our jurisdiction. Openwork could give advice about the 
financing of the properties, but it couldnt give advice about what property to buy and/or 
whether the previous one should be sold or rented out. Those decisions fell to Ms P and Mr O, not Openwork even if the adviser discussed matters with them. So, for that reason I 
cant hold Openwork liable for this part of Ms Ps complaint
There was also nothing inherently wrong in the property (and therefore the mortgage) 
remaining in Ms Ps sole name. In fact the opposite, it would instead have been seen as 
prudent planning. Thats because the property was an asset Ms P had before the marriage, 
and so keeping it in her sole name protected her to some extent.
In any event, I cant consider the decision to not add Mr O to the 6W mortgage and title 
deeds because again that isnt something that was the responsibility of Openwork to advise 
upon. Openwork could follow Ms Ps request if she asked for Mr O to be added (and he 
agreed), but its not something it could suggest as its not authorised to offer advice about 
property ownership in that way. As the existing mortgage was in Ms Ps sole name (as was 
the ownership of the property at the Land Registry) then that would remain the case unless 
Ms P actively requested otherwise. It isnt something Openwork could suggest.
The new mortgage on 6W was taken on an interest-only basis, and Ms P has questioned 
how she would have repaid that at the end of the term. The plan would have been similar to 
many other landlords plans; the property is sold to repay the mortgage at the end of the 
term. The idea being there is hopefully an increase in property values over the term, which 
then gives a lump sum extra upon sale. It wasnt at all unusual for mortgages on rental 
properties to be taken on an interest-only basis at that time because it was more tax efficient 
to do so than taking a repayment mortgage. Having considered everything, I cant find 
anything unsuitable about the mortgage advice for 6W.
The new residential mortgage for 9W was in joint names and was taken on a repayment 
basis. The illustration showed the mortgage payments would be £964 a month, which 
appeared to be readily affordable based on the income and expenditure details provided. 
Having considered everything, I cant find anything unsuitable about the mortgage advice for 
9W.
It seems both mortgages ran without difficulty from when they were taken out in April 2012 
until Mr O left in 2017, so it seems the trigger for the problems was that event rather than 
unsuitable mortgage advice in 2012.
Ms P has said she wasnt present for the advice in 2012, so it couldnt have been explained 
to her meaning it was all mis-sold:
[Mr O] told me he would invite his friend round, an independent mortgage
adviser from Sheffield called [the adviser], for advice.
And
[The adviser] came to [6W]. He travelled from Sheffield- a journey of 100 miles.
I was introduced to [the adviser] and we all sat down together and had friendly 
banter.
I was encouraged by [Mr O] to leave them to it as they started discussing finances 
and options.
At no point did I ever receive any advice from [the adviser].
At some point, either during that meeting or afterwards, the two of them discussed 
my existing mortgage, my financial status and my job security etc.The adviser has given us directly opposing testimony:
Regarding this advice, I was first contacted by [Mr O] and asked if I would be able to 
give them some guidance on keeping existing property as a rental and purchasing a 
larger residential home on the same road.
Both applicants present and we sat in the dining room, [Mr O] and [Ms P] sat next to 
each other and I was across the table, I went through the IDD, factfind, budget 
planner, etc. They provided me with ID and proof of income.
I had also brought the laptop as both [Ms P] and [Mr O] wanted to know payments of 
mortgages with different levels of deposit as unsure exactly how much monies they 
intended to release from existing property.
I was able to give the monthly payments on different equity levels using Mortgage 
Brain. During the appointment [Ms P] expressed that she may sell [6W] if being a 
landlord did not work out and did not want to be tied into a deal with an ERC, I went 
through the key facts for two specific deals, one with [lender C] and the one with 
[lender P], clients preferred the [lender C] option during the appointment and using 
clients WIFI I applied for a mortgage promise with [lender C] which was an accept 
decision.
I stated I would complete the application the next day in my office, giving the clients 
time to sleep on the idea, they confirmed to proceed with the [lender C] option, later 
that day [Mr O] and [Ms P] changed minds and decided the [lender P] deal at the 
lower rate but with a single year tie-in would be preferred after all, I cancelled the 
[lender C] option and completed the mortgage application with [lender P].
In all the face to face appointment lasted over 2 hours and at no point did [Ms P] 
leave or exit the appointment to my recollection, both [Mr O] and [Mr P] fully 
interactive, I could not say [Mr O] was more engaged than [Ms P], I would remember 
if that was the case, [Ms P] appeared coherent, fully understanding of the costs, 
payments and so on for the mortgage.
When considering any complaint like this, as Ms P is the one bringing the complaint against 
Openwork, to uphold the complaint Ms Ps version needs to be more likely than Openworks 
version; not just as likely. Having considered everything I cant say Ms Ps version is 
anything more than just as likely, which isnt enough for me to uphold her complaint.
I understand that Ms P will find this decision upsetting, and its not a decision Ive reached 
lightly. But having considered all of the information that has been provided I simply cant 
uphold her complaint, however much she may want me to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms P to accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2021 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman