DRN-3381017
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance
(Close Brothers) irresponsibly granted her a loan she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in February 2022. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
In February 2020, Mrs B took receipt of a used car that she financed through a conditional
sale agreement with Close Brothers. Mrs B was required to make 60 monthly repayments of
£330.29. She paid a deposit of £300 and the total repayable under the agreement was
£20,117.40.
Mrs B says she took the loan out to finance the car for her close friend who was always
going to be the keeper of the car. Shortly after the finance started she cancelled her direct
debit so that her friend could pay the instalments through a standing order. Her friend sadly
passed away and Close Brothers repossessed the car but are asking Mrs B to pay the
balance due on the account.
Mrs B says that Close Brothers didnt complete adequate affordability checks and if it had, it
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Close Brothers didnt agree. They said
they had carried out a thorough assessment which included reviewing Mrs Bs credit file.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Close Brothers
hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably when approving the finance agreement.
Mrs B didnt agree and said the business had recorded inaccurate details. She wasnt a
senior nurse as their records suggested and theyd got her income wrong. She said she
clearly couldnt afford the agreement.
The case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Close Brothers but Im expecting to uphold this complaint. Please let
me explain why.
Close Brothers will be familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So,
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Were proportionate checks completed?
Ive not seen that Close Brothers verified Mrs Bs income before approving the finance. The
information their underwriters used suggested Mrs B was earning £2,300 per month but that
wasnt the case. Given the overall size of the borrowing, the monthly repayments, and the
term of the agreement, I think it would have been proportionate for them to have done so to
ensure it was affordable.
I cant see that Close Brothers asked Mrs B about her expenditure either. Although it did
complete a credit check, this wont have indicated what Mrs Bs regular living expenses
were. Without knowing what Mrs Bs regular committed expenditure was, Close Brothers
wouldnt have got a reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was affordable or
not. It therefore didnt complete proportionate checks.
What would the business have likely found had they performed proportionate
checks?
I cant be certain what Mrs B would have told Close Brothers had it asked about her regular
expenditure. I dont think Close Brothers needed to request bank statements, but in the
absence of anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in
Mrs Bs statements as an indication of what would most likely have been disclosed.
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements prior to the application. These show that
Mrs Bs regular committed monthly expenditure at the time was around £1000. In calculating
this figure, Ive included payments for mortgage, petrol, insurance, council tax,
communications, utilities, TV, a hire purchase agreement, and a loan.
At the time Mrs B was receiving an income of about £706 per month. She wasnt a senior
nurse although she did work in the health service. I dont think the position she had was
important and its feasible that the business recording Mrs Bs employment status didnt have
the option to record the exact position she held. It was Mrs Bs income that should have
been verified. Mrs B was also in receipt of child tax credits which over the year averaged out
at about £766 per month (£176.84 x 52/12), she received child benefits of £137. Her total
monthly income was therefore in the region of £1,609.
Mrs B was a single parent and shes explained that payments for food came to about £400
per month and were not listed on the bank statements she provided as they were paid for
from savings. Ive not seen that savings account information as I dont think it would be
reasonable for Close Brothers to take savings into account when considering affordability. 
Thats because they needed to consider whether Mrs B could sustainably repay the
agreement. They would, however, have needed to consider regular expenditure and I think
there would need to be a consideration of how much Mrs B spent on food to feed herself and
her family.
Deducting Mrs Bs expenditure from her income leaves about £600 and from that payment
she would need to afford food and the £330 monthly instalments on this new agreement.
That leaves £270 for food and other emergency expenses. I think that means Mrs B couldnt
afford to sustainably repay the new agreement as well as her existing commitments. I think
Close Brothers would likely have found this out too if it had completed proportionate checks,
it therefore didnt act fairly by approving the finance.
Putting things right
As I dont think Close Brothers ought to have approved the lending, it should thereforerefund all the payments Mrs B has made, including any deposit. However, I cant see Mrs B
actually paid anything other than the deposit as she cancelled her direct debit and her friend
started to make payments through a standing order. So, the refund of payments will be
limited to the deposit and Close Brothers will need to add interest to that refund as Mrs B
has been deprived of the money.
The account statement shows that Close Brothers continued to receive payments towards
the agreement from Mrs Bs friend until at least the point the car was repossessed and sold
in August 2020. I think theyve therefore received payment for the use of the car that Mrs Bs
friend had.
But they should now end the agreement with nothing further to pay and they should remove
any adverse information they may have reported to Mrs Bs credit file in relation to it.
My provisional decision
To settle Mrs Bs complaint, Im expecting to tell Close Brothers limited to:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Refund the deposit and add 8% simple interest per year* from the date of payment to
the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information they may have reported to Mrs Bs credit file in
relation to this agreement.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires Close Brothers to take off tax from this interest. Close
Brothers must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mrs B asks for
one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Close Brothers didnt respond to my provisional decision and Mrs B had nothing else to add.
So, Ive not been provided with any evidence to persuade me to change my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
My provisional decision now becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Close Brothers limited to:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Refund the deposit and add 8% simple interest per year* from the date of payment to
the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information they may have reported to Mrs Bs credit file in
relation to this agreement.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires Close Brothers to take off tax from this interest. Close
Brothers must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mrs B asks for
one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman