DRN-3275073
The complaint
Mr K complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) has provided poor 
service at the renewal of his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K had a home insurance policy with Admiral that was due to expire on 1 June 2021. He 
received a renewal notice from Admiral saying that it was due to renew at a cost of £146.72.
Shortly before renewal, Mr K contacted Admiral to make a claim under his home policy.
Mr K rang Admiral on 28 May to renew his policy. He provided his payment details to a call 
handler who then told him that his policy would renew at the price of £164.54. As this wasnt 
the price Mr K was expecting, he complained to the call handler. Admiral discounted the 
renewal price to £154 but Mr K didnt agree with it. He said he felt he had a valid renewal 
notice and should have been allowed to renew at that price. 
Admiral told Mr K that the price difference was due to the claim that he had made. Mr K said 
he didnt agree with the changed price and would have to think about whether he wanted to 
renew the policy or not, so the call handler said they would remove Mr Ks payment details 
and his policy wouldnt go ahead at renewal.
Mr K called Admiral again on 29 May to renew his policy. Admiral agreed to change his 
renewal price to £146.72 and Mr K agreed with this. But Admiral wasnt able to take payment 
due to systems issues, so the call handler agreed to call Mr K back on 1 June to take his 
payment. The call handler also told Mr K that his cover would continue.
Admiral didnt call Mr K when it said it would, so Mr K rang them. As the expiry date of the 
policy had now passed, Mr K was told that his policy had expired and couldnt be renewed at 
the agreed price. Admiral said that the call handler hadnt left any notes about calling him  
back or that his policy would be renewing, even though Admirals call handler had said this 
to Mr K during the call.
Mr K was unhappy so he complained to Admiral who said it agreed that it had provided Mr K 
with poor service and awarded him £50 for his trouble and upset. 
Mr K remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to this service. He would like Admiral to 
honour the original renewal price. Our investigator agreed that Admiral should have done 
more to handle Mr Ks renewal. She said Admiral should honour the renewal price of 
£146.72, but she agreed that Admirals payment of £50 to Mr K for his trouble and upset was 
in line what she would expect, so she didnt ask Admiral to pay any more.
Admiral agreed with our investigators view but Mr K did not. He asked for his complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it and Ill explain why.
Mr K has sent this service a considerable amount of information and I want to assure him 
that I have read it all, even if I have not referred to it here. I have focused on what I feel is 
the crux of his complaint, the handling of his renewal.
In one of the calls on 29 May, Admirals call handler told Mr K that his cover would continue 
and that Mr K would receive a call to arrange payment at 12 oclock on 1 June. Admiral 
confirmed that it didnt call Mr K as arranged, so I think its clearly Admirals responsibility 
that the policy did not renew. Mr K then found out his policy had lapsed when he received an 
email telling him, causing him to call Admiral to try to renew it.
Mr K has told this service in detail of his distress at not being covered by any home 
insurance. An important part of the insurance marketplace is that consumers are free to 
choose whether they are willing to pay a premium, obtain insurance elsewhere or not take 
the insurance at all. So its important that I say that although Admiral let Mr Ks policy lapse, 
he was free to choose another provider or buy another new policy from Admiral if he wished. 
Ive listened to the calls between Mr K and Admiral and Ive heard Admirals call handler 
explain to Mr K that his home policy had already expired, and the options Mr K had. In that 
call, Mr K makes the decision to pass the entire matter to Admirals complaints team. 
In Admirals final response to Mr Ks complaint, I cant see any evidence that Admiral tried to 
help him understand his options once his policy had lapsed and I think it should have helped 
him more by explaining how he could have taken out a new policy or bought cover 
elsewhere. 
Its clear to me that Mr K has been let down by Admirals service at renewal and that I think 
they should have done more to help him in the complaint process. So I think its fair to ask 
Admiral to pay Mr K £50 compensation for his distress and inconvenience, in addition to the 
£50 it has already paid him. I know Mr K has asked for a larger amount of compensation but 
the £100 total I have decided is in line with what this service would recommend.
In correspondence since our investigator issued her view, Mr K has also asked for 
compensation for the period he hasnt been covered by home insurance, but Admiral have 
declined. It says it will offer Mr K a new policy at the agreed rate of £146.72 and I think this 
offer is fair.
Mr K hasnt said that hes had any losses since 1 June that would have been covered by a 
home insurance policy, so on balance I think Admiral should ask Mr K if he wants to take out 
a new policy starting straight away at the previously agreed price. Mr K can then choose 
whether he wants that policy, or not.Putting things right
In order to put things right, Admiral should:
Pay Mr K an additional £50 for his distress and inconvenience, making a total of 
£100.
Offer Mr K a new home insurance policy at the previously agreed premium of 
£146.72.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman