DRN-4024859
The complaint
Mr B complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc lent irresponsibly when it increased the credit limit 
on his credit card. 
What happened
Mr B successfully applied for a credit card with Sainsburys Bank in April 2014. A credit card 
with a limit of £2,500 was approved. In August 2016 Sainsburys Bank increased the credit 
limit to £3,300. Sainsburys Bank says the credit limit increase was approved in line with its 
lending criteria. 
Sainsburys Bank says it reviewed Mr Bs financial circumstances in October 2020 and took 
the decision to reduce his credit limit to £3,250. In May 2021 the credit limit was reduced to 
£3,100. Sainsburys Bank says the reduction reflects the high levels of unsecured borrowing 
it found in Mr Bs name. 
In December 2021 the account fell into arrears and a payment plan was agreed whereby 
Mr B made payments of £1 a month. Mr B brought the account back up to date in June 2022 
and repaid the outstanding balance. 
Last year, Mr B complained to Sainsburys Bank and said it had lent irresponsibly when it 
approved his credit limit increase in August 2016. Sainsburys Bank sent Mr B a final 
response but didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly. Sainsburys Bank said it had completed 
the necessary checks before increasing the credit limit. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Bs complaint and upheld it. They thought 
Sainsburys Bank shouldve completed better checks before increasing Mr Bs credit limit. 
The investigator thought that, had it done so, Sainsburys Bank wouldve found Mr B was 
unlikely to be able to support further borrowing. Sainsburys Bank didnt agree and asked to 
appeal, so Mr Bs complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our website sets out how we handle complaints relating to irresponsible lending. Ive 
assessed Mr Bs complaint in line with our approach. Sainsburys Bank needed to ensure it 
lent responsibly. That means Sainsburys Bank needed to complete proportionate checks to 
understand whether Mr B could afford to repay any credit it provided in a sustainable way. 
Generally, our approach is that its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in 
terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of 
a lending relationship. 
The longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable 
and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So, wed expect a lender to be able to 
show that it had continued to carry out proportionate checks to ensure it lent in a responsible 
manner. 
In this case, Sainsburys Bank assessed Mr Bs application in April 2014 and went on to 
increase his credit limit in August 2016, over two years later. I take Sainsburys Banks point 
that Mr Bs account had been well managed with no missed payments. But Ive looked at the 
available evidence to decide whether it wouldve been prudent to have completed more 
comprehensive checks before deciding whether to offer further borrowing. And I think the 
information recorded on Mr Bs credit file, that was available to Sainsburys Bank, showed a 
significant increase in unsecured borrowing during its relationship with Mr B. 
When Mr B first applied in 2014 Sainsburys Bank found he owed around £2,500 in 
unsecured debt. But by the time Sainsburys Bank increased the credit limit, its credit file 
records show Mr Bs total unsecured credit had substantially increased to £24,650. Thats 
around ten times higher when compared with the original application. In my view, an 
increase in unsecured credit of this nature in a two year period shows something had 
changed in Mr Bs circumstances. And I think it shouldve caused Sainsburys Bank to have 
carried out better checks before increasing Mr Bs credit limit. 
Theres no set list of checks a lender has to complete. One of the options available is to 
review income and outgoings by way of bank statements. There are other options open to 
lenders. Mr Bs sent us his bank statements for the months immediately preceding the credit 
limit increase. 
Ive looked at Mr Bs bank statements for the three month period before Sainsburys Bank 
increased his credit limit. I calculated an average monthly income of around £1,230. 
Sainsburys Bank says it found Mr Bs regular monthly payments to cover his unsecured 
credit were £665 and the new credit limit took Mr Bs payments to a maximum of £75 a 
month. That means Mr B needed to make £740 a month in payments to service his debts, 
leaving around £500 to cover his remaining living expenses. 
Mr Bs told us he was also contributing to the mortgage and household bills. And I think its 
fair to say Mr B needed to cover everyday expenses for things like food, travel, clothing and 
entertainment. Had Sainsburys Bank carried out more comprehensive checks and got a 
better understanding of Mr Bs circumstances in August 2016, I think it wouldve found he 
wasnt in a position to repay the additional debt in a sustainable way. In my view, 
Sainsburys Bank lent irresponsibly when it approved Mr Bs credit card increase in August 
2016. 
As I think Sainsburys Bank lent irresponsibly, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. To resolve 
Mr Bs case, Im going to tell Sainsburys Bank to refund all interest fees and charges applied 
to Mr Bs account on balances above £2,500 from August 2016 to date. I understand Mr Bs 
repaid the balance in full. In that case, the refund will need to be paid to Mr B in line with the 
settlement guidance noted below. As I think Sainsburys Bank lent irresponsibly, Im also 
going to tell it to remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file from 
August 2016 onwards. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Sainsburys Bank Plc to settle as 
follows:
1- refund all the interest and charges Mr B has paid on balances above £2,500
2- if the borrowing is still in place, Sainsburys Bank should reduce the outstanding capital balance by the amount calculated in step 1
3- if, after Step 2, there remains an outstanding balance, Sainsburys Bank should 
ensure that it isnt subject to any historic or future interest and/or charges. But if Step 
2 leads to a positive balance, the amount in question should be given back to Mr B 
and 8% simple interest* should be added to the surplus
4- Sainsburys Bank should remove any adverse credit information its reported on 
Mr Bs credit file from August 2016 onwards
*HM Revenue & Customs may require the business to take off tax from this interest. If it 
does, the business must give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off 
if they ask for one
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman