The complaint
Ms F complains that Monzo Bank Limited wont refund payments that have been made from 
her account which she says she didnt authorise.
What happened
Ms F opened her account with Monzo on 5 May 2019. She had an account with an online 
casino and started making transactions from her Monzo account to the online casino on 11 
May 2019. On 2 June 2019 she asked Monzo to block transactions to the online casino. On 
18 June 2019 Ms F asked for the block to be removed.
The online casino took payments from Ms Fs bank account between 18 June 2019 and 28 
June 2019. Ms F says she didnt authorise some of the payments. She also says she did not 
make some other card payments and an ATM withdrawal in her local area. She asked for 
the block on gambling transactions to be put back on her account on 29 June 2019. She 
disputed some of these transactions with Monzo on 30 June 2019.
What Ms F told us
Ms F says she cant remember the exact sequence of events, and she hasnt been clear on 
exactly which transactions she disputes, but she thinks she left her mobile phone and bank 
card at a relatives house on 18 June 2019. The mobile phone didnt have a locked screen 
and the apps for her Monzo account and online casino account did not require a password. 
She says she thinks she received her phone back on 27 June 2019. 
She doesnt think her relative would have made the transactions, but thinks his friends might 
have been able to get access to the mobile phone.
She also says she didnt make four other transactions with her card between 25-28 June 
2019.
Monzos response
Monzo had questions about how the transactions could have occurred without Ms F 
authorising them. It didnt think the pattern of transactions was consistent with fraud. It didnt 
agree to refund the transactions. 
Investigators view
An investigator looked into his complaint and decided not to uphold it. He concluded that, it 
was more likely than not that Ms F authorised the payments. In brief, he thought the pattern 
of transactions wasnt consistent with someone else having made them. 
DRN-1140325Evidence Ive seen
Monzos investigation notes
Bank statements
Screenshots of the electronic audit trail for all transactions including those she 
disputes and those she doesn't dispute.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not touphold 
the complaint, for broadly the same reasons as those given by the investigator.
Monzo is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The relevant 
regulations are the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (the PSRs 2009). 
Ms F says she didnt make the disputed payments; so I need to decide whether or not I think 
she authorised them.
The online casino says the transactions were made from Ms Fs mobile phone andwith her 
debit card details. Monzos records indicate the transactions were authenticated using the 
card number, expiry date and CVV. This is consistent for the disputed transactions and the 
transactions which are not disputed. Based on this evidence, Im satisfied that the disputed 
transactions were authenticated.
So now, I need to think about whether its more likely than not that Ms F authorised 
the disputed transactions.
Ms F doesnt dispute she had an account with the online casino,and she made some 
transactions using her phone. Shes said she thinks that 16 of the 23 online gambling 
transactions are genuine but disputes 7 of them. Shes not entirely clear on which ones are 
disputed, but thinks some transactions might have been charged twice.
The audit trail shows her card details were used to make deposits into the account with the 
online casino from Ms Fs bank account. 
I understand from Ms F that her Monzo account was regularly credited with money from 
another of her accounts during the period of the disputed transactions. The pattern of 
transactions was that money would be transferred from her other account to her Monzo 
account, a transaction on her online casino account would then take place for the same 
amount. So, whoever made the gambling transactions has access to Ms Fs phone, her bank 
card details for her Monzo account and her bank account with another bank. 
In terms of the four disputed card payments, one was an ATM withdrawal where the card 
chip and PIN were used, according to the evidence. The others were contactless payments 
made in her local area at shops she appears to have regularly used, as I can see other 
transactions were made at those locations previously and have not been disputed. This does 
not fit the usual pattern of fraudulent transactions. It has also not been explained how a 
fraudster would have access to the card and PIN.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Monzo to conclude that Ms F 
authorised the transactions. I have considered whether a third party made the disputed 
transactions but I dont think this is likely. A third party wouldve needed access to Ms Fs 
mobile phone to make the bets. They would also have needed to know her Monzo bank card details and her bank account details for her account with another bank. The use of the actual 
card in her hometown to make a chip and PIN transaction and contactless payments, which 
she disputes, during this period, also does not really fit with her account that she thinks she 
left the phone and card at a relatives house where others might have been able to access 
her details, bearing in mind her relative lived a considerable distance away.
It is also unclear how a third party would benefit from placing bets on Ms Fs online casino 
account. If they had access to her Monzo bank card details and her other bank account, it 
seems unlikely they would have used these to make online gambling transactions from 
which they would not benefit. 
For these reasons, I think its unlikely that a third party made the disputed payments. And 
the evidence of the transfers from Ms Fs savings account into her current account, for the 
exact amount that was to be gambled, its more likely she authorised the payments.
Ms F has suggested that the online casino might have mistakenly taken some payments 
more than once. However, I cant see any evidence of error or fraud by the online casino.
On balance, and after considering everything, I find it more likely than not that Ms F 
authorised the disputed payments, so I wont be asking Monzo to refund her. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that i do not uphold Ms F's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Greg Barham
Ombudsman