DRN-1767286
 
The complaint
Miss C complains about issues shes experienced with a car supplied with finance from 
FirstRand Bank Limited trading as Motonovo Finance.
What happened
In February 2019 Miss C was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
Motonovo. At the point of supply the car was approximately 6 years old and had covered 
59,286 miles. An MOT had been carried out on 7 February 2019.
In February 2020 Miss C took the car for an MOT and discovered that it was missing its prop 
shaft and that there was damage to the transfer box.
Miss C contacted Motonovo and raised concerns that the car had been sold to her as a 4x4 
but was not functioning as such because of the missing prop shaft. She provided a copy of 
her invoice which showed that the car had been sold to her as a 4-wheel drive.
Miss C said the prop shaft mustve been missing at the point of supply. She asked Motonovo 
to meet the costs of repair or allow her to reject the car.
In its final response Motonovo said there wasnt any evidence that the prop shaft wasnt 
present at the point of supply. It advised Miss C that she would need to provide evidence to 
show that the prop shaft had been removed before the car was supplied to her and 
suggested that she obtain an independent engineers report. 
Miss C wasnt happy with Motonovos response and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint. he said there wasnt any evidence to show that the 
prop shaft was missing at the point of supply.
Miss C didnt agree. She said it had only come to her attention at the MOT that the prop 
shaft was missing. She said an independent garage had advised her that the prop shaft had 
been removed a few years ago because there was no oil anywhere and a clean hole in the 
transfer box. She said she hadnt removed the prop shaft whilst the car was in her 
possession.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Motonovo has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement theres an implied 
term that the car is of satisfactory quality., fit for purpose and as described.
Miss C is unhappy that a car which was described as a 4x4 at the point of supply isnt 
working as a 4x4 because the prop shaft has been removed. Shes provided evidence 
showing that the car was described as a 4x4 and a MOT dated February 2020 which states 
that the prop shaft is missing.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, its 
presumed that it was present or developing at the point of supply unless the business can 
show otherwise. After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer 
to show that the car had a fault at the point of supply.
Miss C reported the missing prop shaft in February 2020, around 12 months after the point 
of supply. So under the relevant legislation its up to Miss C to show that the prop shaft was 
missing at the point of supply.
Ive considered all the information provided by Miss C. I dont doubt that the prop shaft was 
missing in February 2020. But I havent seen any evidence to show that it was missing at the 
point of supply. The MOT which was carried out immediately before the car was supplied to 
Miss C in February 2019 doesnt mention a missing prop shaft. Nor is there anything in the 
MOT history to suggest that the prop shaft was missing. I think a missing prop shaft would 
have been identified at an MOT  as it was in February 2020. So on balance I think its more 
likely than not that the prop shaft was present at the point of supply.
Although the independent garage have told Miss C that the prop shaft hasnt been present 
for a few years, this isnt supported by the MOT history.
Miss C has mentioned that in February 2019 the MOT was a Fast Pass MOT. Shes 
suggested that the missing prop shaft might have been overlooked. Ive considered this but 
my research on Fast Pass MOTs suggests that this relates to the emissions test, as 
opposed to the inspection of the component parts of the car. So I dont think the type of MOT 
is likely to have made any difference here.
Based on what Ive seen, there isnt enough evidence for me to safely conclude that the prop 
shaft was missing at the point of supply. So I cant say that the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality. I wont be asking Motonovo to cover the costs of repair or allow Miss C to reject the 
car. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman