DRN-4444463
The complaint
Miss M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC is withholding her money.
 
In bringing her complaint, Miss M is represented by her father. For ease, though, Ill refer to 
all actions as being those of Miss M.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties. So, I havent set it out in 
detail here. Instead, Ive set out a summary of what I think are the key events.
Miss M held two accounts with Barclays: one Individual Savings Account (ISA), and a 
current account. In January 2023, Miss M received two large credits of £10,000 each to her 
ISA. Miss M says the money was from her parents, who had distributed money across her 
family.
  
Very soon after the money reached Miss Ms ISA, Barclays blocked her access to it. The 
bank then contacted Miss M requesting information around the source of the money. It refers 
to this as a proof of funds request. Miss M responded with detail she thought appropriate, 
but she says shes heard nothing since.
 
Miss M did complain to Barclays in February 2023, but the bank didnt uphold her complaint. 
It said, in summary, that it was still reviewing the information Miss M had provided  but 
couldnt specify a timescale as to when this might be completed.
 
Unhappy with the response, Miss M contacted this Service. One of our Investigators 
reviewed what had happened and, based on the limited information available, he didnt think 
Barclays had acted fairly.
 
In brief, the Investigator said that Barclays hadnt shown why it still continued to hold the 
money  or that it had requested any further information from Miss M if thats what it 
required.
 
Instead, it appeared that nothing had progressed since Miss M responded to Barclays initial 
request for proof of funds. Our Investigator contacted Barclays several times for more 
information, but nothing was forthcoming.
 
With all of that in mind, our Investigator upheld Miss Ms complaint. He thought Barclays 
should return the money, pay 8% simple interest on the amount, and pay Miss M £200 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Barclays replied to our Investigators opinion and indicated that things were still under 
review. It asked for more time; our Investigator agreed and reiterated his request for further 
information. A few weeks later, the Investigator chased the bank. But, again, nothing was 
forthcoming. So, the Investigator passed Miss Ms complaint to me  an Ombudsman at this 
Service. 
I contacted Barclays on 28 September 2023, informally, to set out how I thought the 
complaint should be resolved. I said:
From what Ive seen, Miss M would like money returned to her thats currently 
being held by Barclays. The money was sent to Miss M by her father; Barclays, 
though, blocked access to the money and ultimately closed Miss Ms accounts. This 
seems to be because of concerns around the source of the funds. It appears that 
Miss M did respond to Barclays request for information about the money, explaining 
that her father had some funds left over from a property which he subsequently 
distributed amongst his family.
As I understand it, nothing tangible has happened since Miss M responded to 
Barclays request for information  and the money is still being held. Its unclear, from 
the information I have, if further information was/is required and, if so, whether it was 
or has been requested from Miss M.
[Investigator] has set out why he thinks Barclays has done something wrong. In 
summary, hes said that Barclays hasnt shown or explained why its continued to 
hold Miss Ms funds. [Investigator] requested information sufficient enough in detail to 
explain why the funds havent been returned.
Unfortunately, though, nothing has been forthcoming from you. So, given the lack of 
response to [Investigator]; Ive spent some time reviewing the file, and I wanted to get 
in touch to let you know my current thoughts. To be clear, what Ive set out here isnt 
a formal decision  but it is my view of matters as an Ombudsman and, in the 
absence of any further evidence, any formal decision that I did construct would likely 
follow the same findings.
Simply put, as things stand, Im inclined to agree with our Investigator. I say that 
because, from the information I have available, I dont see there to be a plausible 
explanation or reason for Barclays to continue to hold Miss Ms money. She 
responded to the proof of funds information request, but nothing really seems to have 
progressed since that point. That doesnt, in my view, seem fair or reasonable. 
Ill be clear that Im not inferring there isnt a reason why Barclays hasnt released the 
money, plausible or otherwise. I certainly understand that checks are sometimes 
required, and that Barclays has legal and regulatory obligations to fulfil. Here, though, 
its simply the case that Barclays hasnt told our Investigator what its reasoning is for 
still retaining the funds. So, in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, I dont 
think I could determine that Barclays has acted fairly.
It follows that my view of the complaint, based on the information we currently hold, 
would be the same as [Investigators]. That being, Barclays should return the money 
and it should compensate Miss M £200 for the inconvenience caused. Barclays 
should also pay 8% simple interest on the amount to be returned, as our Investigator 
explained in his view.
I gave Barclays a deadline of 12 October to respond. I extended that deadline, at Barclays 
request, until 17 October and then again, for a third and final time, also at Barclays request, 
until 3 November in the hope things could be resolved informally. Barclays, though, still 
hasnt responded.
  I arranged for my initial findings to be passed to Miss M. She largely reiterated her previous 
points.
 
Given theres still no reply from Barclays  despite it now being over two months since I first 
asked Barclays for a response, and over a month beyond the latest deadline it asked for 
passing  Im satisfied that it is now appropriate for me to proceed with my consideration of 
the complaint, as I have the power to do in accordance with DISP 3.5.14R of the FCAs 
Handbook.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, without any further comment or information from Barclays, I see no reason 
to depart from what I set out when I contacted it on 28 September. 
For completeness, my view of the complaint based on the evidence available before me is:
Nothing distinguishable appears to have happened since Miss M responded to 
Barclays proof of funds request. The banks contact notes seem to suggest that 
further information was required from Miss M, but its unclear if it was ever requested; 
and Ive received no confirmation from the bank that it was or wasnt. 
The notes also appear to broadly suggest that Miss M did provide what she was 
asked for. Miss M has said theres been no further contact from Barclays. 
While I certainly appreciate Barclays has legal and regulatory obligations to fulfil, and 
that detailed checks are undoubtedly required on occasion, it remains that the bank 
must act fairly  and indeed be able to show that it acted fairly.
Despite numerous requests from the Investigator and I, Barclays hasnt provided any 
valid explanation or supporting evidence for its actions in continuing to hold Miss Ms 
money. In the absence of any such explanation or supporting evidence, it follows that 
I cant fairly conclude Barclays has acted reasonably here. 
With all of that in mind, I think Barclays should arrange to return the money as soon 
as possible and pay Miss M 8% simple interest on the full amount. Barclays should 
also pay Miss M £200 for the inconvenience its caused. 
I have noted Miss Ms comments that something more should be done, on a much wider 
scale procedurally, to prevent situations like the one shes found herself in. So, I think its 
important to clarify that this Service isnt the regulator. Our role isnt to police a financial 
business. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So, while Im aware of just 
how unhappy Miss M is with Barclays process, I must be clear that we have no power to tell 
a financial business how to operate  or indeed to change its internal processes and 
procedures.
Finally, returning to the specific circumstances of this complaint; its been very disappointing 
to see deadlines repeatedly missed by Barclays. Those deadlines were set by this Service in 
an attempt to resolve things quickly and in accordance with the powers afforded to us. Id 
also remind Barclays that it has certain obligations to comply with us and our investigations. 
Overall, Im satisfied that ample time has been provided for Barclays to fully explain its 
position, but it simply hasnt done so.
So, to bring this complaint to an end, I require Barclays to:Arrange to return all of Miss Ms money that it currently holds.
Pay Miss M 8% simple interest on the full amount to be returned, calculated from the 
date it was first withheld from her to the date of repayment.
Pay Miss M £200 compensation. 
If Barclays considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Miss M how much its taken off. It should also give Miss M a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ms complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should now put 
things right, as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman