DRN-3944658
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Smile havent refunded money she 
lost as a result of a scam. 
Miss R is being represented by a claims management company but for ease of reading Ill 
only refer to Miss R in my decision. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In August 2021 a friend of Miss Rs on 
social media told her about a cryptocurrency investment opportunity with a merchant, Ill 
refer to here as T. After speaking with T Miss R created digital wallets in her name with two 
legitimate cryptocurrency exchanges and made the following payments;
Date Payee Amount
11/08/2021 APP to cryptocurrency 
exchange£10
11/08/2021 Withdrawal -£78
18/08/2021 APP to cryptocurrency 
exchange£1,800
20/08/2021 APP to cryptocurrency 
exchange£2,900
20/08/2021 Withdrawal -£107
26/08/2021 APP to cryptocurrency 
exchange£5,500
31/08/2021 APP to cryptocurrency 
exchange£10
31/08/2021 Returned payment -£2,367
31/08/2021 Returned payment -£3,000
01/09/2021 Returned payment -£368.36
Total £4,299.64
In October 2021 Miss R raised a claim with Smile and asked it to refund her money. After 
asking the bank to confirm its position to her request for a refund, Smile sent her copies of 
notes from its system in error. Smile considered the claim but said that it wouldnt make a 
refund to Miss R, but it did pay £50 into her account for the error it made when sending her 
copies of the system notes. 
Miss R remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. Miss R said that 
payments towards the scam of £1,800 and £2,900 were unusual and more shouldve been 
done to stop these payments. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said Smile shouldve 
stopped the £2,900 payment Miss R made but he didnt think any intervention wouldve 
made a difference here. The investigator said that when Smile blocked a later payment on 
31 August 2021 for £5,500 it spoke to Miss R and told her about the common techniques 
used by scammers involving cryptocurrency. Smile cancelled and returned the payment to 
Miss R and told her to seek independent financial advice and complete due diligence into T 
(because Miss R said she hadnt done any at that point). But Miss R was then persuaded by 
the scammers to open an account elsewhere to continue making payments. 
Miss R disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said the £1,800 payment 
she made was unusual and if Smile had stopped it and spoken to her the scam wouldve 
most likely been uncovered. She added that if the £1,800 payment had been stopped and 
then the payment of £2,900 two days later then the multiple interventions wouldve broken 
the spell of the scam.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Miss R feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Ive taken into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice, 
and what I consider good industry practice at the time (some of which Miss R has referred to 
in her submissions). Smile ought to have been monitoring accounts to counter various risks, 
have systems in place to identify unusual transactions, or other indicators, that its customers 
were at risk of fraud and, in some situations, make additional checks before processing 
payments, or declined them altogether, to protect its customer from possible financial harm 
from fraud.
It isnt in dispute that Smile has (and had) obligations to be alert to fraud and to act in its 
customers best interests. So, the starting point here is whether the instructions Miss R gave 
to Smile when authorising the payments were unusual in relation to the typical account 
activity.
The investigator felt the £2,900 payment was unusual and shouldve triggered on Smiles 
systems. But I dont think, I need to make a finding on that here. Thats because after 
considering everything that happened, I dont think Smile stopping any earlier payments 
wouldve made a difference. 
When Smile spoke to Miss R on 31 August 2021, she was told about the common 
techniques used by scammers involving cloning genuine companies, telling consumers how 
much to invest and asking for payment in cryptocurrency. Smile then stopped the payment 
and told Miss R to complete more research into T before sending any more money. 
Following this conversation, Miss R spoke to the scammer who then asked her to download 
software which enabled the scammer to open an account in her name to allow future 
payments to be made from that account. The scammer also provided her with a further 
withdrawal to her account. Miss R then proceeded to send around £14,000 to T from that 
new account after Smile had blocked her payment and told her to conduct further research 
into T. So, Im not satisfied Smile providing a generic fraud and scams warning at an earlier point 
wouldve made a difference. Its clear that Miss R was under the influence of the scammers 
throughout the scam and was persuaded by the withdrawals she had received. Even to the 
point where Smile blocking a large payment she wanted to make didnt stop her from 
continuing to send large amounts to T. As a result of this, Im not satisfied that any earlier 
interventions by Smile wouldve made a difference here.
Ive considered whether Smile acted reasonably after it was made aware of the scam. The 
payments Miss R lost to the scam were sent to accounts in her name at legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchanges. Miss R has confirmed that the money was then sent from her 
accounts to the scammers. So, Im satisfied there wasnt any money for Smile to recover for 
Miss R here. 
Smile offered Miss R £50 for sending her incorrect documentation instead of answering her 
claim. And I think thats a fair offer in all the circumstances. 
As a result, Im not going to ask Smile to do anything more here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not going to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman