DRN-2342790
The complaint
Mr R has complained about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy that Barclays Bank 
UK Plc (trading as Barclaycard) sold him in 2004.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 28 October 2020, where I concluded that I was minded to 
not uphold Mr Rs complaint. I do not intend to repeat my provisional decision in full here, but 
in summary, I found:
 Mr R took a PPI policy out alongside a credit card application through an application sent 
in the post. He did this in June 2004. The credit card is still active, but the policy was 
cancelled in 2008. Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the policy already due 
to a high level of commission that it received when it sold it to Mr R.
 I concluded that Barclaycard gave Mr R a choice to have the policy and he chose to 
have it with his card. I drew that conclusion after looking at the application form that 
showed Mr R had ticked for PPI and them signed it.
 I thought Barclaycard didnt recommend the insurance as Mr R took out the policy 
through the post. But it still had to ensure it provided Mr R with sufficient information.
 There may have been shortcomings in the way Barclaycard sold the policy. But after 
careful consideration I could not conclude that these possible shortcomings would have 
affected Mr Rs decision to take it. 
 I was unable to conclude that Mr R would have necessarily declined the policy if the 
information he had received would have been any clearer.
 Mr Rs complaint was initially upheld as he had a medical condition at the time of sale 
and our adjudicator felt after reviewing the terms of the policy, Mr R would have been put 
off from having it if he had been given clearer information. But Mr R has told our service 
that the condition didnt affect him day to day, so I felt he would have taken the policy 
anyway and that he would have had some need for the cover provided. So, I didnt 
uphold his complaint and asked him and Barclaycard if they had any further comments 
before I issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr Rs representatives had nothing further to add. 
Barclaycard has also not put forward any further information.
As neither party has raised any further points, I see no reason to depart from my conclusion 
given within the provisional decision. So, I conclude that the policy was not mis-sold and I do 
not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint and I do not make any award 
against Barclays Bank UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman