DRN-3725074
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) deducted from her cash settlement 
the amount it had previously paid for moving furniture into storage.
Miss H had home insurance with Aviva. While her family brought the complaint on her 
behalf, for ease Ill refer only to Miss H throughout my decision.
What happened
More than ten years ago, Miss H made a claim under her home insurance which Aviva 
accepted. It offered to complete the building work or provide a cash settlement so Miss H 
could arrange to have the work done. Throughout the years of her claim, Miss H made 
several complaints to Aviva and it issued final responses addressing those complaints. 
Some of the issues Miss H complained about fall outside this services jurisdiction because 
she left it too late to bring them, and Miss H has been made aware of that. Other issues 
have already been addressed and wont be repeated here.
This complaint relates only to the new issues addressed in Avivas final response letter 
dated November 2019. 
I wont go into detail here because both parties are aware of the circumstances, and I 
understand Miss H prefers not to have lengthy written correspondence. Instead Ill focus on 
the key issue and provide the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Hs complaint. I realise shell be 
disappointed with my decision, but Ill explain my reasons now.
The key issue is that Miss H doesnt think it was fair for Aviva to deduct £1,327.26 - which 
was the equivalent of the furniture removal quote - from its settlement payment to her. 
When Aviva issued its final response to this aspect of her complaint in November 2019, it 
summarised some of Miss Hs earlier complaints. Looking at the letter and the overall 
circumstances, I can see why it did that. The deduction Miss H disputed related to a previous 
settlement payment, so the final response included those calculations for clarification of the 
amount to be deducted. Miss H asked why she was out of time to bring that aspect of her 
complaint to this service. The letter didnt reopen consideration of any other issues relating 
to the previous settlement, so any complaint Miss H has about those is outside my remit for 
consideration here. 
Im sorry that Miss H remains unhappy with the limitation on what I can consider, but Im 
satisfied that our investigator properly explained the reasons to her. 
Looking at the payments Aviva made to Miss H, I see two items were for moving her 
furniture out and then back again after work completed, with a total value of £1,327.76. Aviva 
has referred to this as £1,327.26 which represents a small calculation error. As its in Miss 
Hs favour, Ill use Avivas figure.
During its contact with her, Aviva said Miss H confirmed that she didnt use the removal 
service paid for but, instead, made separate arrangements. Miss H couldnt explain what 
those arrangements were, such as who moved the items to storage, or provide an invoice for 
the work done. Because of this, Aviva deducted £1,327.26 from her cash settlement.
Miss H doesnt think she had to use the removal company which provided the quote, so she 
thinks its unfair for Aviva to deduct the money. She said Aviva told her its contractor would 
quote for the work or she could have a cash settlement based on its quotation.
Ive looked at the letter, dated October 2014, which said:
Removal & storage of contents during the conservatory works It has been agreed that to 
facilitate demolition and rebuilding of your conservatory we will be required to remove the 
contents from the conservatory and arrange necessary temporary storage of these items 
for the duration of those works we can arrange the necessary removal and storage of 
contents through [our contractor] or obtain a quotation for this aspect. We can either 
arrange this directly for you or alternatively provide you with a cash settlement of this 
aspect based on their quotation.
So, I agree that Aviva offered a cash settlement if Miss H chose not to use its contractor. 
And once Aviva paid Miss H for her furniture to be moved into storage, I dont necessarily 
think it matters what company she used. 
However, I do think its fair and reasonable for Aviva to expect to see some proof that she 
incurred those costs. The removal fee isnt something Miss H is entitled to under the policy 
unless she actually used and paid for the service.
Therefore, I dont think its unreasonable for Aviva to ask Miss H to provide evidence of her 
costs. I appreciate its several years on, and access to receipts or invoices might be more 
difficult, but that doesnt mean Miss H should keep a payment for services she hasnt shown 
she used and paid for. Its her responsibility to show she incurred those costs.
So, in consideration of this issue, Im satisfied that Aviva has reasonably deducted the 
payment from Miss Hs settlement figure, and that it wont make that payment again unless 
Miss H provides evidence that the removal work was carried out and paid for. Miss H 
confirmed she is looking for the evidence. If she finds it, shed need to send that directly to 
Aviva for consideration. 
I understand there is a further issue about payment of storage fees to cover an extended 
period that Miss H would like addressed. However, as our investigator explained to her, 
shed need to raise that directly with Aviva in the first instance so that it has an opportunity to 
resolve them. I wont address them here. 
In summary, Im satisfied that Aviva deducted the cost of the unused services from Miss Hs 
cash settlement figure fairly and reasonably. I wont be requiring any action of Aviva in 
respect of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman