DRN-3660537
The complaint
Mrs and Mr S have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt offer them the support they 
needed when they were in financial difficulties.
What happened
Mrs and Mr S took out this mortgage in 2008.
In July 2019 Mrs S requested a payment holiday on the mortgage. It was noted that due to 
his ill-health Mr S had been out of work for a lengthy period and so Mrs S was the sole 
income earner. The notes from the time indicate that Mrs S was told that payment holidays 
couldnt be granted when a consumer was in financial difficulties and so a complaint was 
raised about that. The note also indicates the complaint was settled when a payment holiday 
was granted for August and September 2019 due to the fact Mr S had a job interview 
booked, so he would hopefully be returning to work shortly.
In March 2020 Mr S sustained a life changing injury leaving Mrs S again as the sole wage 
earner.
Between March 2020 and September 2020 Mrs S had some calls with Scottish Widows 
about a potential claim on a policy that Mr S held. Mrs S has said that she was also asking 
for help during this time in branch.
On 1 June 2020 a member of the Scottish Widows claim team sent an email to Mrs S which 
said We also discussed some financial matters  please try the phone numbers listed below 
based on which product(s) you have with LBG [Lloyds Banking Group] and then listed some 
phone numbers for various product departments, including the one for the mortgage 
department.
Mrs S said she paid money into her current account in a branch on 15 May 2021 and says 
that she asked for help with her mortgage at the same time. She says the staff member said 
shed arrange an appointment, but that it would be held at a different branch and theyd be in 
touch to confirm the details. She says because she didnt hear anything more she applied for 
a further advance on 20 May 2021, which was turned down.
On 22 November 2021 Mrs S raised a complaint about what had happened since March 
2020. Her call was also transferred to a mortgage helpline for people that are worried about 
paying their mortgage. Following this an appointment was booked in a branch for 
24 November 2021. In that appointment it seems the further advance application decline 
was discussed as were Mrs S and Mr S financial difficulties.
The first complaint response letter was issued on 3 December 2021 and in that Lloyds 
apologised for the confusion over the 24 November appointment as Mrs S thought it was to 
be face to face, whereas it was actually over the phone. For that Lloyds paid Mrs S and Mr S 
£52 in compensation and costs. In respect of the part of the complaint entitled missed 
opportunities Lloyds didnt uphold that.
There was some back and forth between Mrs S and Lloyds, with two further complaint 
response letters being issued. These covered an alleged GDPR breach, payment holiday 
requests, information held within the banking group and the payment assistance team.
The complaint was referred to our service and was looked at by one of our investigators. 
She said that she didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong as she couldnt see anything 
to show Mrs S had told Lloyds about her financial difficulties in respect of her mortgage.
Mrs S didnt agree and so it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S and Mr S have provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive 
read and considered carefully. However, I hope they wont take the fact my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. The 
purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider the 
evidence presented by Mrs S and Mr S and Lloyds, and reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What 
this means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions 
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at. For that reason I wont be answering 
Mrs S and Mr S questions, nor will I be ordering Lloyds to.
Im sorry to see what a difficult time Mrs S and Mr S have had, and Id like to thank them for 
being so open with us. Things clearly havent been easy.
In their letter to Lloyds of 10 January 2022 Mrs S and Mr S said:
During this time [Mrs S] made contact with Lloyds to ask for help. This happened when 
she attended the [branch] on the 15th of May 2021, shared information about the 
difficulties the family were experiencing and requested an appointment to review options 
to help them manage their financial and mortgage commitments in the short term.
The letter also said that just after that Mrs S applied for the further advance, which we know 
was on 20 May 2021.
Later on in the complaint Mrs S said that she made contact with Lloyds on 15 May 2020  
that is, a year earlier than mentioned above. Mrs S has proven that she went into the branch 
on 15 May 2020 as her current account shows a cash receipt on that day. From this it seems 
Mrs S went into the branch exactly one year apart so both on 15 May 2020 and 15 May 
2021, but unfortunately even with the evidence to show Mrs S was in the branch (in May 
2020), that doesnt evidence that she asked for help with her mortgage on those occasions 
and that no help was given.
Even in May 2021 the information available only shows that Mrs S applied for a further 
advance to consolidate debt (which was declined), it doesnt show that she said she needed 
financial assistance. The first contact I can see where Mrs S mentioned her financial 
difficulties to Lloyds in respect of her mortgage was in November 2021.Whilst Mrs S discussed things with Scottish Widows, it wasnt in a position to do anything 
about her mortgage. Thats why, in June 2020, Scottish Widows provided Mrs S with a 
phone number she needed to call to discuss her Lloyds mortgage.
And had Mrs S mentioned difficulties with her mortgage in branch it is most likely they also 
would have told her she needed to phone the payment assistance team as that sort of issue 
isnt dealt with at branch level  it is a specialist central team that deals with it. Lloyds 
website, in the section about what to do if youre an existing customer struggling with your 
mortgage, also says you need to phone the number provided.
Mrs S has said There is no mention of Lloyds pledge to offer a tailored supportive service 
for customers managing complex issues
Whilst Mrs S and Mr S were clearly in a very difficult position, there was nothing Lloyds could 
do until Mrs S phoned the payment assistance team to go through the options  no other 
department or area (including a branch) would be able to deal with that  and the evidence 
doesnt show Mrs S made that call. Lloyds could only offer a tailored supportive service if 
Mrs S phoned the payment assistance team so they could go through everything with her.
The complaint notes indicate that Mrs S said she thought that having no Covid-19 payment 
deferrals would go in her favour so she could then request a further advance. It is 
unfortunate that Mrs S chose not to make contact to request a Covid-19 payment deferral 
as, had she done so, it would have been an opportunity for Lloyds to have the conversation 
with her that it needed to have to put some financial assistance in place. As Mrs S didnt 
make contact to request a Covid-19 payment deferral Lloyds didnt know she was struggling.
Mrs S has said that after a 90-minute phone call she was told any assistance would impact 
on her credit score, but unfortunately that is correct. If Mrs S and Mr S are unable to make 
their full contractual monthly payments due to financial difficulties, then if Lloyds puts in 
place a reduced payment (or nil payment) arrangement to help them then that would be 
reported to the credit reference agencies, as Lloyds has a responsibility to report accurate 
information. It wouldnt be accurate for Lloyds to report that Mrs S and Mr S were making 
their full contractual monthly payments if they werent.
Lloyds has accepted that it wasnt made clear to Mrs S and Mr S that the appointment in 
branch in November 2021 was to be over the phone rather than face to face. For that it has 
already paid £52 in compensation and costs. Having considered everything that seems fair 
for that part of the complaint.
I understand Mrs S is concerned about Lloyds listening to her calls with Scottish Widows  
saying it was a breach of GDPR. The two companies concerned are part of the same 
banking group, and as Mrs S had complained that shed made contact to request help and 
not received it, it doesnt seem inappropriate for Lloyds to have then listened to all the calls 
the group had received from Mrs S in the relevant period otherwise it couldnt fully 
investigate her complaint. Lloyds accessing those calls hasnt caused Mrs S any detriment, 
but if she remains unhappy the body that deals with allegations of such breaches is the 
Information Commissioner's Office ( https://ico.org.uk/).
As I explained previously, Ive not answered each of Mrs S and Mr S individual complaint 
points, instead Ive looked at the complaint as a whole. And having done so I dont uphold 
this complaint for all the reasons given and I feel the £52 already paid by Lloyds is enough 
for that issue.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman