DRN-2917035
The complaint
Ms K has complained MoneyGram International Limited, trading as MoneyGram, wont 
refund money which was released to someone who wasnt the intended recipient.
What happened
In January 2019, Ms Ks daughter transferred money using MoneyGram services to Ms K to 
help with rent for an unexpected house move. Ms Ks daughter was in one country, and the 
money was sent to allow Ms K to collect it in the UK.
Ms Ks daughter completed the transfer successfully, completing the sender form with her 
personal information and the details of the intended recipient  Ms K.  Ms Ks daughter was 
given a unique reference number which she said she wrote down. Ms K received a text 
message from her daughter with the reference number. 
A few days later, Ms K went to collect the money, but it had already been collected from a 
different MoneyGram branch in the UK. MoneyGram explained the person collecting the 
money had photographic identification and knew the individual reference number  so they 
said they were obliged to release the money.
Ms K complained. MoneyGram explained theyre contractually obliged to release money if 
an individual provides accurate transaction details and presents valid identification. 
MoneyGram confirmed the identification presented was a passport, but they didnt keep a 
copy of it. Ms K brought the complaint to our service.
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary he said he was satisfied the person 
collecting the money gave the reference number and had identification which matched Ms 
Ks details  so he thought MoneyGram had followed their processes.
Ms K disagreed  she said MoneyGram wasnt able to prove who collected the money. She 
supplied our service with copies of her flight ticket back to the UK, and a train ticket which 
followed to confirm she couldnt have been at the particular branch at the time the money 
was collected.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
In February 2021, I let MoneyGram know my initial thoughts in an attempt to resolve things 
informally. I said;
MoneyGram have confirmed they were aware of the relationship between the sender 
and the receiver  they were mother and daughter;
The sender form confirms the date of birth of the sender  born in June 1981;
The receiver form shows the receivers date of birth as June 1980;
While I appreciate MoneyGram wouldnt have been aware of the real date of birth, I 
think its unreasonable they accepted a date of birth of less than one year apart as 
theyve confirmed they were aware of the mother/daughter relationship;
Im aware the individual who collected the money did know the reference number.
 
Overall, I didnt think MoneyGram had done enough to protect the money and didnt carry 
out enough checks in line with their process to confirm the receiver of the money was the 
senders mother. So, I asked if MoneyGram would consider reimbursing Ms K.
MoneyGram responded and said the only information available to the receiving agent is the 
receivers name. They also said MoneyGram agents dont know what the receiver should 
look like, what their age should be, what type of ID they should have or their relationship to 
the sender.
I issued a provisional decision in June 2021. In it, I said;
Based on the evidence and arguments presented by both parties, it seems Ms K has been a 
victim of a fraudster. The fraudster stole the money which Ms Ks daughter sent. What I have 
to decide is whether that loss should be met by MoneyGram, or by Ms K. Having done so, 
Im minded to uphold the complaint. Ive explained my reasons further below. 
MoneyGrams sending form, which was signed by Ms Ks daughter, contains a warning;
. Once the money is picked up  which can happen quickly  you cannot get 
a refund, even if you were a victim of fraud.
NEVER SEND MONEY:
1. to someone you dont know personally, or whose identity you cannot verify.
2. For an internet purchase of any kind, to receive an inheritance or to claim 
lottery or prize winnings.
3. To prove to someone that you have available funds to buy a car or other 
goods, rent a property, or obtain a loan or credit of any kind.
Finally, NEVER provide any details about this transaction to anyone other 
than your intended receiver. 
Ive thought carefully about each of these points in turn.
Firstly, the sender of the money was Ms Ks daughter and therefore Im satisfied the sender 
knew the receiver personally. The purpose of the money was to assist Ms K with rent money 
following an unexpected house move  therefore, Im satisfied points 2 and 3 dont apply. 
Finally, Ms K has confirmed she received the details of the transaction from her daughter 
through a text message  and confirmed none of the details, including the unique reference 
number were shared with anybody else.
Im aware the money was collected by an individual who knew the reference number for the 
transaction. So, I have to consider how the fraudster obtained the reference number. I dont 
know how this was done, but in the circumstances of this complaint, its reasonable to say 
the fraudsters showed signs of being adept and having the resources to carry out this kind of 
fraud. I say that because MoneyGram have confirmed a passport in the name of Ms K was 
presented alongside the reference number. While I havent seen any evidence of the 
passport which was presented, Im satisfied the passport was a fraudulent copy. I say that 
because based on the information on the receiver form, it confirms Ms Ks date of birth as 
June 1980  which is incorrect and would be genetically impossible to have a daughter less 
than a year afterwards. 
While its difficult to comment on the legitimacy of the passport which was presented to 
MoneyGram without seeing a copy of it, I think its more likely the passport was created with 
the knowledge that MoneyGram dont check it in any particular detail. MoneyGram have 
confirmed in their submissions to us that they were aware of the relationship between the 
sender and the receiver. Therefore, considering the information MoneyGram had access to  
that is that the senders date of birth was June 1981, and it would be her mother collecting the money, I dont think its reasonable they accepted ID from somebody who was born only 
a year earlier.
MoneyGram has argued that the agents dont know what the receiver should look like, or 
what age they are. This service doesnt tell financial institutions what procedures they must 
implement. But where those procedures dont adequately protect the consumer, we can 
assess whether the consumer was treated fairly and reasonably. In Ms Ks case, I find that 
for MoneyGram to have paid out on a passport which didnt coincide or support the true 
identity of Ms K (due to the age difference), was unfair and unreasonable in the individual 
circumstances here.
I appreciate Ms K has also sent further evidence to show the times of her flight back to the 
UK, to prove it wasnt her who collected the money. But I dont think thats entirely relevant. I 
say that because Ms K, or the sender, could have shared the transaction details with 
somebody else to collect on Ms Ks behalf. For the purposes of my review however, I dont 
think thats what did happen here.
Whats important is Im satisfied MoneyGram held enough information on the relationship 
between the sender and Ms K to not accept a passport which held the date of birth it did. 
And therefore, I think they should have carried out extra checks to prevent the fraudsters 
from stealing the money which Ms K should have collected. 
Ms K has explained how much stress and anxiety this overall situation has caused her- she 
also said she had to borrow money from other family members to help with her house move. 
Ms K also took steps to report the fraud to the Police and therefore has taken the 
appropriate action Id expect of somebody who had fallen victim to scammers. 
To put things right, Im likely to ask MoneyGram to reimburse Ms K with the amount she lost 
out on - £675, plus interest to compensate for the time without access to the money.
MoneyGram responded to my provisional decision and didnt agree. In summary they said;
MoneyGram didnt have Ms Ks address, phone number, date of birth or place of 
birth.
The receiver presented an ID that matched MoneyGrams identification requirements.
The receiver provided the reference number, sender and receiver name, and receiver 
ID.
The relationship between the sender and the receiver was only obtained during the 
complaints process  and after the money had been paid out.
A representative for Ms K has explained that the sender fills in the form when the transfer is 
done and the details should match with the form that is submitted when the funds are being 
collected. Therefore, they believe MoneyGram has paid out on inaccurate information which 
has resulted in Ms K being deprived of the money which she is entitled to.
Earlier in July 2021, I issued a second provisional decision. In it, I said;
Based on the additional evidence and arguments, Im not likely to uphold this complaint. I 
know this will come as disappointing news to Ms K  especially after my initial provisional 
decision. Ive explained my reasons further below.
Ive considered the copy of the form which was filled in with the information of the receiver. 
The form contains the following information for the sender;
name;address;
telephone number;
date of birth;
country of birth.
And it contains the following information for the receiver;
name;
town and country;
reason for transaction.
There is also room for a personal message, however this was left blank.
It also confirms that the transaction will be a cash pick up, and the sender has signed the 
form to confirm they agree with the terms and conditions. Further information has been 
added from the MoneyGram agent to confirm the individual details of the sender from their 
identification, and a reference number.
Having considered this, Im satisfied MoneyGram didnt know any other details of the 
receiver  Ms K, other than her name, the country she was due to collect the money and the 
purpose of the money. Ive thought about this carefully.
MoneyGram knew an individual called Ms K was due to collect some money in the UK. An 
individual arrived at one of their collection points, with photo identification matching the name 
of Ms K and who knew the individual transaction reference number. Taking this into account, 
Im satisfied the MoneyGram agent followed their correct process when paying out the 
money.
I think its reasonable for MoneyGram to expect the recipients personal details, along with 
the eight-digit reference number will only generally be known to the intended recipient of a 
transfer. And I dont think theres anything in this case that indicates MoneyGram could have 
known this information had been obtained fraudulently. So the only thing that might have 
alerted MoneyGram to a problem is the passport which was used.
I appreciate its more likely than not a fake identification was used, as Ms K has explained it 
wasnt her who collected the money. MoneyGram wasnt required to take a copy of the 
passport, so I havent seen what was used to collect the money. But I would expect 
MoneyGram to take reasonable care in checking the ID. Having said that, I dont think its 
reasonable to expect every MoneyGram agent to be an expert in identifying passport 
forgeries. I think its reasonable to expect the MoneyGram agent generally knew what a 
passport should look like, and as the agent didnt raise any concerns, I think its more likely 
than not the passport appeared genuine.
I appreciate Ms K has said she believes the MoneyGram agent was involved in fraudulently 
collecting the money. I havent seen any evidence to suggest this is the case so I cant 
uphold the complaint on this point alone.
Overall, Im satisfied MoneyGram did follow the procedures when handing over the money to 
the individual collecting it. I say that because the individual was able to provide the 
information MoneyGram needed, and had photo identification matching the name of the 
intended receiver.
So I didnt think the evidence provided was sufficient enough to persuade me that 
MoneyGram ought to have known the person collecting the funds was doing so fraudulently.Ms K responded to my decision and while she didnt agree, she didnt have any new 
evidence to provide. MoneyGram responded and didnt have anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision hasnt changed. Ms K and MoneyGram didnt have any further 
evidence or arguments. And therefore, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
findings. 
In summary, while I recognise Ms Ks loss, Im satisfied MoneyGram released the money to 
an individual who had all of the information they needed. And therefore, I dont think 
MoneyGram need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman