DRN-4250065
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that their home insurer, UK Insurance Limited (UKI), didnt deal with 
their claim for damage by an escape of water correctly. References to UKI include its agents.
What happened
I set out the background to the complaint within my provisional decision and also here. 
Mr and Mrs Ds home was damaged by an escape of water in July 2021. UKI appointed loss 
adjusters to manage the claim (in September 2021). Mr and Mrs D said they requested UKI 
not to appoint the particular loss adjusters due to a potential conflict of interest.
Mr and Mrs D complained to UKI about a general lack of care, poor communications, and a 
lack of respect and understanding of their situation and said they were forced to remove 
social media posts. They said they suffered loss of use of their home and UKI relied on up-
to-date policy wording that they hadnt been provided with. And said they should have put 
their first complaint to us within the time limit and before UKI made promises to them.
In their second complaint Mr and Mrs D challenged UKIs decisions, similarly to their first 
complaint. They said UKI told them their home wasnt damp and was fit to live in, but the 
mould wasnt cleaned off the walls until March 2022. They said they were constantly asked 
to provide costs, but nothing was done about their alternative accommodation until the last 
minute, and was only allowed from 1 April to 22 April 2022, whilst the dryers were on.
Mr and Mrs D said the only report they received was incorrectly interpreted, with nothing 
costed to explain the cash settlement. They said UKI ignored warranty information from their 
kitchen provider on colour match and supply of new carcasses. And their home was left in 
poor condition in March 2022 despite assurances. They said worktops were left propped up 
and carcasses removed and damaged. But said UKI told them this was just their opinion.
Mr and Mrs D said they have suffered ill health and stress as a consequence of the poor 
claims handling and are out of pocket for food and heating. They said they have endured 
dust, dirt, damp, and mould, and not offered correct replacement costs for written-off 
electrical appliances, and a lack of electricity in their conservatory since October 2021.
Mr and Mrs D said the enforced cash settlement doesnt cover full reinstatement of their 
home and UKI is relying on a quote without a colour match. Mr and Mrs D want a settlement 
for reinstatement without doing the work themselves or having to borrow to pay for a new 
kitchen. They also want an apology from UKI and a payment for the loss of use of their 
home, and alternative accommodation from the start of the claim.
UKI replied in July 2022 to say the cash offer had been addressed before and replacement 
of the kitchen wasnt covered, but damaged units, electrical work and usage, and cleaning 
costs were. It said the contractor finished cleaning and drying and left the property in a clean 
state. UKI said it wouldnt price up repairs as this is business sensitive information. UKI said 
contractors had longer lead times, but as the claim was cash settled its up to Mr and Mrs D 
to manage the work. It said their contents could stay in storage until September 2022.
UKI said if additional work was needed this can be reviewed if supported by a detailed report 
with estimates, but would make a further payment for the washing machine and cooker. UKI 
emailed the policy booklet to Mr and Mrs D referring to the term relevant to the settlement. 
UKI said it had requested photos of the blinds to show they require cleaning and quotes, but 
it wouldnt pay to clean the mould in the conservatory as this developed prior to the claim.
Mr and Mrs D were dissatisfied with this and referred their complaint to us. Our Investigator 
said we cant look at time-barred complaints or events after July 2022 when UKI responded. 
She said UKI didnt treat Mr and Mrs D fairly and recommended replacement of the kitchen 
rather than restoration, and an increase of the cash settlement in line with Mr and Mrs Ds 
costs and payment of half the cost of the undamaged parts. She said UKI should consider 
any new evidence to show the blinds and curtains need replacing, and for further electrical 
works in the conservatory. She said UKI should pay Mr and Mrs D further compensation of 
£200 for the distress and inconvenience when the contractor had to commence drying again.
UKI disagreed saying Mr and Mrs D held up the drying by continually switching machines off. 
It said its contractor showed Mr and Mrs D the back wall was dry, when they had said it was 
saturated. The next contractor found moisture, but UKI said it was difficult to prove if this was 
from an insured peril or not. It said the salts analysis found nitrates that suggested moisture 
was wicking up from the ground  and so there was pre-existing damp. But due to Mr and 
Mrs Ds concerns, it appointed a firm to assist, including with the mould on the units though 
this was noted on the first visit. UKI requested that an ombudsman review the complaint.
Mr and Mrs D also disagreed with the investigator. They said the loss of amenity value of 
their home hadnt been considered or their inconvenience and health from the damp by 
conditions not rectified for almost 10 months.
My provisional findings and the parties responses
In my provisional decision I said we could consider UKIs response to Mr and Mrs Ds 
complaint from July 2022 from the date of UKIs previous response in October 2021.
I said that I intended to uphold the complaint and require UKI to pay for the replacement of 
Mr and Mrs Ds kitchen as opposed to restoration, and half of the cost of the replacement of 
undamaged parts. Payment to be based on evidence of costs incurred by Mr and Mrs D and 
relevant to the kitchen and associated costs. I said Mr and Mrs D must provide reports in 
support of any additional costs they wish to claim, and these should be considered by UKI.
I also intended to award Mr and Mrs D £400 compensation for the inconvenience and 
distress they have been caused by UKIs poor handling of their claim and their diminished 
use of their home. This to be inclusive of the £200 award recommended by the investigator. 
Mr and Mrs D disagreed with my provisional findings. They said I hadnt taken account of the 
lack of amenity of their home. They understood the disruption of a claim, but Mrs Ds health 
condition was exacerbated by the conditions, and she only recovered when they moved out, 
but was unwell again when they returned to the dusty conditions. They said their home had 
no damp before the escape of water, but the drying contractor found high humidity levels.
Mr and Mrs D said they provided quotations and invoices which were almost double the cash 
settlement, but UKI hadnt been open and transparent. They said the cost of materials and 
labour have increased by at least 40%. They said UKI made no provision for the plumbing, 
plastering or installing a new kitchen, replacement blinds and a thorough clean. They said 
reimbursement for the oven and washing machine was only paid when they returned home 
after they had been expected to use the appliances in dangerous condition.Mr and Mrs D asked why they were told to source alternative accommodation if it wasnt 
warranted. They said £400 compensation for stress, lack of amenity value of our home and 
poor service is a bit of an insult. They said the hall stairs and landing still require 
redecorating as does their kitchen and some more units to be restored. 
Mr and Mrs D want a full breakdown of UKIs offer of settlement in order for them to agree it, 
which hasnt been possible due to UKI or its agents not entering into any discussions.
UKI had nothing further to add.
In my provisional decision I said Mr and Mrs D suffered disruption, which was exacerbated 
by the flawed drying out process for around three months and the property was found still to 
be wet. The repairs didnt start until March 2022 and Mr and Mrs D moved out for most of 
April 2022. UKI said Mr and Mrs D also caused delays by continually switching off the drying 
machines, but Mrs D said the machines were very noisy and disruptive so I thought this 
understandable, albeit this would have caused some delay to the drying out of their home. 
UKI paid Mr and Mrs D compensation for delay for their previous complaint. I thought UKI 
was responsible for most of the delay claim during the period of the present complaint. I said 
it was UKIs decision to offer a cash settlement rather than provide its contractors to do the 
work and its offer wasn't presented with the alternative Mr and Mrs D wanted - UKIs 
contractors carrying out the restoration.
Our approach is that where an insurer requires the claim to be cash settled, it must do so on 
the consumers costs not its own. And to indemnify Mr and Mrs D for their losses UKIs offer 
should meet their reasonable costs for the replacement of a kitchen rather than restoration. 
The works paid for by UKI need not extend beyond those set out within its scope of work. Mr 
and Mrs D must provide reports in support of any additional costs which they wish to claim.
I didnt think UKIs scope for the kitchen including restoration costs, with some units to be 
reused and other units to be replaced and sprayed, was fair. There can be no guarantee of a 
colour match, and Mr and Mrs D would forfeit their warranty from the kitchen provider. This 
wouldnt put Mr and Mrs D back in pre-loss condition and so its understandable that they 
wanted to get on and replace their kitchen. I thought it would be fair for UKI to increase the 
cash settlement to Mr and Mrs D to pay for the replacement of the damaged kitchen items. 
In line with our normal approach I thought it fair for UKI to pay half the replacement cost of 
the undamaged parts of the kitchen so that the replacements match. And for UKI to meet Mr 
and Mrs Ds costs for their scope of work. UKIs scope includes cleaning all areas which 
should deal with remaining issues.
It appeared that suitable alternative accommodation was difficult to source, but the report 
about the property indicated that it was not strictly required, and I didnt find that the duration 
unreasonable. UKI has paid the cost of the additional electricity usage and agreed additional 
time for the storage of Mr and Mrs Ds contents and later in the claim, paid for Mr and Mrs 
Ds appliances. I thought this was reasonable and fair in the circumstances.
Mrs Ds doctor wrote about the health impact of their living at home during much of the 
restoration work, but didnt say what was behind this or if her treatment was changed. UKIs 
contractors carried out air and swab tests with results at levels of no risk to health. I have 
also seen expert evidence that Mr and Mrs Ds home had mould before their claim was 
made although I thought this would have been prolonged by the delay in drying out.
Our investigator recommended £200 compensation for the inconvenience of the contractor 
having to recommence drying. But I thought it was more than just the discovery of wetness that impacted Mr and Mrs Ds claim, there was a delay from November 2021 until April 2022 
when Mr and Mrs D went to alternative accommodation. I also thought that Mr and Mrs Ds 
suggestions and proposals were unfairly declined. Taking this and the loss of normal use of 
their house into consideration I was minded to award them total compensation of £400. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have thought again about all of the problems and disagreements that arose during Mr and 
Mrs Ds claim so that I can reach a fair and reasonable outcome to their complaint. Having 
done and considered Mr and Mrs Ds response, I remain of the view that the complaint 
should be resolved as outlined in my provisional decision.
In order to indemnify Mr and Mrs D for their losses UKI should meet their reasonable costs 
for the replacement of a kitchen rather than restoration I remain of the view that this should 
include installation, and half of the cost of the replacement of undamaged parts so that they 
match. Because Mr and Mrs D replaced their kitchen, it is their responsibility to provide UKI 
with the information it needs to pay their claim, namely evidence of costs incurred relevant to 
the kitchen and its thorough cleaning.
Mr and Mrs D said UKI made no provision for the plumbing, plastering or replacement blinds. 
They said the hall stairs and landing still require redecorating as does their kitchen and some 
more units to be restored. If Mr and Mrs D want to be reimbursed for any additional costs 
they should provide reports, and these should be considered by UKI. The scope of works 
provided by UKI provides the guide as to what should be included within the claim. 
Despite the property report indicating it wasnt strictly necessary, I think that alternative 
accommodation was needed, and it was unfortunate that Mr and Mrs D were asked to 
source this. I think that it was for a reasonable amount of time, but it was unfortunate that 
Mrs Ds health was affected again when returning home.
In reaching my final decision I can assure Mr and Mrs D I have considered the loss of normal 
use of their home during the period of the complaint. I was sorry to learn about the health 
problems Mrs D suffered but I think the delayed drying out was contributed to their switching 
off the drying out machines at times. I also think there is reason to believe that their home 
was suffering from damp before the escape of water occurred and so her adverse health 
effects may have pre-dated the claim. 
I am still of the view that UKI caused delays beyond just the discovery of remaining wetness 
in Mr and Mrs Ds home. There was delay from November 2021 to April 2022 when Mr and 
Mrs D went to alternative accommodation. And I think that Mr and Mrs Ds suggestions and 
proposals were unfairly declined. The compensation of £400 I have awarded reflects the 
delays caused by UKI and the impact on Mr and Mrs D and also the contributory factors I 
have referred to above. I think the award is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of their 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld.
I require UK Insurance Limited to allow payment for the replacement of Mr and Mrs Ds 
kitchen as opposed to restoration, and pay for half of the replacement of undamaged parts. 
Payment should be based on evidence of costs incurred by Mr and Mrs D and relevant to the kitchen and associated costs. Mr and Mrs D must provide reports in support of any other 
costs they wish to claim, and these should be considered by UK Insurance Limited.
I also require UK Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs D £400 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience they have been caused by its poor handling of their claim and their 
diminished use of their home. This is inclusive of the £200 recommended by the investigator. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman