DRN-2169926
The complaint
Mr S complains that Phoenix Life Limited gave him incorrect information when he asked it 
whether he could move his pension funds into a deposit account. He says hes lost out 
financially because he wouldve left his pensions invested, rather than cashing them in.
What happened
Mr S had two pension policies with Phoenix Life. His Normal Retirement Date (NRD) for 
these pensions was July 2019. In January 2019, six months before his NRD, Phoenix Life 
sent Mr S a pre-retirement pack. In May 2019, it said it sent him his retirement pack. Days 
before his NRD in July 2019, Mr S called Phoenix Life saying he intended to take his 
pensions as an Uncrystallised Funds Pension Lump Sum payment. (UFPLS) 
In August 2019, Phoenix Life told Mr S he could switch his pension policies to a more 
secure fund.
In October 2019, Mr S asked Phoenix Life on the phone whether he could move his 
pension money into a deposit account He was concerned about the impact of Brexit on the 
markets and what this might do to his pensions. Phoenix Life told him he couldnt. 
Following that conversation, he completed and returned the paperwork to Phoenix Life to 
take his pensions as an UFPLS.
In November 2019, Mr S was called by Phoenix Life and told that he couldve switched his 
pension funds into a deposit account. He was asked whether he wanted to reinstate his 
pension policies. He said he couldnt because it was too late.
Mr S complained to Phoenix Life and it offered him £200 for the trouble and upset he had 
been caused by its miscommunication. Mr S was unhappy with that outcome. He said he 
would've kept the pensions going with Phoenix Life for another ten years, with investment 
growth, if it weren't for this misinformation. Mr S says Phoenix Life's actions have caused 
him to take his pension money earlier than he would've liked and has affected his 
retirement planning.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. The investigator concluded that Phoenixs 
Lifes offer of settlement was fair and reasonable. Mr S didnt agree, he said, in summary:
he was surprised to find that his pensions had performed well and took advice from a 
financial adviser. He said he was told that all pension companies have cash deposit 
accounts that they could freeze the money in until he was happy to move the money 
back into funds again.
he called Phoenix Life and asked three times about the deposit account. He asked 
the representative to speak to her manager, but the answer came back no, Phoenix 
Life did not have a deposit account.
he paid the cheques into his bank and sent off his tax refund claim to HMRC. Around 
two weeks later, he was called by Phoenix Life and told they did have a cash deposit 
account his pensions money couldve gone into. He was told Phoenix Life could 
reinstate his policies if he wanted it to. But, by then it was too late. He had cashed 
the cheques and claimed tax back from HMRC.
Phoenix Life offered him £200 compensation in March 2020. He paid the cheque into 
his account in July 2020, but the cheque had been stopped.
As agreement couldnt be reached Mr S complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Phoenix Life did something wrong. It gave Mr S wrong information 
on the phone. And this wasnt corrected until around a month later, after Mr S had taken 
his pensions as an UFPLS and written to HMRC for a tax refund. The issue left for me to 
decide is whether Phoenix Lifes offer of settlement is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances to cover any loss Mr S may have arising from Phoenix Lifes error.
financial loss
Like our investigator, Im not satisfied that Phoenix Lifes actions caused Mr S to lose out 
financially. He was given the option to unwind the UFPLS. At the stage Phoenix Life notified 
him of its error, I understand that Mr S had written to HMRC to claim some tax back, but 
had not received it. So, I think it was still open to Mr S to return the money to Phoenix Life. 
To notify HMRC he was not cashing in his pension and to reinstate his pensions policies. 
He couldve then moved the money to Phoenix Lifes deposit account as per his original 
plan. Had he done this, he wouldnt have lost out financially, although I accept he wouldve 
been put to some extra trouble and upset because of Phoenix Lifes miscommunication.
I have also taken into account that Mr S appeared to have decided early on that he 
intended to take the UCPLS, when he contacted Phoenix Lifes call centre in July 2019. Of 
course, he couldve changed his mind about this, because it seems in October 2019, when 
he called again, he still appeared to be considering his options.
I also think that if Mr S wanted to leave his pensions invested for potentially up to another 
10 years, in a deposit account in the short-term to await the outcome of Brexit, that he 
couldve considered transferring his pension to another pension provider if Phoenix Life 
wouldnt allow him to hold his money on a deposit account. I cant see that he looked into 
transferring his pensions to another provider. 
So, I cant see that Mr S lost out financially as a result of what Phoenix Life did wrong. I 
think it likely that, on balance, he decided to take the UFPLS, knowing he had other options. 
And later chose not to take the opportunity to reinstate his pensions, to mitigate any 
potential loss
trouble and upset
But, Mr S has clearly been caused some trouble and upset by Phoenixs Life mis-
communication. Phoenix Life picked up the error it had made and contacted Mr S about 
this around a month after he was given the incorrect information. It offered to put him 
back into the position he wouldve been, but for its error. I accept Mr S wouldve had to go to the trouble of contacting HMRC again, had he opted to have his pension policies 
re-instated. 
Looked at overall, I think Phoenix Lifes offer of £200 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused is in line with other awards made by this service, in circumstances like 
this. So, I cant fairly require Phoenix Life to pay Mr S more, and on this basis do not 
uphold his complaint.
Ill leave Mr S to decide whether he now wishes to accept Phoenix Lifes offer of 
settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold Mr S complaint. But, Phoenix Life Limited should 
pay Mr S £200 for the trouble and upset caused, as it agreed to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman