DRN-1342167
The complaint
Mr G says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in July 2002.
What happened
In July 2002 Mr G took out a personal loan with Nationwide. At the same time he was sold a 
PPI policy. The policy was funded with a single premium which was added to the main loan. 
The policy covered Mr G against being unable to work due an accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
In 2018 Mr G complained to Nationwide about the sale of the PPI. Unhappy with 
Nationwides response Mr G asked this service to step in.
An adjudicator from this service thought the complaint should be upheld. They said that 
because Mr G held two jobs at the time he was sold PPI hed find it difficult to make an 
unemployment claim. The adjudicator thought it unlikely Mr G would have bought the PPI if 
Nationwide had made this clear. Nationwide disagreed with the adjudicators findings, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Nationwide has relied on a sales process document from 2003 to show it would have given 
clear information about the policy to Mr G. But this sale took place in 2002, the year before 
the sales process document. So, I havent attached much weight to this document.
At the time of the sale Mr G held two jobs and had done for several years. One was a       
full-time role whilst the other was part-time. Mr G hours varied but he generally worked less 
than 16 hours in his part-time role.
In order to make a claim for unemployment Mr G would have to meet the unemployment 
definition as set out in the policy document. The policy document defines unemployment as:
Being out of work, being registered as unemployed with the Employment Service (in GB) or 
the Department of Health and Social Security (in Northern Ireland), and being available for 
and actively looking for employment.
Ive studied the policy document and I can see it gives no definition of work as mentioned 
in the above definition of unemployment.Nationwide has said that the policy document does define being, employed as working 
over 16 hours per week. So, it says Mr G would have been able to make a successful claim 
on the policy if hed have lost his main job.
Ive thought about this, but I still think I should uphold this complaint.
If Mr G had lost his part-time job it is clear he would not be able to make a claim as he would 
still hold a full-time job.
And I also think Mr G would likely have found it difficult to make a claim if hed lost his full-
time job. I say this as hed need to register as unemployed with the relevant authority and be 
available for work. Its not clear how easy this would be if he was still working in his part-time 
role, particularly as it involved frequent weekend work. 
To be eligible for the policy the policy holder had to fulfil the employment definition (i.e. paid 
work of over 16 hours per week). But it doesnt follow that the unemployment claim criteria of 
being out of work means working less than 16 hours per week. Without a clear definition of 
work in the context of an unemployment claim it could be reasonably interpreted as 
meaning Mr G would need to be entirely without work.
Its my view that the policy isnt clear on whether Mr G would be able to claim the 
unemployment benefit if he lost his main job but continued to work in his part-time role.      
So, in my opinion it would likely fall to the interpretation of the insurer at the time of any 
claim. Given his particular circumstances, I dont think Mr G would have bought the policy if 
all this was made clear to him at the time of the sale. And I think it is unlikely it was.    
Putting things right
Mr G borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve been.      He 
paid more than he shouldve each month and it cost him more to repay the loan than it would 
have. So, Mr G needs to get back the extra hes paid.
So, Nationwide should:
Work out and pay Mr G the difference between what he paid each month on the loan and 
what he wouldve paid without PPI.
Work out and pay Mr G the difference between what it cost to pay off the loan and what it 
wouldve cost to pay off the loan without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr G paid from when he paid it until he gets it back. 
The rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to pay 
Mr G compensation as set out in this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman