DRN-3359680
The complaint
Mr D complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim under 
his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr D noticed a leak from his hot water cylinder at around 2pm and contacted RSA shortly 
afterwards. RSA accepted the claim and began arrangements for an engineer to attend. 
Around two hours after first contacting RSA Mr D called again for an update. RSA explained 
the engineers it had contacted couldnt attend, either because they didnt have the 
specialism required or were too busy. Mr D suggested a local engineer he had used before. 
RSA contacted this engineer and he agreed to attend. The business also agreed to pay the 
engineer directly as opposed to Mr D paying and claiming the money back.
RSA says the engineer initially agreed to visit the day after Mr D reported the leak. But later 
said this would have to be the following day. The engineer attended around 8am on the 
second day after the claim was reported. Mr D says this wasnt an emergency response. 
Because of the time taken for an engineer to attend he says the leak caused damage to his 
home. 
RSA says there are few engineers in the locality, which hampered its ability to arrange an 
appointment. It says it did its best to arrange the earliest visit by an engineer. It agreed to Mr 
Ds suggested engineer attending to achieve this. It says its process would usually require 
Mr D to pay the invoice to the private contractor and claim this back. But it agreed to pay him 
directly in this case. It says the damage to Mr Ds home is very minimal and doesnt think it 
should provide compensation.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with this outcome and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He thought RSA had shown it acted reasonably 
given the limited availability of engineers to arrange the earliest appointment it could. He 
thought it acted fairly in agreeing to instruct the engineer Mr D knew to try to and expedite 
matters. He didnt agree with Mr D that RSA should pay to repair damage caused by the 
leak.
Mr D didnt think RSA had provided an emergency response as he expected under his 
policy. So, he asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
It been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. I understand he will be 
disappointed, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Im sorry that Mr D experienced a leak from his hot water cylinder. It must have been 
stressful dealing with the situation. I can understand that he wanted this to be resolved as 
quickly as possible.  
Mr Ds policy terms cover a temporary repair to resolve the emergency unless a permanent 
repair can be done at a similar cost. I understand the engineer found that the hot water 
cylinder needed replacing. This isnt covered by the policy, but he was able to resolve the 
emergency, which was the leak. The work carried out by the engineer isnt in dispute, so I 
havent considered this further.
Mr D says he first contacted RSA around 2.40pm having noticed the leak around 2pm. RSA 
contacted its preferred contractor at around 3pm. The records show an engineer with the 
required speciality wasnt available. I understand this is because an engineer able to deal 
with a pressurised system was needed. RSA contacted another of its preferred contractors 
around 3.20pm. No engineer was available to do the job. 
The records show Mr D called RSA again around 3.45pm, which ties in with his recollection 
of events. It was at this time he suggested a local engineer he had used before. I can see 
the business agreed to this and contacted the engineer. It also agreed to pay him directly. 
The notes say the engineer agreed to attend the following day. An email was sent to the 
engineer with information about the job and a call was made to Mr D. 
A call is logged around 5.30pm that says Mr D hadnt received contact from the engineer. 
The notes say it was agreed that RSA would contact the engineer and update Mr D. It 
followed this up the following morning at around 9.30am. The notes say the engineer was to 
call back once an appointment had been arranged. Another call early in the afternoon 
confirmed the engineer would try and squeeze the job in that day. If not, he would attend at 
8am the following day. The notes say the engineer advised for Mr D to turn off his hot water. 
RSA relayed this information to Mr D. The claim notes say Mr D advised that turning off the 
mains for that length of time is not a reasonable solution.
Mr D confirms the engineer attended the following day at 8am and resolved the leak. He 
says early that morning the leak from the hot water cylinder became worse. He couldnt 
contain it and water had leaked onto the cupboard floor, walls and ceiling below causing 
damage.
RSA says there are only six suitably qualified contractors within 20 miles of Mr Ds property. 
With a further three between 20 and 30 miles away. Having read the evidence, I think its 
clear the availability of engineers in the area was the main challenge RSA faced when trying 
to arrange a visit to deal with Mr Ds emergency. I have thought whether the business 
behaved fairly to provide the earliest appointment. 
The call records show contractors were contacted immediately after Mr D made his claim. 
Within two hours RSA had agreed to use his chosen engineer and to pay him directly, which 
is outside of the process under its policy terms. It explains this was to allow for the earliest 
resolution of the leak. Contact was followed up with the engineer and Mr D was kept 
informed of when the engineer was able to attend, as the situation developed. Mr D was also 
advised how to limit the impact of the damage by turning off his hot water. 
I acknowledge Mr Ds view that RSA didnt do all it could to treat the leak in his home as an 
emergency. He says he lives in a rural location, but this is something the business should be 
able to deal with. He thinks it should have a contingency for when a contractor cant provide 
an emergency response.  
I have thought about Mr Ds comments. But I dont think RSA could have reasonably done more to arrange an earlier visit from a suitably qualified engineer. I sympathise that he was 
worried about the hot water cylinder breaking and flooding his house and that he expected a 
quicker response. But the records show the claim was handled efficiently and it was 
explained how he could turn off the hot water. RSAs communication with Mr D and the 
engineers was also clear and timely. The contractor Mr D suggested did initially agree to 
attend a day earlier, and its unfortunate this didnt happen. But I dont think RSA couldve 
pre-empted this or that it wouldve been able to arrange for someone else to have attended 
any sooner. 
Im sorry Mr D has incurred some damage to his home. But in considering all of this I think 
RSA treated Mr D fairly and handled his claim reasonably in line with its policy terms. So, I 
wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman