DRN-3295616
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey National) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1999. Mr and Mrs H paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr H, in case he was 
off work sick or lost his job.
I sent Mr and Mrs H and Santander a provisional decision on 6 January 2022, to explain 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Because of all the time thats passed, the original documents from the sale are not still 
available. But from what Ive seen of Santanders sales process from the time, in order to get 
the policy Mr and Mrs H would need to have specifically applied for it, separately to applying 
for the mortgage itself. The insurers electronic records do say it received a completed 
application from them. The PPIs cost would have been set out separately to the mortgages 
cost, too  the PPI was not part and parcel of the lending. And Ive not seen any wider 
problems with the sales process from the time, nor anything which shows that Mr and Mrs H 
were misled into buying PPI here. So I think its most likely that Santander made Mr and 
Mrs H aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the 
time  though I can understand if they no longer recall doing so after so many years. 
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H, so it had to check it was right for them. 
And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mr H was the main earner, was eligible for the cover, and wasnt affected by any of 
its main exclusions or limitations.
Mr H recalled getting an exceptionally generous amount of sick pay. Understandably, 
because of the time thats passed, hes not been able to provide any evidence of this. But 
the amount hes told us about is very unusual, and does not fit with his employment situation 
such as his role or his rather short length of service at the time. So I think its most likely that 
Mr H is mistaken, and that he was entitled to a more normal level of benefits. And so I think 
its most likely that the PPI would have offered him useful additional cover. Of course, if Mr H 
can provide evidence of his sick pay entitlement before this provisional decisions deadline, 
then Ill be happy to reconsider this point.
The policy also meant that Mr and Mrs H could effectively protect their savings and use them 
for other things, instead of potentially having to sacrifice one asset to save another. And 
while I understand their family may have been happy to help, there was always the chance 
theyd be unable to help when needed. Further, this mortgage was Mr and Mrs Hs 
responsibility  not anyone elses. So I dont think it wouldve been suitable if Santander had 
recommended they rely on other individuals to pay it. Its worth bearing in mind that if Mr and 
Mrs H fell behind on their mortgage, they couldve lost their home. So the PPI couldve really 
been useful for them in protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
Mr and Mrs H argued that the PPI was not suitable because it only covered their mortgage-
related costs, and not all their bills. But it wasnt there to cover all their costs  it was for their 
mortgage specifically. The point of PPI was that Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have to worry about 
losing their home if they fell on difficult times, and it looks like it would have been suitable for 
that. Mr and Mrs H could have used their sick pay, redundancy pay, or savings to cover their 
other costs while the PPI kept their home safe. Or they could have taken out additional 
insurance for their other costs if they felt they needed it. But I dont think their argument is a 
good reason for me to say the PPI was mis-sold. Mr and Mrs H also said that Mr H would 
have simply found a new job. But long-term unemployment can and does happen  its not 
always possible to simply walk into a new job, and at the point Mr and Mrs H applied for their 
mortgage, there was no guarantee Mr H would be consistently employed in the many years 
to come. Further, finding a new job would not have been a possible solution if Mr H had an 
illness or accident that left him unable to work for a lengthy period. Again, in those kinds of 
situations, the PPI would have been most useful in protecting their home.
Its possible that the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs H about PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mr H wasnt affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful in case something went 
wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. And 
the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs H could cancel it at any time 
without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put them off 
taking out the cover.
Lastly, Mr and Mrs H pointed out that weve found other PPI policies to have been mis-sold, 
and I understand why they raised this. But different policies worked in different ways, were 
suitable in different circumstances, were sold using different methods at different times, and 
so on. So while some PPI policies were mis-sold, others were not. We look at each case on 
its individual merits. Ive explained above why I have not found this particular policy to have 
been mis-sold.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
3 February 2022. Neither side sent in any new evidence or arguments, and Mr and Mrs H 
asked us to bring things to a close.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman