DRN-2568537
The complaint
Ms M complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ) did not provide her with correct and complete 
information when she took out a loan in 2017.   
What happened
Ms M contacted this service in July 2019 to complain that Ikano Bank had not provided her 
with documents relating to a loan. She said that, without these documents, she could not 
make the loan payments which the bank was demanding. 
Ikano Bank said that it had not received a complaint from Ms M, but it wrote to her in 
September 2019 to say that she had signed a finance agreement in July 2017. The 
agreement had set out the applicable interest rate and other terms. It had also stated that 
interest would be deferred for 12 months from the date the loan application was accepted. 
The bank also noted that Ms M had signed a satisfaction note indicating that she understood 
how the loan worked and had been given the opportunity to ask questions if she needed to.
Ikano Bank continued to seek payments. Ms M did not make the payments that the bank 
said were due, and on 23 January 2020 it served a default notice, requiring that missing 
payments be made by 13 February 2020. The debt was sold to a different business on 23 
March 2020.   
One of our investigators considered what had happened but was satisfied that Ikano Bank 
had provided Ms M with the information required. He didnt believe that she had been treated 
unfairly. Ms M did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review 
the case.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M has not denied taking out the loan or receiving the benefit of it. Rather, her complaint 
is about what she says was the lack of information provided at the time and subsequently. 
In the course of our investigation, Ikano Bank has provided copies of:
a document headed Pre-contract credit information;
a fixed sum loan agreement dated 14 July 2017;
a validation note signed by Ms M on 14 July 2017; and 
a letter from Ikano Bank to Ms M dated 18 August 2017.
The Pre-contract credit information document set out the main details of the credit 
agreement. That included the banks details and those of the credit intermediary  Green 
Energy Power Solutions. It also recorded the amount borrowed, the duration of the 
agreement, the monthly payments required, the interest rate and the total amount payable. It 
noted too that the loan was to be used to fund an airsource  a low-energy way of providing 
heating and hot water to the home. 
The loan agreement recorded the same information, but in more detail, as is required under 
the Consumer Credit (Agreements) Regulations 1983. In particular, it included: BUY NOW 
PAY LATER LOAN CUSTOMERS ONLY: No payments are due for the first 12 months, the 
deferred period. Interest is calculated on the Amount of Credit and applied from the date the 
application is accepted
I believe this made clear that the deferred period ended 12 months from the date of the loan 
agreement, not from the date of installation. 
The signature box included a tick beneath a Customer declaration and consent and the 
date, 14 July 2017. 
Ms M has pointed out that she did not physically sign the loan agreement. It isnt however 
necessary for a document of this nature to have a wet signature. Im satisfied that she 
signed the agreement electronically  as is very common  and that she is bound by its 
terms.  
The validation note recorded that the airsource system was installed on 1 August 2017 and 
included a brief description of the loan and the system. On page 2 of that document were a 
number of declarations which Ms M initialled before signing and dating on 14 July 2017. 
Those declarations said, in summary, that Ms M understood the finance arrangements and 
the governments feed-in tariff, had received an explanation of the product, had been given 
the opportunity to ask questions about the loan and understood how her data might be used. 
Ms M has noted that the declarations were signed on 14 July 2017, before the airsource 
system was installed. The declarations do not however say that the system has been 
installed, only that it and the finance have been explained to Ms M. It was in my view entirely 
consistent for Ms M to sign a document recording what she had been told would happen and 
for the actual date of installation to be completed later. The declarations that Ms M signed on 
14 July 2017 do not indicate that she was satisfied with the installation, only that she had 
received an explanation of how it would work.  
The bank also provided us with a copy of a letter to Ms M dated 18 August 2017. It said:
I am pleased to confirm that your application has been accepted and the agreement is now 
in force.
Please note that no changes have been made to the agreement which you already have a 
copy of, and your 14 day right of withdrawal starts the day after you receive this letter 
Ms M did not suggest in response to this letter that she had not received a copy of the loan 
agreement, or that she had not agreed to or had not understood the loan terms. 
More recently, Ms M has said that Ikano Bank did not properly check whether she could 
afford the loan repayments. That is not an issue which the bank has had an opportunity to 
respond to, and I make no comment on it here. However, if Ms M is now having difficulty 
repaying what is owed, she will need to take that up with the current owner of the debt. 
However, for the reasons I have indicated, I think it more likely than not that Ms M was 
provided with the correct documentation and indicated that she had read and understood it. I 
do not believe that she has been treated unfairly.     My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Ikano Bank AB (publ) to take any further steps to 
resolve Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman