DRN-4237790
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as N complains that National Westminster Bank PLC (NatWest) set 
up the wrong type of account for it, which caused it to have to open a new account and 
update many of its service users.
To put things right, N wants NatWest to pay £4,169.98, being the sum it says it cost to put 
things right.
What happened
The background to this complaint is known to both parties, so I wont rehearse the same in 
detail here. Simply, NatWest has accepted that it opened the wrong type of account for N in 
2013. N is legally obliged to maintain the correct account type, so it had to change the 
account when it found out. And it had to write to its service users to confirm the new account 
details.
N says that approximately 30 to 40 of Ns service users didnt speak English as their first 
language, so N employed an interpreter on a temporary basis to update those service users. 
The temporary member of staff signed a six-month contract for 18 hours a week, which cost
N £4,169.98.
NatWest declined to pay the costs N claimed, but did offer to pay £1,000. Mr N rejected the
offer and brought Ns complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said NatWests offer to pay £1,000 was fair
and covered the costs N incurred, together with a payment for the inconvenience N
experienced as a result of the error.
Mr N didnt agree. He sent in a copy of the spreadsheet he used to monitor the temporary
employee that showed the extent of the additional work, together with text messages
between the temporary employee and various service users.
I issued my provisional decision on 7 July 2023. In it, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by saying Im grateful to both parties for the evidence and submissions theyve 
provided. This is a finely balanced case and it turns on the evidence Ive seen from both 
NatWest and Mr N.
Having seen the contract of employment, NatWest didnt accept that the employee had been 
taken on solely for the purposes of helping N update its bank details/direct debits. It didnt 
consider a 6-month period to be reasonable to simply update a number of service users with 
bank details, and it noted N previously employed a similar member of staff and thought the 
new member of staff might have been a replacement of sorts (i.e. that N would have taken 
that employee on regardless of NatWests error).
Finally, it noted the contract of employment included a provision stating the employee shall 
carry out other administrative duties, which NatWest said showed the employee hadnt solely 
been taken on to rectify the issues caused by its error.
I approached NatWest to explain that Id seen evidence that demonstrated the process 
wasnt a quick fix and did continue for a number of months. And I told it I was satisfied the 
other administrative duties clause was just a catch all to enable N to assign other tasks if 
necessary, rather than an indication of the primary purpose of the employment.
In response, NatWest questioned whether N had the number of service users it claimed, and 
whether a sufficient number of them required the services of an interpreter. It pointed to Ns 
bank statements which it said showed N only received 21 credits in the month the account 
switch happened, and averaged 19 in the months prior to that.
I reviewed Ns statements for the year before the switch, which show an average of 25 
credits per month in the 5 months before the account switch happened. And the August and 
September 2021 statements show 28 and 27 payments out at the start of each month, that 
appear to be mortgage payments.
But Im not persuaded that the number of payments alone is indicative of the extent of the 
issue N faced. Several of the payments are too large to represent a single mortgage or rent 
payment, and Mr N has told our service some of the service users pay cash.
However, ultimately, the exact number of service users N had to update isnt critical to the 
outcome of this complaint, nor is it critical to establish a certain ratio of non-English speaking 
service users. What Im looking to decide is whether or not it was reasonable in the 
circumstances of this particular case for N to employ a part-time interpreter as a member of 
staff to help fix the problem NatWest accepts it caused.
While I cant be sure of exactly how many service users N had on the books, Im satisfied 
from the evidence Ive seen that it was a significant number, and that a significant proportion 
of those service users required the services of an interpreter. And in any event, updating the 
bank details appears to have been a greater task than it might sound. Ive seen text 
messages and letters detailing challenges N experienced with some of the service users. 
That evidence showed some service users avoiding contact, N arranging appointments/site 
visits and service users missing appointments, as well as a detailed record of the ongoing 
work undertaken month by month.
Further, N isnt a large-scale operation with multiple employees that could simply be re- 
assigned to the task of getting all service users to update their bank details. And while N had 
previously employed a similar employee to carry out tasks like this, that member of staff had 
left prior to this issue arising. Given the number of service users involved, the additional 
complication of the language barrier, and the business critical issue of receiving this 
particular type of income, Im satisfied N acted reasonably in taking on a new member of 
staff, and that it did so because of NatWests error.
Originally, Mr N did suggest NatWest had agreed to pay Ns costs, but Im not persuaded 
that was the case, and I can see NatWest simply agreed to assess Ns claim. But I dont 
consider that was a significant factor in Mr Ns decision to take on a part-time (and 
temporary) member of staff. The evidence suggests N chose to employ an additional 
member of staff because it needed to do so, not because it thought it was playing with house 
money. And the member of staff was employed on a part-time, temporary contract at a low 
wage (6 months at 18 hours per week for £8.91 per hour), so Im satisfied N took reasonable 
steps to mitigate its losses.And even if I were to accept N exaggerated the number of service users the employee had 
to deal with, and exaggerated how many didnt speak English, my decision would be the 
same, because the circumstances of this case are such that Im satisfied Ns actions were 
reasonable. Although I should make it clear that Im not saying N did exaggerate the 
position, Im simply explaining why my decision would be the same in the event N had 
exaggerated the numbers.
Finally, I also accept that this issue would have caused N a significant degree of 
inconvenience. Its directors attention was taken away form his usual duties for an extended 
period of time in order to seek, employ and monitor an additional member of staff. So, to 
compensate N for that inconvenience, NatWest should pay N £500.
NatWest did originally offer £1,000 for inconvenience, but I take the view that that offer was 
made in view of all of the circumstances of the case, and not simply to reflect inconvenience. 
I.e. it appeared to be a partial acceptance of blame for the costs or at least a gesture of 
goodwill, factoring in all of the circumstances of the case.
Given Ive separated Ns consequential losses from the inconvenience caused, £500 is a 
more appropriate figure in line with our services usual guidance. And I should add that I 
cant make an award for the distress Mr N experienced here. NatWests customer is N, not 
Mr N. Because N is a limited company, it cannot feel distress. And our service cant award 
compensation for distress experienced by NatWests customers directors or employees 
personally.
For the avoidance of doubt, my decision on this complaint isnt based on an assumption that 
NatWest accepted part of the blame at the outset. NatWest has made its position clear to me 
that it doesnt accept it should be responsible for the costs N claims. And I only make the 
point to explain why my compensation award for inconvenience in this regard is lower than 
NatWests original offer.
I asked both NatWest and N to provide me with any further evidence or submissions they 
wished me to consider. However, neither party made any further submissions and both 
NatWest and N accepted my findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because both parties accepted my findings, it follows that my final decision is unchanged 
from my provisional findings.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank PLC must pay N:
1. £4,169.88 in respect of Ns consequential losses; and
2. £500 in respect of the inconvenience NatWest caused N.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman