DRN-3543664
The complaint
Mr C and Ms H complain about a repair carried out by Aviva Insurance Limited trading as 
Quotemehappy.com (Aviva) to their gate.
What happened
Mr C and Ms H had home insurance provided by Aviva. In 2021 there was a fire at his 
neighbours property that caused damage to theirs. Aviva accepted a claim for this damage 
and carried out repairs, this included replacing a garden gate. 
However Mr C was unhappy with the replacement gate. He said the gate wasnt fit for 
purpose and the company who had put it together had provided poor repairs elsewhere at 
his property so he didnt trust their work. Shortly after, the gate was damaged again. Mr C 
said that it was likely due to stormy weather but if the gate had been properly built, it would 
have withstood the conditions. Aviva didnt agree. It said it was satisfied the gate had been 
built to a good standard and the damage would have happened regardless. And as it wasnt 
covered by the policy, it wouldnt offer further assistance. 
Mr C was unhappy with this response and made a complaint. He said Aviva had agreed to 
fix repairs to his roof that the same repairer had done poorly. And he said Aviva had refused 
to even inspect the gate on its visit. 
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint so Mr C brought it to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said he thought the damage 
was due to the stormy weather and not poor workmanship, so it was fair that Aviva had 
declined to cover the repairs. 
Mr C didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C is unhappy with the replacement gate provided after his initial claim. And thinks that it 
was damaged shortly after, due to the poor workmanship. Ive considered whether Avivas 
contractors provided a poor quality replacement gate and if Aviva has treated Mr C and Ms 
H fairly when dealing with their claim. 
Ive looked at photos of the gate since the damage has occurred. I can see the gate has 
come away from one of the hinges and there is damage to the main door and frame. 
However the damage appears consistent with a storm event, rather than poor workmanship. 
I say this because the damage visible has clearly been caused by an external force, rather 
than just a failure of the gate itself. For example I wouldnt expect a gate to come away from 
one of the hinges, without an external force being applied.  
Further, while Mr C says he thought the gate was poorly constructed from when it was first 
put in place, Ive not seen any evidence to support this. While the gate has clearly now been 
badly damaged, there is no evidence that it was poorly built. Or that there were problems 
when it was first put in place.
Mr C says he came home from work to find the gate damaged. And there were storm 
conditions around the time of the damage, including strong winds. So when considering 
everything, I think its most likely the gate has been damaged due to the storm conditions 
and not the poor workmanship of Avivas contractors.
Mr Cs policy states as follows:
2. Storm or Flood.
We will not cover loss or damage:
 caused by frost;
 to fences, gates and hedges;
 that happens gradually
So Im satisfied that damaged to a gate caused by a storm wouldnt be covered under the 
policy. Im therefore persuaded that Aviva acted fairly by not covering Mr Cs claim for the 
damage to his gate. 
I note Mr C has said that the same contractor carried out a repair to his roof which now 
requires additional work due to poor workmanship, so he doesnt trust that the contractors 
did a good job of replacing the gate either. However, while I can see from the claim notes 
provided that Aviva has accepted a claim for additional work to Mr Cs roof, Ive not seen any 
evidence to show that this is due to poor work done by the previous contractor. And Aviva 
has confirmed it is due to damage from the original fire.  So this isnt enough to convince me 
that the gate has been damaged due to poor workmanship.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr C and Ms Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman