DRN-2780612
The complaint
Mr C complains about the maturity value of a bond he held with Scottish Friendly Assurance 
Society Limited. Hes unhappy with misleading information he received and thinks he should 
have been told of a reduction in the final bonus rate.
What happened
Scottish Friendly wrote to Mr C on 4 March 2020 regarding a bond he held. They explained 
that the bond was due to mature on 15 April 2020 and the estimated maturity value was 
£3,620.31. He had the option of cashing in the bond or rolling it over to a new bond.
Mr C contacted Scottish Friendly on 17 March to discuss his options. He asked them about 
the impact of the market conditions at the time on the maturity value. He was told that it was 
more than likely that he would receive the value quoted in the letter he received. He was 
also told how to roll over the bond.
Mr C decided to cash in the bond but only received a maturity value of £2,978.40. He 
subsequently complained to Scottish Friendly and said, in summary:
He was told there was no risk of the bonus going down as the bond was not index 
linked. He took this advice on trust 
He knew that only £2,600 and annual bonuses were guaranteed but there was an 
expectation that he would get a good return 
There was a responsibility on Scottish Friendly to tell him of the reduction in the final 
bonus, this would have given him the option to do something else with the bond e.g. 
roll it over to a new bond
Scottish Friendly looked into his concerns and partially upheld his complaint.  They 
apologised as theyd used an incorrect bonus rate when calculating his maturity value  27% 
instead of 20% - and offered £100 in compensation. However, they thought the 
correspondence theyd sent him and the call of 17 March confirmed that the final bonus 
quoted was not guaranteed and was subject to revision.
Mr C didnt accept their findings and brought the complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators. The investigator upheld the complaint. He thought 
that Scottish Friendly needed to pay Mr C an extra £100 in compensation for the distress 
caused by the misleading information hed received when he spoke to them. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator. He said, in summary:
Hed clearly raised concerns about the stock market effects due to Covid and how 
this would affect the value of the final payment. He was then given misleading 
information which directly influenced his decision to cash in the bond  this 
misleading information cost him £641.27
He thought that as Scottish Friendly received his signed forms before 30 March, to 
then change the bonus from 20% to 0% on 1 April was bad form. He felt they should 
honour the amount quoted in the letter of 4 March 2021
The investigator wasnt minded to change his opinion. As theres been no agreement, the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not going to uphold this complaint. I accept that when Mr C spoke to 
Scottish Friendly on 17 March he was given the impression that it was likely the maturity 
value would be in line with the estimate provided in the letter hed received. However, he 
wasnt given any guarantees and was told that it was just an estimate. He was also told 
about the option to roll the bond over to a new bond. But he was given a warning that the 
new bond was unit linked so it was riskier than his existing bond. 
Having considered what was discussed on the phone call, Im not persuaded that Mr C 
would have rolled over his bond to the slightly riskier bond even if he hadnt been given the 
impression that the maturity value would be in line with the estimate. Theres no way to say 
for certain what he would have done, but given the market conditions at the time, I think its 
more likely than not that Mr C wouldnt have wanted to expose himself to more risk. 
Scottish Friendly have accepted that they made errors in calculating the estimated final 
value of Mr Cs bond and gave him the impression the maturity value would be higher when 
he spoke to them. But taking everything into account, I think the redress that the investigator 
suggested is fair and reasonable.
I can also understand Mr Cs disappointment with receiving a maturity value that was
lower than the value in the letter he received. But that said, I dont think that Scottish Friendly 
acted incorrectly in their administration of the bond and its maturity. The information Mr C 
was sent about the imminent maturity made it clear that the final value could differ from the 
value quoted in the letter. 
The fact that the final value was lower when calculated at the point of encashment does
not mean that Scottish Friendly have treated Mr C unfairly  it is simply a result of the
market conditions prevailing at that moment in time. Mr C has said that Scottish Friendly 
should have contacted him because of the fall in value but I dont think there was any 
responsibility on them to do so. They werent required to, and it wouldnt be normal industry 
practice to do so, regardless of how large the change might be. 
I also note the bonus rate wasnt changed until 1 April, which was the deadline for Mr C to 
inform them if he wanted to roll over the bond. So, I dont think he would have had time to 
change his mind and inform Scottish Friendly that he wanted to roll over the bond even if 
they had let him know of the change in bonus rate. 
Scottish Friendlys obligation was to provide Mr C with the maturity options and then follow 
the instructions they received. From what Ive seen, this is what they did so I cant say that 
theyve acted unfairly. Ultimately there was no guarantee that Mr C would have received the 
figure he was quoted in March 2020. Therefore, I am unable to fairly ask Scottish Friendly to 
make up the shortfall.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, I partially uphold this complaint. Scottish Friendly 
Assurance Society Limited should pay Mr C £200 in compensation if they havent done so 
already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman