DRN-2116655
The complaint
Ms K and Mr L are unhappy with Ageas Insurance Limiteds handling of their claim made 
under their legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy.
Where I refer to Ageas, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
Ms K has done most of the correspondence in relation to this complaint, so for ease of 
reading Ill mostly only refer to her.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. In 2019 Ms K wanted to make a claim for the costs of 
taking legal action in relation to a building one of her neighbours was constructing in the 
communal garden of the flats she lives in. 
She contacted Ageas who provide her LEI cover. Her claim was considered and after being 
referred to a panel solicitors firm J was accepted. Some initial actions were taken including 
drafting a letter to Ms Ks neighbour. 
But Ageas later reconsidered their position and said that they would only cover a proportion 
of the legal costs moving forward. Ageas explained they had previously agreed to cover the 
full costs in error. They said they would cover the costs incurred up to that point  but as the 
legal action would also benefit five of Ms Ks neighbours, theyd only pay a sixth of the costs 
moving forward. Ms K complained.
Ageas explained that theyd relied on the policy terms and advice from J when making their 
claim decision. But they acknowledged they had accepted the claim in full in error and 
offered £200 for the impact of this on Ms K. The matter was referred to our service and one 
of our investigators didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought Ageas position 
was fair and that theyd already done enough to put things right. Ms K still disagrees and has 
asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
In July 2020 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
The Claim
Ms Ks policy says there is no cover for Advisers costs if your claim is part of a class action 
or will be affected by or will affect the outcome of other claims. I dont think this policy term 
is unclear or unfair. Ageas are setting out that they dont wish to cover class action cases or 
legal action that affects other claims. 
When investigating the complaint Ageas asked J for their comments on whether the legal 
action was likely to become a class action or if it would affect other claims. J said that any 
action taken by Ms K would benefit her other neighbours too. Ageas concluded that this 
exclusion would apply as they said Ms Ks legal action would affect the outcome of other 
claims. And whilst the neighbours hadnt expressed a desire to join the legal action, they still 
felt it was clear that they would have claims if they chose to do so. 
Ageas themselves arent legal experts. So I think it is fair for them to rely on suitably 
qualified legal opinions when making decisions about a claim. Here, J believe that the legal 
action would be of benefit to Ms Ks neighbours who arent party to the insurance contract 
between her and Ageas. The policy is there for Ms K and Mr Ls benefit, not to also cover all 
their neighbours. So in these circumstances, I dont think it is unfair for Ageas to decide that 
the exclusion applies. 
The exclusion says that no cover is available at all. But Ageas said they would meet the 
costs incurred whilst theyd accepted the claim in error (which was around £1,600) and if 
Ms K chose to pursue the claim, theyd meet a sixth of the costs. I think this is fair.
There was also a further policy term that Ageas thought might have been applicable in 
relation to leaseholds. But as they didnt ultimately apply or rely on that exclusion, I wont 
comment further on that point. 
The Service
Ageas have accepted that their handling of the claim would have caused Ms K some 
distress and inconvenience. She was told she was covered, and later told that only a sixth of 
the costs would be covered. So, they offered £200 compensation for this. 
Ms K points out that Ageas had previously considered and re-visited the same policy term 
several times before confirming cover. So, she was particularly disappointed when Ageas 
later changed their position. I accept that Ms K was clear from the start that she lived in a flat 
and that the garden was communal. And I agree it would have been better if Ageas had 
given a clear answer from the start.
But I dont think it follows that Ageas need to agree to continue to cover a claim that is 
excluded from the policy. Ageas funded around £1,600 of Js costs, so it could be argued 
that their mistake meant Ms K benefitted from some cover she wasnt strictly entitled to. This 
would be of benefit to Ms K if she chooses to take action outside of her insurance policy.  
And whilst I can understand her disappointment and the frustration caused, I think the £200 
Ageas have offered is fair to make up for trouble and upset she experienced as a result.
Ageas responded and said they had nothing further to add. Ms K responded and raised 
some further points which Ill address below. Now both sides have had an opportunity to 
comment, I can go ahead with my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to change from the outcome explained in my provisional 
decision. I know this is a very important issue for Ms K, so Ill explain why.
Ms K submitted a significant amount of notes and evidence in support of her position. Id like 
to reassure her that Ive carefully read everything she sent in (and indeed all the available 
information) when reaching my decision. But I wont be responding in similar detail and will 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision. I hope Ms K doesnt take this as a discourtesy, 
it is just a reflection of the informal nature of our service. Ms K pointed out some inaccuracies or omissions in the background of the complaint as I set 
it out. But as Ive said above, this is an overview of some key events  rather than a detailed 
chronology. I dont believe any information Ive summarised or not laid out in full makes a 
material difference to my decision or the reasons for it. 
Ms K disagrees that the policy term Ive quoted above is clear. She says if this were the case 
there wouldnt have been so much back and forth about it. She says the term was incorrectly 
interpreted. She also says it took far too long for a decision to be reached. I still consider the 
term to be clear, but I agree that it was mis-interpreted and that this went on for far longer 
than it should have done. This is why I agree that some compensation is due for the impact 
of this. Something Ill return to below. 
Ms K also disagrees that she saw any benefit at all from the initial legal work that was 
funded under the policy by Ageas. She says this has resulted in her looking foolish in front of 
her neighbours. I understand the point Ms K is making here. But I maintain that if Ms K were 
to self-fund legal action against her neighbour, the legal work already completed is likely to 
be of some benefit. And any legal action that the policy might have covered would always 
have been subject to other terms and conditions and there is no guarantee that a successful 
outcome would have been achieved. 
Ms K set out in some detail the impact this whole episode has had on her and her husband. 
This includes feeling unable to enjoy their communal garden  something which was 
particularly important to them. Shes also described issues with her neighbours that have 
required police involvement. Ms K believes compensation from Ageas in the region of 
£5,000 would be appropriate. Im really sorry to hear of the difficulties Ms K and Mr L have 
been through.
But I can only consider compensation for errors that Ageas are responsible for. So, I cant 
ask Ageas to pay compensation for the impact of the building work in the garden itself or the 
behaviour of and deterioration of relations with her neighbours. And whilst I appreciate why 
Ms K feels as she does, I dont think Ageas can fairly be held responsible for her feeling 
unable to make use of her garden. 
Here, Ageas ought to have told Ms K sooner that they would only cover a proportion of the 
claim. And having carefully thought about it, I remain satisfied that the £200 Ageas offered is 
fair to compensate for the impact of what Ageas themselves are responsible for. It follows 
that I wont be telling them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman