DRN-1840865
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M  on behalf of Partnership J  complain that The National Farmers' Union 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) have unfairly declined to cover their claim for legal 
expenses.
NFU use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses insurance policy on their behalf, 
so any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts and 
omissions of such intermediaries. For ease of reference, I will also only refer to Mr M 
throughout this decision as the lead complainant. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What happened
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Some of Mr Ms concerns centre around his dissatisfaction with the panel solicitors 
that were appointed by NFU  such as their refusal to attend the meeting with him, 
and the fact they have designated his claim as having insufficient prospects of 
success. However, were unable to consider the quality of legal advice provided 
(unless it is patently wrong) or the actions of a law firm, as this falls outside the 
jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. But I am able to assess the 
insurers handling of the claim in light of the policy terms to determine whether 
theyve fulfilled their obligations reasonably, and dealt with the claim fairly.
 
The policy terms and conditions state that NFU can withdraw cover If an INSURED 
PERSONdoes not give suitable instructions to the REPRESENTATIVE, WE can 
withdraw cover. NFU appointed panel solicitors to advise on prospects, who 
subsequently made several requests for information from Mr M  such as previous 
solicitor files and paperwork related to his legal dispute. However, I can see from the 
evidence that no such information was forthcoming. 
As a result, the panel solicitors set a deadline for Mr M to provide this information by 
20 December 2018, failing which they would be closing their file on the matter. But Mr 
M still did not provide the requested information, so the solicitors were unable to 
properly advise on whether his case had reasonable prospects of success. So, given 
that Mr M failed to instruct the panel solicitors appropriately and provide the 
information they needed, I do not think NFU have acted unreasonably by deciding to 
withdraw cover, as the policy terms and conditions allow them to take such action in 
these circumstances. 
I also note that NFU have said they will be willing to consider the matter further if Mr 
M is subsequently able to provide a positive prospects assessment of his claim from 
his own legal professionals  which I think is reasonable in the circumstances. 
I note that Mr Ms legal dispute has been ongoing since 2009 and that he has had 
several solicitors represent him in this matter before the panel solicitors were even 
appointed. But he only reported the claim to NFU in 2018  some nine years after 
the event. The policy terms and conditions sate that NFU can decline to cover a claim 
where the policyholder has failed to notify [the insurer] within a reasonable time of it 
happening and where this failure adversely affects the REASONABLE PROSPECTS 
of a claim or [the insurer] considers OUR position has been prejudiced.
Given the lack of information provided on Mr Ms legal dispute  it isnt possible to 
properly assess whether his failure to report it for nine years has had any adverse 
consequences on the claims prospects or has prejudiced NFUs position. So if Mr M 
does subsequently provide the requested information/positive prospects assessment, 
NFU may still be able to decline his claim in reliance on this policy exclusion. But this 
is something the insurer would need to assess if and when they are presented with 
the relevant information.  
In summary, I do not think NFU have handled Mr Ms claim unfairly, or that they have acted 
unreasonably by deciding to withdraw cover at this juncture. So it follows that I do not uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M  
on behalf of Partnership J  to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman