DRN-3262914
The complaint
Mr T complains about the advice given by Grove Pension Solutions Limited to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British Steel 
(BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was poor and the pension transfer was 
unsuitable for him. He believes he has lost out because of it.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, 
one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory 
fund designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes 
when their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual 
from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms 
of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement 
said that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, 
a new pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ts employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to 
BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices 
was 11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). Mr T opted to 
join the BSPS2 ahead of receiving advice so that he didnt lose the opportunity to join this 
scheme.
Mr T sought advice about his pension arrangements and was referred to Grove by another 
adviser as they werent able to advise him on his pension planning. Mr T approached Grove 
on 2 January 2018 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. Grove says he also asked 
for help in moving his BSPS benefits. 
Grove completed a fact-find in January 2018 to gather information about Mr Ts 
circumstances and objectives. Some of the relevant information recorded about Mr Ts 
circumstances was that:
He was 36, he lived with his partner and two dependent children. 
He was employed full time at Tata Steel, his income was around £2,500 a month and 
their joint expenditure was at a similar level. 
He, and Mrs T, owned their own home which was subject to a mortgage. 
They had no other savings or investments. 
Mr T was a member of his employers new defined contribution (DC) pension 
scheme into which 16% of his salary was being invested each month.
Grove also carried out an assessment of Mr Ts attitude to risk, which it said was medium. 
On 15 January 2018, Grove advised Mr T to transfer his BSPS pension benefits, which were 
valued at £101,020.24, into a Royal London personal pension and invest the proceeds in 
one of its managed funds. The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation 
were that Mr T wanted:
To improve his death benefits before retirement and better provide for his partner and 
two young children.
To be able to withdraw his tax-free cash, and possibly an income, flexibly. And he 
wanted to retire early, that is ideally from age 57 to 60.  
An income of £15,000 per year in todays terms.
To minimise the effect of the reduced lifetime allowance.
Mr T complained in July 2020 to Grove about the suitability of the transfer advice. 
I understand that he had some contact with the industry regulator and this led to him thinking 
that the DB transfer might not now be right for him. 
Grove didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. It said the advice was given in accordance with the 
regulators guidance and was suitable for him. The transfer met his objectives of providing 
better death benefits and using his fund in a more flexible way. 
Mr T referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that Grove pay compensation. He thought that Mr T would lose out financially 
due to the transfer of his BSPS pension. And the provision of different death benefits wasnt 
enough on its own to outweigh this. The advice didnt fully consider Mr Ts options at 
retirement. So, it wasnt in his best interests to transfer his DB scheme. 
Grove disagreed, saying:
It wasnt right to compare the critical yield and the discount rate to determine financial 
viability. And in any event, Mr T was told the investment returns needed were not 
achievable. 
But the transfer would still provide a reasonable income and allow him to retire early, 
and it met his other aim of providing better death benefits. 
Mr and Mrs Ts retirement income needs would most likely be met by their other 
provisions, so they needed a fund to bridge the time between Mr Ts early retirement 
and state pension age.
Grove also got a third party to conduct a technical analysis of the transfer. This concluded 
that:
The transfer amount was good value. Given Mr Ts age, and the potential returns 
from equities, it should perform well. 
The transfer was a good fit for him. And as he, and Mrs T, also would have some 
state pension provision it would be reasonable to use his DB scheme to fund Mr Ts 
early retirement. That is to fund the period between his actual retirement and when 
the state pension started.
The investigator considered all of the further information provided. But he wasnt persuaded 
to change his opinion. He was still of the view that the increased risk from the pension 
transfer, compared with the risk-free BSPS pension, represented a great risk than it was 
likely Mr T wanted to take. 
As no agreement was reached the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Grove's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Grove should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ts 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
Grove carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Ts pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). However, this was based on his existing 
scheme benefits and Mr T didnt have the option to remain in the BSPS  he either needed 
to opt into the BSPS2 or move with the scheme to the PPF. And in fact, hed already opted 
into the BSPS2 and the benefits provided by the BSPS2 were known by the time Grove gave 
its advice, so, Groves analysis shouldve been based on these benefits.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor. 
Mr Ts attitude to risk was documented as being medium. He thinks this isnt correct and 
that the transfer itself had more risk than he wanted to take. Mr T didnt seem to have much 
experience of risk-based investments. And this was his main pension entitlement at the time, 
so its reasonable to say that he would not want to risk it do a great degree.
But Mr T did indicate that he was prepared to bear some investment risk. And given the 
length of time that he had to invest this would usually be considered a reasonable thing to 
do. So, for the avoidance of doubt, I dont think it was unreasonable to say his attitude to risk 
was around medium. But probably towards the lower end of this. 
The critical yield required to match Mr Ts benefits at age 65 was 6.91% if he took a full 
pension and 6.12% if he took tax free cash and a reduced pension. The critical yield to 
match the benefits available through the PPF at age 65 was quoted as 5.28% per year if 
Mr T took a full pension and 5.06% per year if he took tax free cash and a reduced pension. 
However, Mr T wanted to retire at age 60 and its not clear why critical yields werent 
provided to this age. Grove suggests this wasnt possible using the standard TVAS system, 
but Im not persuaded that Grove couldnt have done this analysis at the time. I say this 
because Ive seen this performed in other instances of advice given to BSPS members in 
2017 and 2018. And I think Grove should have done this analysis so that Mr T understood 
the true value of the benefits he could be giving up, particularly if he retired early. The critical 
yields were likely to be higher at age 60 given the pension would be invested for a shorter 
time and the benefits would be paid for longer.
The closest discount rate to the time of this transfer which I'm able to refer to was published 
for the period before 1 October 2017 and is 4.7% per year for 28 years to retirement. Ive 
kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014:  
the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and 
the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr T's 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. I think Mr T was likely to receive benefits of a 
materially lower overall value than the occupational scheme at retirement, as a result of 
investing in line with that attitude to risk. And I acknowledge this was noted at the time of 
sale. 
Grove says that it is unreasonable to base any findings on the discount rate because taking 
this into account was not required by the regulator when giving advice and it is not a like for 
like measure. While I havent based my findings on this, I think it is a reasonable additional 
consideration when seeking to determine what level of growth was reasonably achievable at 
the time of the advice. Under COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses to compare the 
benefits likely to be paid under a DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension 
by using reasonable assumptions. So, businesses were free to use the discount rate as this 
wouldve been considered a reasonable assumption of the likely returns for the average 
investor. And in any event, this has been considered in tandem with the regulators 
published projection rates, which providers were required to refer to. And it is this 
combination, along with Mr Ts attitude to risk, which leads me to be believe hed likely be 
worse off in retirement if he transferred out of the DB scheme.
Grove has provided cashflow models which it says show Mr T wouldve been able to meet 
his needs despite the high critical yields. Ive considered these, but Groves models show 
that, assuming he took the same benefits as the DB scheme at age 65, increasing in line with the retail price index, his fund would be exhausted at his age 96. But as Ive said above, 
Groves advice was predicated on Mr T retiring at age 60 at the latest  it didnt provide Mr T 
with this analysis, and it seems to me that this would show Mr Ts funds wouldve depleted 
sooner than age 96 because the funds wouldve been invested for less time and hed be 
taking income for longer.
Grove also didnt perform any stress testing to show the impact of poor performance on the 
investment fund and how that might impact Mr Ts retirement plans. While not a requirement, 
I think it was good practice at the time and it wouldve further demonstrated the value of 
Mr Ts guaranteed benefits in the BSPS2 and how his early retirement plans could be 
affected by market conditions. 
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ts best interests. Of 
course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as Grove 
has said in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
Given that Mr T was so far away from retirement there wasnt a detailed analysis of what his 
income or expenditure needs would be at this time. This isnt entirely unreasonable given 
how far away this was. But it is difficult to properly plan for retirement without this.  
Because of this, I dont think it was really established that Mr T had a genuine need to 
access his tax free cash earlier than the normal scheme retirement age and leave his funds 
invested until a later date. It was discussed that he may want to do this in the future, to 
perhaps allow him to retire early, but there was no immediate need to do this. And I note his 
only significant debt, a mortgage, wouldve been paid long before he retired. So, I dont think 
there was any particular need for a lump sum, it seems more of a nice to have. 
I also cant see any evidence that Mr T had a strong need for variable income throughout his 
retirement. The retirement planning, what there was of it, was based on Mr T wanting an 
income of around £15,000 from around age 60. Grove says the only way to achieve this 
objective was by transferring out of the scheme to a personal pension. 
The advice was given on the basis that Mr T wanted to retire at around age 60. It was noted 
that his, and Mrs Ts, state pension would be likely to meet their needs once they became 
payable. So, the shortfall was between the date Mr T retired and his state pension age. 
Grove says the flexibility of the personal pension allowed him to draw the required income 
until Mr Ts state pension became payable. And I have noted the detailed analysis that 
shows this couldve been achieved. 
But Mr T was only 36 at the time of the advice, and he didnt have concrete retirement plans. 
And the advice really rests on the assumption that Mr Ts circumstances, wants and 
requirements wouldnt change materially over the next 20+ years. But I dont think this is 
reasonable. Mr T had a young family, a mortgaged property and there was significant 
uncertainly around his employment. I think its far more likely, as is usually the case going 
forward from this stage of life, that Mr Ts circumstances and needs would change. And the 
planning should have encompassed this likelihood. Keeping as many of his options open to 
him as possible wouldve been in Mr Ts best interest here.
The regulator more recently referred to the scenario of younger consumer in Finalised 
Guidance 21/3 (which did not represent new rules). It states:If a client is some way from retirement and has no clear idea of what they want from it, it 
may not be possible to advise them on a transfer, until they are closer to retirement. You 
should be asking the question why transfer now? when your clients retirement plans are 
unclear. Wanting to take advantage of a high transfer value is not generally a good reason 
on its own to transfer.
I think this applies to Mr T. He was clearly interested in early retirement and taking benefits 
flexibly, however given that he was at least 20 years away from retirement, I think its fair to 
say that these retirement objectives were not certain and could of course change. And giving 
up his guaranteed benefits was an irreversible action. In my view there was no obvious 
reason for Mr T to transfer in 2018.
Furthermore, I dont think Grove gave enough thought as to how Mr T could meet his desired 
retirement income by remaining in the BSPS2. Although Grove didnt do this analysis at the 
time, it has since provided evidence showing that Mr T wouldve been entitled to a pension 
of £6,174 per year through the BSPS2. This was guaranteed until he died, and it escalated 
each year. It seems to me that this wouldve provided Mr T with a strong foundation for his 
income needs. Mr T was also contributing to his employers DC scheme, which Grove 
estimated would be worth £112,000 by age 60 based on the mid growth rate. So, Mr T 
wouldve already had a sizable, flexible pension to draw on when he thought he would retire 
and couldve taken income from this pension to top up the income he would receive from the 
BSPS2 to meet his needs until the state pension became payable. So, I dont agree that the 
only way Mr T could achieve his retirement objectives was by transferring out of the scheme. 
By doing so, Mr T would be taking on all the investment risk, when he didnt need to.
So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr T to give up his guaranteed 
benefits now when he didnt really know what his needs in retirement would be. And overall, 
I think Mr T couldve most likely met his income needs by remaining in the BSPS2. 
Furthermore, if Mr T later had reason to transfer out of his DB scheme, he could have done 
so closer to retirement.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr T. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr T might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr T about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Grove explored to what extent 
Mr T was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr T 
wasnt married but it doesnt seem that any marriage plans were discussed, he may have 
married later.  I still dont think this is a good reason to transfer. 
He did have two dependent children and so the dependents pension provided by the DB 
scheme wouldve been useful to his children if Mr T predeceased them. I dont think Grove 
made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr T. This was guaranteed and it escalated  
it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a 
personal pension was. And as the cashflow analysis shows, the fund may have been 
depleted particularly if Mr T lived a long life or if investment returns were poor. In any event, 
Grove should not have encouraged Mr T to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits 
through a personal pension over his security in retirement.Furthermore, if Mr T genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse and children, which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, 
I think Grove shouldve instead explored life insurance. The fact find showed that Mr T 
already had life cover of £70,000 in place. He also had death in service cover through his 
employer. So, he already had some provisions of this type. And given his age and lack of 
documented health concerns it may have been more cost effective and suitable to increase 
his life insurance, perhaps on a whole of life basis to provide additional death benefits after 
retirement.  
In addition, Mr T couldve nominated the beneficiaries of his DC scheme to receive the 
remaining sum on his death  so, he already had the means of passing his pension on.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr T. And I dont think that 
further life insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control over his pension fund
I think Mr Ts desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr T was not an 
experienced investor, and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able 
to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective 
for Mr T  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Suitability of investments
Grove recommended that Mr T invest in a managed fund. As Im upholding the complaint on 
the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr T, it follows that I 
dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because 
Mr T should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments in the 
managed fund wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Concerns about financial stability of BSPS
Mr T approached Grove at a time when BSPS members were concerned about their 
pensions. Lots of his colleagues at the time would have been transferring out of the 
scheme and he was likely initially worried his pension would end up in the PPF. So I think 
its quite possible that Mr T came to Grove leaning towards the decision to transfer. 
However, it was Groves obligation to give Mr T an objective picture and recommend what 
was in his best interest. As Ive said above, Mr T had already chosen to join the BSPS2. 
Mr T should have been advised, in my view, to remain in the BSPS2. Grove also should 
have explained that even if BSPS2 failed and Mr T was moved to the PPF, the benefits 
provided would still be very valuable. 
The income available to Mr T through the PPF wouldve still been guaranteed and 
escalated. It, combined with his other provisions, would still have met his goals. And he 
was unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out. And while the increases in 
payment in the PPF were lower, again the income was guaranteed and was not subject to 
any investment risk. So, I dont think that these concerns shouldve meant Grove 
recommending Mr T transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
And if Grove had explained properly why not transferring his DB benefits was in his best 
interests I have no reason to believe he wouldnt have listened to the adviser. Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr T. But Grove 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr T might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr T needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr T was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr T was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits, and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which 
would justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr T shouldnt have been advised to transfer out 
of the scheme based on a vague desire to retire early at this point, and the potential for 
higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme.
So, I think Grove shouldve advised Mr T to remain in the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr T would've gone ahead anyway, against Grove's 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr T wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Groves advice. I say this because Mr T was an 
inexperienced investor and this pension accounted for the majority of his retirement 
provision so far. So, if Grove had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of 
the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted 
that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ts concerns about his employer and the scheme were so great 
that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best 
interests. If Grove had explained that Mr T could meet all of his objectives without risking his 
guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. And, in my view, hed 
already shown that he was open to remaining in the DB scheme by opting to join the BSPS2. 
So, I think he wouldve been reassured by Groves advice that remaining in this scheme was 
in his best interest. For these reasons, I dont think Mr T would have insisted on transferring 
out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Grove should compensate Mr T for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Our Investigator recommended that Grove also pay Mr T £300 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr T has been caused distress and concern in relation 
to his retirement planning. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened but for the 
unsuitable advice. And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator 
recommended is fair.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr T whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published. 
Mr T has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr T. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr T, as far as 
possible, into the position he would now be in but for Groves unsuitable advice. Mr T 
had made the choice to move to the BSPS2. So calculations should be based on this.
Grove must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr T has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ts acceptance of the decision.
Grove may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ts 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ts SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ts pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr T as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr T within 90 days of the date Grove receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Grove to pay Mr T.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Grove to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Grove should pay Mr T £300 for the distress and inconvenience the transfer advice has 
caused him. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Grove Pension 
Solutions Limited to pay Mr T the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Grove Pension Solutions Limited to pay Mr T any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Grove 
Pension Solutions Limited to pay Mr T any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Grove Pension Solutions Limited pays Mr T the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr T.
If Mr T accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Grove Pension 
Solutions Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr T can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr T may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman