DRN-2273361
The complaint
Miss B complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Ltd (the business) failed to 
open a separate savings account as instructed by her. 
Shes unhappy that it failed to pay her monthly contribution into a savings plan, and instead 
paid this into her Stocks and Shares ISA, referred to as the ISA.   
What happened
In April 2017, Miss B Invested £10,000 into the ISA. She also signed up to the regular 
savings service which authorised the business to collect £160 a month to invest in the ISA. 
Miss B says she thought she was setting up a separate savings account and was misled into 
thinking the ISA was doing very well, when it wasnt. She says that the business didnt make 
clear that the monthly contributions were going into the ISA, and its not something she 
wanted or wouldve agreed to. 
Miss B also says that she was on occasions harassed by the business to contribute more 
money into the ISA even though she couldnt afford to do so.
 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
In April 2017, Miss B spoke to a staff member  as she needed help completing a 
top-up form to invest £10,000 into the ISA  but was told that she had the wrong 
form. The call operative offered to take payment over the phone and Miss B 
confirmed that shed read the terms and conditions and understood the value of the 
fund can go up or down.   
The form Miss B filled out clearly states its a Vantage ISA Application Form  an 
application to invest in the Vantage Stocks and Shares ISA. Miss B signed the form 
to say shed read the terms and conditions, and the Key Features Document (KFD).
One of the terms Miss B agreed to states HLAM shall administer all your HL 
Vantage ISAs for different Tax Years as one Account per type of HL Vantage ISA 
you hold. This indicates that the regular savings will be held in the same account as 
her lump sum investment.
Although Miss B says she was misled, the business wrote to her twice a year initially, 
and quarterly from Spring 2018 showing the number of units she held, per unit value 
and total value, as well as whether there has been a loss or gain since the last 
statement. 
The statement also provided a list of all the transactions that took place since the last 
statement, including regular (savings) deposits into the account and any new shares 
bought. So, Miss B cant now say the statements didnt show where the money went.
The request for additional money was to do with the outstanding fees on her account. 
The business advises its customers to have at least £10 in the vantage account, so 
that it can collect the monthly fees. If there isnt enough cash the business has the 
rights to sell units to pay for the fees, and thats why it wrote to Miss B to give her the 
opportunity to top up her account. Although Miss B found the letters distressing, that 
wasnt the business intention, it was trying to help. 
Having listened to the July 2018 call, she understands that it was agreed that the 
fees would be deducted from the regular savings contribution, and the balance 
invested. This ensured that Miss B didnt have to pay more than she could afford. 
On balance shes unable to say the business has behaved unreasonably, so is 
unable to ask the business to return all her funds. 
Although Miss B asked the business to freeze her account until the complaint was 
dealt with, its not something the business can do.  
Miss B disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She 
made a substantial number of points but in short, she said:
The investigator hasnt understood the nature of her complaint. The premise of her 
complaint isnt that she opened the ISA account into which she invested £10,000 but 
that she thought she had opened a separate savings account.  
Her complaint points havent been considered properly, probably so that it doesnt 
have to be upheld.   
She has now read that the application was for a Vantage ISA and that she shouldve 
known from the terms and conditions that the business administers the ISAs from the 
same account. Unfortunately, she didnt read this nor was it explained to her at the 
time, so she didnt know.  She still doesnt agree that her money should be in the 
same account. 
She feels the business couldve frozen her account whilst the complaint was dealt 
with but chose not to.
She should never have been goaded into this distance selling. Her rights have been 
taken away. She never approached the business for any forms but ended up signing 
up for something she didnt want. 
She invested with the business based on trust and wonders if we feel she deserves 
this treatment? 
Shes not an adventurous investor and wouldnt have placed her money in a failing 
fund. 
To put things right she would like her money returned in full. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Miss B says, Im unable to safely 
say the business has behaved unreasonably. 
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise Miss Bs 
strength of feeling about this matter. Im sorry if she feels shes been mistreated by the 
business, Im not persuaded that she has. Miss B has provided detailed submissions to support this complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Miss B and the business, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. Its not for me to 
determine if a fraud has been committed. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
I note the business says that it reopened Miss Bs ISA on 23 March 2017, and she contacted 
the business on 3 April 2017 to subscribe £10,000 by debit card for the 2016/17 tax year. 
Miss B instructed the business to invest in the Woodford Income Focus fund. I dont think 
theres any dispute about this, and as I understand this isnt what Miss B is complaining 
about. 
Miss B subsequently provided regular savings instructions to subscribe to her ISA for the 
2017/18 tax year, purchasing additional units of the Woodford Income fund. I note the 
business says that in line with her instructions, £160 was invested every month, until she 
cancelled her regular savings instructions in August 2018. 
I appreciate Miss B now says she was sent a letter (possibly a spam letter), she didnt 
understand it but signed it and signed her life away, not knowing that her money was going 
into the same ISA. But I cant blame the business for this because it simply did what Miss B 
instructed it to do. 
Im conscious that Miss B had the option to simply ignore the letter or seek advice before 
going ahead with any instructions but chose not to. In other words, she had a choice, and 
without seeking clarification it seems she signed and returned the forms thinking she was 
opening a savings account. Im not persuaded that the business told her or led her to believe 
this would be the case. 
I appreciate that Miss B thought ISAs (for different tax years) would be held separately, and 
therefore this was in effect instructions to save £160 a month in a separate account, but I 
cant blame the business for this misunderstanding. The terms and conditions made clear 
that the ISAs for different tax years would be held together, therefore the monthly 
contributions for 2017/18 would be held with the 2016/17 ISA, and invested in the Woodford 
Income Fund, as instructed by her.    
Im also mindful that this is a self-select ISA, so the business only invested in accordance 
with Miss Bs instructions and this is not something that it wouldve advised on. I note Miss B 
says she chose the particular fund because it was something she invested in in the past and 
thought it was doing well. 
I appreciate Miss B says that she thought her ISA was doing very well (when it wasnt) and 
that the business misled her into thinking that it was. But on the face of the evidence, and 
on balance, Im unable to agree. 
The regular statements made clear the unit value and the shares purchased, including later 
contributions made. The business didnt provide her with other information, so I dont think 
the it misled her as to what was going on. I appreciate Miss B says she would never have opened another account if she knew her ISA 
was making a loss, but whether (or not) she knew it, she still instructed to business to take 
£160 a month for this purpose. 
So far as the business was concerned, Miss B had an ISA into which she was making 
monthly contributions, held with an ISA from the previous year. Despite what Miss B says, it 
wasnt the case that she was converting her ISA into a regular savings ISA  so it wasnt 
something that she had to consent to. Rather it was a lump sum ISA into which she was 
making monthly contributions which were invested in the fund of her choice.  
I appreciate Miss Bs example  that the business offered her bananas, and then got her to 
sign for apples, but I dont agree that this was the case. I think its more the case that she 
applied for bananas, thinking she was applying for apples, and is now unhappy because she 
got what she applied for. In other words, I cant blame the business if Miss B thought by 
applying to contribute £160 monthly, she was getting a separate savings account, when this 
was never the case. Im mindful that this isnt even a feature with the Vantage ISA, so she is 
unlikely to have been told that it was. So, despite what Miss B says, Im not persuaded that it 
told her, or led her to believe, that the money was going into a separate account.   
I also dont think the business ever told her that her ISA was simultaneously growing by the 
same amount that she was contributing every month, and this wouldve been evident from 
the statements which showed every transaction, including every deposit made and unit 
purchased.   
I just think this arose out of Miss Bs (mis)-understanding that she was saving her money in a 
separate savings account, and that her ISA was increasing at the same time, by the same 
amount. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that the business is responsible for this 
misunderstanding. 
Im mindful that when the business corresponded with Miss B, it even quoted the same 
account number. So, if there was any doubt it was open for Miss B to cross reference this 
with her other documentation relating to the ISA  it wasnt necessary for her to have this 
detail memorised to be able to do this. 
I appreciate Miss B is concerned about the business asking for more money, but I 
understand that was in relation to the outstanding fees that had accumulated. I understand 
that if she wasnt willing to pay this (separately) the business had the option sell shares to 
pay for the fees. I appreciate Miss B had affordability issues, so the business agreed to take 
any fees differently  rather than ask for her to pay additional sums  which I think is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.   
I appreciate Miss B wants the business to suspend or freeze her ISA account whilst her 
complaint is dealt with. But despite what she wants, given how ISAs operate, this isnt 
something the business can do. So, I cant blame the business for not being able freeze or 
quarantine her ISA. 
If I was to uphold the complaint  which I dont  I couldve asked the business to return her 
money if this was the right thing to do. But I dont feel its a reasonable outcome in the 
circumstances.  
I note the business says that Miss B has the option to close her ISA by selling the 
investments (for which charges may apply) or go to another provider. She may wish to get 
financial advice before deciding what to do. Im mindful of the other issues raised by Miss B, but despite what she says, Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that her money has been stolen, or that the business has been 
duplicitous or deceitful towards her. 
I understand that a new complaint about the fund and marketing is being considered 
separately. I understand Miss B feels she was targeted  through distance selling  to invest 
when the business knew the fund was failing. Shes not an online person so didnt know the 
fund was failing. 
The business will have to be given time to respond to the complaint before Miss B decides 
whether or not she wishes to refer the complaint to our service. Its not something I can 
comment upon in this case.  
I appreciate Miss B will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. I 
realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate her frustration, Im 
unable to uphold this complaint and give her what she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman