DRN-3793555
The complaint
In 2020 Mrs C and her husband (Mr C) engaged the services of Balance: Wealth Planning 
Limited (Balance) for their pension arrangements. They followed Balances 
recommendation to move their respective Personal Pensions (PPs)  in Mrs Cs case, from 
Scottish Widows (SW)  into Self-Invested Personal Pensions (SIPPs) on the Parmenion 
platform. Balance provided ongoing advice/management for their SIPPs until March 2021, 
after it terminated its service in February 2021.
Mrs C and her husband complained about Balance. Her complaint was separated from his. 
This decision is only about hers. A decision has already been issued for her husbands 
complaint. However, he led in presenting both complaints and continues to represent Mrs C 
in hers.
In summary, Mrs C says Balance gave her unsuitable advice at the outset, failed to properly 
(and suitably) set up her SIPP, terminated its service prematurely and irresponsibly, and 
withheld fees it did not earn. Balance disputes all allegations.
What happened
Chronology/Summary of Main Events
Most, if not all, the main events in the complaint involved Mrs and Mr C jointly. Mr C mainly 
led, on her and his behalf, in their engagements with Balance. 
In May 2020, Mr C contacted Balance seeking a new financial adviser. He submitted a 
Details-4-IFA document (the Details document) to Balance, summarising his and Mrs Cs 
personal background, financial circumstances, pension arrangements, goals, objectives and 
requirements. In June, meetings were held in which Balances proposals were presented 
and discussed. There was also a proposal document in this respect. The document mainly 
referred to their goals, some generic ideas on financial planning, some specific ideas in this 
respect (with the qualification that none amounted to advice at that stage), some 
performance illustrations, and a summary of Balances initial and ongoing financial planning 
service and fees. The document has electronic signatures for both of them (dated 17 June). 
It also has sections containing Balances service agreement terms, which also refers to the 
electronic signatures, and sections with more information about Balance. 
By August, Balance had completed its Financial Planning report (the report). It was 
presented to Mrs and Mr C and its contents were discussed with them during a meeting on 7 
August. The discussions (and some debate) continued over further meetings in August and 
September. The report was completed on 6 August and updated on 9 August, the latter 
version had contents that were agreed with them on 7 August. 
The report set out a risk profile assessment of around low/medium for Mrs C and one of 
around medium/high for Mr C. This resulted in a joint investment approach based on a 40% 
allocation to riskier growth assets and the remainder in low/lower risk defensive assets. On 
this basis, the Vanguard LifeStrategy 40% Equity Income fund (the VL40Inc fund) was 
recommended. This was selected from a group of VL funds with different levels of equity 
exposure.
Balance revisited its advice in September mainly because of enquiries by Mr C. Amongst 
them were queries about having higher risk exposures (for the prospects of higher returns)  
comparatively more for him than for Mrs C  and using a satellite portfolio investment 
approach. Balance advised against the use of the satellite portfolio approach. Instead, it 
proposed an alternative whereby cash for six months planned withdrawals would be set 
aside and, for Mrs Cs SIPP and in terms of investments, the strategy would be to have three 
years worth of planned withdrawals invested with a lower risk 30% growth assets approach; 
have five years worth of planned withdrawals invested with a medium risk 40% growth 
assets approach; and have the remainder invested with a higher risk 60% growth assets 
approach  the 30:40:60 approach. It said this would increase the overall growth assets 
exposure in her SIPP from 40% (as initially recommended) to 42%.
Discussions, advice and correspondence continued. These too were mainly due to Mr Cs 
queries and concerns about Balances previous advice. Parmenions role in the SIPP was a 
key concern. Meetings were held on 3, 17 and 23 November, and on 4, 10 and 18 
December, alongside correspondence around these meetings. In correspondence between 
the 23 November and 4 December meetings Balance clarified, amongst other things, that 
Parmenion was akin to a Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM), given the discretion they 
retained to balance the SIPPs overall portfolio. However, it also said their remit was set and 
limited by instructions given in the application at the outset and instructions given by Balance 
(including the instructions to invest in the VL funds, to rebalance quarterly, to reinvest and to 
pay income and charges) initially and over time. 
Balance confirmed the portfolio must have 2% in cash to cover fees (Parmenions 
rebalancing of the portfolio included maintenance, as closely as possible, of this level of 
cash); that the 30:40:60 approach was in response to the requests to increase the portfolios 
risk profile (and potential for return) and to create different sub-portfolios (determined by risk 
levels) from which withdrawals will be made over time; that, in practice, this will be achieved 
by using combinations of VL funds with equity exposure levels that matched the approach; 
and that the combinations will also be subject to rebalancing in order to maintain them.
By December both parties had agreed to review the SIPP afresh and to consider a different 
approach and platform (Old Mutual (OM)). The meeting on 10 December was pivotal in this 
respect. In it, and in a nutshell, Mr C confirmed that Parmenion, and the components of its 
offerings and of its service were not what they expected or wanted and that the platform was 
unlikely to be suitable for them. Balance referred to how its advice to and discussions with 
him had developed over time because of his enquiries and the reconsiderations they 
prompted. It took the view that either its initial assessment might have been misjudged or his 
expectations and requirements had changed over time, since the initial advice, and changed 
as he gained more insight into the workings of what had been recommended. In any case, it 
considered there should be a review. Both sides agreed, and discussion in this respect 
developed further in the meeting on 18 December.
Another meeting happened in January 2021, followed by correspondence. Both addressed 
and discussed reviews of the SIPPs investment strategy and the OM alternative that 
Balance had raised. On 4 February Balance terminated its service (to both Mrs and Mr C), 
and gave a months notice. 
It said its reasons were, in summary, its concerns about the working relationship with Mr C; a 
sense (with examples) that he sought someone to discuss/debate with him and then help 
him invest based on his ideas, which conflicted with the advised management service it 
wanted to deliver; its conclusion that continuing the relationship was not commercially viable, 
without an increase in its fees, given the level of work (above its anticipation) that had already been performed for him and given the likelihood that he would continue to expect 
such a level of service; its view that, despite all the work that had been done, both sides 
were not much closer to a conclusion; its view that the mistrust of financial advisers and 
institutions that he expressed at the outset would be impossible to overcome; and its overall 
conclusion that the relationship did not work for either party. The letter confirmed that its 
service to their SIPPs would continue during the notice period and that it will be willing to 
engage in any handover to a new firm that is appointed. The letter also summed up where 
they were at the time, and gave responses to Mr Cs most recent queries. 
On 12 February Mr C responded to the service termination. Balance replied on 15 February 
and Mr C responded further on 18 February. In a nutshell, he said the termination had been 
a shock to him and Mrs C, and had amounted to a betrayal by Balance; that Balance had 
admitted putting their pensions in the wrong place and was effectively avoiding the 
responsibility to repair that; that their pensions were essentially inaccessible at the worst 
time of the year; that their outlook and needs had never changed, instead it was Balance 
who misguided itself in those respects; and that Balance must take no more fees from their 
accounts and must refund the fees already taken, because its service had been incomplete 
and had been based on unsuitable advice.
Balance treated this as a complaint and issued its response on 9 March. Mr C said his 
comments did not constitute a complaint, given that his efforts at the time were focused on 
looking into arrangements to mitigate the situation he and Mrs C were left in. Then, on 16 
June, he submitted a complaint. Balance replied on 30 June, and the case was subsequently 
referred to this service.
Complaint
In the main, Mrs Cs case is that Balances recommendation of the Parmenion platform, and 
transfer of her pension to that platform, was unsuitable. Jointly, she and Mr C (led by Mr C) 
consider that they wanted to have control, alongside Balance, of their respective pensions 
but instead the recommendation delegated major control and power to Parmenion. Mrs C 
also shares the complaint about Balances termination of service.
Mr C made some core arguments which appear to serve both his and Mrs Cs complaints. 
He says Parmenions balancing feature (with constant small trades) was cost ineffective; he 
suggests that the recommended portfolios lacked diversification; he highlights that, in 
December 2020, Balance conceded its initial recommendation was unsuitable for them; he 
questions why Vanguards platform was not recommended for the pensions, as opposed to 
Parmenions, given that the recommended portfolio was based on versions of Vanguards VL 
funds; and he says Balance failed to rectify its wrongdoings, but instead terminated its 
service in order to avoid doing so. 
Balance mainly says it had numerous detailed and lengthy meetings with the couple from 
May 2020 and up to January 2021; the meetings were followed by numerous cross 
communications; the meetings and presentations at the outset led to assessments and 
recommendations that were suitable for and agreed by them; the recommendations 
developed and changed after discussions, mainly with Mr C (on their joint behalf), up to the 
events in December 2020; by this time their requirements had changed, hence the OM 
recommendation (OM being a platform that gave more control over the SIPPs investments 
than Parmenion allowed); however, this does not mean its earlier advice was unsuitable or 
that its implementation work was incomplete; the Parmenion SIPPs were set up, and 
Parmenions rebalancing service was suitable, and transparent, at the outset; the Vanguard 
platform was a direct-to-consumer platform, but they wanted an adviser led platform; it gave 
valid grounds to terminate its service and it did so with contractual notice around two months 
before the end of the financial year, so there was ample time to make alternative arrangements; it did not retain fees it was not entitled to; it should not have to refund fees for 
work it has already conducted, in fact it conducted more work than it charged for. 
Our investigation
One of our investigators looked into the matter and concluded that the complaint should not 
be upheld. For reasons broadly similar to Balances arguments, he did not consider that the 
recommendation to Mrs C was unsuitable and did not consider there were grounds on which 
Balance should refund fees. He referred to the regulators expectation, upon firms, with 
regards to issues to consider in pension switches  comparison of charges, potential loss of 
benefits in a switch, potential change in risk exposure resulting from a switch and fund 
management considerations arising from a switch  and he noted that Balance expressed all 
the same in its advice to Mrs C. The investigator summarised his own assessment of 
suitability and, on that basis, he did not find Balances advice unsuitable.
Mrs and Mr C disagreed with and challenged this outcome. Their response included 
comments on the contents of the investigators view and additional notes in support of those 
comments. They retained the core submissions in her complaint and said this service should 
answer all aspects of the complaint. The case was then referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Introduction
I decided Mr Cs complaint. I did not uphold it, and I set out reasons for this conclusion. The 
present complaint, for Mrs C, differs in terms of her pre-existing pension arrangement and 
her profile. However, in the main, both complaints have essentially been pursued on the 
same core grounds, hence the couples initial submission of a joint complaint. 
I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint and I have reached this conclusion for broadly the same 
key reasons given in my decision for her husbands complaint  that is, Balances 
recommendations were not unsuitable, it delivered the service it was paid to provide, and it 
committed no wrongdoing in terminating its service. Therefore, many of the findings below 
will be expressed similarly or identically to those in the other decision. 
Furthermore, I should note that Mr C responded to and disagreed with my decision in his 
case. He commented on the decisions contents, but only, it appears, in response to the 
background contents and not in response to my findings. Given that Mrs Cs complaint has 
been pursued with his, I anticipate that his comments are probably intended to apply to her 
case too. For this reason, I will summarise and address them towards the end of this 
decision.
Complaint Issues
Mrs and Mr Cs joint complaint letter set out nine complaint issues, which I have read and 
understood. I have done the same for the other complaint submissions made to Balance and 
to this service. The case has ample available evidence, and I have considered and 
understood these too. They include copies of correspondence between the parties, 
Balances assessments and recommendations, its answers to enquiries over time and video 
recordings of significant and detailed meetings held between the parties. 
Overall, the case splits into two core aspects. First is the alleged unsuitability of Balances recommendation (including its alleged failure to properly implement it); then, there is the 
alleged failure of Balances overall/ongoing service to Mrs C (including its termination of that 
service). 
Recommendation and Implementation
The Details document helpfully sets the scene, and context, for considering what was 
presented to Balance and what it was asked to advise on and provide its services for. There 
are important and relevant descriptions in this document, especially those under the sub-
headings of Our objectives, Our requirements and Current Status  the document covers 
the couple jointly, hence its use of the word our, but the details for each can be discerned. 
In the Our requirements section, Mr C said he wanted to be treated and dealt with, alongside 
Mrs C, as a couple  unless financial rules dont allow or there is clear benefit to [them]. 
The document ends with reference to Mrs C having no portfolio and to a conversation having 
taken place with a previous pension provider about setting one up, and having  the two 
portfolios managed as one so either of us can deal with both [my emphasis]. Balance 
understood the requirement statement to mean a joint approach for the couples pensions 
and that influenced its presentations in June and early August 2020. There appears to have 
been no objection from Mrs and Mr C to that understanding or approach at the time. 
The Details document also set out a desire for advice on available options, on how the 
options worked, on whether (or not) they were good or bad (plus reasons why), on costs and 
charges details and on the details of implementation. 
The objectives section made clear the need to retain control  having listened and 
questioned IFAs advice [i.e. not having to follow blindly]. Taken together with the 
requirements, the message to Balance was that its advice had to be transparent and 
informative/detailed and that the couple wished to retain control over the decision to follow 
the advice, having listened to it and questioned any aspect of it they needed to question. 
It has been argued that Mrs Cs requirements never changed, hence the associated 
argument that Balances advice was therefore misguided from the start. Balance says her 
requirements changed. I agree with Balance. At first, she (alongside Mr C) sought control 
only or mainly at the point of advice, in order to ensure she was fully informed, to question all 
that she wished to question, to be given answers and then to decide whether (or not) to 
proceed with the advice. There is no evidence that, at the time, she sought control of or 
involvement in the active management of her pensions portfolio. 
Balances recommendation was initially to have the VL40Inc fund as the only investment in 
the SIPP. It was a managed fund that did not require external investment management. 
Other than maintaining the 2% minimum cash in the SIPP it does not appear that Parmenion 
(or anyone else) would have had much to do in terms of management  unless and/or until, 
between Balance and Mrs C, the investment strategy was reviewed and a different strategy 
(and/or different fund selection) was pursued. 
This initial set-up would not have been accepted by Mrs C if she, and Mr C, wanted active 
control and/or involvement in the management of the SIPPs investments. The Details 
document does not say this type of control or involvement was desired. Overall, I consider 
that, for their joint purpose, Mr Cs appetite for such control and/or involvement arose and 
grew as the discussions with Balance developed.
The objectives section also included  maximisation of the pensions potential and the tax-
free cash; minimisation of associated tax liabilities; and a wish to find a client-adviser 
relationship for the foreseeable future (and possibly beyond).There are key elements to consider in terms of the suitability (or otherwise) of an investment 
recommendation, including one related to a pension. An investors profile at the time of the 
recommendation is one. This is mainly his/her objective(s), attitude to risk (ATR), 
investment experience, financial circumstances and affordability status (including capacity 
for loss). It is also important to assess whether (or not), on balance, the investors profile was 
properly determined between the investor and the adviser, and whether (or not), on balance, 
the advisers recommendation matched, or was suitable for, that profile. A concluding 
consideration is whether (or not), on balance, the investor was properly informed about the 
nature of the recommended investment (including its associated costs and risks) and about 
the reasons why the adviser considered it to be suitable. 
The matter of implementation is inherently coupled with a firms recommendation, the latter 
defines what is practically required in the former, so the main questions to address are 
whether (or not) the action points for Balance in its recommendation were carried out and, if 
not, the reasons why they were not.
Moving from the SW PP to a SIPP with Parmenion was Balances idea. It is not disputed and 
it clear in available evidence. However, it was not inconsistent with the advice on alternative 
options that she sought. Balance was asked to review her existing pension arrangement, it 
did so and, in conclusion, it recommended an alternative. On balance, and for the reasons 
that follow, I consider that this recommendation was not unsuitable and it did not mismatch 
Mrs Cs profile and requirements. I also find that her profile was correctly determined, and 
agreed, and that she was sufficiently informed about Balances recommendations  from the 
initial one to the subsequent ones.
Balances presentations and advice in June and August 2020 were notably thorough, as 
were the meetings held with Mrs and Mr C during these periods. Their requirements for 
transparency and details in advice were met. The substantial evidence of the meetings, their 
contents and Balances written advice (in the report and beyond) also supports this 
conclusion. At the time of the report, it had the task of providing advice to them jointly, as 
they had asked for and as it did. The proposal document in June was a document early in 
the process and it had a more generic theme for that reason. It probably helped to set their 
expectation for what was to follow. The report in August, and an Investment Management 
Report (IMR) that was also issued (to Mr C in September and to Mrs C in October) did 
much more to set out the specifics of what was being recommended.
The report was revised for accuracy after it was discussed between the parties during the 
meeting of 7 August 2020. Mr Cs response to it, on his and Mrs Cs behalf, was sent just 
over a fortnight thereafter (on 24 August). He put, to Balance, questions about its advice and 
he commented on and queried specific parts of the report. The first 12 pages of the report 
mainly summed up the couples profiles. In his response, he gave additional dividend income 
information relevant to page 7, and personal insurance, will and death benefits information 
updates relevant to page 8. He confirmed that he and Mrs C were in line with Balances 
assessments between pages 10 and 12 (which included its assessments for ATR, 
knowledge, experience, financial capacity/capacity for loss, and investment outlook), but he 
raised the question about having different approaches to investments based on their 
different ATRs. As I said in the background section above, the couple wanted exposure to 
more risk (to increase the prospects of higher returns)  comparatively more so for Mr C 
than for Mrs C. Balance said this could be done, and evidence shows that this is what 
developed to the recommendation changes that happened over September and October.
On balance, I consider the above to be evidence that Mrs Cs profile was properly 
determined by Balance and that its assessment of that profile was agreed by her.Balances pensions advice was set out on pages 18 and 19 of the report. Prior to that it had 
set out its wider financial advice, some of which inter-linked with its pension advice  for 
example, advice on withdrawal of income. In his response to this section, Mr C essentially 
repeated his query about altering the approach towards investment risks. 
Balance recommended the Parmenion SIPP because it considered that it provided a range 
of different portfolios, provided the transparency that was sought, allowed for withdrawals 
without penalty, had no transaction or exit charges, gave access to suitable investments, 
was on an easier to use platform, provided better value for money (in terms of charges) and 
had a simpler charging structure. I have not seen evidence to the contrary and, as I said 
above, Balance also recommended the VL40Inc fund (only).
The only area of concern for the couple was the matter of revising the approach towards 
investment risks. Mr C, on his and Mrs Cs behalf, did not object to anything [meaningful] 
else at the time. This concern obviously called into question the VL40Inc fund 
recommendation, so that recommendation became subject to review thereafter. Aside from 
this aspect, the rest of Balances recommendation appears to have been agreed by Mrs C. 
Of course, that agreement alone does not automatically make the recommendation suitable, 
but I have not been persuaded that it was unsuitable. It was a viable alternative option, for 
the credible reasons Balance gave, and it matched her enquiry into viable alternative options 
for her pension arrangements. 
The recommendation also matched her wish for control and/or involvement at the point of 
advice. Balance was engaged on an advised basis and, going forward, was to 
oversee/manage the SIPP on the same basis, so it could not execute any actions  at the 
time or in the future  without Mrs Cs approval. I have not addressed the question of 
whether (or not) Vanguards SIPP/platform, or any others, would have been better than the 
Parmenion SIPP. The regulatory obligation upon Balance was to give suitable advice, not 
more or most suitable advice, so the issue remains the suitability (or otherwise) of the 
Parmenion SIPP/platform, and I have not found it was unsuitable.
The recommendations (in the report and thereafter) never went beyond Mrs Cs overall 
financial profile (that is, her ATR, capacity for loss and affordability status). Initially Balance 
averaged her profile with her husbands, but it was not wrong to do that and I have already 
addressed the reason why. When the couples instruction changed, and separate profiles 
(and sub portfolios) were required, this was reflected in the 30:40:60 approach proposed for 
her. The combined effect resulted in around 42% exposure to higher risks, which was only 
2% more than the initially recommended 40% exposure she agreed with, which provided the 
slight increase in risk/reward profile she sought and which still maintained a match with her 
low-medium ATR. There is also evidence of extensive discussions, planning and agreement 
between the parties about income and living needs, so I do not find there were issues with 
her capacity for loss or affordability status. 
In terms of the VL fund combinations proposed to match the 30:40:60 approach, the funds 
factsheets show that they were geared towards the type of growth she needed and 
discussed with Balance, so they were suitable for her objective too. There appears to have 
been an issue around selection of the income version of the funds instead of the 
accumulation version, but this was clarified in discussions between both parties and I do not 
consider that it was a pivotal matter. As I said above, her requirements for income and living 
needs were properly addressed and resolved during the discussions with Balance. 
The matter of fund management control then began to feature, which led to further 
discussion and debate over Balances advice, to even further reconsideration of its advice, 
and to the events in December 2020.As I said above, Mrs C already had the level of involvement and control at the point of advice 
that she and her husband wanted. For example, they were able to make Balance review its 
initial recommendation, and continue to do so up to December 2020. As the matter 
progressed it is clear from the videos of the later meetings that Mr C, on their joint behalf, 
began to develop an appetite for the active management (directly and/or through Balance) of 
the SIPPs investments on the Parmenion platform. It is also clear from the videos that the 
reality of Parmenion holding the fund management position exclusively  given the nature of 
its service model  did not sit well with him. 
However, this had been disclosed to the couple at the outset. The August report and the 
IMRs did that. 
The reports second Appendix, entitled Introducing Parmenion Capital Partners, 
summarised, amongst other things, that it provided an adviser led platform with readymade 
portfolios and that it worked as follows  We specify the portfolio you would like to have, the 
risk level and the investment mix and Parmenion are responsible for selecting the individual 
funds in that portfolio based on that brief. They can change those funds when it is sensible to 
do so, and they will also rebalance the portfolio every six months so the amount of risk you 
are taking remains appropriate. [my emphasis] 
The IMRs were mainly about Parmenion and elaborated even further on this service model, 
with detailed references to its ongoing discretionary fund management role based on the 
mandate set by the adviser (and client) and to its portfolio rebalancing role. In addition, and 
around the same time, there was email correspondence from Balance to Mr C in which the 
same service model was repeated and explained to him.
It appears that Mrs and Mr C had a delayed reaction/objection to Parmenions service 
model. What they wanted earlier in the process was different to what they sought towards 
the end of 2020, so Parmenions role was not initially a problem when they did not seek 
involvement in fund management, but it later became a problem when they did. This is not a 
criticism. Mrs Cs pension belonged to Mrs C, so she was entitled to review and revise her 
requirements as she wished. However, the point to note is that, contrary to the allegation in 
her complaint, Balance did not put her in the wrong place. It recommended Parmenion 
based on her initial requirements, that was not unsuitable, those requirements changed, 
Balances approach and advice did the same, and by the end of 2020 it recommended the 
OM alternative.
Mr C says Balance has conceded that they were put in the wrong place. I have watched the 
relevant meeting video and Balance did not quite say that. Its view was that either it might 
have misunderstood their requirements at the outset or their requirements had changed over 
time. I have found, on evidence, that the latter was the case and the former was not.
In terms of implementation of Balances advice, evidence does not show a failing. It 
recommended the Parmenion SIPP and that SIPP was established (as recommended)  
there is evidence of a Pension Commencement Lump Sum payment arranged from it in 
October 2020. I do not address whether (or not) the OM proposal was suitable. It is not a 
feature of the complaint and it was never implemented by Balance.
Overall, on balance and for all the above reasons I do not uphold the complaint about 
Balances recommendations and its implementation of them.
Service and Termination of Service
Balances advice was not unsuitable and it implemented its advice. Many detailed and 
lengthy meetings were held between the parties and many detailed and lengthy advice and implementation related correspondence also happened between them. Balance has 
submitted a schedule of all works performed, and I consider it to be credible and reliable 
evidence because the entries are supported by documentation (or recordings) of the relevant 
work. 
There is enough evidence in the schedule to show that Balance delivered a substantial and 
dedicated service, one that appears to have gone beyond the service basics set out to the 
couple in the proposal document and in the report. I have also watched the meeting videos, 
in which I found Balances approach towards its advice to, and discussions with, the couple 
to be respectful, meaningful, thorough and informative  and consistently so. Overall, I 
understand and agree with Balances position that it did more work than it charged for. I do 
not find grounds to support the claim Mrs C makes for a refund of fees.
Both parties had their respective contractual rights to terminate the relationship. Balance 
exercised its right in this respect and gave the period of notice it was obliged to give. The 
terms of service did not require it to give reasons, but it did. I summarised those reasons 
above. Overall, and given the evidence I have seen of interactions between the parties 
towards the end of 2020 and in January 2021, I am persuaded that Balance reasonably 
concluded the relationship was no longer viable. Another firm faced with a client intent upon 
the level of involvement and/or control that Mrs and Mr C wanted by December 2020 might 
elect to continue the relationship on an insistent client basis  whereby, in simple terms, the 
firm proceeds to execute the clients instructions even where they conflict with its advice, but 
it puts on record (with reasons or details) that the steps were taken against its advice and 
upon the clients insistence. This would be a matter for each firms discretion. A different firm 
might behave like Balance and simply terminate the relationship in such circumstances. 
By December 2020 there were areas over which the parties disagreed. I consider that Mr C 
presented the couple as insistent clients in some or all these areas. Initially and somewhat 
briefly, Balance engaged on this basis, whilst also stressing to him that it had to be allowed 
to fulfil its role as the adviser. However, in early 2021 it appears to have taken the view that it 
could not sustain that approach or that type of relationship any further, so it terminated its 
service for that reason. On balance, I do not consider it was wrong to do so.
I acknowledge the complaint about the timing of the termination and the impact upon the 
couple. I do not doubt the trouble and distress this probably caused, but I also agree with 
Balances point that they had most of February and all of March, almost two months, to 
make alternative arrangements before the end of the tax year. I do not suggest this was 
ideal and I do not diminish the impact the termination would have had, but the point is that 
they had time to address that impact. Whilst I acknowledge the trouble caused, I cannot 
reasonably consider compensation from Balance for that purpose, because it did nothing 
wrong in terminating its service.
Mr Cs comments (in his case)
As I said earlier, Mr Cs comments on the decision in his case are probably intended to apply 
to Mrs Cs case too. In the main, in relation to the decisions contents and in relation to the 
contents I consider relevant to Mrs Cs complaint, he said:
The decision to separate Mrs Cs complaint from his was made by this service.
The decisions summary of the complaint is inaccurate.
The decision does not refer to the reason he and Mrs C moved to Balance.The decisions summary of the report  IS NOT AN ACCURATE SUMMARY OF 
EVENTS OR FUND STATUS.
Balances concession that it had put him and Mrs C in the wrong place  WAS 
RECORDED.
The meeting and correspondence between them and Balance in January 2021 was 
about the OM alternative and the need to get them out of the wrong place.
Their requirements never changed; it is Balance that never delivered on them.
Balance told them there would be no more contact after its termination letter of 4 
February 2021.
They saw, on Mrs Cs SIPP, evidence of constant small trades by Parmenion.
I address these comments as follows:
In both decisions I have made clear that the complaints were separated. In terms of 
my findings and conclusions, the separation has had no impact.
I have revisited the submissions made for the complaint and the nine complaint 
issues set out in the joint complaint letter. I am satisfied that my findings and 
conclusions have been based on an accurate summary and understanding of the 
complaint.
The complaint is about Balance, its advice and its service. For this reason, the 
background behind and reasons for Mrs and Mr C moving to Balance  which, I 
assure them, I am aware of  are immaterial. In another case, such background 
could be worth reflecting, especially if it helped to determine what a client required or 
hoped for from a new firm. In the present case, Mrs and Mr Cs Details document set 
out their requirements, hopes and objectives at the beginning of their contact with 
Balance, and they did so clearly, fully and in their own words. As such, and given that 
the decision already refers to the Details document, it is not necessary to refer to the 
preceding background for the same purpose.
I have revisited the report and I am satisfied that my references to its contents, as I 
have done in the sections above, are accurate.
Earlier I said  Mr C says Balance has conceded that they were put in the wrong 
place. I have watched the relevant meeting video and Balance did not quite say that. 
Its view was that either it might have misunderstood their requirements at the outset 
or their requirements had changed over time. As I have emphasised in this quote, I 
am aware of the recording Mr C refers to and it is the same recording that serves as 
evidence that Balance did not quite make the concession he alleges.
My description of the meeting and correspondence in January 2021 already says 
they included discussion of the OM alternative.
I have already made and explained my findings on Mrs and Mr Cs requirements 
changing over time.I have revisited Balances termination letter of 4 February and I am satisfied it is as I 
described above, including the letters confirmation that Balances service to the 
SIPPs would continue during the notice period. 
The complaint is not about Parmenion, so I do not consider it necessary to be drawn 
into any alleged trading it conducted in Mrs Cs SIPP. If Mr Cs point about this is 
meant to support the argument that Parmenion was unsuitable for Mrs C, I have 
already addressed (above) why the initial recommendation of Parmenion was not 
unsuitable and, when Mrs and Mr Cs needs changed, how Balance reacted 
accordingly and revised its recommendation  leading to the OM alternative.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman