DRN-2013179
The complaint
Mr P has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) decision to decline a claim he 
made for damage to his property. Mr P made a claim under his joint Buildings insurance 
policy with Ms A following repairs to a leak under his floor.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr P called for assistance under a Home Emergency policy when he 
suspected a leak. The plumber was able to locate the leak in a void floor beneath laminate 
floorboards. But this meant he had to cut through the floorboards in order to access and 
repair. 
Mr P discussed the repair to the laminate flooring with UKI and asked if it would be covered 
under his buildings insurance policy. Mr P said UKI told him it would. But when he went to 
claim for the repairs to the floor, UKI told him it wasnt covered.
UKI said it listened to the key call and didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said Mr P was 
advised that UKI couldnt confirm there was any cover until it had conformation of the leak 
and that the leak had caused damage to the building. As there was no water damage to the 
building caused by the leak, his claim was correctly declined and in line with the policy 
terms. 
Mr P asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought UKI had acted reasonably. 
But Mr P didnt agree. In summary he says the decision is unfair because he has a void 
floor. If he didnt have a void floor, there would have been water damage to the building and 
the floor would have been covered.  
He paid for a premium policy which includes accidental damage. He believes there is a gap 
in the policy as it doesnt cover having the floor replaced when its been damaged to access 
and repair a leak. He said if this type of cover was excluded, it should have been highlighted 
by UKI. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurance policies are intended to provide cover for specified perils, rather than for anything 
that might happen to a property. I understand Mr P believes because he paid for a premium 
policy, his claim should be covered. But I think his policy clearly set out what was and wasnt 
covered in relation to his claim. It says:
Your buildings are covered for loss or damage caused by: water or oil escaping from 
underground drains and pipes, domestic appliances, storage tanks. We dont cover 
costs to remove and replace any part of the buildings to find and repair the source of 
any water or oil leaks. However, you may have cover under the Trace and Access 
section below.
Under the Trace and Access section it reads:
We will also pay up to £10,000 to remove and
replace any part of the buildings to:
 find the source of any water or oil escaping from tanks, pipes, appliances or fixed
heating systems that is causing damage to the buildings. (my underlining).
During the key call with UKI, Mr P asked if the plumber damaged the floor to access the 
leak, would the floor be covered. UKI told Mr P that if the plumber found a leak, and there is 
also water damage to the property it would look to cover the claim for damage under the 
Trace and Access section. 
Mr P says he didnt claim for other benefits available under the policy such as overnight 
accommodation, which he says they would have been covered for. But I cant take this into 
account and decide that UKI should therefore meet his claim for repairs to his floor. As the 
building wasnt damaged by the escape of water, Mr Ps claim for repairs to the floorboards 
isnt covered. I dont think UKI misled Mr P into believing the repairs would be covered and I 
think the policy clearly sets out what is and isnt covered in these circumstances.
I appreciate that Mr P will be disappointed with my decision. But I think UKIs decision to 
decline his claim was reasonable and in line with the policy. So Im not asking it to do any 
more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman