DRN-3429423
The complaint
Miss G and Mrs G complain that Santander UK Plc closed their account without permission.
What happened
Mrs G says she opened an account for her daughter Miss G with the intention of using it to 
pay for university costs. She says Santander closed the account in 2018 without her 
permission or authority and paid the money into her account. Mrs G says she thought the 
money paid into her account was a work bonus. She says she now cant pay for her 
daughters university costs and would like the balance of £449 paid to her by Santander. She 
also says Santanders payment of £20 is an insult.
Santander says the account was closed on 15 December 2018 and the money transferred to 
Mrs Gs account. It says it doesnt have records of instructions from that time but says it 
wouldnt have closed the account without authority. It also says the money was paid into Mrs 
Gs account and appeared on her statement as transfer to Mrs G taking her balance to 
£461.99. Santander says it paid the £20 as a goodwill gesture.
Mrs G brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought the money had been paid into Mrs Gs account and that it would be 
unfair to order Santander repay the money when she had the benefit of that money. The 
investigator also thought the transfer would have been visible on Mrs Gs account statement.
Mrs G doesnt accept that view and says she wouldnt have spent the money if she realised 
where it came from. She says Santander has admitted liability and would like the money 
back. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I appreciate that, due to the passage of time since the account was closed, Santander no 
longer has records about how the account was closed or why. So, I have to consider on 
balance what I think is more likely to have happened. Having done so I think it more likely 
that Santander would have closed the account following instructions from Mrs G or Miss G to 
do so. And Im satisfied the money was paid into Mrs Gs account which I think supports that 
view. 
I can see that Mrs G accepts that she recalls the payment into her account but thought it was 
a work bonus. I am not sure why that was the case when I think Mrs Gs account statement 
clearly showed the payment as a transfer from Mrs G. I can also see that Santander sent 
Mrs G an account statement for the closed account in around April 2019 which showed the 
balance as zero. So, I would have reasonably expected Mrs G to have noticed at or around 
the account closure in December 2018 to April 2019 that a payment had been made into her 
account with her name and that the savings account had a zero balance.
So, Im satisfied that Santander hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly. It follows that I cant 
fairly order Santander refund the money when I dont think it made a mistake and when in 
any event Mrs G has had the benefit of that money.
I appreciate Mrs G says Santander has accepted liability for a mistake by paying the £20. I 
dont think that Santander has accepted making a mistake and has paid Mrs G a goodwill 
gesture without any admission of liability.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mrs G 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman