DRN-2842719
The complaint
Miss A complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) cancelled her 
charge card account and registered a default against her.
What happened
Miss A took out a Preferred Rewards Gold charge card with Amex. In early 2020, Miss A had 
fallen behind with her payments. Along with other communications, Amex issued a 
statement in February 2020 telling Miss A that her account was overdue, and shed need to 
make a payment to avoid cancellation. It then sent her a letter in early March 2020, 
reiterating the same message. 
Following this, Miss A said she called Amex to understand her options. She says she 
explained that shed been unwell with COVID-19, so had fallen behind with her admin. 
In late March 2020, Miss A says she spoke to an adviser who assured her the account 
wouldnt close, and to call back the following morning. When Miss A did call back the next 
day, the account had already been closed.
Miss A complained to Amex. Amex reviewed matters but didnt think the account was closed 
incorrectly. It explained that payment hadnt been received for over 90 days, which is why 
the account was closed. It apologised that Miss A was given wrong information about this 
when she spoke with an adviser on the phone previously. Amex awarded £100 
compensation by way of apology, which it said would be applied to reduce the outstanding 
balance on the account. Miss A remained unhappy and brought her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into things and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
She thought that whilst the information given on the call was incorrect, Amex had been clear 
prior to this that payment needed to be made otherwise the account would be closed. 
Amex didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Miss A did. She said the incorrect 
information led to misinformed decision-making on her part. Since the complaint has been 
with our service, Miss A said Amex recorded a default against her, which she thought 
wouldnt happen as she was assured matters would be put on hold whilst the complaint was 
being investigated.
I issued a provisional decision where I said:
As part of Miss As agreement, shes required to pay the full balance of the account 
by a specified date each month. No payments were made to the account in January 
2020, so Amex sent Miss A three letters in February 2020 explaining that it had been 
trying to contact her, and she needed to make a payment to her account 
immediately. As there was still no payment made to the account, Amex sent Miss A 
another letter in March 2020 as a final demand for payment. The letter also explained 
that the account would be cancelled if the full balance wasnt paid off. So, I think 
these letters ought to have made Miss A aware that she needed to make a payment 
on her account. And, I think Amex was clear about what may happen if the balance 
wasnt paid off.
Following this, Miss A had a telephone conversation with one of Amexs advisers, 
where she was given incorrect information about when her account was due to close. 
She says this impacted her ability to make an informed decision and possibly make a 
payment. Whilst I acknowledge being given incorrect information wouldve been 
frustrating, Im not persuaded that it impacted Miss A in the way she describes. I say 
this because Miss A had been given consistent and clear information prior to this 
about what might happen to her account if the balance remained unpaid. So, I think 
she ought to have reasonably been aware that her account would be cancelled if she 
didnt make a payment. This is also supported by the fact that Miss A still had the 
opportunity to make full payment after being told the information she was given was 
incorrect, but didnt, and still hasnt over a year later.
As I understand it, Miss A then contacted Amex and asked for matters to be put on 
hold. There is a contemporaneous contact note from 7 April 2020 which details this 
and shows that whilst Amex didnt agree to put matters on hold indefinitely, it did 
agree to pause matters up until 26 April 2020. I think this was a reasonable response 
to Miss As request. Miss A sent this service some call recordings relating to this 
point, which I havent been able to listen to due to formatting issues. However, I dont 
consider that theres a need for me to listen to these. I say this because Ive accepted 
Miss As version of events here, which is that she asked Amex to put matters on 
hold.
Following this, on 28 April 2020, Amex wrote to Miss A with a final demand for 
payment. The letter explained that after a period of 28 days from the date of the 
letter, steps may be taken to register the defaulted status of the account with the 
credit reference agencies. Given that no payment was made to the account following 
this, I think the default shouldve been recorded 28 days after the letter as suggested 
 on 26 May 2020. However, Amex didnt default the account until October 2020, 
some five months later. So, given the circumstances, I think it would be appropriate 
for the default date to be 26 May 2020.
Miss A said she was affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, which impacted her ability 
to make payments to her account. As I understand it, Miss A feels that Amex werent 
supportive in the situation. I was sorry to hear Miss A had become unwell during this 
time. Ive considered that in response, Amex says it offered Miss A the option of a 
repayment plan, but this wasnt accepted. Ive also considered that overall, Miss A 
was given several months to make the full payment, but didnt and still hasnt. So, Im 
afraid I dont agree with Miss A here, and I do think Amex gave due consideration to 
her circumstances.
In her testimony, Miss A raises other concerns about Amexs customer service, 
including the wrong information she was given. Amex has acknowledged that the 
customer service it gave Miss A here couldve been better. It has offered a £100 
deduction to the overall balance to recognise this. Having considered the 
circumstances, I think this fairly reflects the impact Amexs customer service had on 
Miss A.
Overall, given that Miss A breached the terms of her agreement, I dont think Amex 
has treated her unfairly by closing her account and recording a default against her. 
But, for the reasons outlined above, I think the default date should be backdated to 
26 May 2020.
Amex didnt provide any further comments or information in response to my provisional 
decision.  Miss A disagreed with the decision. She reiterated her previous points and provided a witness statement from the day she was given the incorrect information which 
she suggests supports her view that she would have acted differently, but for the incorrect 
information she was given.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same. The crux of this complaint is the 
misinformation Amex provided. Miss A says but for that misinformation, she would have 
made a payment which would have avoided the account closing. However, I remain of the 
opinion thats not  on balance  most likely the case. Ill explain why. 
Miss A needed to pay her balance in full each month. She didnt do so in January or 
February 2020. By March 2020, Amex had made it clear what Miss A needed to do to avoid 
the account closing and, following this, Miss A still didnt make a payment to the account. As 
I understand it, on the day the incorrect information was given, Miss A had been told she 
needed to make a payment that day, but she didnt make one. On balance, Im persuaded 
that if Miss A could have made the payment, I think she would have done. 
Instead, Miss A called Amex back and on this occasion was given incorrect information. That 
was unfortunate, however it doesnt change the fact that she had by this point been given 
the correct information on many occasions, over several weeks, and still hadnt made a 
payment. It follows that Im not persuaded that but for the incorrect information on this one 
call, Miss A would have made the payment needed to avoid the account closing. 
Ive carefully considered the witness statement provided by Miss A, but it doesnt change my 
mind. I say this because the statement supports that Miss A was given misinformation and 
that she was unfortunately unwell at the time. However, in my view, neither of these points is 
in dispute. What is in dispute is whether the misinformation had a material impact on the 
matter. And, Im not persuaded that it did for the reasons Ive set out above. And, although I 
accept Miss A was unwell at the time, Ive considered that she was able to call Amex. And if 
she was able to call Amex, I dont think she was unable to make a payment, given that this 
could have been taken over the phone.
I know this will be disappointing for Miss A but, overall, I dont think Amex has treated her 
unfairly by cancelling the account and applying a default. However, for the reasons already 
outlined, I think the default should be backdated to 26 May 2020, which is in line with the 
information in the final demand letter which wouldve been sent to Miss A. I also 
acknowledge that the service Miss A received couldve been better, but I think the £100 
reduction to the outstanding balance that Amex has already offered fairly reflects the impact 
caused.
My final decision
I uphold Miss As complaint and direct American Express Services Europe Limited to:
Backdate the date of the default to 26 May 2020 and;
Apply £100 to reduce the outstanding balance on the account, if it hasnt already 
done so.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman