DRN-3216709
The complaint
Mr and Ms P complain that Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) declined their critical illness 
claim.
What happened
Mr and Ms P took out a joint Lifestyle Plus Plan with Zurich. This was a reviewable whole of 
life plan providing both life and critical illness cover. The plan offered cover for a number of 
illnesses as standard and included the option to add cover for additional illnesses. Mr and 
Ms P added cover for several additional illnesses including pre-senile dementia (also known 
as Alzheimers disease) diagnosed before the age of 65.
In July 2020 Mr P was sadly diagnosed with vascular dementia. So, Mr and Ms P contacted 
Zurich to ask about making a claim on the policy. 
Zurich responded saying that Mr Ps condition wasnt covered by the plan, so he wasnt 
currently eligible to claim. It also highlighted that Mr P had total permanent disablement 
cover and waiver of premium benefit that he might be entitled to in the future if he found 
himself unable to work. 
Mr and Ms P felt this was unfair, so they complained to Zurich. Mr and Ms P noted theyd 
paid into the plan for almost 20 years and felt this was a common illness which ought to be 
included in their critical illness cover. Zurich didnt uphold their complaint.
Mr and Ms P then brought their concerns to our service and Zurich consented to our 
consideration of the complaint. Our investigator looked into things and was ultimately of the 
opinion that Zurich had fairly. 
Mr and Ms P disagreed. In particular, Ms P said shed asked Mr Ps dementia nurse about 
the matter and the nurse was of the opinion vascular dementia should be included in pre-
senile dementia cover.
As Mr and Ms P disagreed, this has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to say that I was sorry to read about Mr Ps diagnosis. Im sure this is a difficult 
time for him and his family. Despite my natural sympathy for the situation Mr and Ms P find 
themselves in, I would only ask Zurich to do something differently if I thought it had acted 
unfairly.
After careful consideration of the available evidence, I wont be asking Zurich to do anything 
further - Ill explain why.
Zurich has told Mr P he isnt covered under the critical illness part of the plan. So, I think it 
would be helpful to start by clarifying how critical illness cover works. 
Critical illness assurance isnt designed to cover all illnesses, as the cost of providing such 
cover would make it unaffordable for most. Instead, it covers a set number of illnesses 
decided on by the relevant insurer and made clear to the customer at the outset of the policy 
within the relevant terms and conditions. 
What Zurich has said here is that Mr Ps illness isnt covered under the plan, so he cannot 
claim for it. So, in declining the claim, Zurich isnt doubting the severity of Mr Ps illness or 
passing comment on how common vascular dementia is. It is simply saying that vascular 
dementia isnt one of the illnesses it agreed to insure against. And having reviewed the 
terms and conditions of Mr and Ms Ps policy, I would agree that vascular dementia isnt 
listed. So, it isnt an insured illness under the policy.
Whilst it is the insurers decision what conditions to cover, the Association of British Insurers 
issues industry guidance periodically outlining what conditions it thinks are core and 
therefore should be included in critical illness cover as standard. Having checked the 
guidance relevant to when Mr and Ms P took out this policy, Im satisfied that vascular 
dementia wasnt a core condition. So, I also think it was fair for Zurich to decide not to offer 
cover for this illness.
Im aware Ms P has suggested that Mr Ps dementia nurse believes cover for pre-senile 
dementia should include vascular dementia. But I havent been provided with evidence that 
persuades me this is the case. 
Whilst I havent seen any medical evidence when considering this complaint, 
Zurichs response relied on Mr Ps account of his illness which is that he has vascular 
dementia. Ultimately, Ive seen no evidence which suggests Mr P has pre-senile dementia, 
which is the only form of dementia he is covered for under the terms and conditions of the 
plan. I wouldnt expect Zurich to further investigate a claim for a condition that isnt covered. 
So overall, I think Zurich acted fairly when it advised Mr P that hes not eligible to claim 
under the critical illness part of his cover. 
I note that Mr and Ms Ps policy also includes total permanent disablement cover and waiver 
of premium cover. When Zurich explained vascular dementia wasnt covered under the 
critical illness part of the plan, it also wrote to Mr and Ms P to explain these additional areas 
of cover and what evidence it would need to see if they felt Mr P was eligible to claim. 
Ive seen no evidence Mr and Ms P have since attempted to claim under these terms. So, I 
also think it was reasonable for Zurich not to further consider the claim against these other 
areas of cover offered by the plan.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman