DRN-4332785
The complaint
Mr D complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (UK) Limited (SLoC) didnt 
take account of his health and lifestyle factors when they arranged an annuity for him. He 
also said that SLoC didnt make clear that he was able to shop around for a better deal with 
other providers under the open market option. 
Mr D would now like SLoC to recompense him for the lost income he believes he wouldve 
been entitled to had they correctly highlighted his options at the time.
Mr D is being represented by a third party. For ease, Ill refer to all submissions that have 
been made by the third party as having come from Mr D.
What happened
In November 2009, Mr D contacted SLoC, asking them about the income options that were 
available on his two pensions with them. Shortly afterwards, SLoC sent him a retirement 
pack setting out what choices were available to him as he approached retirement. The pack 
included various options that were available to him including taking all of his pension funds 
as an income or taking tax-free cash with a reduced income.
After reflecting on the information SLoC had provided to Mr D, he completed the enclosed 
application form and sent it back to them. Mr D opted to take the maximum tax-free cash on 
both plans and use the remaining monies to take a guaranteed income for life.
At the beginning of 2023, Mr D decided to formally complain to SLoC. In summary, he said 
that they didnt make it clear to him at the time that he might be able to receive a higher 
income elsewhere if he shopped around. In addition, he said because of his health 
conditions at the time, had SLoC told him about enhanced annuities, he wouldve most 
certainly gone elsewhere.
After reviewing Mr Ds complaint, SLoC concluded that they were satisfied that theyd done 
nothing wrong. They also said, in summary, that their documentation from the time 
addressed all of the points that Mr D had complained about. They felt that hed been placed 
in a fully informed position before hed gone ahead with the annuity with them.
Mr D was unhappy with SLoCs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. In 
summary, he repeated the same concerns; those were that he wasnt advised he could shop 
around other providers to get a better income and that other providers also offer increased 
annuities based on health and lifestyle factors. Given his health at the time, he felt he 
wouldve been entitled to such an increase.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. He concluded that SLoC 
had treated Mr D fairly. He pointed to the literature that Mr D was provided with at the time of 
the sale that explained that if Mr D were to shop around other annuity providers, he could get 
a better deal elsewhere. In addition, he explained that SLoCs literature also stated that 
annuities that give a higher income based on personal health were also available.
Mr D, however, was unhappy with our Investigators findings although they didnt give a 
reason and asked for the case to be referred to an Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should note that despite the sale taking place in January 2010, SLoC have agreed that the 
case shouldnt be time barred and as such, this service does have the jurisdiction to look at 
this complaint. 
I am aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties involved 
and Ive done so using my own words. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every 
single point raised. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr D and SLoC, in 
order to reach what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the 
facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, 
regulation and best industry practice, but it is for me to decide, based on the available 
information I've been given, what's more likely than not to have happened. However, I hope 
neither Mr D or SLoC will take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be the 
central issues, and not in as much detail as they have outlined, as a discourtesy. 
Whilst I appreciate that this likely isnt the outcome Mr D was hoping for, having carefully 
considered both sets of submissions, Im in agreement with our Investigators view and for 
largely the same reasons. As such, I wont be upholding Mr Ds complaint and, whilst Im 
not able to add much more than our Investigator has already set out, Ill explain why below.
The issue at the heart of this complaint is whether SLoC did enough to put Mr D in a fully 
informed position about his ability to shop around other providers before he committed to 
the annuity with SLoC. In addition, Mr D says that given his health factors at the time, SLoC 
failed to inform him that he might have got a better income by taking out an impaired health 
annuity. However, Im of the view that SLoC did highlight Mr Ds options to him and Ill 
explain why. 
Having reviewed the literature that SLoC provided Mr D with at the time (the retirement 
pack dated 18 November 2009), Im satisfied that he was placed in a fully informed position 
about the choices that were available to him.
SLoCs literature explained that whilst they didnt offer annuities for consumers in poor 
health, there were other providers that did and that Mr D was free to take his annuity 
with a business that did offer that choice.
SLoC also explained that it was important to make the right decision now because once 
hed taken his annuity, it couldnt be altered later. The literature went on to explain that 
Mr D should speak to an independent financial adviser in his local area if he needed 
any assistance, because they couldnt provide any advice to him, only information. 
The retirement pack that Mr D received went on to state you do not have to take your 
annuity with SLoC. Please read the factsheets we have provided. It is very important 
that you read all information accompanying this quotation and that has been sent to you in order to best prepare yourself for retirement. 
A leaflet about shopping around was included called About the open market and other 
options available at retirement. That clearly stated that Mr D did not have to take his 
annuity from SLoC and could shop around. In addition, a pension Q&A document was 
also enclosed that again confirmed the same.
SLoC provided the Financial Services Authoritys factsheet  Your Pension  its time to 
choose. That explained that he was able to shop around other providers rather than taking 
his income from SLoC to achieve a better income elsewhere.
SLoC isnt a financial adviser and as such, wasnt able to provide personalised advice to Mr 
D at the time. Their records demonstrate that they didnt direct Mr D to take a particular 
course of action over another. SLoCs role was to provide enough information to Mr D to 
allow him to make an informed choice. Their literature made it adequately clear that they 
werent able to provide annuity options that may have resulted in a higher income for him. I 
think the wording in SLoCs letter was sufficient to have put Mr D on a path of discovery to at 
least explore other providers given the health conditions he explained he had at the time. 
SLoCs letter made it clear that he wasnt obligated to convert his pension with them into an 
annuity and he was able to shop around to get the best deal should he wish. SLoCs letter 
also explained that if Mr D wasnt sure which option was best for him, he should contact a 
financial adviser for guidance.
So, taking all of the above into account, Ive seen nothing to persuade me that Mr D wasnt 
put in a fully informed position before deciding to proceed with the annuity option he 
selected. SLoCs literature makes it clear that he can shop around, explains he hasnt been 
provided with financial advice, that the decision to proceed with the annuity is his alone and 
highlights that if he does have a health condition, he may be able to secure a higher income 
elsewhere. It therefore follows that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint and as such, I wont be instructing Sun Life Assurance 
Company of Canada (UK) Limited to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman