DRN-3325973
The complaint
Miss N is complaining about the end of contract charges made by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services Limited (MBFS) when she returned her hire car at the end of its contract. 
What happened
Miss N entered into a hire agreement with MBFS in June 2017 for a new car. When the 
agreement came to an end in 2021, the car was collected. There were excess mileage 
charges, and also damage/missing items charges which totalled £2296.78. Miss N accepted 
the excess mileage charges but disputed the other end of contract charges and complained 
to the business. She said that at the initial inspection when the car was collected, no 
damage or charges were highlighted, but then when a secondary inspection was carried out 
off site, a list of charges were applied which she didnt agree with. 
MBFS responded in September 2021, and did not uphold the complaint, saying that all the 
charges had been raised correctly and remained payable. At this stage, there were 16 items 
listed as damaged outside of fair wear and tear guidelines or missing. Unhappy with this 
response, Miss N brought her complaint to our service. 
The investigator here queried one of the charges which was for a console with MBFS, and 
MBFS confirmed that this had been charged incorrectly. They agreed to reduce this charge 
down from £597 to £245.07. The investigator then went through the items being charged for 
line by line and gave their view that 4 of the items were not evidenced as being outside of 
fair wear and tear guidelines and should be removed from the invoice. They felt the other 12 
items were evidenced as being damaged outside of fair wear and tear guidelines (or were 
missing) and were chargeable. One of these items was the console which should have the 
reduced price attached to it. 
This left the following items being charged for:
Left hand front wheel rim damaged. - £110
Bumper chrome moulding scratched (right hand front) - £50.30
Centre Console front cracked - £245.07
Compressor missing - £130
Tyre sealant missing - £60
Spare key missing - £260
Door aperture right hand seal front torn - £48.48
Left hand front door dented - £90
Left hand rear door dented - £90
Facia trim scratched - £251
Quarter panel trim upper left hand scratched - £129
Tailgate scratched - £210
This would reduce the part of the end of contract charges for damages/missing items to a 
total of £1673.85. 
MBFS accepted this view, but Miss N wasnt happy. She feels that the car was handed back 
with acceptable wear and tear and the charges are unfair. She reconfirmed that she had 
paid for upgraded alloy wheels but hadnt asked for these to be removed when giving the car 
back, so shouldnt be charged for damage to the alloy wheel rims. 
She said she had to use the compressor and tyre sealant when she had a puncture and 
these items were not listed in the vehicle return standards so shouldnt need to be replaced. 
She said that she thought the crack in the console was part of the design and would have 
complained when she obtained the car if she knew it was cracked. 
Previously, she had told us that neither the bumper moulding nor the tailgate was scratched 
while in her care, nor were the doors dented. She is concerned at the time between the 
collection of the car when it was initially inspected, and the delay until the off-site inspection 
was carried out. She feels damage must have occurred while the car was out of her 
possession. 
She had also previously told us that she felt the door aperture damage was normal wear and 
tear, and the facia and trim damage was initially logged as £0, so she doesnt accept the 
prices now quoted. 
Unhappy with the view given, she asked for an Ombudsman to review the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because MBFS accepted that they should remove the charges that the investigator 
suggested should be removed, I wont focus on those in my comments. Both parties have 
now agreed these items shouldnt be charged for. MBFS also provided a new invoice to Miss 
N after this view was accepted by them In February 2022. This means that the following four 
items of damage initially charged for should be removed from the original invoice:
right hand front wheel rim £110
right hand rear wheel rim £110
insecure right hand door lock £16
front right hand wing dent £35  
Alongside this, the charge for the damaged console was reduced to £245.07, as discussed 
above. 
Ive reviewed the 4 items and agree with the initial assessments made by the investigator 
and accepted by all parties. Ill move on to deal with the over-arching issues first, before commenting on the specific 
damage/missing item charges remaining.
Miss N has concerns that some of the damage occurred after the car was collected and 
before it had its second inspection. The car was collected on 21 June 2021. MBFS have said 
it was taken straight to the compound to be inspected, and the second inspection was 
carried out on 24 June 2021, so three days later. The photograph of the odometer on the 
collection report from 21 June shows the mileage at collection was 48,566 miles. 
The inspection report from 24 June includes a photo of the odometer showing the mileage 
as 48,579. So, the car had travelled a further 13 miles before the second inspection. I dont 
view three days before a second inspection to be a lengthy delay or a concern, as it wouldnt 
always be possible to inspect a car the same day it is returned. The car had only travelled 13 
miles whilst out of Miss Ns care, so I think its unlikely that the damage was caused in those 
13 miles or three days in storage. It is more likely that any damage had occurred while the 
car was in Miss Ns possession, during the previous four years and around 48,000 miles 
covered. 
Miss N also feels that because she wasnt told about any damage or charges at the initial 
inspection, its unfair that the second inspection which was done whilst she wasnt present, 
has listed so many charges. Whilst I can empathise with her, this is standard practice to 
have a full inspection off-site after the car has been collected, and MBFS have said this was 
explained in the details she was provided when the collection was booked. 
An initial inspection at a customers property may sometimes highlight some damage 
concerns, but its not uncommon for the full off-site inspection to be needed to decide what is 
fair wear and tear, and what isnt. As she can see from the photos, this can involve holding 
up measuring devices or similar and taking photos to evidence whether the damage is within 
the allowed guidelines, or outside of them. 
In this instance for example, it can be seen from the video when the car was collected that it 
had been raining and the car was wet, which could make it difficult to see scuffs, scratches 
and dents. Overall, I am not concerned about the second inspection, or the fact it was three 
days after collection, and the car had travelled 13 miles in this period of time. I havent seen 
any evidence that the car was in a different condition when it was collected, to when the 
inspection was carried out three days later. 
Ill now move on to consider the remaining 11 charges listed which are still in dispute. In 
assessing these, Ive considered the evidence and testimony provided by both parties, along 
with both the Mercedes Vehicle Return Standards (VRS), and the BVRLA industry guidelines 
for fair wear and tear. These are industry standard guidelines published by the British 
Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) which set out what is considered to be fair 
wear and tear in respect of a hired vehicle. Ill go through the charges one by one: 
1. Facia trim scratched. £251. The photos provided from the inspection clearly show a 
damaged area of fascia. Miss N doesnt feel this charge is fair because the price 
wasnt listed on the original report carried out. I dont think this is a common issue 
however, so it makes sense that BCA would flag the damage up, but not necessarily 
know what the cost to replace this part would be. I am satisfied that it is fair for MBFS 
to charge for this. 
2. Centre Console front  cracked  original charge £597 but corrected by MBFS to 
£245.07. The photos clearly evidence a crack down the middle of the console, and 
Im not persuaded that this would appear to be a design feature and was present 
from when the car was obtained. Its most likely that this occurred during the 4 years Miss N had the car, so I am satisfied that it is fair for MBFS to charge for this. 
3. Tailgate scratched. £210. The inspection photos show a long scratch on the tailgate 
of well over the 25mm allowed, so I am satisfied that it is fair for MBFS to charge for 
this. 
4. Quarter panel trim upper left hand scratched. £129. The inspection photos show that 
the plastic is scratched and appears gouged on this panel. Miss N felt it was unfair 
that this charge wasnt itemised on the report, but as above, I am satisfied that this 
isnt a standard part which BCA would necessarily know the cost to repair, so I have 
no concerns with this. I am satisfied that it is fair for MBFS to charge for this. 
5.  Compressor Missing. £130. Miss N hasnt disputed that the item was missing, she 
just feels it wasnt listed in the items which needed to be returned, and they had used 
it due to having a flat tyre. The VRS say that you must return the vehicle together 
with everything originally supplied with the vehicle. I think its reasonable to expect 
that if the car was supplied with this item, it would need to be returned with the item, 
so I am satisfied that it is fair for MBFS to charge for this.  
6. Tyre Sealant missing. £60. Miss N hasnt disputed that the item was missing, she just 
feels it wasnt listed in the items which needed to be returned, and they had used it 
due to having a flat tyre. As above, the VRS say that you must return the vehicle 
together with everything originally supplied with the vehicle. I think its reasonable to 
expect that if the car was supplied with this item, it would need to be returned with 
the item, so I am satisfied that it is fair for MBFS to charge for this.  
7. Wheel left hand front rim damaged. £110. The photos from the inspection show clear 
scuff and scratches on this wheel. The VRS say that scuffs, chips, and scratches 
totalling more than 25mm are not acceptable. The BVRLA industry guidelines are 
more generous, saying that scuffs up to 50mm of the total circumference of the 
wheel/rim/alloy wheels are acceptable, so I have considered the more generous 
industry guidelines. But I am still satisfied that the scuffs and damage to this alloy 
wheel are over 50mm, so still outside of acceptable wear and tear. Miss N feels it is 
unfair to be charged for damage to the wheels when she had paid for upgraded alloy 
wheels herself. Unfortunately, the VRS apply to the alloy wheels that the vehicle is 
returned with, and as this damage is evident, I am satisfied that it is fair for MBFS to 
charge for this. 
8. Door left hand front dented. £90. The photos from the inspection show a dent, and I 
am satisfied that it falls outside of the VRS of a diameter of 13mm, and the BVRLA 
guidelines which are slightly more generous allowing a diameter of up to 15mm and 
up to two dents per door below this size. The dent on the door is larger than 15mm, 
so I am satisfied that it is fair for MBFS to charge for this. 
9. Door left hand rear dented. £90. The photos from the inspection show a dent, and I 
am satisfied that it falls outside of the VRS of a diameter of 13mm, and the BVRLA 
guidelines which are slightly more generous allowing a diameter of up to 15mm and 
up to two dents per door below this size. The dent on the door is larger than 15mm, 
so I am satisfied that it is fair for MBFS to charge for this.
10. Bumper Chrome moulding right hand front scratched. £50.The photos from the 
inspection show a large deep scratch well outside of the allowed 25mm size, so I am 
satisfied that it is fair for Mercedes to charge for this. 
11. Door aperture seal right hand front damaged. £48.48. The inspection photos show that the door seal has a large split in it, and this would fall outside of fair wear and 
tear under the VRS or BVRLA guidelines, so I am satisfied that it is fair for Mercedes 
to charge for this. 
Miss N hasnt disputed the charges for the missing spare key (which was the 12th chargeable 
item) or for excess mileage, so these also remain payable. 
 Miss N is unhappy with the scope and the level of charges which have been applied. Ive 
looked into the damage charges, and I can see that the majority of these costs are included 
on a charging matrix on MBFSs website. So, Im satisfied that Miss N could have reviewed 
these and decided whether to have the damage repaired herself instead of incurring end of 
contract charges.  
Ive looked at the charging structures for other manufacturers, and the charges applied by 
MBFS are higher than others. I have the power to require businesses to act in relation to an 
individual where something has gone wrong, but not to order a business to change its 
practices more generally. So, I cant say what MBFS should charge for damage when hire 
vehicles are returned, but I can look at whether they have applied those charges fairly. I am 
satisfied that MBFS apply the same charges to all consumers at the end of the hire 
agreement, so I dont think theyve been applied unfairly in this case.  
Ive thought about whether the charges are excessive. Ive taken into consideration that 
charges do differ between manufacturers. Ive also consulted quotation websites. All things 
considered; Im not persuaded that the charges applied by MBFS for the damage are 
excessive in the circumstances.
I empathise with Miss N, as she has told us that this was the first car hire agreement she has 
had and feels these charges are unfair. Unfortunately, the damage or missing items relating 
to these charges are outside of the guidelines provided to Miss N, and also outside of the 
industry standard guidelines. MBFS have agreed to remove the four charges detailed above 
and to reduce the charge for the damaged console. But I wont be asking them to do 
anymore; I am satisfied that they have evidenced the remaining damage being charged for is 
outside of fair wear and tear guidelines. And the missing items should have been replaced, 
and as they werent, these charges are also fair.   
Putting things right
As previously agreed, compared to the original invoice for end of contract charges, MBFS 
should:
- Reduce the charge for the cracked centre console to £245.07.
- Remove the £110 charge for damage to the right hand front wheel rim. 
- Remove the £110 charge for the damage to the right hand rear wheel trim. 
- Remove the £16 charge for the front right hand door lock being insecure. 
- Remove the £35 charge for the right hand front wing being dented.  
My final decision
I am partially upholding this complaint. MBFS should remove/reduce the five charges listed 
in the above Putting things right section, but Miss N remains responsible for the remaining 
end of contract charges. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman