DRN-4091262
The complaint
Mrs and Mr S complain that Western Provident Association Limited (WPA) has turned down 
a claim Mrs S made on a personal private medical insurance policy.
Mrs and Mr S are represented by Mr A.
What happened
In 2014, Mrs S suffered from cancer in her right breast. In 2018, she and Mr S took out a 
private medical insurance policy through a broker. The policy was underwritten by WPA. Mrs 
S declared that shed suffered from right-sided breast cancer on the application form. WPA 
agreed to offer a policy to Mrs and Mr S. However, it added an exclusion to Mrs S policy for 
breast cancer (bilateral).
Unfortunately, in June 2022, Mrs S was again diagnosed with breast cancer in her right 
breast. The specialist noted that this was a new primary cancer and wasnt linked to Mrs S 
previous cancer diagnosis.
Mrs S made a claim on her private medical insurance policy. WPA agreed to cover the cost 
of Mrs S initial consultations ahead of the cancer diagnosis. But after Mrs S condition was 
diagnosed, WPA declined to cover the costs of planned surgery and further treatment. Thats 
because it said that it had specifically excluded cover for breast cancer.
Mrs and Mr S were unhappy with WPAs decision and Mr A asked us to look into their 
complaint. Mrs and Mr S felt the exclusion was drafted ambiguously and that it should be 
interpreted as excluding cancer which occurred in both breasts. Mr A provided dictionary 
definitions of the word bilateral which he felt supported Mrs and Mr S position. 
Our investigator didnt think Mrs and Mr S complaint should be upheld. He considered the 
everyday meaning of the word bilateral and the purpose of the exclusion. He felt it was 
intended to apply to cancer which was diagnosed in either breast, rather than cancer which 
was found in both breasts at the same time. So he concluded it was fair for WPA to rely on 
the exclusion to turn down the claim for the costs of Mrs S cancer treatment.
Mr A disagreed and Ive summarised his response. He didnt think the exclusion was clearly 
worded and that if WPA had wanted to exclude all forms of breast cancer, the term shouldve 
stated this. He provided further information which he felt supported Mrs and Mr S claim. He 
referred to the fact that Mrs S had declared her previous diagnosis on the application form  
and that on that form, WPA had distinguished between left-sided, right-sided and bilateral 
cancer. So he felt this meant WPA treated these differently. He also noted that Mrs S 
specialist had specifically referred to her diagnosis as a new and separate primary cancer.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mrs and Mr S, I think it was fair for WPA to 
turn down the claim for the costs of Mrs S treatment and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to say that I was sorry to hear of Mrs S diagnosis and I dont doubt what a 
worrying and upsetting time this mustve been for Mrs and Mr S and their family. I do hope 
that Mrs S is recovering well from her treatment.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mrs and Mr S policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether I 
think WPA handled the claim fairly.
It's common ground that when Mrs and Mr S took out the policy in 2018, Mrs S declared that 
shed previously suffered from right-sided breast cancer in 2014. WPA assessed the 
information it had been given to decide whether or not to offer Mrs and Mr S insurance cover 
and if so, on what terms. As Mrs S had previously been treated for breast cancer, WPA 
considered that she was at higher risk of needing to make a claim for breast cancer in the 
future. So it agreed to offer Mrs S cover, but applied the following exclusion to her policy:
MrsS is not eligible for any investigations or treatment that is for, resulting from, or related 
to the following condition(s), including any metastatic disease and/or the development of any 
associated or treatment related disorders/malignancies:
 Breast cancer (Bilateral)
Mrs and Mr S agreed to purchase on the policy on these terms and renewed the policy each 
year with the same exclusion applied to Mrs S cover. They say that due to the use of the 
word bilateral, theyd understood that the exclusion would only apply if Mrs S was 
diagnosed with cancer in both breasts. WPA considers that the exclusion applies to any 
claim for breast cancer, in either breast. 
As the investigator explained, the policy doesnt define what WPA means by bilateral. So I 
too have considered the ordinary and everyday meaning of the word, together with a well-
known dictionary definition of it. In this case, Ive considered the following dictionary 
definition of bilateral: having or related to two sides And in my view, a reasonable 
interpretation of the word bilateral would be something which had two sides or limbs. I dont 
think the definition indicates that the word means something which applies to both sides at 
the same time. Ive also considered the dictionary definitions Mr A has referred to, but I dont 
think theyre persuasive evidence that bilateral means something which affects both sides 
together.
I dont think the way WPA has worded the exclusion suggests that breast cancer is only 
excluded if it occurs in both sides at the same time. I think the exclusion is intended to 
exclude claims for all breast cancer. I consider the use of the word bilateral in brackets is to 
highlight that the exclusion applies to cancer which is diagnosed in either breast, rather than 
only applying to a diagnosis of right-sided breast cancer. So on a plain and ordinary 
interpretation of the exclusion, I think its sufficiently clear that cancer which is diagnosed in 
either breast is excluded. If WPA had intended to only exclude cancer which occurred in 
both breasts simultaneously, I think its more likely than not that the term would explicitly 
state this. As such then, Im not persuaded that the exclusion is ambiguous, or that it should 
be interpreted in Mrs and Mr S favour.
It's clear that Mrs S was diagnosed with a new primary cancer, which was unconnected with her 2014 diagnosis. However, the term doesnt only exclude linked or related cancers  it 
excludes claims for the treatment of any breast cancer, whether its a new diagnosis or a 
recurrence of former cancer. So despite my natural sympathy with Mrs S position, I think it 
was fair and reasonable for WPA to rely on the exclusion to turn down her claim for 
treatment. I dont find there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman