DRN-2676827
The complaint
This complaint is about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. The PPI was
added to a store card Ms B applied for in 1997.
The credit facility was provided by a high street bank, but there has been a change in the
company which is now responsible for answering these types of complaint. The company
now responsible is called AXA France IARD. Ill therefore refer to AXA throughout this final
decision.
What happened
The store card was taken out in a store and obtained by filling out an application leaflet. PPI
was added on to the card and Ms B says she didnt know much about it.
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it shouldnt be
upheld. Ms B disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to
uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Weve seen a number of very similar sales to this one and weve spoken at length to the
company involved to gain an understanding of the processes that were generally used. So
we now know consumers were asked to fill out an application which was part of a wider
leaflet-based application. The terms and conditions of the PPI were included in what the
applicant was given to complete.
I was sent the credit agreement Ms B filled out when she took out the card and PPI. I can
see there was a section on the application leaflet about PPI. This invited her to either tick - or
leave blank - an option box to have PPI cover.
Ms Bs form was ticked at this point, which I think suggests that she did want PPI when she
applied for her card. Because I also think she would have had access to the terms and
conditions as Ive described above, I think she consented to the PPI cover when she ticked
the form at this point. I think shed have been equally free to not have asked for the PPI.
Ive also thought very carefully about what Ms B says about potentially not hearing what she
was being told at the time of the sale. But as I say, I think there was written information
available and I also think Ms Bs subsequent store card statements would have confirmed 
the selection shed made to have PPI. She would have been able to see the costs on the
statements periodically. So, I think if a mistake had been made, Ms B would have had
opportunities to clarify what the charges were for. I note she kept PPI on the card for a few
years.
I therefore think its likely she agreed to the cover at the time although I accept she may
genuinely not remember this now.
AXA provided a non-advised sale. This means it needed only to provide enough clear
information for Ms B to decide for herself whether she wanted the cover. I acknowledge AXA
could have set out the information about the PPI on the leaflet in a better way, but overall, I
do think Ms B had access to enough information to allow her to make an informed decision.
Ms B told us she had some sickness protection already with her job, implying she didnt
need any PPI. I understand why shes told us this and Ive thought very carefully about the
benefits Ms B says she enjoyed. But these dont necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use.
Ive checked that Ms B was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major
exclusions we tended to see in some of these policies. The cost of the PPI offered was
relatively expensive, but the benefits the policy offered gave more protection than most
credit cards. For example, if shed become unable to work or lost her job, the PPI would
have paid off 15% of her outstanding store card balance each month until she returned to
work or until all the balance was returned to zero. These benefits would have been in
addition to any other means Ms B had in place at the time.
Although I cant say why Ms B decided to select this cover when she applied for the card, I
think the PPI policy was something that would have been of use to her. I think this could
explain why she chose it on the form.
For me to uphold Ms Bs complaint, Id need to think it was more likely that she wasnt given
an option or there were other serious flaws in the way the policy was sold. I simply dont
have that evidence. Instead, what Ive seen makes me think Ms B specifically selected the
PPI and had access nearby to the information she needed about the PPI policy and its rules.
And I dont think theres evidence that any better  or more  information would have
changed how Ms B acted.
Im afraid I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint and I dont require AXA
France IARD to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman