The complaint
Miss C complains she was mis-sold a level term assurance policy by Nationwide Building 
Society. 
What happened
In 2005 Miss C completed a transfer of equity and alongside this she took out the policy in 
question. She says she was misadvised as she didn't need the cover and only agreed to it 
as she was told it was conditional. She cancelled the policy around 2013/14. 
She complained to Nationwide in 2019 but it didn't agree that the policy had been mis-sold. It 
said the sale of the policy had been 'non-advised' and that Miss C had completed a 'direct 
application form'. This meant that its responsibilities were limited to ensuring she was fully 
informed about how the policy worked. It also noted she was offered the opportunity to 
cancel.
Miss C referred the complaint to this service. Our investigator reached a similar conclusion 
to that reached by Nationwide. She noted that the policy matched the mortgage in respect of 
the level of cover and the term. She also highlighted that the documentation produced at the 
time showed that the cover wasn't a condition of the mortgage. She felt that the 
documentation indicated that the sale of the policy had been non-advised and that, 
ultimately, it had been suitable for someone in Miss C's circumstances, with two dependent 
children. 
Miss C didn't agree. She explained that she'd had a meeting with an adviser who, despite 
her not expressing any interest in taking out life cover, had noted her circumstances and 
suggested the policy, giving the impression it was a condition of the mortgage. She added 
that taking on a mortgage was a stressful process and that, as such, she had tended to 
simply agree with the adviser. 
The investigator wasn't persuaded to change her opinion. Miss C voiced her concern that 
the complaint was being assessed solely on the basis of the documentation without proper 
consideration of her written statements and emails. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter's been referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, while I recognise Miss C 
will be very disappointed, I've come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for 
broadly the same reasons. 
DRN-1228149I note what Miss C has said about her concerns with our assessment of the complaint being 
based only on the documents produced by Nationwide, which she feels don't reflect the 
circumstance of the sale. I'd like to assure her that while I have considered this 
documentation I have done so in light of the wider circumstances of the complaint and all 
she has told us. 
But, that said, I still don't think I can reasonably conclude that Nationwide acted incorrectly 
and mis-sold the policy to Miss C. The cover matched the mortgage and was broadly 
suitable for someone in Miss C's circumstances. I understand that she feels she was 
advised to take out the policy, rather than it being a direct sale as Nationwide has indicated. 
But given the lack of a 'fact find' or a letter explaining the rationale behind the 
recommendation I think, on balance, it's more like than not that it was a non-
advised sale and that the discussions Miss C has described were part of the provision of 
information by Nationwide, so she could decide if she wanted to take out the cover. 
I appreciate that the staff member she spoke with was probably very encouraging about the 
policy and its benefits. But I don't think it would have been unreasonable to bring those 
benefits to her attention. Miss C has said that she was told she had to take out the policy, 
but the documentation doesn't support that. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 February 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman