DRN-1829328
 
The complaint
Mr R and Mr R complain that Gresham Insurance Company Limited has turned down a 
water damage claim they made on their home insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr R and Mr R got in touch with Gresham to make a claim. They said the 
inside of their property had been damaged by heavy rainfall and by a disconnected 
downpipe. They said theyd first noticed water running through a bedroom into the lounge 
following heavy rain in May 2019, so a roofer had repaired part of their roof. But when more 
heavy rain fell in June 2019, more water had been able to get in and cause damage.
Gresham appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the cause of damage. The loss adjusters 
report didnt think the damage was down to heavy rainfall. They found there hadnt been any 
storm conditions when Mr R and Mr R had noticed the damage in May 2019. And the roof 
had been a flat felt roof. So they felt the damage was more likely down to wear and tear. 
They couldnt make a definitive finding though, because the roof covering had been repaired.
The loss adjuster noted the roof covering had been poorly installed. And they said the re-
routing of the downpipe to the bay roof meant it would become overwhelmed every time 
there was heavy rain. They felt, given the extent of the damage to the internal walls, the 
downpipe had clearly been disconnected for some time. Based on the loss adjusters 
findings, Gresham turned down Mr R and Mr Rs claim. It said damage that happened over 
time wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr R and Mr R werent happy with Greshams decision. They asked us to look into their 
complaint. They said the policy doesnt explain that poor maintenance isnt covered. And that 
the damage to their property was down to a one-off incident.
Our investigator didnt think Mr R and Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. He felt the policy 
terms made it clear that wear and tear and damage that happens over time wasnt covered. 
He thought the photos the loss adjuster had taken indicated damage had been ongoing for a 
while. He also explained that while there were wet storm conditions on 11 June 2019, when 
Mr R and Mr R said they noticed the internal damage, he didnt think the evidence suggested 
this was the main cause of the damage.
Mr R and Mrs R disagreed. They maintained the damage had happened over two nights. 
The roof had been repaired in May 2019 and hadnt leaked since. The downpipe has also 
now been fixed and hasnt leaked again. The loss adjuster had only told them that the roof 
had been poorly repaired, not that he thought the damage was down to lack of maintenance.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for Gresham to turn down Mr R and Mr Rs claim. Ill 
explain why.
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions that we need to 
ask:
 Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
 Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed. 
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
Ive carefully looked at the local weather conditions for both around the time Mr R and Mr R 
say they noticed water getting in in May 2019 and around 11 June 2019.
Around 13 May 2019, the records show the highest recorded wind speeds were 28mph, with 
the highest level of rainfall at 2.6mm. I simply dont think these conditions constitute storm 
conditions. And in the absence of high winds, it seems unlikely this level of rainfall could 
cause internal damage. So it seems more likely that the rainfall highlighted existing issues 
with the flat felt roof.
But on 11 June 2019, 30mm of rain was recorded. I do think this level of rainfall could fairly 
be treated as a wet storm, although there were no accompanying high winds. So Ive moved 
on to consider question two.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
Internal water damage following storm rains can be broadly consistent with storm damage. 
This means Ive looked at question three.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Insurers set out what they do and dont want to cover in their policy terms. For a claim to be 
paid, it needs to be because of something thats covered by the policy  which we generally 
call an insured event. In this case, Mr R and Mr R claimed for damage caused by a storm. 
Damage caused by storm is covered by the terms of the policy. But for the claim to be paid, 
Gresham needs to be satisfied that the damage Mr R and Mr R have claimed for was 
caused by the storm.
Its generally for a policyholder to show a claim has been caused by an insured event. But 
insurers generally investigate this on a policyholders behalf. Thats whats happened here. 
Gresham asked its loss adjuster to investigate the likely cause of the damage.
The loss adjuster didnt think the internal damage was caused by storm. The report says that 
the damage wasnt down to a one-off insured event, but there was an ongoing issue with 
water leaking through the bay roof. The report also explained the reasons why the roof repair 
had been carried out to a poor standard, including a lack of flashing, which was already 
causing the upstands to de-bond.
They also explained that the downpipe had been moved from the main roof to the bay roof 
outlet, which meant it was becoming overwhelmed each time there was heavy rain.
The loss adjuster felt that given the extent of the internal damage, it seemed water had been 
getting in from the leaking downpipe for some time. The moisture readings they took showed very high levels of moisture in the walls. And the photos do appear to support this finding  
the damage doesnt look particularly fresh and it does appear to have been ongoing.
Im persuaded by the loss adjusters findings. Thats because its the only expert evidence I 
have to show me whats most likely to have caused the wall to collapse. It looks like the 
adjuster carried out a detailed inspection and clearly explained what he thought had caused 
the damage. Mr R and Mr R havent provided any independent expert evidence to counter 
the adjusters findings. 
So based on the loss adjusters conclusions, I think it was fair for Gresham to decide that the 
wet storm wasnt the main cause of the damage. And the water leaking from the downpipe 
seems more likely than not to have been ongoing over a gradual period of time, rather than 
being the result of a one-off event the policy covers. Wear and tear and damage over time 
simply arent covered by the terms of Mr R and Mr Rs policy.
Mr R and Mr R have said the loss adjuster didnt explain why their claim wasnt covered. The 
loss adjusters report seems to indicate he thought he had explained this to Mr R and Mr R. 
But even if he didnt clearly explain his reasoning, I dont think this makes a difference to the 
outcome of the claim.
I appreciate Mr R and Mr R feel that the policy doesnt explain that poor maintenance issues 
arent covered. But insurance policies simply arent maintenance contracts. Theyre 
designed to provide cover for unforeseen, one-off events. Wear and tear over time is usually 
inevitable and most if not all insurance policies exclude cover for wear and tear and gradual 
issues.
Overall, I think it was reasonable for Gresham to turn down Mr R and Mr Rs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr R and Mr Rs 
complaint.
#
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman