DRN-3148007
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has not refunded him
the amount it promised after he booked a substandard holiday. Mr W says he has been
charged additional interest and this is unfair.
What happened
Mr W booked a holiday using his credit card in August 2019. Mr W paid £1933.09 for the
accommodation part of his booking. When Mr W arrived with his family, he discovered that
some of the hotels facilities were closed and the accommodation was substandard and not
as described. Mr W said that his son suffered from food poisoning after eating at the hotel.
Mr W says that he tried to get the holiday company to move him during the holiday, but the
costs were excessive. Mr W tried to resolve his complaints with the holiday company when
he got back but it stopped responding to him and so Mr W complained to Barclaycard.
Mr W said that in March 2020 during a telephone call he was offered a refund of the full
costs of his accommodation if he was able to provide evidence of what he paid. Mr W said
that he obtained the details of his booking and forwarded them to Barclaycard. Mr W said
that Barclaycard then offered only £500 and later £966. Mr W wants Barclaycard to refund
the full amount paid for his accommodation together with all interest charged on this
amount since September 2019.
Barclaycard say that it has no record of the full amount of the accommodation being offered
to Mr W and it considers that the offer of £966 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances
given that Mr W had some use of the accommodation. It accepted that there had been some
delays in dealing with Mr Ws complaint and it credited his account with £100 in recognition
of this in September 2020.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought that Barclaycards offer was fair and
reasonable. They thought that the offer of £966 was more than this service would ask
Barclaycard to pay given that Mr W did use the accommodation for the duration of the
holiday. They thought that there wasnt enough evidence to say that Barclaycard offered the
full amount of the accommodation and it wasnt unreasonable to charge interest.
Mr W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
I issued a provisional decision setting out why I was minded to disagree with the conclusions 
of the investigator with regard to the interest element of the complaint. Mr W responded to 
say that although he was obviously disappointed with my conclusions, he would accept the 
decision. Barclaycard responded to say that it would pay the redress I had provisionally 
decided but it considered that recording the complaint as a change in outcome would be 
harsh.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has substantially disagreed with my provisional decision, I do not see any 
reason to depart from those conclusions as set out below.
Mr W relies on the rights he has under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. I think
its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial services
provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under Section
75. In deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Ws complaint, Ive taken section 75 into
account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for example, a
court might reach if Mr W pursued a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Barclaycard agreed to uphold Mr Ws complaint about the holiday but what is in dispute is
the amount of refund and the interest on the account.
Mr W says that he was promised a refund of all of the accommodation costs in a telephone
call subject to him sending in proof. Mr W says that Barclaycard should pay this. Barclaycard
say that there is no record of this agreement and it would have told Mr W that the maximum
that could be considered would be the accommodation costs.
At the time of the call Barclaycard didnt have the information confirming Mr Ws
accommodation costs. I think it is unlikely that Mr W was told that the accommodation costs
would be refunded in full without that information and it is more likely that Mr W was told that
the accommodation costs would be the maximum he could recover subject to confirmation. I
can appreciate why Mr W thought that Barclaycard were agreeing to pay all of his
accommodation costs. I think it was more likely that in the context of a conversation about
the costs of the flights being excluded Mr W thought that the accommodation costs would be
refunded in full. I cant see any evidence on Barclaycards system that it was agreed that the
accommodation was to be refunded in full, or that this is its approach in these types of
cases.
As Mr W was able to use the accommodation Barclaycard agreed to refund 50% of the cost
to reflect his loss of enjoyment. Barclaycard made this offer in a letter in May 2020. I think
this is a reasonable offer. I understand that Mr W couldnt move hotels and that his son
suffered from food poisoning. However, Mr W did have some use out of the accommodation
and stayed there for the duration of the holiday, so I dont agree that he should have a full
refund.
The refund wasnt applied to Mr Ws account as Mr W was required to telephone to confirm
his acceptance. Mr W wasnt happy and wanted to pursue his complaint for the full amount.
I currently think that Barclaycard should apply the refund to Mr Ws account from the date of
the offer in May 2020 and reconstruct his account to remove the interest charged. I dont
think that it is fair that Barclaycard has continued to charge interest on the amount of £966
during the period that Mr W has pursued his complaint when it accepted that this refund was
due to him in May 2020. I appreciate what Barclaycard say regarding a change in outcome 
but this is not something I can address in this decision and my final decision remains the 
same as set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should pay £966. For 
the reasons explained above I think that this refund should be applied to Mr Ws account 
from the date the offer was made in May 2020 and the outstanding balance reconstructed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman