DRN-3219249
The complaint
Mr R complains about the administration of his self-invested personal pension (SIPP) by 
Sterling ISA Managers Limited trading as Advance by Embark (Sterling). 
What happened
Mr R has a SIPP with Sterling which was in income drawdown. Mr R says that Sterling has 
deducted the incorrect amount of tax from his annual income drawdown in the 19/20 and 
20/21 tax years. 
In May 2020, Mr R complained about this. It didnt uphold his complaint and said that it had 
acted within HMRC guidelines which it was not responsible for. But it offered Mr R £105 in 
recognition of the trouble and upset caused.
Unhappy with this, Mr R complained to this Service. He says that Sterling deducted the 
correct amount of tax during the 21/22 tax year and so is confused as to why it didnt do so 
for the previous two tax years. Mr R says that the issues have caused a significant amount 
of stress, inconvenience and hardship  and that he has had to communicate with his 
financial advisor and HMRC on numerous occasions to resolve the issue. He also says that 
Sterling didnt make him aware of how to reclaim overpaid tax, and also didnt receive a call 
from a manager as promised. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold his complaint.
In summary, they said that ultimately Sterling hadnt done anything wrong, and that it had 
acted on HMRC guidance.
Mr R remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think that this complaint should be upheld. I know this will be 
disappointing for Mr R, so Ill explain why.
I wont repeat the timeline of what happened here  both parties are aware of the sequence 
of events and what happened  and I deem these to be an accurate account of the 
background to the complaint.
Instead, I will focus on the crux of the complaint here  did Sterling incorrectly deduct a 
higher rate of tax in 19/20 and 20/21 tax years than it should have. And should it have 
informed Mr R of the process of reclaiming over paid tax. Ill also consider whether Sterling 
needed to do anything more than it has already offered after the lack of contact following an 
email it sent on 10 August 2020.
From the information I have seen, Sterling provided four withdrawal frequencies for regular 
payments  monthly, quarterly, half yearly and annually. But this was never requested by 
Mr Rs advisor. Instead, one-off payments were requested which meant that frequency 
intentions couldnt be set, and the 19/20 and 20/21 withdrawals were treated as irregular/ad 
hoc withdrawals. This meant an emergency tax code was applied, which triggered the higher 
rate of tax to be paid.
Sterling has highlighted HMRC guidance that it followed when dealing with these requests, 
and Im satisfied that by doing so, it complied with its obligations here. It may have been 
possible for Sterling to contact Mr Rs adviser after each request in order to question the 
request and deduce if further payments were to be made (which couldve avoided the 
scenario). But I dont think it wouldve been reasonable or practical for it to do so, 
considering the number of requests of this nature it would likely receive at any given time. 
And I dont think that it was Sterlings responsibility to do so either.
I can see that the withdrawal for the tax year 21/22 was set up differently, as a regular 
annual withdrawal, meaning that it was subject to different tax guidance, hence why the 
correct amount of tax was deducted at the time.
I appreciate that Mr R says that Sterling have made a mistake  and that HMRC confirmed 
this. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that Sterling have made any errors in acting on Mr Rs 
advisors instructions, or wrongly applied HMRC guidance  so I dont think that it has done 
anything wrong here.
Ive also thought about whether Sterling shouldve made Mr R aware of how to reclaim any 
tax that has been overpaid  but I dont think it had any responsibility to do so. Sterling 
doesnt provide advice  and this would be better placed as a discussion to have with an 
accountant, or Mr Rs advisor.
I also consider the £105 Sterling has offered to pay Mr R as compensation for not contacting 
him as it said it would in an email sent to him on 10 August 2020 to be reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Overall, while I do recognise that the whole situation has been deeply frustrating and 
concerning for Mr R, I cant see that Sterling is responsible for causing Mr R to overpay tax, 
so I dont think its treated him unfairly here.
It follows that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman