DRN-3664267
The complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax unfairly closed his credit card 
and recorded adverse information on his credit file.
 
What happened
Mr W had a credit card with Halifax going back a number of years. In November 2020 
Halifax approved a payment holiday under the Financial Conduct Authoritys Payment 
Deferral Guidance (PDG). The PDG was put in place to provide support for up to six months 
for customers experiencing financial difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
The PDG said customers could take up to six months of payment holidays without an impact 
to their credit file. The payment holiday ran for six months and in May 2021 Mr W spoke with 
Halifax about his circumstances. Halifax says it couldnt offer the same sort of support but 
went on to complete an income and expenditure assessment to get a picture of Mr Ws 
finances. Halifax says the assessment showed Mr Ws income was taken up with priority 
bills and that he wasnt able to afford a payment arrangement for his credit card. 
Halifax placed a three month interest and collections freeze on the account. It says Mr W 
was given information about organisations that provide advice and asked Mr W to get back 
in touch at the end of the 90 day period. But Halifax started to record missed payments on 
Mr Ws credit file. 
Mr W spoke with Halifax again in August 2021, at the end of the payment freeze. Halifax 
says Mr W told its agent he was unable to afford to start repayments and that he wasnt 
working. Halifax went on to send Mr W a default notice on 19 August 2021and asked him to 
clear arrears by 6 September 2021. The account was closed on 14 September 2021 as no 
payment was received. 
Mr W complained to Halifax about its decision to close his credit card and advised his credit 
file had been impacted. But Halifax didnt agree it had acted unfairly or made a mistake and 
didnt offer to remove the default. An investigator at this service went on to look at Mr Ws 
complaint. They thought Halifax had dealt with Mr Ws complaint fairly and didnt ask it to 
take further action. 
Mr W asked to appeal and explained he didnt understand the implications of the information 
given during his call with Halifax on 4 August 2021. Mr W advised he thought he had a 
further two months from August 2021 to make a payment and avoid the account closure and 
default. Mr W has told us he found the way Halifax communicated with him confusing. As Mr 
W asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to ensure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. Mr W has forwarded a lot of very personal information and detailed submissions 
about his complaint. I want to assure Mr W that Ive read, listened and watched all the 
information provided when reaching my decision. 
I think its fair to begin by noting that card holders could take a maximum of six months of 
payment holidays without falling into arrears or having the information recorded on their 
credit file. That was part of the PDG issued by the industry regulator. Here, Mr W received 
the full six months of the payment holiday between November 2020 and May 2021. That 
meant from the end of the payment holiday, in May 2021, there was no option for payments 
to be missed without that information being recorded on a borrowers credit file. And 
subsequent missed payments meant the account moved through Halifaxs collections 
process. 
In May 2021 Mr W spoke with Halifax and it collected information about his circumstances. 
The income and expenditure assessment showed Mr W wasnt able to start making 
payments towards his credit card. But Halifax gave Mr W information about organisations 
that offer consumer advice and support. And Halifax applied a three month account freeze. 
That meant Halifax stopped applying interest and charges and its collections activities were 
limited. But the account status was reflected on Mr Ws credit file. Im satisfied Halifax was 
seeking to provide breathing space for Mr W to obtain support and that it acted positively 
and sympathetically. 
Mr Ws explained that he thought he had two months from his call in early August 2021 to 
make a payment and avoid the closure of his credit card. Ive watched the footage Mr Ws 
sent us of the call. Its not possible to clearly hear what Halifaxs agent says, although I did 
hear them mention two months. The footage appears to be cut at certain points. I couldnt 
clearly hear what the agent was saying during much of the call and specifically when 
referring to two months. So Ive considered all the available information when considering 
whether Halifax made its intention to close the credit card clear.
During the footage Mr W confirmed he understood Halifax intended to close the credit card 
and that the balance outstanding would remain due. Mr W also confirmed he understood that 
step would impact his credit score and noted there were no other options available. 
I note that Halifax has provided a detailed call note that corresponds with the call Mr W 
recorded from 4 August 2021. The note shows Mr W discussed his financial situation at that 
point and advised he was unemployed and having difficulties with priority bills. The agent 
noted Mr W advised he was unable to make a payment to reduce arrears and didnt think he 
would be working in the next three months. 
The call note also says the agent checked with Mr W whether hed be able to make a 
payment within the next 35 day but he said no. Without reasonable information showing 
Mr W would be able to make payments to clear the arrears or balance, Halifax says it took 
the decision to close his credit card. And a letter was sent to Mr W on 5 August 2021 to 
explain that. 
Ive looked at Halifaxs letter of 5 August 2021 and it does set out its intention to close 
Mr Ws account. It said Halifax wasnt expecting a payment from Mr W before the account 
closed and that it would be required to send a default notice. The letter also notes that once closed, the account would appear as a default on Mr Ws credit file for six years. I note the 
letter invited Mr W to contact Halifax to update them about changes in his circumstances 
before the date shown in the default notice. 
On 19 August 2021 Halifax sent W the default notice that asked him to clear arrears by 6 
September 2021. So whilst I understand there was a reference to two months during a call 
Mr W had (although I wasnt able to hear exactly what information was given) Im satisfied 
Halifax did send Mr W clear information about its intentions to close his account and record a 
default if he didnt repay the arrears. 
Mr Ws told us he found the way Halifax communicated with him confusing and that he didnt 
receive important letters about his credit card following the call on 4 August 2021. Ive looked 
at Halifaxs correspondence, including its default notice, and theyre correctly addressed  in 
line with the details we hold for Mr W. Regulations require Halifax to send certain letters in 
the post and Im satisfied information about its intention to close Mr Ws credit card, including 
its default notice, were sent as claimed. Mr Ws told us about problems receiving post, but 
thats not something I can fairly say Halifax is responsible for. Mr Ws also told us he was 
away during part of September 2021. But the dates provided appear to be after his credit 
card had been closed already. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr W as I can see how strongly he feels in this matter. And I 
understand Mr Ws credit file has been impacted by the default. But, at the point of default, 
no payments had been made around nine months. And it had been over three months since 
the payment holiday ended. Im satisfied the information available shows Halifax advised 
Mr W that missed payments and the account closure would be reflected on his credit file. 
And I think thats a fair reflection of the circumstances surrounding the closure of Mr Ws 
credit card. 
As Im satisfied Halifax dealt with Mr Ws complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do anything 
else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman