DRN-3935867
The complaint
Mr J complains about the way Santander UK Plc handled a claim which he made to it in 
relation to a transaction on his Santander credit card.
What happened
Mr J purchased flights priced at £1,386 for family members using his Santander credit card 
through a travel agent (the supplier). However, the flights were cancelled due to the global 
Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr J requested a refund, but the supplier would only offer him a voucher. So he got in touch 
with Santander to help him get his money back. It looked into things under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) but declined to refund the money. In summary, it 
considered the technical requirements were not met for a valid Section 75 claim.
Mr J was not happy and complained to Santander, but it didnt change the outcome. So he 
referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator initially upheld the complaint. She pointed out that Santander should have 
considered and raised a chargeback for goods or services not received and had it done so 
Mr J would likely have got his money back.
Santander agreed with the investigator and offered a full refund including out of pocket 
interest as long as it was confirmed that Mr J did not have a voucher he could use.
Mr J confirmed he didnt have a voucher but said he had received some money back directly 
from the supplier. He confirmed he had received £1,281 back on 01/06/21. He said a friend 
had helped him get it and he had paid them £600 of it.
Our investigator said Mr J had received more than he would have got via chargeback 
because the terms and conditions of the booking with the supplier mean any refund is 
subject to cancellation charges. So she didnt think Santander needed to do anything more.
Mr J did not agree. In summary, he says:
 He didnt get the full amount back he is entitled to because of the negligence of 
Santander.
 The supplier didnt even issue a ticket which was fraudulent.
 Santander did not consider any options to help him.
 The amount of time he was out of pocket due to Santanders decision should be 
taken into account.
I issued a provisional decision on this case. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the cancellation of the flights Mr J booked due to the global 
pandemic. Santander is not the supplier of flights here, so I have to consider what it should 
fairly do in light of its role as a provider of financial services. Here the relevant protections 
are chargeback and Section 75.
I note that Mr J has made allegations of fraud because he says his ticket was not issued. I 
dont consider I need to make a determination in relation to this in order to make a fair and 
reasonable decision here and will be focusing on the matters I consider key to the complaint.
Section 75
Section 75 can in some circumstances mean Mr J can hold Santander liable for a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by a supplier of goods or services paid using his Santander 
credit card. There are technical requirements for Section 75 for apply.
I dont consider it necessary to go into Section 75 in any detail because of my conclusions in 
respect of chargeback here. But on the face or it I am not persuaded that Santander is right 
in saying Section 75 does not apply to this transaction. It looks to me that Mr J does have a 
contractual agreement with the supplier whom he appears to have made the booking with, 
even if that booking were intended to benefit others. However, it is worth noting that even if 
Section 75 did apply here I dont consider my outcome would be any different to that I am 
proposing below. 
Chargeback
Chargeback is a way Santander can try and recover the money Mr J has spent on his card. 
The rules relating to chargeback are set out by the relevant card scheme (Mastercard here). 
I have considered the relevant card scheme rules and had regard to any additional scheme 
guidance published in light of the Covid-19 pandemic.
I dont consider it necessary to cover chargeback in detail as Santander has helpfully agreed 
that it should have considered and raised a chargeback and that it had a good chance of 
succeeding. 
In brief, I agree the following:
That the reason code relating to services not being received is relevant here.
Mr J contacted Santander in good time in order that it could gather the relevant 
information and raise a chargeback within the relevant time scale.
That the chargeback is more likely to have succeeded than not had it been raised at 
the time.
I note that although Mr J was offered a voucher, it is clear from the relevant card scheme 
Covid-19 supplementary guidance that a consumer can refuse a reasonable alternative like 
a voucher, but still retain their chargeback rights. Here I am satisfied that the evidence 
shows Mr J told the supplier he did not wish to accept a voucher and wanted a refund. So I 
am satisfied he retained his chargeback rights. As an aside, I know Santander is concerned 
around Mr J benefiting from a voucher and a refund but from what he has said and done I 
am satisfied that he has likely not received a voucher  and even if one were auto generated 
I think it unlikely Mr J would attempt or be able to use it now.Mr J has already received most of the cost of the flights back. So I consider my role is to 
decide now what else is fairly due back to him. In summary, I agree with most of what Mr J 
has said and will be making an award. 
I dont agree with the investigators conclusion that Mr J would have been liable for 
cancellation or administration fees had he won the chargeback. From what I can see from 
the contractual information I have these fees are intended for situations where the consumer 
cancels or decides not to travel. But even if I were mistaken on that, there is nothing 
persuasive to show that any such limitations of liability would be effective as a defence to the 
reason code relating to services which have not been provided. 
So I am persuaded that Mr J would likely have received a full refund had the chargeback 
succeeded. I have already said I think the chargeback was more likely to succeed than not. 
Therefore, considering what is fair and reasonable Santander should pay him the difference 
in what he says he has already received (£1,281) and what he would have likely got had it 
processed the chargeback (£1,386). This is a total of £105.
I also note that Mr J has referred to out of pocket interest. I think it fair and reasonable that 
he gets this paid to him on what he spent from the date Santander first declined his claim 
(which I understand to be 10/12/20) to:
the date of settlement in respect of the £105 he is yet to receive,
01/06/21 in respect of the £1,281 part refund he has received from the supplier.
I also note Mr J says he has paid his friend £600 to help him get a refund as Santander did 
not help him. I dont think this is something that it is fair and reasonable to refund Mr J for 
here. It is unclear what capacity his friend was acting in or the exact arrangements here  
and even if it were clear I think Mr J was likely able to progress the matter without incurring 
such expense.
However, I do note Mr J has expressed his frustration that Santander didnt help him as it 
should have. And I think that clearly this has caused him a level of distress and 
inconvenience which (had Santander considered chargeback in the first place) would likely 
have been minimised. I have considered our awards scale here, and the impact on Mr J - 
after doing so I think that £150 is a reasonable amount of compensation in the particular 
circumstances here. 
Santander had initially agreed to refund the whole cost of the purchase before recent 
developments - so I am hopeful it will also agree with my provisional findings here. I also   
hope Mr J will consider my provisional decision to be a fair way of resolving matters and 
allowing him to move forward.
My provisional decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to:
refund Mr J £105 plus 8% simple yearly interest calculated from 10/12/20 to the date 
of settlement; 
pay Mr J 8% simple yearly interest on the sum of £1,281 calculated from 10/12/20 to 
the 01/06/2021; and
pay Mr J £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.I asked the parties for their comments. 
Both parties agreed with my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have agreed with my provisional findings  so I do not consider there to be any 
compelling reason for my final determination to differ from these.
Putting things right
For the reasons given in my provisional findings (as copied above) I consider it fair and 
reasonable for Santander UK Plc to put things right as set out below. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to:
 refund Mr J £105 plus 8% simple yearly interest calculated from 10/12/20 to the date 
of settlement; 
 pay Mr J 8% simple yearly interest on the sum of £1,281 calculated from 10/12/20 to 
the 01/06/2021; and
 pay Mr J £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
If Santander considers it is required to deduct tax from my interest award it should provide 
Mr J with a certificate of tax deduction so he may claim a refund from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman