DRN-4322062
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Nationwide Building Society was irresponsible in its lending to her. 
What happened
Mrs P was provided with four loans by Nationwide between 2017 and 2022. She says the 
loan amount almost tripled and this is due to her struggling financially. She says she used 
the loan proceeds to pay off other debts while trying to ensure her priority payments were 
met. At present she says that additional to this current loan she has three credit cards with 
balances totalling around £6,000.
Nationwide didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint. It said its underwriting team was satisfied that 
she had been lent the money responsibly for each loan. It said that having looked at Mrs Ps 
current account it didnt see a heavy reliance on the overdraft facility and wasnt able to 
establish the trigger points it would expect to see for financial difficulty. It said that Mrs P 
hadnt missed any repayments. Nationwide noted that Mrs P contacted it in September 2022 
about a possible payment holiday and the options were explained but Mrs P said this wasnt 
suitable for her and she maintained her repayments. 
Mrs P referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator partially upheld this complaint. He thought the checks carried out before the 
first loan was provided were proportionate and didnt raise concerns about its affordability. 
He noted that the second, third and fourth loans were for higher amounts than the first and 
that they were in part for debt consolidation. He said that the second and fourth applications 
were made within a year of the previous applications. Given this he thought it would have 
been reasonable to verify Mrs Ps financial circumstances before lending. He said that had 
further checks been carried out Nationwide would have realised that loan four shouldnt have 
been provided. 
Nationwide didnt agree with our investigators view. It said that reasonable and 
proportionate checks were carried out before it lent to Mrs P including verifying her income 
and modelling her expenses based on third party data. It said its checks showed the loans 
were affordable for Mrs P.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable or irresponsible lending  including 
the key rules, guidance and good industry practice  is set out on our website.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But while it is down to the firm to decide what specific checks it wishes to 
carry out, these should be reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit 
being provided, the length of the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments, and the 
total cost of the credit, as well as the borrowers individual circumstances. 
Mrs P was provided with four loans as set out below.
Date Loan Amount Monthly repayment Loan term (months)
April 2017 £5,000 £148.53 36
April 2018 £10,051 £223.16 48
March 2021 £8,071 £178.16 48
January 2022 £14,456 £319.09 48
Before providing the loans, Nationwide has said that credit checks were carried out, Mrs Ps 
declared income was verified with a credit reference agency and her expenses modelled 
using an external data source. Each loan was used in part to repay the previous loan.
Loan one
When Mrs P applied for the first loan, she declared a monthly income of £2,150 and rent of 
£500. Nationwide has said that it verifies the declared income through a credit reference 
agency and that this verification check didnt raise concerns. 
Nationwide said it used a combination of information provided by Mrs P and the credit 
reference agencies to establish her credit commitments. These were recorded as £45 a 
month for credit cards and no outstanding loan payments. The loan was noted to be for debt 
consolidation which would suggest Mrs P wished to reduce her credit card exposure. 
Nationwide used an external data source to model Mrs Ps expenses.  
As this was Mrs Ps first loan with Nationwide and noting the repayment amounts compared 
to her income, I find the checks carried out were reasonable and proportionate. As these 
suggested the loan repayments were affordable for Mrs P I do not find I can say Nationwide 
was wrong to provide this loan.
Loan two
Loan two was provided a year after loan one and was used in part to repay loan one. This 
loan was for a larger amount than loan one and had a longer term. Mrs Ps declared monthly 
income was £2,100. The monthly income was verified, and Nationwide said this didnt raise 
concerns. I have also looked through the other information provided, and this supports the 
declared income amount. 
Nationwide carried out a credit check and this showed that Mrs Ps outstanding debts had 
increased since her previous application but there was no evidence that Mrs P was 
struggling to meet her repayments on her commitments. Mrs P said she was paying £570 a 
month for mortgage/rent, her other credit commitments (excluding loan one which was being 
repaid by loan two) were around £150 a month and her monthly living expenses modelled 
using external data were around £566. Given this was Mrs Ps second loan and noting the 
increase in amount borrowed, I think it would have been reasonable to have asked Mrs P 
about her actual expenses rather than relying on an estimate to ensure the lending was 
affordable.
Mrs P has provided copies of her bank statements from the time. While I do not find that 
Nationwide had to request these, I have looked through the statements to understand what 
would likely have been identified had further questions about Mrs Ps expenses been asked. 
Having done this I can see that Mrs Ps account was in credit and not showing signs that she was struggling financially. Therefore, I do not find I can say that Nationwide did anything 
wrong by providing loan two.
Loan three
Mrs P took out loan three just under three years after loan two. She said the purpose of the 
loan was debt consolidation and part of the proceeds were used to repay her previous loan. 
The loan amount for loan three was less than loan two and so the monthly repayments were 
lower. However, taking on this new loan with a term of 48 months meant Mrs P had 
extended her period of indebtedness.
As with the previous loans, Nationwide gathered information about Mrs Ps monthly income 
and verified this. Nationwide said this verification didnt raise concerns. I have also looked 
through the other information provided, and this supports the declared income amount of 
£1,600. 
Mrs Ps monthly income had decreased at the time of her loan three application. Her 
payment for mortgage / rent had also decreased. Mrs Ps outstanding loans had increased 
substantially and totalled around 100% of her annual income. I think this should have raised 
concerns and while I note loan three was intended to be used for debt consolidation, I think it 
would have been reasonable to have carried out further checks to ensure the lending was 
affordable.
This was Mrs Ps third loan and the second time it had been suggested the loan would be 
used for debt consolidation which raises concerns that Mrs P might be struggling to take 
control of her debts. That said, Mrs P has provided a copy of her credit file dated April 2023 
and this doesnt suggest that Mrs P was struggling to manage her credit commitments. I 
have looked through Mrs Ps bank statements for the period leading up to the loan and 
having done so I do not find that I can say that further checks would have shown the loan to 
have been unaffordable. Therefore, while this was the third loan provided, as it was for a 
lower amount than the previous loan and there was a reasonable break in between loan two 
and loan three, I do not find that I have enough evidence to say that Nationwide did anything 
wrong by providing loan three.
Loan four
Mrs P applied for loan four within a year of loan three. Loan four was for a much larger 
amount and was again said to be used for debt consolidation. Given Mrs P had taken out 
previous loans for this purpose and was still needing to take on new lending for consolidation 
reasons, I think this should have raised concerns that Mrs P was struggling to repay her 
debts. 
Mrs Ps outstanding debt had increased since her application for loan three and this loan 
four was for a much larger amount with monthly repayments of around £319. Mrs Ps 
declared income was verified, and I do not find that further checks would have raised 
concerns about this. I have looked through Mrs Ps bank statements and I do not find I have 
enough to say further questions about her expenses would necessarily have shown the loan 
to have been unaffordable.
However, I have also considered what Nationwide knew about Mrs Ps overall financial 
situation. Mrs Ps total debts had increased substantially since she took out her first loan with 
Nationwide and her outstanding balances for loans and credit cards had both increased 
between Mrs Ps loan three application in March 2021 and her loan four application nine 
months later. Added to Mrs Ps increasing indebtedness was the fact she had noted debt 
consolidation for her previous loans, but the evidence suggests that she was increasing her debts rather than clearing these. I find this should have raised concerns about Mrs Ps 
pattern of borrowing and that she was becoming increasingly dependent on debt. And while I 
appreciate that the loan was said to be for debt consolidation, given Nationwides checks 
didnt suggest this had happened following the previous loans I think Nationwide should 
have considered this loan as being more likely than not used as further credit rather than a 
means of reducing her debt.
Given the above I think that had a thorough assessment of Mrs Ps financial circumstances 
taken place before loan four was provided, this would have raised concerns that the lending 
wouldnt be affordable for Mrs P. Therefore, I do not find that this loan should have been 
provided.
Putting things right
Where a business has done something wrong, our service aims to put the consumer back in 
the position they wouldve been in had the incident not occurred. However, in cases where a 
business has lent irresponsibly, this isnt entirely possible  as the lending provided cannot 
be undone.
In this case, I think its fair that Mrs P should only have to repay the money she borrowed in 
regard to loan four. With that in mind, I find Nationwide should refund all of the interest and 
charges paid toward repaying loan four.
To settle this complaint, Nationwide should:
Add up the total amount of money Mrs P received as a result of having been given 
loan four. The repayments Mrs P made should be deducted from this amount. Any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from 
the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement, if applicable).
Remove any negative information recorded on Mrs Ps credit file in regard to loan 
four (to the extent applicable).
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if asked for one.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loan four. Nationwide Building 
Society should take the actions set out above in settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman