DRN-4042120
The complaint
This complaint is brought on behalf of the estate of Mr C, by his executor and former 
attorneys (from a Lasting power of attorney/LPOA that was in place whilst Mr C was alive).
The complaint is that Barclays Bank UK PLC was wrong to pay two cheques towards a 
supposed investment  totalling £150,000  without any of the attorneys being consulted 
first. As the money has now been lost, the representatives believe it should be repaid to the 
estate
What happened
In June 2016 Mr C appointed three attorneys under an LPOA. Barclays was made aware of 
this and confirmed, by letter, it had registered the details in October 2016. 
In November 2016 Mr C wrote two cheques  for £100,000 and £50,000  to be paid toward 
an investment opportunity hed learned about. 
Whilst the cheques were being processed an attempt was made to contact Mr C to discuss 
them. But no contact could be made, and the cheques were processed anyway.
Mr C received payments from the investment over the next two years, with £30,000 being 
paid to him across four dates: 10 May 2017, 7 November 2017, 18 May 2018, and 
9 November 2018. Mr C raised no concerns or complaints regarding the payments he had 
made or received in relation to the investment. Nor did any other party attempt to raise 
concerns on Mr Cs behalf whilst he was alive.
Mr C sadly passed away in June 2020. It was after his death, upon reviewing his account 
history, that concerns were raised by the representatives of this complaint about the 
cheques Mr C had issued. Concerns were also raised about other payments  this time sent 
via CHAPS and totalling £60,000  made toward an investment in 2018. Those concerns 
have since been withdrawn as its become clear they were approved by one of the attorneys 
at the time.
The representatives believe that Barclays ought to have done more to question the 2016 
cheques at the time. They believe that because Barclays was aware of Mr Cs vulnerabilities 
it ought to have contacted one of his attorneys about the payments before allowing them to 
be completed. They say that, had it done so, they would have asked for the cheques to be 
stopped as they considered the type of investment (property development with a company 
registered overseas) to be too risky, and not what Mr C might have ordinarily invested in. 
Although the complaint representatives have said members of Barclays staff told them that 
the cheques hadnt been put through the correct procedures, and that the bank hadnt 
responded properly to Mr Cs vulnerabilities at the time, Barclays ultimately said it wouldnt 
be refunding the cheque payments. It said theyd been properly executed, the correct 
processes had been followed, and there was no third-party involvement in the issuing of the 
cheques. 
The complaint was referred to our service as the representatives didnt agree with Barclays 
position. They said it went against what theyd been told over the course of discussing the 
complaint with the bank, where errors were admitted and so it seemed the money would be 
refunded.
One of our investigators looked into what happened and didnt find Barclays had acted 
unfairly. She found the cheques had been paid in accordance with the banks rules and 
procedures. 
She wasnt persuaded that the cheques would have been stopped had an attorney been 
contacted at the time, especially as one of the attorneys approved later investments in 2018 
and given the payments seemed to be going toward a genuine investment. 
The complaint representatives disagreed and so the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
It will often be the case that I must make findings on a complaint without having access to all 
the evidence and information I might wish to see. Thats commonplace, especially when 
considering events that occurred several years ago. Records may be lost or deleted. And, of 
course, I cant ask Mr C about what was happening at the time. 
Where evidence is missing or incomplete, I must make my findings on the balance of 
probabilities. That is to say what I think is more likely than not to have happened. Or I may 
need to make a finding on what I believe would more likely than not have occurred if certain 
events had unfolded. There is of course no way to be completely certain of such findings, but 
a position must be reached. 
Did Mr C fall victim to a scam?
In setting out my findings I shall first provide some context about who the cheques were 
being paid to and for what purpose. Mr C believed he was investing in a property 
development company. And he did receive returns on his investment over the two years that 
followed the cheques being paid. But it is now apparent that this was a scam, operating as a 
Ponzi scheme. 
The complexity and sophistication of the scam is significant. There was indeed an ostensibly 
genuine company that sat behind the scam. It appears to have operated successfully, and 
perhaps even legitimately, for several years. Its even the case that an official liquidator was 
put in place when the company was eventually wound-up.
This service is aware of the advanced practices behind securing investors and the high-
quality, persuasive nature of the literature facilitating this scam. 
These factors help to understand how the scam was able to run for such a long time. It was 
uncommonly convincing and sophisticated, only truly being exposed in 2020.
Did Barclays need to do more than it did when paying the cheques?  Im not persuaded Barclays needed to do more than it did when it processed the two 
cheques Mr C issued. Barclays has a duty to process genuine and properly authorised 
payments quickly. There are only limited times where a bank might consider not fulfilling its 
legal obligations to follow a customers payment instruction. 
Whilst investment scams were a known risk in 2016, they were not as prevalent as they are 
today. And its true to say that what banks were expected or required to do, in terms of 
monitoring accounts and questioning transactions, was significantly less than what is 
expected today. The cheques that are the subject of this complaint were issued and paid 
before the introduction of much best practice and industry guidance that is now in place. And 
so, there are doubts as to whether the bank needed to contact anyone about the cheques, 
Mr C or otherwise.
It does appear that some contact with Mr C was attempted but unsuccessful. The decision 
was made to pay the cheques anyway. It seems more likely than not the cheques were held 
up to make sure they were properly authorised. I cant say for certain, but it seems likely 
Barclays (or its cheque processing agent) were able to satisfy the authenticity question by 
comparing the cheques to others issued by Mr C around the same time.
I cant see there was a specific record of Mr Cs vulnerabilities at the time the cheques were 
being paid. The LPOA had been registered, but I cant see theres any other detail. Thats 
not to say anything else absolutely wasnt recorded, but Ive seen no evidence of such a 
record. And the representatives of the complaint have been unable to provide any other 
evidence to show Barclays were on notice of any specific vulnerabilities. 
What would more likely than not have happened had Barclays done more?
I have considered what might have happened if I were to make the finding that Barclays 
ought to have done more. In the first instance Barclays might have continued to attempt 
contact with Mr C. It could perhaps have held up processing the cheques until it had spoken 
with him. However, given what Ive said about how convincing this scam was, Im not 
persuaded such contact would have made a difference. 
I dont believe Barclays would have been able to uncover that Mr C was falling victim to a 
scam. It would then have no reason to stop the payments from being made. Indeed, if all 
appeared above board, Barclays would have fairly considered it had a duty to proceed with 
the payments. 
I also consider it unlikely a different position would be reached if Barclays had contacted one 
of the attorneys. No-one would have been in possession of more facts than Mr C himself and 
its difficult to see how one of the attorneys might have uncovered the scam. Its important to 
note here that an attorneys role isnt to overrule what he/she might consider to be a poor or 
unwise decision of the donor. And so, if those were the grounds on which one of the 
attorneys might have objected  as has been stated by the representatives  Im not 
persuaded the bank ought to have disregarded its obligation to execute its customers 
instruction. 
Ive also thought about who, if anyone, Barclays might have contacted. The letter confirming 
the registration of the LPOA sent in October 2016 confirms only one attorney might 
potentially deal with Barclays on Mr Cs behalf. That is the same attorney who approved the 
investment payments from 2018, which were also disputed initially. To me, that suggests 
that the same attorney would have followed Mr Cs instructions at the time the cheques were 
being processed, had they been questioned. It doesnt seem unreasonable to suggest that 
the attorney was even aware of the investment being undertaken at the time.In making these findings Ive also considered that the LPOA was signed by Mr C in 
June 2016, before being registered with the Office for the Public Guardian in September 
2016.  For the LPOA to have been established Mr C must have been considered to have 
been of sound mind and with the capacity for making his own decisions. The LPOA could not 
have been put in place otherwise. The payments in dispute occurred just a few months after 
Mr C signed the LPOA, and with there having been no apparent or recorded changes in Mr 
Cs mental state. And so, it seems more likely than not he would have still been considered 
as having capacity to make his own decisions, as he did here. That it has since transpired 
that he fell victim to an uncommonly sophisticated scam does not alter that in my view. 
This position is further supported by the fact that there were no claims or concerns raised 
about the cheques (or other payments) until after Mr Cs death. Whilst I dont doubt whats 
been said about Mr Cs declining health over the years, it doesnt appear his finances were 
being monitored by anyone, indicating the attorneys were satisfied he could either handle his 
own financial affairs, or had people close enough to him and with enough oversight to help if 
necessary.  
Ive considered what the attorneys have said they were told by Barclays staff over the course 
of the complaint: that the proper process hadnt been followed when the cheques were paid, 
and that they were told Mr Cs vulnerabilities hadnt been properly taken into account. The 
suggestion has been that these points ought to mean Mr Cs estate is reimbursed now. 
Ive not seen or heard substantive evidence about such conversations taking place. Ive 
requested and reviewed contact notes from Barclays. And Ive been provided with searches 
for calls using the contact details provided by the representatives, with no results showing 
up. But, even if what the representatives say is true, and they were told what they say they 
were, those statements alone dont mean Barclays ought to be held liable. I must still 
consider what I find to be the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of the 
case. And I dont find it would be fair and reasonable to say Barclays is responsible for 
refunding the loss to Mr Cs estate.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman