DRN-3315167
The complaint
Mr Q complains that a retailer, which Ill call A, damaged his kitchen when installing 
appliances. Because he paid for the appliances using his credit card issued by Tesco 
Personal Finance PLC, Mr Q says that Tesco Bank is liable with A to put things right.  
What happened
In November 2020 Mr Q placed an order with A for some kitchen appliances. The invoice 
was broken down as follows:
Fridge - £349.00;
Built-in washer-dryer - £799.00;
Connection of product - £45.00;
Recycling of old item - £20. 
Mr Q has explained that A damaged a bespoke kitchen door when installing the washer-
dryer. It then tried unsuccessfully to repair it but made matters worse. It finally offered 
compensation of £2,500, which Mr Q declined. He referred the matter to Tesco Bank. 
Tesco Bank said however that it had no liability for the damage caused by the installation of 
the washer-dryer. It said that section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 did not apply, 
because the installation was priced at less than £100. 
Mr Q referred the case to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He agreed with Tesco Bank that section 75 did not apply and that its response to 
Mr Qs claim had therefore been fair. Mr Q did not accept the investigators assessment and 
asked that an ombudsman review the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a customer pays for goods or services using a credit card, the effect of section 75(1) 
can be that a customer who has a claim for breach of contract against the supplier has a like 
claim against the credit card provider. That provision is however subject to financial and 
other conditions set out in section 75(3).
Section 75(3)(b) says that section 75(1) does not apply  so far as the claim relates to any 
single item to which the supplier has attached a cash price not exceeding £100 or more than 
£30,000     
The invoice was broken down into four separate elements. Mr Qs complaint concerns only 
one of those elements  the connection of the washer-dryer. The price attached by A to that 
part of the overall order was £45  that is, it did not exceed £100. Because it did not exceed 
£100, I think it was reasonable of Tesco Bank to conclude that it had no liability under 
section 75(1). I do not therefore need to consider whether A was in fact in breach of contract.   
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Tesco Personal Finance PLC to 
do anything more to resolve Mr Qs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman