DRN-2713270
The complaint
Miss Y and Mr M complain about how U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line Car 
Insurance (UKI) has dealt with a claim made against Mr Ms motor insurance policy.
This insurance policy is in Mr Ms name, and Miss Y is a named driver on the policy  I have 
referred to both parties throughout this decision.
Any reference I make to UKI also includes its agents.
What happened
In July 2019, Miss Y and Mr M received notification from a different insurer that they were 
going to increase the premiums on their policy because they hadnt declared that they had 
two separate claims outstanding against them. Miss Y and Mr M say they were surprised by 
this  they say they were aware of one of the claims but not the other. 
Miss Y and Mr M contacted UKI and said that they werent aware of a second claim. They 
were told by UKI that their car had been involved in a collision on 7 April 2019 and two 
separate parties were claiming on their insurance. Miss Y and Mr M maintained they knew 
nothing about the incident. 
UKI sent a claims investigator to interview Miss Y and Mr M to find out their version of 
events. The claims investigator played Miss Y and Mr M a call recording from when the 
incident was first reported  Miss Y and Mr M say its clear that the person who reported the 
incident isnt either of them  the claims investigator appeared to accept this too. 
Miss Y and Mr M later found some of their own documents to support their version of events, 
which were invoices from a garage. The invoices were dated from the time the incident 
happened and so they say their car cant have been involved because it was being repaired. 
UKI then sent its investigator to go and speak to the garage. The garage wouldnt confirm if 
they had repaired the car or not and it wouldnt check the invoice. UKI later say it found 
evidence that the car and been spotted on a camera on the same day as the incident.
Furthermore, UKI received some photos from the third-party insurer (TPI). The photos are of 
Miss Y and Mr Ms car, which it says was taken at the scene. There is also a photo of Mr M 
that was allegedly taken at the scene. 
UKI settled the claim as fault. It said that it had investigated everything and thought it unlikely 
that a court would rule in its favour based on the evidence it had.
Miss Y and Mr M remained unhappy with this. They say theyve provided much evidence to 
prove that they werent involved in the incident  and nor was their vehicle. They dont feel 
UKI have enough evidence to prove that their vehicle was involved.
Our investigator also looked into things. They didnt think that UKI had done anything wrong 
when it held Miss Y and Mr M at fault for the incident. They said that UKI had done a fair 
investigation, taking into account all of the evidence, and made the decision that ultimately, it 
wouldnt be able to defend Miss Y or Mr M in court.
Miss Y and Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view  and they made a number of 
points as to why. Because Miss Y and Mr M dont agree, the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Theres a lot thats happened on this case  and so I have tried to keep the background of 
whats happened to a brief summary. Id like to make it clear to Miss Y and Mr M that I have 
read and considered all of the information provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. 
If Ive not mentioned something in this decision, its not because I didnt see it, its because I 
didnt deem it relevant to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy, but 
to reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also 
means I dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every 
question raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
It isnt my role to determine who was at fault for the collision; that would be a matter for a 
court of law. What Im deciding is whether UKI has acted in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the policy and whether it has dealt with the claim fairly.
In line with most insurers, the policy says that UKI can take over the settlement of the claim. 
So, it can decide whether to defend a claim or settle it - or it can decide whether it is 
prepared to defend Miss Y and Mr M if the matter went to court. Court proceedings can be 
expensive and the outcome cant be guaranteed, so insurers will consider the costs involved 
and the likelihood of success in making these decisions. That might mean UKI makes a 
decision Miss Y and Mr M disagrees with, as has happened here. 
I can understand why Miss Y and Mr M would be upset about being held liable for a collision 
they say they werent involved in, let alone at fault for. While I cant make a decision as to 
whether Miss Y and Mr M were involved in the incident or not, I have looked to see if UKI 
have acted fairly in deciding how to settle matters and Ive checked it has made a 
reasonable assessment of the claims made against the policy. 
Looking at whats happened, I think UKI has settled this claim fairly and in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy.
This is an unusual case. Miss Y and Mr M are adamant that neither of them nor their car was 
involved in this incident. Theyve said UKI hasnt ever taken their statement or asked them 
what they saw or witnessed. But UKI did send round a claims investigator who took a 
statement from them. They both confirmed they knew nothing of what happened. So I cant 
agree that they werent given an opportunity to give their side of the story. 
Based on the claims investigators report, it appears to have been accepted by UKI that 
someone else impersonating Mr M and his son, contacted UKI to report the incident, and 
changed the phone number and email address on the policy to details unknown to Miss Y 
and Mr M. I doesnt appear this point is in dispute, but I dont think this alone means that UKI 
has done something wrong when settling the claim. Miss Y and Mr M has provided UKI with invoices from a garage to show that the car was in 
for repairs at the time of the incident. Miss Y has also shown UKI text messages from her 
phone at around the time of the incident to show she wasnt in possession of the car and that 
it was in the garage for repairs. 
Because of the evidence provided by Miss Y, UKI sent an investigator to the garage that was 
named on the invoices. The person at the garage refused to confirm his identity, his role at 
the garage, whether or not he remembered the repair work carried out and wouldnt looked 
at the invoice for the repair work that was presented to him by the investigator. 
Ultimately, the garage refused to give any statement in relation to what happened. Without a 
statement from the garage, I think it would be difficult for UKI to be more certain than not that 
the car was in for repairs when the incident took place. Ive looked at the invoices provided 
by Miss Y and Mr M, I note that these are for around the time of the incident. But while I 
appreciate Miss Y has provided text messages to show the car was in for repairs, I dont 
think these messages or the invoices necessarily place either her, Mr M or the car at the 
garage when the incident happened. 
 
In addition to this, UKI did a search on the cars number plate and found that the car had 
been spotted on a camera in the same city that Miss Y and Mr M reside, on the day of the 
incident. And this was a different city from where the garage was, at least a few hours drive 
away. So it seems that, even if the car was in the garage for repairs, it hadnt been there for 
the entirety of the incident date. 
Miss Y and Mr M say that there is contradictory information relating to this point. Theyve 
said that UKI told them that the police had seen their car on camera on the day of the 
incident. Miss Y and Mr M have checked this with the police who have confirmed that they 
have no record of their car on camera. I havent seen anywhere that confirms UKI told Miss 
Y or Mr M that it was the police who had spotted the car. UKI has done its own search called 
an Automatic Number Plate Recognition Check and found that a car with Miss Y and Mr 
Ms registration plate was spotted in a different area to where they say they had taken their 
car for repairs, around four hours prior to the incident. I havent seen that UKI involved the 
police in this process, and so its likely the police arent aware of this information. I dont 
draw anything negative from the police not being aware of this.
UKI were sent photos from the third party (TP) solicitor. These photos are allegedly from the 
scene of the incident and show Mr Ms car very close to the TP car. Theres also a photo of 
Mr M which has been taken at quite close range  again, alleged to have been taken at the 
incident. Mr M agrees that this photo looks like him, but says it doesnt place him at the 
incident and he has no idea how the TP has got hold of these photos. 
I accept, there are some unusual, and difficult to explain circumstances surrounding this 
case. But ultimately, UKI have seen photos of Mr M and his car, provided by the TP  which 
suggests that he was at the scene of the incident. UKI say that given the evidence available 
on this case, it would be unlikely that it would win a court case in defence of Mr M. And so it 
accepted liability and settled the claim as fault against him. I dont find its decision to do this 
to be unreasonable based on the evidence it has been able to gather.
Id like to thank Miss Y and Mr M for taking the time to respond to our investigators view. Ive 
read all of their comments in response to this, and I know they feel strongly about the claims 
made against them. But my investigation is solely based on whether UKI did enough to 
investigate what happened and fairly settle the claim. And for the reasons Ive already set 
out above, I think it has. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Y and Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss Y 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman