DRN-2285200
The complaint
Mrs K complains Scottish Equitable Plc trading as AEGON (Aegon) has acted unfairly by 
declining a life claim she made following her husbands death and by avoiding the policy. 
Mrs K is represented here by her son, but to keep things simple Ill refer only to Mrs K.
What happened
In May 2013 Mrs K and her husband Mr K applied for a joint life policy with Aegon, on the 
advice of an independent financial adviser (IFA). The policy started on 1 November 2013 
and provided life and terminal illness cover with a benefit of £72,000. 
Sadly Mr K was diagnosed with lung cancer in June 2014, which he passed away from in 
2018. Mrs K made a claim under the life part of their Aegon policy. So, Aegon asked Mr Ks 
GP for information about his lung cancer, though the GP sent Mr Ks full medical record.
Aegon declined the claim, avoided the policy (cancelled it as if it had never existed) and 
refunded the premiums Mr and Mrs K had paid. It said Mr K had made a deliberate or 
reckless misrepresentation when he took out the policy, because in the policy application he 
answered No when asked Do you currently smoke or have you, in the last 12 months, 
smoked or used any nicotine products such as gum or patches? Whereas his medical 
records suggested he was a life-long smoker, and an entry on 30 July 2013 noted he 
smoked ten cigarettes a day, an entry on 30 August 2013 noted his GP gave him smoking 
cessation advice, and entries on 17 and 19 June 2014 noted he smoked 20 cigarettes a day.
Aegon said the application form made clear Mr and Mrs K needed to give full and accurate 
answers or it might decline a claim and cancel the policy. And that the letters it sent them in 
May, October and November 2013 said they needed to tell it if their circumstances had 
changed between the application and the start of the policy.
Mrs K complained to Aegon, saying it had unfairly accessed Mr Ks full medical record. But 
Aegon didnt change its position and said it had only asked the GP when Mr K first had lung 
cancer symptoms - and since his medical notes from that consultation said he was a 
smoker, it wouldve asked for his full medical records anyway. 
Mrs K remained unhappy so she referred her complaint to our service. Initially, our 
investigator thought Mr K hadnt made a misrepresentation when he applied for the policy, 
but that he had made a careless misrepresentation by not telling Aegon his circumstances 
had then changed. She said Aegon should reinstate the policy, consider the claim and pay 
Mrs K £100 compensation. And that if a claim was payable, Aegon should deduct the 
refunded premiums and pay 8% interest. 
Aegon provided copies of health declarations signed by Mr K and Mrs K on 15 October 
2013, just before the policy started. These both showed No was ticked for the question that 
asked Have you smoked or used any nicotine products, such as gum or patches?. This led 
our investigator to change her opinion and conclude Aegon hadnt acted unreasonably. 
Mrs K disagreed and made a number of points:
The signatures on the health declaration werent valid, as Mr K had signed Mrs Ks 
declaration and vice versa. And that those declarations showed a failing in the sales 
process rather than a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation, because Aegon sent the 
declarations to the IFA who then visited Mr and Mrs K to complete them  it should 
instead have sent the declarations to her and Mr K. She said she and Mr K didnt 
complete the declarations, only signed them. And since the signatures were incorrect, 
theyd clearly been unable to review the form carefully. So Aegon hadnt directly asked 
them the questions and they hadnt consciously answered them. 
Aegon should consider the impact of the sales process but hadnt. And Aegon was 
responsible for the sales process, as the IFA mightve been acting on its behalf.
Mr K had no problem declaring he was a smoker. Hed said he was a smoker on similar 
previous policies with different businesses, but was an ex-smoker when he took out this 
policy and his medical records note him as such on 16 September 2011. Mrs K said 
Mr K went on a smoking cessation programme in 2011, so she couldnt understand why 
his medical records said he was smoking in July and August 2013, and this was at odds 
with her familys experience of living with Mr K. 
As Mrs K disagreed with our investigator, her complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by offering my condolences to Mrs K and her family, and I realise this is 
undoubtedly a very upsetting and difficult time for them. But while I dont in any way want to 
add to Mrs Ks distress, Im not upholding her complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Before I do, I should explain that my decision will only address Aegons actions in relation to 
Mrs Ks claim - it wont address the sale of the policy. I know Mrs K says Aegon is 
responsible for the sale because the IFA and Aegon had a close relationship and Aegon 
paid the IFAs fee, but thats not unusual and doesnt necessarily mean the IFA was tied to 
Aegon. And Aegon has confirmed the policy was sold through an IFA and that Aegon is not 
authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority to sell any policies. Im also satisfied that the 
IFA that sold the policy wasnt an appointed representative of Aegon at the time. So I dont 
think Aegon is responsible for the sale of the policy.  If Mrs K is unhappy about how the 
policy was sold, shed need to complaint to the IFA in the first instance. And if she was 
unsatisfied with its response, she could refer her complaint to our service for an impartial 
investigation.
Turning to the claim, the law that applies here is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012, known as CIDRA. CIDRA says that insurers like Aegon have a 
responsibility to ask clear questions about the risk theyre being asked to cover. And that 
customers like Mr and Mrs K have a responsibility to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when answering those questions. So Ive looked at the questions Aegon 
asked Mr K, and the answers he gave. Ive also looked at Mr Ks medical history. 
The policy application completed in May 2013 asked Do you currently smoke or have you, in 
the last 12 months, smoked or used any nicotine products such as gum or patches?. I think 
this was a clear question. Mr K answered No, and while his medical records show hed had 
a history of smoking, an entry on 16 September 2011 noted he was an ex-smoker. And theres nothing in the medical records Ive been provided with to suggest Mr K was recorded 
as a smoker or had smoked in the twelve months before he applied for policy. So I dont 
think Mr K misrepresented his smoking status in his application. 
Mr K had a responsibility to let Aegon know if his circumstances changed, and I think the 
letters it sent to him on 8 May 2013, 14 October 2013 and 1 November 2013 made this clear 
 they say he must tell Aegon if his circumstances had changed between the date of his 
application and the start of the policy, and not doing so might result in Aegon turning down a 
claim and cancelling the policy. The letters of 14 October and 1 November 2013 also gave 
starting smoking as an example of a change of circumstances. While Aegon cant provide 
system records showing it dispatched these letters, its provided copies of them and I can 
see theyre correctly addressed to Mr and Mrs K. So Im satisfied Aegon sent them. 
I think Mr K didnt take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation in the health 
declaration signed on 15 October 2013, shortly before the policy started. I know Mrs K says 
Aegon should have sent the health declarations directly to her and Mr K rather than to the 
IFA but as Ive said, the IFA was representing Mr and Mrs K so it wasnt unreasonable for 
Aegon to send these to the IFA so they could advise Mr and Mrs K if needed. 
One health declaration was completed with Mr Ks name and date of birth but signed by Mrs 
K, and the other was completed with Mrs Ks name and date of birth and signed by Mr K. 
Mrs K says the IFA is responsible for this but the IFA wasnt acting on Aegons behalf, and 
Ive seen nothing to suggest it was because of any error by Aegon. Both declarations have 
No ticked against the questions that asked Do you currently smoke or have you, in the last 
12 months, smoked or used any nicotine products such as gum or patches? I think that was 
a clear question, and ultimately Mr K and Mrs K each signed one of those declarations. And 
Aegon was entitled to rely on what it was told in those forms. 
I appreciate Mrs K says she and Mr K just signed the declarations, but it was for them to 
check and confirm the information they contained was correct. I think the declaration made 
that clear - next to where Mr and Mrs K each signed, it says To the best of my knowledge, 
all the above statements are true and complete I acknowledge that:
I must tell you about any changes to my health or circumstances that happen any 
time between the completion of the original application and the start date of my policy.
If I havent answered all the questions fully, accurately and to the best of my 
knowledge, a claim may not be paid and the whole policy may be cancelled not just 
the benefit being claimed under.
I appreciate Mrs K says Mr K stopped smoking in 2011 and his medical records are at odds 
with her experience of living with him. But I dont think thats enough for me to reasonably 
say the entries in Mr Ks medical records from July 2013 onwards about his smoking are 
incorrect. They suggest Mr Ks smoking status had changed and that he was smoking after 
he applied for the policy but before he signed the health declaration and the policy started. 
An entry on 30 July 2013 says he smoked ten cigarettes a day, and an entry on 30 August 
2013 said he was a cigarette smoker and was given smoking cessation advice. And as an 
entry in June 2014 noted he smoked 20 cigarettes a day and was given smoking cessation 
advice, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that the July and August 2013 records were 
wrong. 
Given this, Im satisfied Mr K didnt take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
about his smoking when he completed the health declaration on 15 October 2013. And Im 
satisfied that misrepresentation made a difference, as Aegon has confirmed that had Mr K not made that misrepresentation, it would have provided him with cover under its smoker 
rates and charged him a monthly premium of £85.16 instead of the £42.73 it did charge him.
I also think it was fair for Aegon to conclude that this was a deliberate or reckless 
misrepresentation. I say that because Mr K signed a health declaration saying he hadnt 
smoked only about ten weeks after his medical records noted he smoked ten cigarettes a 
day, and only about six weeks after his GP gave him advice to stop smoking. So this was all 
in a short space of time. And Mr K was noted as smoking ten cigarettes per day, not just an 
occasional cigarette. And whether he was smoking or not would have been something Mr K 
would himself have known, as it was very personal to him. So its difficult to see how Mr K 
could have not known or simply have forgotten this information. 
CIDRA says where there has been a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation, and that 
misrepresentation made a difference, then businesses like Aegon can decline a claim, avoid 
the policy and keep the premiums. Therefore, Im satisfied Aegon has acted fairly in the 
circumstances. I note Aegon has refunded the premiums to Mrs K, which is something it can 
choose to do. 
Though the claim is the crux of Mrs Ks complaint, shes said Aegon unfairly looked at all of 
Mr Ks medical records. The claim was made within about six months of the policy starting, 
so I think it was reasonable of Aegon to seek more information about Mr Ks lung cancer. 
And it asked Mr Ks GP for specific information about his lung cancer. Mr Ks medical notes 
show that when he first consulted his GP in June 2014 with what was then diagnosed as 
lung cancer, it was noted he smoked 20 cigarettes a day. Based on that, together with how 
soon into the policy the claim was made, I think it was reasonable for Aegon to look back 
further into Mr Ks medical records. 
Mrs K has also said Aegon should have regard for failings in the sales process. As Ive said, 
my decision wont consider the sale of the policy as thats not something Aegon was 
responsible for. In any case, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable of me to say Aegon 
should put right any error a separate business may have made, which hasnt been 
established yet anyway. So Im not asking Aegon to do anything further regarding the claim 
or the policy, though I know this isnt the answer Mrs K hoped for.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman