DRN-3884376
Complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) recorded a fraud 
prevention marker against him. 
Background
In August 2022, Mr R applied for a savings account with M&S. Mr Rs application was 
accepted. However, shortly afterwards M&S became concerned about inconsistencies 
picked up during further checks. In particular, it was concerned that Mr R hadnt disclosed all 
of his previous addresses. It subsequently closed Mr Rs account and also recorded a fraud 
prevention marker against him. 
Mr R complained after learning that M&S had recorded a fraud prevention marker against 
him. M&S looked at Mr Rs complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr R remained dissatisfied, he 
referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Rs concerns. He didnt think that M&S had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed and so the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that M&S has filed is intended to record that there was application fraud  
relating to Mr R using his real name but providing other false information in an application for 
a financial product. In order to file such a marker, it isnt required to prove beyond 
reasonable doubt that Mr R is guilty of a fraud or financial crime, but it must show that there 
are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. 
The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain their version of events in order to understand their 
level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Rs complaint, I need to decide whether I think M&S had enough 
evidence to show that Mr R did provide materially false information. Secondly, M&S also 
needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr R was deliberately dishonest when doing so 
and that any discrepancies werent simply down to a mistake or misunderstanding. Its also 
important to note M&S had to have enough evidence to meet both parts of test for it to have 
acted fairly and reasonably.
Having considered matters, I do firstly want to start by saying that its disappointing to see 
that M&S failed to obtain Mr Rs version of events before recording the marker. I accept it 
believed the information it obtained from credit reference agencies indicated that  Mr R had 
provided false information. But, on its own, this is only really enough to trigger suspicion or 
concern. And I have to question how M&S could possibly have assessed Mr Rs knowledge 
and intention before it recorded the fraud marker against him when it looks like it didnt 
speak to him before doing so.
That said, even though it would have been preferrable for M&S to have contacted Mr R 
before recording the fraud marker. I dont think that doing so would have made too much of a 
difference here. I say this because I think there is enough here to suggest that Mr R 
knowingly and dishonestly provided M&S with false information. 
M&S says that Mr R failed to disclose his previous address history. It was concerned by the 
fact that Mr R said that hed lived at his current address since March 2019. But this wasnt 
supported by other information showing that hed been registered living at, at least, one 
other address during this period. 
Furthermore, and perhaps most importantly, the address which ended up being left off       
Mr Rs application had negative information recorded against him  namely a default which 
still had a significant outstanding balance owing. And as this information about previous 
addresses is likely to have impacted M&Ss decision on whether to provide Mr R with a 
savings account, Im satisfied that it was a material falsehood.
I know Mr R says he wasnt asked about his debts and these werent on his mind at the time 
of this application. This may or may not be the case. Nonetheless this doesnt change the 
fact that Mr R was asked to confirm his address history and when he moved to the address 
he used for this application. 
Its possible that its merely a coincidence that the address Mr R didnt disclose was one with 
a default. But given the clarity of the question asked and the fact that Mr R would have 
known hed lived at this other address, I think it is more likely than not that this discrepancy 
was knowing and deliberate, rather than an innocent mistake. So Im satisfied that this 
address discrepancy meant that M&S had sufficient evidence to record a fraud marker 
against Mr R. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that M&S did have sufficient 
evidence to record an application fraud marker against Mr R. As this is the case, I dont think 
that M&S acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr R and Im not upholding his complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr R  especially given the impact he says the 
marker is having. Be that as it may I cant simply ignore the fact that the available evidence 
appears to show that M&S didnt act unfairly here. So I hope Mr R will understand the 
reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman