DRN-3986512
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has treated him unfairly because it has not 
agreed to write-off his debt on the basis of his medical conditions. Also, Mr S complains that 
Barclays treated him inappropriately in telling him that it might sell his account
What happened
Mr S has a credit card account with Barclays. In 2016 he began to experience financial 
difficulties due to a change in his employment status. As a result of this change, Mr S was 
unable to make his contractual repayments. The knock-on effect of this was that in June 
2016 Barclays defaulted the account and after that it accepted token payments from Mr S. 
This arrangement has so far lasted for six years. Mr S does not complain about these events 
in this complaint.
However, the situation has now changed. According to Mr S, he has become a vulnerable 
consumer due to a number of factors. In particular, Mr S has told us about two specific 
circumstances that he indicates make him vulnerable for medical reasons. And it is these 
circumstances that he tells us Barclays should take account of in order to write-off his debt 
on medical grounds. 
Specifically, Mr S sent in information from his GP which shows he has been diagnosed with 
anxiety and depression. Further, at the time he complained to both Barclays and to us Mr S 
was expecting to receive a diagnosis of a developmental disability. Mr S indicated that this 
expected diagnosis also makes him a vulnerable consumer on medical grounds.  
On the basis of these medical conditions one that has been diagnosed, one that seemingly 
has not, Mr S indicates that Barclays should stop pursuing him for the debt and write-off the 
debt on medical grounds. Specifically, he indicates that he is unduly stressed due to the 
debt. And that given his medical conditions this stress has a greater impact on him than it 
otherwise would. This in turn causes him harm. Therefore Barclays should write-off the debt 
to alleviate his stress.
Moreover, Mr S complains that Barclays threatened him by telling him it could, in principle, 
sell his account in the future. Mr S is also unhappy about this.
In any event, Mr S has told Barclays that he does not expect it to pursue him for the debt any 
longer and if it does he will take it to court. Mr S considers that since he has told Barclays 
that this is his expectation it should take heed and act in line with his expectations.
Further, Mr S points out that other third party lenders have written off his debts with them 
due to his health conditions, and therefore Barclays is out of step with industry best practice 
in refusing to write-off this debt too. 
Mr S thinks that in addition to writing-off the balance on medical grounds, Barclays should 
also make a payment to him of £10,000. Mr S requires £10,000 from Barclays because this 
is a multiple of what he owes it, and also because it is the fee he feels entitled to charge it 
for making him deal with this matter. 
Ill mention for completeness that Mr S has also told Barclays that due to the current recent 
cost of living crisis, temporarily his financial situation has changed, and he will no longer 
make payments to it whilst this is the case. Barclays has accepted this and as a result it has 
told Mr S it will not ask Mr S to make repayments while his finances are temporarily 
impacted like this. But Mr S has not complained, in this complaint, about experiencing long-
term financial difficulties, neither has Barclays investigated this.
Barclays initially told Mr S that he did not meet its criteria for writing-off his debt on medical 
grounds. But it also told Mr S that should things change with his health and if he had 
evidence to prove this, it would be willing to consider the matter again.  It also told him, as 
Ive already mentioned, that it could, in principle, sell his account in future.
Mr S then sent Barclays further new information about his health. Barclays considered this 
new information but told Mr S that its decision regarding writing-off his debt on medical 
grounds had not changed. Moreover, it did not agree that by telling him that in principle it 
could sell his account in future it was acting inappropriately. Barclays also told Mr S what 
further help was available to him by telling him about its specialist support team. It appears 
that this team is now aware of Mr S and the history of the correspondence he has had with 
Barclays about this matter.
For all of these reasons Barclays did not think it had done anything wrong and rejected Mr 
Ss complaint.
Dissatisfied with Barclays responses Mr S came to our service.
Once Mr Ss complaint was with us he raised new matters about the information that 
Barclays has sent to him in response to a request from him. Mr S also raised a new matter 
about being told previously that the debt would never be sold to a third party. He also added 
that Barclays is acting in the way it is because this is a deliberate ploy on the part of 
Barclays, to make his health conditions worse. In addition, Mr S mentioned that he is a 
homeowner, he said Barclays could have secured the debt on his home, but it has chosen 
not to do so. He suggested this shows that Barclays is not acting in good faith. 
Moreover, Mr S indicated that he is going to keep on complaining to Barclays so that it 
becomes economically unviable for Barclays to keep on pursuing him for the debt. He also 
indicated that he had been able to persuade the third party lenders to stop pursuing him, in 
part by taking a similar approach. 
Mr S thinks that Barclays only told him about being able to sell his account because he 
asked it to write-off his debt.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint. Our investigator did not recommend 
that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld.
Barclays accepted our investigators recommendation, Mr S did not. In summary, in rejecting 
our investigators recommendation Mr S reiterated his previous stance. 
Mr S asked that an ombudsman review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.I recognise that Mr S has very strong feelings about his complaint. However, I dont uphold 
his complaint. I dont say this to upset him further, far from it. Ill explain below why Ive come 
to this conclusion.
As Ive already mentioned, Mr S has now also complained about new issues namely:
The information that Barclays sent him in response to a request from him. 
Barclays breaking a previous promise to him to never sell on his debt with it.
Barclays deliberately trying to make his health worse. 
Barclays not applying to secure the debt on his home therefore this suggests to him it 
is acting in bad faith.
All of these are new matters and they have not been considered by Barclays in its final 
response to Mr S or investigated within this complaint. It follows that I am unable to look at 
these new matters in this decision.
Mr S has complained about four very narrow issues he wants Barclays to write-off his debt 
on medical grounds. Moreover, he has told Barclays that he does not expect it to contact him 
ever again about this debt, and if it does he will go to court. Therefore, Mr S considers since 
he has made it clear what his stance is, Barclays must respect this and stop pursuing him for 
the debt, in any event. Mr S wants Barclays to pay him £10,000. Further he considers 
Barclays acted in an inappropriate manner when it told him in principle it could sell his 
account in future. 
Ill look at each of these issues in turn. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr S tells us he is a vulnerable consumer for several reasons including medical reasons. 
This is relevant because part of his complaint is about wanting Barclays to write-off the debt 
on medical grounds. Mr S indicates that the medical conditions that make him vulnerable are 
his diagnosis of anxiety and depression and his expectation that he will be diagnosed with a 
developmental disability. Furter, he tells us because of his medical conditions his stress is 
heightened to such a level it is causing him harm. As a result Mr S wants Barclays to write-
off his debt.
A vulnerable consumer is someone who, due to their personal circumstances, is especially 
susceptible to harm, particularly when a firm is not acting with appropriate levels of care. It 
should be noted that having a health condition could make a consumer vulnerable. And 
further having a health condition and being especially susceptible to stress about a debt due 
to that health condition could make a consumer vulnerable too. 
The Financial Conduct Authority who regulates Barclays expects regulated firms to provide 
their customers with a level of care that is appropriate given the characteristics of the 
customers themselves. The level of care that is appropriate for vulnerable consumers may 
be different from that for others and regulated firms should take particular care to ensure 
they are treated fairly. Regulated firms also need to have adequate processes and control 
systems in place to ensure they are managing the risk of harm to vulnerable customers.
Moreover, relevant industry guidance does provide for writing-off debt, when appropriate, 
where a consumer has mental health conditions. But simply because a consumer has a 
mental health condition does not mean that debt should be automatically written-off. Rather, 
I would expect a financial business to look into writing-off unsecured debts where mental 
health conditions are long-term, hold out little likelihood of improvement, and are such that it 
is highly unlikely that the person in debt would be able repay their outstanding debts due to 
these conditions or where the debt is causing such a level of stress that it would be fair to write-off the debt. Moreover, Barclays policy for writing-off debt in these circumstances 
relies on similar principles, and Id expect Barclays to apply its own guidance and to do so 
fairly.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time as well as the 
firms own stated policies. 
Therefore if I thought that Mr S was a vulnerable consumer due to his health and that 
Barclays had not treated Mr S fairly including managing the risk of harm to him given his 
status and the impact of his circumstances on him, I would find it fair and reasonable to ask 
Barclays to put things right.
Im satisfied that the independent expert evidence Mr S has provided shows he is vulnerable 
due to his diagnosis of anxiety and depression.  However, whilst I recognise Mr S considers 
it likely he will be diagnosed with a developmental condition and I can see that he has been 
referred to at least one specialist, as yet it seems that he has no such diagnosis. And to be 
able to accurately say he has this condition he would need a medical diagnosis. Therefore I 
am unable to reasonably conclude that Mr S is vulnerable due to the developmental 
condition he tells us he has.
Mr S has told us he finds it stressful that he has this debt. And it seems likely that his stress 
is heightened due to his anxiety and depression. Although I note none of the medical 
evidence directly says this. However, that is not the same as saying he is being caused such 
a level of stress that it would be fair to write off his debt. Rather his conduct suggests he is 
capable of dealing robustly with Barclays. Neither has Mr S demonstrated that he has no 
realistic prospect of paying off the debt. He himself has suggested that he has an asset that 
could be used to pay off the debt. In other words Mr S has not demonstrated that Barclays 
has not met his needs as a vulnerable consumer and caused him harm as a result by not 
writing-off his debt. 
I also note that Barclays has given Mr S details of its specialist team. Barclays indicates that 
this team will be aware of what Mr S has told Barclays previously. I have no reason to doubt 
this. So Mr S has a clear and consistent route for escalating his concerns, Which is another 
requirement of the relevant regulations and guidance.
Therefore, for all of these reasons, I am satisfied that Mr S has been treated fairly when I 
take into account his vulnerable status due to his medical condition.
Moreover, I note for completeness only that Barclays is not currently collecting the debt from 
Mr S. Albeit this is not based on meeting Mr Ss needs as a vulnerable consumer based on 
his mental health conditions. 
I realise that Mr S considers that he has made it clear to Barclays that he does not think it 
should continue to pursue him and that he will take it to court if it does. I also recognise Mr S 
thinks that Barclays position would be untenable if it did pursue him. But whilst Mr Ss 
strength of feeling about this is clear and his belief seems to be firmly held, I dont agree with 
him. I say this because Barclays is entitled to form its own view about this matter and does 
not have to follow Mr Ss stance just because he thinks that it has to. But to be clear, I am 
making no finding about what the outcome of any such court action might likely be, as that 
would be inappropriate.
Moreover, Mr S tells us that other businesses wrote-off his debt on medical grounds. He 
indicates that demonstrates that Barclays should do the same. However, Barclays does not 
have to follow their lead. In other words, just because other businesses may have taken this 
position it does not follow that Barclays has to do so too. 
Mr S asks that Barclays be made to pay him £10,000. His reasons for this appear to be two-
fold as I set out earlier. But simply multiplying a debt and then asking the creditor to pay this sum, is not a compelling reason for requiring a business to make a payment. While I 
understand Mr S thinks he is entitled to charge Barclays a fee, I dont agree with him. Mr S 
contracted with Barclays when he opened the account. It is merely rely on the terms of the 
contract. I dont see therefore why it would be appropriate for Mr S to charge Barclays a fee 
for this. It follows I am not persuaded by Mr Ss stance on this. It also follows that I dont find 
Barclays has to make any such payment to him.
I can well understand that Mr S might have been disconcerted at the prospect that even in 
principle Barclays might sell his account. But I dont agree that because Mr S says Barclays 
told him about this hypothetical possibility it was threatening him. That said, given Mr Ss 
anxiety in particular, I would expect Barclays to take account of Mr Ss needs before it took 
such an action.
For all of these reasons I find I have no proper basis to tell Barclays it has to take any further 
action.
Mr S has not complained about long-term financial difficulties in this complaint. Neither has 
he said he has complained to Barclays that he finds it unfair that he is making token 
repayments to Barclays and if he continues at his current rate, it will take him centuries to 
pay off the debt. If Mr S does want to complain about this he would need to raise this 
complaint with Barclays first.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman