DRN-1114771
Complaint
Mr N says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly provided a number of 
instalment loans to him.                          
Background
This complaint is about six instalment loans that Lending Stream provided to Mr N between 
April 2012 and April 2014. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ns complaint and thought that he shouldnt have been provided 
with any of his loans. Lending Stream didn't agree in full. So the complaint was passed to 
me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr N 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Lending Streams lending history with Mr N, I think that Lending Stream should reasonably have seen that Mr N was unlikely to have been able to 
make his payments in a sustainable manner when it provided these loans. 
I say this because the income and expenditure information Lending Stream itself gathered 
showed he didnt enough disposable income to be able to sustainably make the repayments 
he was being asked to commit to. So I dont think that Lending Stream should have provided 
these loans. 
Mr N had to pay interest and charges on loans that Lending Stream shouldnt have provided 
him with. So I think that he lost out and Lending Stream should put things right.
Putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr N paid on loans 1 to 5;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
 
remove all interest and charges added to loan 6, either by itself or the third party debt 
purchaser, from the outset. Any payments Mr N made to Lending Stream and the 
third party should then be deducted from the new starting balance. So Mr N shouldnt 
pay any more than the amount he was lent in the first place. If after all adjustments 
have been made an outstanding balance remains on loan 6 and Lending Stream 
buys the debt back it can deduct this from what it now needs to pay Mr N. If it doesnt 
buy the debt back it cant make any deduction;  
 
any adverse information on Mr Ns credit file, where it remains, as a result of loans 1 
to 5 should be removed from Mr Ns credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. 
Lending Stream must give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ns complaint. Gain Credit LLC should pay 
Mr N compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman