DRN-2869403
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the way that Accord Mortgages Limited withdrew their 
mortgage offer and the cost and distress this put them through. Mr and Mrs M want an 
explanation and proper compensation. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M bought a house and through a broker got a mortgage offer with Accord. But 
days before contracts were to be exchanged, Accord withdrew the offer without explanation. 
All this happened around Christmas 2019. Accord said that although it approved the 
application on 25 October 2019, it was a case where it shouldnt have accepted the 
application, but this wasnt picked up. So, although it withdrew the mortgage offer, as 
compensation it offered Mr and Mrs M £280 for the inconvenience they had suffered.
Our investigator felt that Accord had the right to withdraw the offer as it had received mis-
leading information at the application stage. But she felt that Accord should have picked it up 
before issuing its offer which put Mr and Mrs M to a great deal of trouble and upset. So, her 
view was that compensation of £800 was more appropriate for their trouble and upset. 
Accord accepted our investigators view. Mr and Mrs M disagreed saying in summary that 
the compensation suggested was substantially less than was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems that in this case, Accord issued a mortgage offer and relying on that offer, Mr and 
Mrs M continued with the purchase of a property that they intended buying. Accord, shortly 
before exchange of contracts, did an internal audit and found that the mortgage application 
was outside their lending criteria and shouldnt have been accepted but had been accepted 
in error. As a result, it withdrew the offer. Since the offer was made before contracts were 
exchanged, Mr and Mrs M could have withdrawn from the process but chose to proceed in 
any case after getting a mortgage offer from an alternative lender. This was on different 
terms than Accord, requiring a higher deposit which depleted their savings and meant that 
some improvements which they felt essential to the new property, such as carpets to replace 
tiles, couldnt be done and they had no buffer zone for unexpected expenses.
I can see the dilemma Mr and Mrs M were put in by Accords change of mind on this 
application when it realised an error was made and I fully realise their concerns that as a 
young family with their new mortgage, they dont have anything in the bank for the 
unexpected. It seems that Accord made a mistake and shouldnt have issued this mortgage 
offer in the first place. If that had been the case, and it hadnt issued its offer, Mr and Mrs M 
would have had the choice that faced them when Accord withdrew the mortgage which was 
either not to go ahead with the purchase or to go ahead with the mortgage they now have. 
We require businesses to pay financial compensation to put consumers back in the position 
they would have been had an error not been made. But it seems that Mr and Mrs M are in 
that position and for that reason I dont believe that financial compensation is appropriate in 
this case. 
That is not to underestimate the trouble and upset that Accords error caused them. Mr and 
Mrs M had a mortgage offer and so thought that they had the financial buffer they required. 
They had an expectation that the matter would proceed smoothly but that didnt happen, and 
they now had to choose between not going ahead with the property purchase or going 
ahead on different terms than they had reason to hope for. Ive no doubt all this was very 
disappointing and stressful to them at that particular time of year and in the family 
circumstances they were in and they were put to extra effort to recover from Accords error. 
Ive considered all that Mr and Mrs M have said about how it affected them and Im of the 
view that the amount suggested by our investigator of £800 in total represents fair 
compensation for their complaint. As this is increased compensation above that originally 
offered by Accord, I shall be upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
Accord Mortgages Limited should pay Mr and Mrs M £800 in total. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman