DRN-2167376
The complaint
Mr Z complains his motorcycle insurance policy was unfairly cancelled by Brightside 
Insurance Services Limited (Brightside).
What happened
Mr Z took out a motorcycle insurance policy through Brightside to start on 13 July 2020. He 
was sent a welcome pack on the same day. It said he needed to upload the following 
documents to your online account before 10:00am on the 27/07/2020 to continue to be 
insured. This warning was on the first page of the letter. The documents specified was a 
copy of the front and back of his driving license photocard. Brightside sent a reminder on 18 
July and one on 20 July which repeated the consequence of failing to do it. On 20 July, Mr Z 
uploaded the required documentation.
On 22 July, Brightside asked Mr Z to send them a MyLicence check code so they could 
independently check the licence details they held for him. The relevant part of the letter said 
the following. 
Before 10:00am on the 27/07/2020 we need the following information:
Your MyLicence check code
Brightside sent a reminder email on 24 July requesting the code again. It said, 
We need to receive all requested documents via your online account before 
10:00am on 27/07/2020. If we do not, you will no longer be insured from 23:59pm on 
27/07/2020 and you are advised to obtain Bike Insurance elsewhere before using or 
permitting your vehicle to be used on the public highway.
This notice was the penultimate paragraph on page 2 of the letter.
Mr Z has explained that he was on holiday for 5 days camping with limited access to mobile 
phone signal. He returned home late on 27 July and didnt see the correspondence from 
Brightside until 28 July when he was catching up with his emails. By this point, hed also 
been sent confirmation that his policy had been cancelled. Mr Z then contacted Brightside to 
give them the code requested but he was told his policy had been cancelled and hed need 
to seek alternative cover. 
Mr Z was charged a cancellation fee and an amount for the time he was insured. Brightside 
have later refunded this cancellation fee due to a customer service issue which doesnt form 
part of this complaint.
Mr Z felt this was unfair so he complained to Brightside. They didnt change their mind so he 
brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator felt that Brightside hadnt given enough notice to Mr Z, only giving explicit 
notice of cancellation on 24 July for failing to send them the code  meaning Mr Z was only 
given three days as opposed to the seven required under the terms and conditions.
Brightside disagreed. They said that from the welcome pack on 13 July, Mr Z was made 
aware that he would no longer continue to be insured if documents werent provided by 
10am on 27 July. This would mean he had 14 days notice. Brightside says they have a 
commitment to complete all validation processing within the first 14 days of cover to keep 
cancellation costs to a minimum for both parties. So, they thought the cancellation was made 
after sufficient notice had been given and was, therefore, fair. They add that everyone in this 
day and age gets phone signal and he never mentioned going away to them.
The matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator and so I uphold this 
complaint. I also think she explained matters clearly and thoroughly so theres not much for 
me to usefully say. I would just make the following points. 
On 13 July 2020, Mr Z was first asked to provide documentation to Brightside - a copy of 
both front and back of his driving license. Its clear what Mr Z need to do and it sets out the 
consequence of Mr Z failing to do it in time. Mr Z completed this task on 20 July.
Two days later, Brightside sent Mr Z an email explaining that they required some further 
documentation  a code. Its clear from this letter what Mr Z needs to do, however, the email 
doesnt set out any consequences of Mr Z failing to do it in time.
Its only on 24 July when Brightside send Mr Z a further email chasing the code that he was 
given him notice his policy would be cancelled if he failed to send it to them in time. I agree 
this is a clear cancellation warning. It does, however, only give Mr Z a total of three days 
notice.
Brightside have explained that Mr Z was given notice sufficient notice of cancellation. But I 
dont see things in the same way. The initial notice given to Mr Z on 13 July related to its 
request for a copy of the front and back of Mr Zs driving licence. As soon as Mr Z complied 
with this request, the consequences of failing to comply become irrelevant and fall away.  I 
cant say that itd be fair and reasonable for Brightside to use this as an open-ended notice 
of cancellation should they require something other than what they specifically and originally 
asked him for.
The letter of 22 July requesting the new information doesnt mention cancellation or 
continuation of insurance at all and, as such, cannot be used as notice to cancel his policy.
The reminder letter of 24 July is where Brightside give Mr Z notice of cancellation if the 
requested code isnt received. It follows that Mr Z is only given three days notice of the 
cancellation in relation to the code requested by Brightside. 
Under the terms and conditions, Brightside agree to give seven days notice of cancellation 
to a consumer. Even so, this is also something that Id generally expect them to do based on 
industry standards and whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances.Taking everything into account, I dont agree that Brightside have complied with their own 
terms of business nor industry standards when they cancelled Mr Zs car insurance policy. 
Nor can I say the cancellation was fair or reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr Z has explained the reasons why he didnt see the emails nor respond until after the 
deadline  and I find that he has been persuasive and consistent throughout. I also dont feel 
the notice on 24 July stood out from other types of correspondence issued by Brightside or 
had the cancellation warning in a prominent position as wed expect to see. The reason wed 
expect a business to do this is because of the significant implications of not responding to it. 
Even so, the main issue here is that Brightside didnt comply with its own terms or the 
standards we expect in a situation like this.
Whilst agreed with the investigator, I thought the redress needed to be adjusted as set out 
below. I shared the proposed redress with Brightside and Mr Z. Mr Z was happy with the 
proposal. Brightside made a number of points in response and  aside from points they 
repeated about why they didnt agree the outcome was incorrect - Ive dealt with these 
below. 
- If there isnt any record of the cancellation on any databases - as suggested by 
Brightside - then asking for all records of it to be removed internally and externally 
shouldnt be an onerous task for it to complete. 
- Whilst the insurer might be responsible for calculating the pro rata charge, it is 
Brightside which cancelled the policy unfairly and so it needs to put matters right. 
This includes paying back to Mr Z any amount which is due back to him, as set out 
below. Whether it then recovers this from the insurer is a matter for Brightside.
- I dont agree the award for distress and inconvenience is excessive. Ive already 
found Brightside didnt cancel Mr Zs policy in line with terms, nor act fairly or 
reasonably when it did this. I dont think its unreasonable for a consumer to be given 
£150 for the distress and inconvenience this will have caused.  
- I note that Brightside says the underwriter calculates the IPT but the point about the 
tax that HMRC will require Brightside to take off relates to the award for interest 
under point 3 and 4 below, if applicable, rather than IPT.
Putting things right
To put things right Brightside should take the action set out below.
1. Remove all records of the policy cancellation from all internal and external 
databases.
2. Give Mr Z a letter stating the policy was cancelled in error and confirming that its 
records have been amended. Mr Z can show this to the insurer(s) hes had since 
Brightside to see if his premiums would need to be adjusted.
3. Calculate the charge Mr Z incurred for the time he was insured on a pro rata basis. 
Brightside should pay any amount due back to him above the refund already given. 
They should add 8% simple interest to this amount from the date the policy was 
cancelled until the date it is paid.
4. Pay Mr Z £150 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused. This 
should be paid within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr Z accepts my final 
decision. If Brightside pays later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
5. HM Revenue & Customs requires Brightside to take off tax from interest. Brightside 
must give Mr Z a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Zs complaint and so Brightside Insurance 
Services Limited needs to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman