DRN-4384680
The complaint
Mr A complains that PrePay Technologies Limited closed his account and sent money that 
had been paid into his account back to source. 
What happened
Mr A had an account with Suits Me, one of PrePays agents. As the overall agreement was 
with Suits Me, and for ease of reading, Ill refer to Suits Me in this decision. 
Mr A has said that he used his account to receive payments from his family and payments 
from selling car parts via online marketplaces that hed bought at auctions.
In November 2022, Mr A received two separate payments into his Suits Me account totalling 
£350 from an individual I will refer to as C. Following this, Suits Me received a notification 
from another bank that their customer, C, had been the victim of a scam  they told their 
bank that they hadnt received any goods/services from Mr A after theyd sent money to him. 
Suits Me blocked Mr As account and asked him to provide information about the payments 
hed received from C. And to provide any evidence of his entitlement to the money. In 
response, Mr A explained that the payments were for work hed done in relation to car parts, 
he had sold to C. He sent Suits Me screenshots of WhatsApp messages he said were 
between him and C in support of his explanation. Suits Me looked at the information but 
didnt think it showed Mr A was entitled to the money, so it sent the £350 back to source. 
Following this Suits Me closed Mr As account immediately. 
Suits Me didnt question Mr A about the remaining funds in Mr As account and in March 
2023, it sent the balance of Mr As account back to several sources. Mr A complained to 
Suits Me and asked them to return his balance to him. In response, Suits Me said it hadnt 
done anything wrong and wouldnt return the balance to him. Unhappy with this response 
Mr A brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She noticed that some of the 
money (a total of £400) that had been paid into Mr As account had come from his brother. 
Given the close connection, she asked Mr A if hed managed to recover the money from his 
brother. Mr A said he hadnt been able to get the money back as Suits Me hadnt sent the 
money back to his brothers account. The investigator asked him to provide a copy of his 
brothers statement to support what hed said, but he wasnt willing to do so.
After looking at everything, the investigator said Suits Me hadnt done anything wrong by 
closing and reviewing Mr As account. She also didnt think Suits Me had done anything 
wrong when it had sent the £350 back to the sending bank. However, she said Suits Me 
shouldnt have sent Mr As remaining funds back to source as it didnt have anything to show 
Mr A wasnt entitled to these funds. To put things right she said Suits Me should refund the 
money that had been paid into his account  except the payments hed received from his 
brother - £400. She also said that Suits Me should pay interest for loss of use of the funds.
In response, Mr A said he all he wants is the money that was paid into his account. And he is 
still waiting for his money to be returned to him. Suits Me agreed with the investigators view.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account review and closure
Suits Me are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect 
persons from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime. Theyre also required 
to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and existing relationships. That sometimes means 
they need to restrict customers accounts  either in full or partially while they carry out their 
review and ask its customer for information. The terms of Mr As account also permit Suits 
Me to restrict an account. This means Suits Me is entitled to block and review an account at 
any time.
Having looked at all the evidence, including the information Suits Me and Mr A has provided 
to this service, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances for Suits Me to block 
Mr As account and ask him about the £350 hed received from C. Fraud is a serious matter, 
and one way financial businesses and banks can help to tackle fraudulent payments is by 
restricting accounts when allegedly fraudulent payments are received into them. And thats 
what happened here.
Suits Me has explained that this was its standard procedure, and I accept that it was. Thats 
in line with what most financial businesses would do in the same situation. It also enabled 
Suits Me to consider how best to react to the report it had received from the other bank and 
what Mr A told them about the payments. Im also satisfied that in doing so Suits Me were 
complying with its legal and regulatory obligations. So, whilst I accept, the Suits Mes actions 
caused Mr A inconvenience when it blocked his account, I cant say it did anything wrong 
and treated him unfairly in doing so. 
I then turn to Suits Mes decision to close Mr As account. Suits Me have relied on the terms 
and conditions when closing the account. The terms explain that it can close the account 
immediately and by providing two months notice. In this case Suits Me closed Mr As 
account without notice. Having looked at all the evidence, including how Mr A was operating 
his account, in my view that was reasonable. So, it was entitled to close the account as it 
has already done.
Return of funds
The crux of Mr As complaint is that he wants Suits Me to refund him the money that was 
paid into his account. Ill deal first with the £350 that was paid into Mr As account by C. This 
was made up of two payments on 17 and 21 November 2022.
Ive looked at the screenshots Mr A has provided and having done so I can understand why 
Suits Me didnt consider they showed Mr A was entitled to the money. I say this because 
there is no reference to any work or goods being provided by Mr A. Mr A also hasnt provided any invoices, and the screenshots are also not dated so I cant conclude that they 
relate to the payments Mr A received. This makes it difficult for me to place much weight on 
what Mr A has said about the payments. So, Im not satisfied, based on the evidence that 
Mr A has shown he is entitled to the money C paid into his account.
Suits Me sent the £350 back to source. This ensures the funds are sent back to the correct 
person. Especially, as in this case Suits Me werent able to verify Mr As entitlement to the 
funds. I agree that this was the right action in the circumstances. The terms and conditions 
of Mr As account also permit Suits Mr to take this action. So, I cant say Suits Me has 
treated Mr A unfairly in doing so and I wont be asking Suits Me to refund this money to 
Mr A. 
Following this, in March 2023, Suits Me decided to return the remaining balance of Mr As 
account back to source. The investigator has asked Suits Me why it took this decision 
instead of releasing Mr As balance back to him. But Suits Me hasnt provided a satisfactory 
explanation, supported by evidence, as to why it returned the remaining money in Mr As 
account back to the original sources.  As Ive set out above, I accept that there are times 
when it is appropriate for Suits Me to return funds to original sources. But in order to decide 
whether or not that is the case, I would expect to see appropriate evidence to support such a 
decision.
I can understand Suits Me concerns about the way Mr A was operating his account. But Ive 
seen nothing to suggest the people who sent money to Mr As account, apart from C, had 
challenged the payments they made to him or requested their money back before Suits Me 
returned them. Ive also not seen any evidence that Mr A obtained the funds dishonestly. 
Suits Me didnt speak to Mr A about all of the money that had been paid into his account. It 
did ask him how he was using his account and Mr A said that some of the money was from 
his girlfriend and for sales of car parts. But I cant see that Suits Me carried out a thorough 
investigation to establish if Mr A was entitled to the money in his account, So, Im not 
satisfied that Suits Me had sufficient evidence to justify depriving Mr A of all of the funds in 
his account. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen Im not persuaded that Suits Me acted fairly when it 
returned all of the payments to source. So, I find the fair resolution here, would be for Suits 
Me to return the funds it took from Mr As account to him. In reaching this conclusion, Ive 
kept in mind that from looking at Mr As account statements he received a total of £400 from 
his brother on 15 November 2022. The investigator has asked Mr A to show he hasnt been 
able to recover these funds. But Mr A hasnt been able to do so. Its not clear to me why 
Mr A is unwilling to provide the information but given the closeness of the family connection 
and any evidence to the contrary Im not convinced that Mr A hasnt been able to recover 
these funds. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask Suits Me to refund Mr A this money, as 
Im not satisfied that he has lost out financially.
Suits Me has agreed with the investigators recommendation to return Mr As balance to him. 
Despite this it still hasnt refunded Mr As money. So, I will make an award in that sum, of  
£2,823.35, which amounts to Mr As balance, (less the amounts received from C and Mr As 
brother), so that Mr A can enforce it should he need to do so.
In summary, Mr A was left out of pocket, and I dont think Suits Me did enough to satisfy 
themselves that Mr A wasnt entitled to all the money paid into his account. So, I think they 
should refund him as he is now at a loss. And I think adding interest to the amount they 
refund him fairly compensates him for the loss of use of his money. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I partly uphold Mr As complaint. To 
put things right PrePay Technologies Limited should:
Refund Mr As balance to him which amounts to £2,823.35
Pay Mr A simple interest at the rate of 8% on the balance of his account from the 
date of debit until the date of refund.
HM Revenue & Customs require PrePay Technologies Limited to withhold income tax from 
the above mentioned interest. PrePay should give Mr A a certificate showing how much is 
taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman