DRN-1201200
complaint
Mr M says that HSBC Bank Plc, trading as First Direct, mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. Mr M bought the PPI in 2004 at the same time as taking out a credit 
card. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
HSBC gave me a copy of the application form from the time of sale. To get the PPI 
Mr M had to tick the option for it. If he hadnt wanted it he could have left the box 
unticked. So I think its most likely that Mr M knew he had an option and that he 
chose to take out PPI. 
Mr M wasnt given advice, so HSBC didnt have to check that the policy was suitable 
for him. However, it still had to provide Mr M with clear enough information about the 
policy so he could make a decision about whether it was right for him.
Its possible that the information HSBC gave Mr M about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
couldve been  for example, details of how much the policy would cost. But I dont 
think that clearer information about the policy would have led Mr M to make a 
different decision. Mr M was eligible for the policy and he doesnt appear to have 
been affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations - for example, any that 
related to pre-existing medical conditions. Ive also considered that whilst Mr Ms sick 
pay was good initially, it dropped significantly after six months. The policy wouldve 
paid out for up to 12 months if Mr M was too ill to work and would have paid out in 
addition to whatever sick pay Mr M could have relied on. And it would have provided 
some financial protection to Mr M in the event he lost his job. So I think the policy 
could have been useful for Mr M if something went wrong and I dont think that better 
information about the policy would have changed Mr M mind about taking out PPI.
Which means HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
 
But HSBC has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
When the policy was sold, HSBC expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr M about 
that. Because HSBC didnt tell Mr M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
 
what the business needs to doHSBC has to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. HSBC should also pay back to Mr M any extra interest Mr M paid 
because of that.
HSBC should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr M the difference between 
what Mr M owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. HSBC should also pay Mr M 8%* simple interest if Mr 
M paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC Bank Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr M.
But HSBC Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2018.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman