DRN-3964749
The complaint
Ms N complains that Fortrade Limited manipulated prices and the operation of her Contract 
for Differences (CFD) trading account, which caused her significant losses.   
What happened
Ms N opened her account at the end of May 2022. She then traded frequently throughout 
June, July and into August 2022 after which her account was blocked by Fortrade, when it 
felt health issues indicated a potential vulnerability. 
In the course of Ms Ns trading, she raised a number of issues with Fortrade concerning the 
operation of its systems. For example: graphs showing inaccurate information, trading times 
being misleading, incorrect margin calls and prices showing incorrectly. She also referred 
these concerns to this service during the same period.
Fortrade issued its final response to Ms Ns complaint in September 2022. In brief, it said it 
had found no evidence any of her trades had been executed incorrectly, nor evidence of any 
type of manipulation. It felt the risks of CFD trading had been appropriately explained and 
Ms N appeared to have had a reasonable understanding, such that she had traded 
aggressively, on an execution-only basis for which she was solely responsible. Fortrade also 
explained its reasons for later blocking the account when informed of Ms Ns health issues.
In light of Fortrades response, Ms N continued to pursue her complaint with this service. 
She provided a file of documentary evidence, including screenshots, videos, and 
spreadsheets to support her assertion that her account had been subject to manipulation.  
Our investigator considered her evidence and made enquiries with Fortrade, seeking its 
comments on what Ms N had alleged. But ultimately, he wasnt persuaded Fortrade had 
done anything wrong. He was satisfied it had acted correctly when opening her account and 
had warned her appropriately of the risks involved. He was also satisfied it had acted in her 
interests when it later blocked the account. 
And in respect of the allegations of manipulation, the investigator felt Fortrade had provided 
reasonable explanations of the issues Ms N had raised, acknowledging that while there may 
have been some display glitches, these hadnt impacted her trading or caused her to incur 
losses.  
Ms N didnt accept the investigators view. She raised further similar concerns and provided 
additional evidence. But the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the 
matter was referred to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the heart of Ms Ns complaint is her belief that Fortrade manipulated her trading, which 
left her with significant losses. I recognise she feels very strongly that her evidence 
demonstrates this manipulation. But having given it all very careful consideration, Im not 
persuaded it does show Fortrade to have acted incorrectly. Nor that, on balance, the losses 
she incurred resulted from acts  or omissions  by Fortrade, as opposed to them simply 
being a result of her trading decisions. 
Although the alleged manipulation is Ms Ns primary concern, Ill first briefly comment on the 
process of her applying to open the account. While she confirmed she had some experience 
of trading CFDs, the information provided in her application led Fortrade to issue her with a 
specific warning, in accordance with the relevant regulatory rules, that Based on the 
information you supplied in the Financial Questionnaire regarding your investment objectives 
and trading experience, we consider that CFDs are not appropriate products for you. 
Despite this, Ms N continued on to open the account and trade. She was entitled to do this, 
but its clear she was made aware of the significant potential for loss.   
Ive listened to phone conversations Ms N had with members of staff at Fortrade prior to and 
after she opened her account, and it appears she was actually quite knowledgeable about, 
and experienced in, investing at a high level of risk, in line with what shed said in her 
application. And she had already had investment accounts with other providers. I note what 
shes said about being persuaded, or effectively advised, to invest in stock derivatives that 
she wasnt planning to. But Ive not heard anything in the calls that suggests Fortrade was 
doing anything more than providing her with information and support. And it appears she 
was already invested in some of the stocks she went on to trade.    
In making her submissions shes commented that she chose CFDs because they were what 
I am used to trading, that she let them think I was a novice, I didnt want them to know any 
strategy I had" and that I usually do Intra-Trading, taking advantage of the rapid price 
movements, which is profitable when you observe the market and have knowledge and a 
strategy, which I do. This being so, overall, I have no concerns with Fortrade providing her 
with the facility to trade CFDs. 
Turning then to Ms Ns primary concern, that Fortrade manipulated her trades, shes 
highlighted a large number of examples and explained how she feels they were manipulated. 
Given the volume shes provided, I dont intend to address each one individually. However, 
there are several themes that the examples are intended to show  for instance, margin 
calls being sent at the wrong time, positions being stopped out without warning, closed 
positions being left open and what she refers to as double ups, where there appears to 
have been duplications of trades. 
Ive looked carefully at Ms Ns evidence alongside her trading history, as provided by 
Fortrade. This confirms that on each occasion where a position was stopped out her margin 
was below the required 50% level. And where multiple positions were closed simultaneously 
this appears to have been because they have been closed automatically as stop outs due to 
a lack of margin. In many of the screen shots shes provided prices differ from those shown 
on her trading history, but this appears to because the screen shots have been taken after 
the event. Theres nothing Ive seen that persuades me that positions were closed at a level 
that didnt reflect the underlying market price, or at an incorrect margin level. 
Fortrade has acknowledged that there was a display glitch that led to prices on some closed 
trades continuing to move. While I can understand how this could cause concern, I cant see 
that it wouldve impacted Ms Ns trading decisions as its something that was happening after 
the event. Similarly, an example where a negative value was incorrectly displayed in green 
rather than red, while perhaps disconcerting, wouldnt have led to any loss. 
I note Ms N has said that in collating her evidence she took random screen shots and looked around to see if there was anything that seemed irregular or out of place. Given that 
in trading for just over two months she placed over 400 trades, I dont think its particularly 
surprising that in taking this sort of approach she discovered occasional display glitches. But 
I dont think their existence indicates any deliberate manipulation on the part of Fortrade. In 
any event, as Fortrade has pointed out, she was using a generic third-party trading platform, 
over which it has no direct control.
I note Ms Ns additional concerns about how Fortrade displayed trading times and how this 
appeared to be an hour out of line. But as she was trading during the summer months its 
correct that the time wouldve been GMT+1, British Summer Time. And of note is the fact 
that this was an issue that she first raised with her account manager at Fortrade in early 
June, only days after she had started trading. She appears to have raised it again more 
formally in a call to Fortrade of 1 July 2022. 
And similarly, she raised her other concerns, both with Fortrade and with this service, while 
she was still actively trading, opening many new positions, and carrying out the majority of 
her trading, while apparently concerned that Fortrades system wasnt working correctly, and 
that manipulation was taking place. If Ms N was of the view that Fortrades system wasnt 
working as it shouldve been, as she clearly was, I think its reasonable to conclude that she 
couldve opted not to trade further on her account until she was confident her concerns had 
been addressed.   
Ms N has also queried the level of leverage applied to her trades  that it was too high, more 
than the 1:5 that shouldve applied to her positions. The trading history supplied by Fortrade 
did indicate leverage at 1:20 at the top, but its subsequently confirmed that this figure 
doesnt reflect the specific leverage of any instrument, so Im satisfied Ms Ns trades were 
placed with the leverage she wanted.  
Lastly, in respect of the blocking of the account, I think Fortrade took reasonable steps in the 
circumstances and in light of the information it had about Ms Ns situation and potential 
vulnerability. It has an over-arching regulatory duty to act in the interests of its customers.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman