DRN-4288975
The complaint
Miss T complains that PayrNet Limited allowed a scammer to open and operate an account
and that they didnt do enough when notified the payments shed sent to their customer were
made as the result of a scam.
What happened
Miss T made four payments from her account with her own bank M to an account with
PayrNet. She says these payments were made as the result of a scam. Shed agreed to buy
a TV online, but after the payments had been made, the seller ceased contact and the TV
was never received.
The four payments took place between 28 December 2020 and 2 January 2021 and totalled
£2,000. They were all paid into an account held with PayrNet. Miss T complained to M and
referred that complaint to our service. She also mentioned that she was unhappy with
PayrNet as it had failed to prevent her loss and our service notified them of Miss Ts
dissatisfaction. Miss Ts complaint about M was resolved when she accepted their offer of a
refund of 50% of her loss. But Miss T said she would still like to pursue her complaint about
PayrNet.
One of our Investigators looked at whether our service could consider this complaint and
concluded that we could. She said that Miss T was an eligible complainant. In May 2023 I 
issued a jurisdiction decision which found that Miss T was an eligible complainant, and I 
could consider PayrNets actions on or after 31 January 2019 in relation to this complaint. 
PayrNet then provided information to enable our service to consider this complaint. And in 
July 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not intending to uphold this complaint. I know this will be disappointing
for Miss T, so Ill explain why.
PayrNet have evidenced that appropriate proof of identity was taken from their
accountholder when opening the account. And Ive not seen any evidence to support that
they reasonably could have known (when opening the account) that it would later go on to
be used in connection with a fraud or scam.
Ive also considered the account activity both prior to and soon after the arrival of
Miss Ts funds. The incoming and outgoing payments were generally for relatively modest
amounts and there was nothing so suspicious about them, that I think its reasonable to have
expected PayrNet to have done more. PayrNet have also confirmed that they had not
previously received any notifications of fraud or similar in relation to the account. They have
also evidenced that none of Miss Ts money remained in the account when M notified them
of the problem with the payments. So overall, I dont think PayrNet did anything that either
caused Miss Ts outstanding loss or hindered the recovery of her funds.
Im pleased to hear Miss T was able to recover some of her loss from M, but for the reasons
explained above, there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I can direct PayrNet to do more
to resolve this complaint.
Neither Miss T nor PayrNet responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further comments or evidence for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman