DRN-3179009
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint is about the refusal of a claim under their pet insurance policy with 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA).
What happened
In October 2020, Mr and Mrs S made a claim under the policy as their dog had become 
reluctant to walk and the vet referred him for a scan. The scan showed that the dog had a 
spinal deformity and needed surgery. 
RSA agreed to cover the cost of the scan but later said it wasnt going to cover the cost and 
also refused to pay for the surgery required, as it said that there was reference in the vets 
notes of symptoms (such as shaking and tremors) related to the spinal deformity in August 
2017 and March 2018, which pre-dated the start of the policy on 1 May 2018. RSA said as 
the condition was present before the start of the policy, any treatment related to it is 
excluded from cover. 
Mr and Mrs S were very unhappy with this. Mr and Mrs S say the dog had episodes of 
shaking and tremors but was not diagnosed with any condition. They paid for the surgery, 
which took place in March 2021, at a cost of over £4,000, and have asked to be reimbursed. 
Mrs S has also complained that at the next renewal of the policy, RSA had increased her 
premium from £55pm to £91.02pm. 
RSA maintained that it was correct to refuse to cover any further treatment for the spinal 
malformation but did accept that it had said it would pay for the scan. RSA paid for the scan 
and also paid £100 compensation for not doing so sooner. RSA also said it had set the 
renewal price correctly taking into account its various underwriting criteria. However, it 
accepted that the increase in premiums was unexpected and so sent Mr and Mrs S £350 
compensation for this and for the inconvenience caused to them from the time the policy 
renewed to the date it was cancelled it. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She recommended that the complaint should 
be upheld because she did not consider RSA had done enough to establish a link between 
the spinal deformity found in October 2020 and the events in 2017 and early 2018. The 
Investigator recommended that RSA reconsider the claim in line with any remaining terms 
and conditions and add interest to the claim settlement at our usual rate. 
Mr and Mrs S accepted the Investigators assessment but RSA does not. As the investigator 
has not been able to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ss policy, like most other policies, excludes cover for conditions which exist 
before the start of the policy. It says: 
We will not pay for health issues, concerns, illnesses and injuries which you or
your vet were aware of before you took out the policy, they are known as pre-existing 
conditions. 
Pre-existing conditions are:
 changes in your pets health or behaviour;
 existing physical abnormalities;
 existing illnesses or injuries;
 existing illnesses, injuries or physical abnormalities which lead to other health issues or 
injuries;
 illnesses or injuries which are medically linked to existing illnesses, injuries or physical 
abnormalities.
So in order to apply, this term requires the policy holder and/or the vet to be aware of an 
illness, abnormality or behaviour that is medically linked to the condition being claimed for. It 
is not however necessary for the policyholder to know that it is medially linked or for a 
condition to have been formally diagnosed for it to fall within this exclusion. 
The vets notes record that in August 2017 the dog was suffering with a shaking leg, mouth 
spasms, a very dry nose and had diarrhoea. The vet that saw the dog at the time suspected 
it could be related to teething or some condition and arranged for blood tests to be carried 
out. The blood tests came back normal and the vet discussed the possibility of Masticatory 
Muscle Myositis (a condition affecting the muscles in the mouth and face) as the dog had 
apparently not been eating well. The vet prescribed a course of Metacam to see if this 
helped. I understand there was no follow up.  
 
Mr and Mrs S mentioned a history of twitches and tremors in the dogs front legs to a 
different vet when she attended again in March 2018. The vet carried out a number of tests, 
including a spinal exam and noted no abnormalities or pain. The vet suggested the dog 
might have a motor disorder, pain or pancreatitis and advised Mr and Mrs S to monitor him. 
There was another visit to the same vet later in March 2018, to have some matted mud and 
hair removed from the dogs hind paws. The vet suspected this had been causing 
intermittent lameness. The vets notes say that there was no pain on a full flex/extension of 
all hind leg joints and the dogs neurological exam was normal. These symptoms were not 
mentioned again, as far as I am aware. 
On 2 May 2018 (a day after the policy was taken out) the dog was taken to the vet who 
recorded: has not been himself since yesterday. [Vomited] this morningalso been 
shaking/tremors randomly since he was a puppy but was worse yesterday. The vet thought 
it was a tummy upset and said he may need a neurological referral but as the e tremors 
were not causing the dog any problem they could continue to monitor it.  
From the history set out above, it seems clear that Mr and Mrs S had some concerns about 
the dog before they took out the policy in May 2018; and, as stated above, it is not 
necessary for them to have received a diagnosis of any particular condition for the exclusion 
to apply. However, for RSA to decline the claim, it has to establish on the balance of 
probabilities, that the shaking symptoms present from August 2017, were caused by the 
spinal deformity found in October 2020. 
The dog apparently started to show signs of discomfort in October 2020 and so Mr and Mrs 
S took him back to the vet. The vets notes from that visit say the dog had displayed hind 
limb hopping and pain over lumbar spine and recommended a scan. The claim form, 
completed by the vet, says the scan was to investigate back pain and does not mention shaking or tremors. The scan identified the spinal deformity, which has now been surgically 
treated. 
RSA say there were no investigations into the shaking in 2017 and 2018 but now the 
investigations have been done it has revealed there is a condition which explains those 
earlier symptoms. RSAs vet said the deformity can explain the history of twitches, tremors 
and stretching due to the effect on the nerves. It also says that, as no other cause of those 
symptoms has been identified, there is no proof that the tremors and shaking present in 
2017 and 2018 were not a clinical sign of the spinal malformation. However, as stated it is 
for RSA to prove they were linked and not for Mr and Mrs S to prove they are not linked. I do 
not think RSA has done enough to establish that link. 
 
Mr and Mrs Ss vet has said the reported episodes of shaking and stretching which pre-date
your cover could be completely unrelated to the pathology that has been found.  
So the treating vet does not agree that it is certain that the shaking symptoms were caused 
by the deformity. And RSA says only that it can be the cause of shaking and tremors. Other 
possible explanations for the symptoms were discussed in 2017 and early 2018, which also 
werent fully investigated, as the symptoms were not causing the dog any particular problem. 
So while no other cause has been identified for the shaking symptoms, I do not think this 
means RSA has established that the only conclusion is that they were caused by the 
deformity. Therefore, in the absence of any more persuasive evidence to establish the link, I 
do not think RSA has done enough to establish that the shaking limbs/tremors in 2017 and 
early 2018, were the first clinical signs of the condition diagnosed in October 2020.
Given this, I agree with the Investigator that RSA should meet the claim for the surgery and 
treatment costs, subject to any remaining policy terms. Interest should also be added to the 
claim settlement at our usual rate. 
With regard to the other matters, I am pleased that RSA has paid for the scan and that it has 
also acknowledged the trouble caused by the unexpected increase in premium. I am 
satisfied that the payments already made by RSA in respect of these matters is reasonable.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n 
and require it to meet the claim, subject to the remaining terms of the policy. Interest at 8% 
simple per annum should be added to the final settlement amount, from the date Mr and   
Mrs S paid the costs that are being reimbursed, to the date of reimbursement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman