DRN-3333351
The complaint
Mrs G, on behalf of herself and the estate of her late husband, Mr G, complains 
that Bank of Scotland plc, (trading as Halifax), (BOS), mis-sold her and Mr G two 
mortgage payment protection insurance, (MPPI), policies.
What happened
BOS sold Mr and Mrs G the monthly-premium MPPI policies in 1999, at the same time as 
they took out mortgages. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. As Mrs G 
disagreed, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about payment protection insurance 
on our website. Ive taken this into account in reaching my decision.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, (as some of it is here), 
I make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely 
to have happened, in the light of the available evidence and wider circumstances
I know that this will come as a disappointment to her, but Ive decided not to uphold 
Mrs Gs complaint. I explain why below, dealing with each sale separately.
First policy 
Neither BOS nor Mrs G can remember how the policy was sold. On balance I think it was 
during a meeting. But in any event this doesnt change my decision.
The initial premiums for this insurance were about £19 a month. And, following a successful 
claim for accident, sickness, or involuntary unemployment, it would have paid out about 
£360 a month. 
Because of the time that has passed BOS no longer has any of the paperwork signed by 
Mr and Mrs G at the time of the sale. And it isnt required to keep papers for this length of 
time. Mrs G says that they wouldnt have chosen to take out the policy had BOS made it 
clear that it wasnt compulsory. But, because the sale was over 20 years ago, I dont find 
that it is reasonable to rely solely on Mrs Gs recollection of her and Mr Gs state of mind at 
that time. And in the absence of any more persuasive evidence, I dont think that I can 
fairly and reasonably say that BOS didnt make it clear to Mr and Mrs G that the MMPI was 
optional. I find that this conclusion is reinforced because BOS has sent us paperwork 
signed by Mr G when he and Mrs G took out a new mortgage only some six months later, 
when he did sign to take out MPPI. (See below.)
I think that BOS advised Mr and Mrs G to take the MPPI. This means that it had to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that it was suitable for them. 
I find that the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs G. I say this because, knowing what I 
do about their circumstances at the time and the terms and conditions of the policy:
Mr G was eligible for the policy;
I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr G was adversely affected by any of the 
policys main restrictions and limitations - such as those affecting someone who was 
employed under a fixed-term contract;
The policy was competitively priced by reference to other policies available in the 
market at the time. And it offered a reasonable benefit. And I havent seen anything to 
make me think that Mr and Mrs G couldnt afford the premiums. In any event, had 
they later felt that it was unaffordable, or they no longer wanted it, they could have 
cancelled the policy at any time without further cost, as it was paid for monthly;
Mr G was entitled to sick pay from his employment equivalent to between six and 
twelve months salary. And Mrs G says they had savings/insurance of a similar 
amount But, following a successful claim, the MPPI would have paid out in addition 
to these other means, leaving them available to meet their other expenses while 
Mr G was unable to work. The payments would have been made for up to 24 
months. So I find that the policy could have been of use to them;
Mr G was the main earner. So I find it was reasonable that the policy was in his sole 
name.
BOS had to give Mr and Mrs G clear, fair, and not-misleading information so that they 
could make an informed decision whether they wanted to take the insurance or not, in 
the light of their circumstances at the time. Its possible that BOS didnt tell them 
everything that it ought to have  for instance that they would have to continue paying 
the premiums during a claim. But, as Ive concluded above that it was suitable for them, I 
think that with clearer information they would still have thought the insurance was 
reasonable value and be of use and have bought it. I say this bearing in mind the serious 
consequences that could have arisen had Mr and Mrs G been unable to make their 
mortgage repayments, which were secured on their home. 
Second policy
This policy was sold during a meeting.
The initial premiums for this insurance were about £31 a month. And, following a successful 
claim for accident, sickness, or involuntary unemployment, it would have paid out about 
£580 a month. 
I think that Mr and Mrs G knew that the MPPI was optional and that they chose to take it. 
I say this because Ive seen their signed mortgage application. There is a section in it 
dealing with MPPI which says that BOS recommends that the applicant considers taking 
it out  the italics are mine. And I can see that Mr G has signed in this section requesting 
the insurance. Further I have seen a separate application for the insurance signed by 
Mr G, which would have highlighted that it was a product separate from the mortgage.
 BOS advised Mr and Mrs G to take the MPPI. This means that it had to take reasonable 
steps to ensure that it was suitable for them. 
I find that the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs G. I say this because, knowing what I 
do about their circumstances at the time and the terms and conditions of the policy:
Mr G was eligible for the policy;
I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr G was adversely affected by any of the 
policys main restrictions and limitations - such as those affecting someone who was 
employed under a fixed-term contract;
The policy was competitively priced by reference to other policies available in the 
market at the time. And it offered a reasonable benefit. And I havent seen anything to 
make me think that Mr and Mrs G couldnt afford the premiums. In any event, had 
they later felt that it was unaffordable, or they no longer wanted it, they could have 
cancelled the MPPI at any time without further cost, as it was paid for monthly;
Mr G was the main earner. So I find it was reasonable that the policy was in his sole 
name;
Mr G was entitled to sick pay from his employment equivalent to between six and 
twelve months salary. And Mrs G says they had savings/insurance of a similar 
amount But, following a successful claim, the MPPI would have paid out in addition 
to these other means, leaving them available to meet their other expenses while 
Mr G was unable to work. The payments would have been made for up to 24 
months. So I find that the policy could have been of use to them.
BOS had to give Mr and Mrs G clear, fair, and not-misleading information so that they 
could make an informed decision whether they wanted to take the insurance or not, in 
the light of their circumstances at the time. Its possible that BOS didnt tell them 
everything that it ought to have  for instance that she would have to continue paying the 
premiums during a claim. But, as Ive concluded above that it was suitable for them, I 
think that with clearer information they would still have thought the insurance was 
reasonable value and be of use and have bought it. I say this bearing in mind the serious 
consequences that could have arisen had Mr and Mrs G been unable to make their 
mortgage repayments, which were secured on their home. 
This means that Mrs G and her husbands estate havent lost out because of anything that 
may have been wrong with BOS sales process in respect of either policy. So theres 
nothing I require BOS to put right.
As Ive said, Ive thought about everything Mrs G has told us, including that she made 
successful claims in respect of other similar insurance policies. But my role is to consider the 
facts of this particular complaint and its surrounding circumstances, which is what I have 
done. So her comment doesnt change my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my decision is that I do not uphold this compliant.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G, on behalf 
of herself and Mr Gs estate, to accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 Ros Barnett
Ombudsman