DRN-4353884
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Right to Health Limited (RTHL) mis-sold them a private medical 
insurance policy.
As Mr W brought the complaint to us, for ease of reading, Ive referred mainly to him.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W held a personal private medical insurance policy with an insurer Ill call B. 
Their policy was fully underwritten, with an effective underwriting date of 2004.
In December 2022, Mr Ws premium with B had increased. RTHL recommended that Mr W 
should take out a new policy with an insurer Ill call V. The new policy was cheaper, provided 
broadly similar benefits and was quoted on switch terms  meaning that the policy would be 
medically underwritten on the same terms as the policy with B. Mr W accepted RTHLs 
recommendation; the policy with B was cancelled and a new policy with V began.
Mr W made a claim on the policy with V. However, he says that V didnt agree to pay the 
claim. So Mr W complained to RTHL. He considered that the policy with V hadnt been 
suitable for him, as he felt it provided less medical cover than hed held with B. He thought 
that if hed remained with B, his claim would have been covered.
RTHL didnt agree that the policy had been mis-sold and so Mr W asked us to look into his 
complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. He noted that the policy 
with V was set-up on the same underwriting terms as the policy with B had been. So he 
concluded that RTHL hadnt provided Mr W with an unsuitable recommendation to switch his 
policy.
Mr W disagreed. He said that V had turned down his claim because it considered the 
condition to be both pre-existing and chronic. He felt this wouldnt have happened had he 
remained with B.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W, I dont think RTHL treated 
them unfairly and Ill explain why.
I must make it clear that this decision will only consider whether RTHL met its regulatory 
obligations to Mr W when it sold him this policy and whether it treated him treated and 
reasonably. I wont be considering whether V handled Mr Ws claim fairly or whether any 
claims decision it made was reasonable. Thats because V is an entirely separate legal entity 
from RTHL. As such, RTHL isnt responsible for any of Vs actions, claims processes or 
claims decisions.
Its common ground that RTHL advised Mr W to change his insurance provider from B and 
enter into a new private medical insurance contract with V. This means that RTHL needed to 
make sure that the new policy was suitable for him. And it also needed to give him enough 
clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy so that he could make an informed 
decision about whether or not to take it out.
Ive looked carefully at the documentation which RTHL sent to Mr W and Ive also listened to 
the calls he had with RTHLs adviser. First, Ive considered the quotation RTHL produced on 
7 December 2022. This said that the underwriting would be on switch terms. The quotation 
explained that this was to ensure any medical conditions covered by your current provider 
will continue to be covered by the new provider (provided you meet the switch criteria.)
Next, Ive looked closely at the demands and needs letter which RTHLs adviser sent to Mr 
W on 20 December 2022. This set out a summary of the advisers recommendations. The 
letter stated that one of Mr Ws identified needs was cover for pre-existing medical 
conditions (amongst other things). It included the following information:
I have recommended this on a Switch underwriting basis. This form of underwriting means 
you have answered favourably to the insurers medical switch criteria questions, which 
means all medical conditions covered under your existing policy will continue to be covered 
under your new one.
It seems to me then that RTHL did recommend Mr W with a policy which met his identified 
need of cover for pre-existing conditions on the same terms as the policy he already had. 
Having listened to the calls between Mr W and RTHL, its clear that Mr W seemed happy 
with the advisers recommendations and with the premium hed been quoted. On that basis, 
he opted to proceed with the switch.
Ive seen a copy of the insurance certificate setting out details of Mr Ws cover with V. This 
shows that cover was set-up on a continuing personal medical exclusions (switch) basis. As 
such then, Im satisfied that Mr Ws medical cover was switched to V on the same medical 
terms as hed previously held with B. Indeed, Ive also seen an email from V to RTHL which 
confirms that the policy was set-up on a switch basis, with no medical exclusions for Mr W. 
Therefore, Im not persuaded that RTHL recommended that Mr W should switch to a policy 
with a lower level of cover. Instead, I find that it advised Mr W to take out a new policy with 
medical cover provided on the same terms hed held with B.
And having considered the remainder of Mr Ws identified demands and needs, I think 
RTHLs recommendation seems to have been reasonable and appropriate. As Ive set out 
above, Mr W appeared happy with the cover hed been offered. Im satisfied too that RTHL 
provided Mr W with enough clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy and 
the way it worked so that he could decide if it was right for him. I think the demands and 
needs letter and the policy quotation clearly set out the cover level, the price and the 
reasons why RTHL considered the policy was suitable for Mr W. 
Overall then, I find that RTHL sold Mr and Mrs Ws policy in line with its regulatory 
obligations and that it did so fairly and reasonably. So it follows that I dont think RTHL has 
made any error which it needs to put right.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman