DRN-2141752
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited declined a critical illness 
claim they made under their Mortgage Life Insurance policy.
For ease of reading, Ill mainly refer to Mr C.
What happened
The background to what happened is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
of the key events here.
In 2002 Mr and Mrs C were advised by an independent financial adviser to take out a 
Mortgage Life Insurance policy with Aviva (formerly known as Norwich Union). The policy, 
set up with a 20-year term, provided life and critical illness cover on a decreasing basis with 
an initial sum assured of £70,000.
Mr C contacted Aviva in March 2020 to enquire about making a claim under the policy as 
hed recently undergone coronary angioplasty. Aviva however said he wasnt covered as he 
hadnt met the required policy definition of coronary angioplasty.
A complaint was lodged but Avivas position didnt change. They said theyd considered the 
medical evidence Mr C provided which shows he had a severe blockage to the right 
coronary artery and a stent inserted. But they explained the policy definition says there must 
be blockages of at least 70% in each of two or more arteries. And so, in Mr Cs case, he 
hadnt met the criteria.  
The matter was referred to our service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
but she didnt think Aviva had unfairly declined the claim. In short, she said Aviva werent 
responsible for the sale of the policy as it was sold by an independent financial adviser. And, 
although she acknowledged the seriousness of the Mr Cs condition, it hadnt met the policy 
definition at this time and so she didnt think Aviva had to do anything further.
Mr C disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to firstly reassure Mr C that I dont underestimate the severity of his condition or the 
impact this had on him. But what I must consider here is whether Aviva has acted unfairly, or 
outside the terms of policy, by declining the critical illness claim. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr C but, for the reasons Ill explain, I dont think they have.  
Its already been established that the policy was sold to Mr and Mrs C by an independent 
financial adviser. This means Aviva isnt responsible for ensuring the policy was suitable for 
their needs at the time. Instead, they were required to provide information to allow them to 
be able to make an informed decision. Ive therefore considered whether they did this.
The key features document says:
 Whats included in the Critical Illness cover?
The critical illnesses covered by the plan are:
 
 Coronary angioplasty

Not all forms of the conditions listed above are covered.
and;
What will stop the Critical Illness cover paying out?
We wont pay a critical illness claim:
If the diagnosis isnt for one of our described illnesses.
Although coronary angioplasty is listed, Im satisfied the key features document explains that 
not all forms of the conditions are covered. And that Aviva wont pay out a claim if the 
diagnosis isnt for one of their described illnesses. The key features document also later 
goes on to explain that it only gives a summary of our [policy and] it doesnt include the full 
terms and conditions.
The policy terms and conditions  which Mr C has provided a copy of - do, however, say:
4. CRITICAL ILLNESS COVER
(d) Critical Illness means the Life Insured has, to the satisfaction of the Companys 
medical adviser, been diagnosed as suffering from one or more of the following:

Coronary Angioplasty 
The undergoing of balloon angioplasty on the advice of a Consultant Cardiologist to 
correct narrowing or blockage of at least 70% in each of two or more coronary 
arteries.
I understand Mr Cs frustration that his condition  coronary angioplasty relating to a single 
artery  hasnt met Avivas policy definition. And that he feels this wasnt made sufficiently 
clear to him when he set up the policy. 
Although I sympathise with his situation, I think it would be helpful for me to explain that 
insurance policies dont cover every eventuality. But rather, the insurer  in this case Aviva - can decide what cover and thereby level of risk it is prepared to offer (and ultimately accept). 
I also wouldnt expect the key features document to include details of every form of condition 
covered or every policy exclusion. The purpose of the document is to a provide a summary 
of how the policy works which, amongst other things, will include an overview of what is and 
isnt covered. Further to this, I think its also relevant to explain that I cant comment on what 
the adviser may or may not have explained when the policy was sold - as Aviva isnt 
responsible for that. 
That said, the terms and conditions of the policy were available to Mr C at the time the policy 
was set up. He therefore had the option of reading through this at the time, and so, if he 
found the cover wasnt what we wanted or was led to expect then he couldve cancelled it 
and sought cover elsewhere.  
I know this isnt the outcome Mr C was hoping for but, as his condition hasnt met the 
coronary angioplasty policy definition under his policy, I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly  
or outside the policy terms  by declining his claim. Because of this, I dont think they need 
to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman