DRN-3376373
The complaint
Ms B has complained that Astrenska Insurance Limited didnt replace her car key for a 
similar one when she made a claim under a key assist vehicle insurance policy. 
All reference to the underwriter Astrenska includes its agents acting on their behalf.
What happened
In June 2020 Ms B contacted Astrenska as she had lost her key to her car. She didnt hold a 
spare. Due to the age of Ms Bs car (it was around 20 years old) it was only possible to 
provide a like for like replacement through a dealership garage  and this was subject to 
certain conditions including having Ms Bs car on site at the dealership. 
Restrictions were in place at the time due to the global pandemic. Ms B enquired about 
having her car recovered to the dealership garage, but it was further away than the limit 
under a separate breakdown cover policy she held with a different underwriter. 
Astrenska said it assisted Ms B as she wanted to be able to access her car as soon as 
possible and so it agreed for her to arrange for a locksmith to attend. 
A locksmith attended and was able to provide a manual replacement key. Astrenska met the 
costs for the invoice provided by the locksmith which came to £240.
Just over a year later Ms B contacted Astrenska as she was unhappy with having to use a 
manual key instead of a replacement fob  like the key she says shed lost. She said she 
didnt know the locksmith would need to disable the central locking feature when providing a 
replacement manual key. Ms B says it makes a big difference to their use of the car. 
Astrenska said it had provided assistance and met its obligations under the policy. But it said 
it would meet the difference in cost for Ms B to what it had already covered to obtain a 
replacement key fob at a dealership garage. 
Ms B provided an invoice for £262.80 from a dealership garage to provide a replacement key 
fob. So Astrenska said it would pay £22.80 as it had already paid £240 under the claim to 
replace her key.
Ms B remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. She said her policy limit is 
up to £1,500 for a replacement key. She feels Astrenska should have covered the costs to 
provide a manual key as an interim measure  so that she could take her car to the 
dealership garage as they required  and then Astrenska should have also covered the 
costs for a replacement key fob. Ms B said it wouldnt have been suitable to have her car 
towed to a garage as it was in a parked position and was an automatic. She thought that if 
her car was to be towed, Astrenska should have covered the costs of the additional mileage 
outside of her breakdown policy limits. 
Our Investigator thought Astrenska had done enough to deal with Ms Bs claim by providing 
a replacement key and offering to pay the difference in upgrading the key to a fob key. 
Ms B didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Astrenska did what it could to provide Ms B with a replacement key as soon as 
possible. I appreciate that Ms B feels Astrenska should pay the full amount to provide a key 
fob in addition to the replacement key she received when she claimed in June 2020. But I 
think the reasons why this wasnt possible at the time were outside of Astrenskas control. 
And having had the benefit of using a replacement working key for over a year, I think 
Astrenska met its obligations under the policy. 
Although the policy limit is £1,500 for key assistance, this doesnt mean Ms B is entitled to 
claim up to that amount if it means it puts Ms B  or any policyholder - in a better position. In 
this case, if Astrenska were to pay the full costs to provide a key fob, Ms B would have two 
keys for her car  when she only had one before she claimed. As Astrenska paid the 
locksmith who provided the replacement manual key, I cant say that Astrenska acted 
unreasonably as it met the claim and Ms B was provided with a replacement key.
I understand Ms B will be disappointed. But I think Astrenskas offer to pay the difference 
rather than the full amount to obtain a replacement key fob is fair and reasonable. So Im not 
asking it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman