DRN-1868528
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A handled a claim he made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2019, Mr S booked a trip abroad and was due to travel a few months later. He 
took out a travel insurance policy online in late July 2019.
Unfortunately, Mr S wife was diagnosed with cancer in September 2019 and was advised 
not to travel. So he cancelled the holiday and made a claim to Mapfre for the costs of 
cancellation.
Mapfre told Mr S itd need some further information before it could assess the claim. This 
included a medical certificate which needed to be filled out by his wifes usual GP. Mr S sent 
back a medical certificate which had been completed by one of his wifes treating 
consultants. This stated the doctor had first seen Mrs S a couple of months after the travel 
insurance had been taken out and shed apparently been fit at that time. Mapfre didnt think 
this was enough to show what Mrs S health had been like prior to that point though. So it 
wrote to Mr S in November 2019 to ask for a medical certificate to be completed by his wifes 
GP.
Mr S wasnt happy with Mapfres request and he complained. He was unhappy that Mapfre 
wouldnt accept the consultants opinion and that hed be responsible for paying for the 
medical certificate. In January 2020, he returned a further certificate. This had been filled out 
by another of his wifes treating consultants. This form didnt state the date Mrs S condition 
started or when shed first sought medical advice about it. So Mapfre still didnt think this 
certificate was sufficient to show Mr S claim should be covered.
Mapfre responded to Mr S complaint. It maintained that it needed Mrs S GP to complete the 
certificate before it could assess the claim. It agreed to meet the cost of the certificate. Mrs S 
agreed to Mapfre getting in touch with the GP on her behalf and Mapfre requested the 
records. Mr S remained unhappy with the way Mapfre had handled the claim. He felt the 
certificates the two consultants had provided shouldve been enough evidence for Mapfre to 
accept the claim. He asked us to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr S complaint should be upheld. She felt the policy terms 
made it clear that Mapfre was entitled to ask for medical evidence in support of a claim. She 
felt it was reasonable for Mapfre to ask for evidence from the GP, as the certificates provided 
by the treating consultants hadnt answered Mapfres questions. And she didnt think Mapfre 
had caused any unreasonable delays in the handling of Mr S claim.
Mr S disagreed. He felt the treating consultants had access to the same medical records as 
the GP had. He also said that the GP had now sent the report to Mapfre, but it couldnt find 
the documents. So he was considering taking action for a potential data breach. He asked 
for an ombudsman to review this complaint.
I need to make it clear that I am only considering Mr S complaint about whether it was fair 
for Mapfre to require Mrs S GP to complete the medical certificate before it considered the 
claim. I appreciate Mrs S has now written to Mapfre to complain about the way her datas 
been handled. As thats a new complaint issue, I wont be dealing with it here. If Mr and Mrs 
S are unhappy with Mapfres response to that complaint, its open to them to contact the 
ICO. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I think Mapfre has treated Mr S fairly. Ill explain why. 
I understand that when Mrs S received a diagnosis, it mustve been a hugely worrying and 
upsetting time for her and Mr S. I sympathise with their position. But I need to consider 
whether Mapfre has acted in line with the policy terms and the regulators rules. The relevant 
rules and industry guidelines say that Mapfre has a responsibility to handle claims promptly 
and fairly. 
Ive first considered the policy terms. These say, under the Our Rights section:
We can, at any time, do the following:
-If you claim for illness or injury, contact any healthcare specialist who has treated you 
for up to three years before the claim and have full access to your medical records.
So I think the policy terms make it sufficiently clear that Mapfre was reasonably entitled to 
request medical evidence while considering any claim for illness or injury. 
When Mr S submitted his claim, the burden of proof was on him to demonstrate that it was 
valid. So its his responsibility to ensure that he provides enough evidence to do so. Mapfre 
requested a completed medical certificate as part of its claims process.
Mr S originally sent back a certificate completed by one of Mrs S treating consultants in 
October 2019. Ive looked carefully at it. The certificate states that Mrs S was first seen by 
the consultant at the hospital on 20 September 2019  the same date as her diagnosis. It 
says that Mrs S was apparently fit when the policy was taken out. I think it was reasonable 
for Mapfre to decide it needed further information before it agreed to consider the claim 
though. Thats because the policy had been taken out around two months before Mrs S saw 
the consultant. So it isnt clear whether shed had previous consultations or tests; or what her 
health had been like at the point the insurance was bought and during the 12 months 
beforehand. 
Mapfre wrote to Mr S to let him know it needed Mrs S regular GP to fill out the certificate. So 
I think it made clear what information it needed before it would consider the claim. But 
instead, Mr S returned a certificate completed by another one of Mrs S treating consultants 
at the hospital. This certificate didnt state when the condition had started, or when the 
consultant had first seen Mrs S. The certificate stated the doctor had been Mrs S medical 
practitioner since her diagnosis. 
So Mapfre still had no medical evidence to explain what Mrs S health had been like at the 
point the insurance was taken out or her medical history during the 12 months before. Given 
the missing information, I think it was fair for Mapfre to maintain its position that it required 
Mrs S usual GP to fill out the medical certificate, based on her medical history. Its possible 
the consultants had reviewed Mrs S full medical records before completing the certificate. 
But it isnt clear from them when Mrs S first experienced symptoms of the condition; when 
she was first referred to the hospital or when she first underwent tests. And this is 
information that I think Mapfre would likely have wanted to know when it considered the 
claim.
Overall, I think it was reasonable for Mapfre to require further information before it would 
further consider the claim. And I dont think its requests have caused any unreasonable 
delays in the handling of it. It let Mr S know that the first medical certificate wasnt sufficient 
shortly after it received it. And it explained exactly what information it did need. It wasnt 
responsible for Mr S deciding to send another certificate from a consultant around seven 
weeks later. It wrote to the GP very promptly once it received Mrs S consent to access her medical records. And Ive also noted it agreed to pay for the GP to complete the certificate, 
which I think was fair in the circumstances. 
This means I dont think Mapfre has done anything wrong that it needs to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman