DRN-3806485
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the delays he experienced in trying to arrange for his ISA 
account to be transferred away from ITI Capital Limited (ITI) after his account was migrated 
over from a previous firm and Mr R was unable to trade as he would have liked.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr Rs ISA account, which he held with a previous firm that had gone into 
administration, was transferred over to ITI. After some initial problems accessing his 
account Mr R didnt want to hold his ISA with ITI.
Mr R told us he requested his ISA be transferred to another product provider  who I shall 
refer to as Company A in this decision  on 13 August 2020 and which was received by 
ITI on 1 September 2020. During the transfer process Mr R was in touch with ITI but didnt 
receive satisfactory responses and wasnt able to trade on his account. He complained to 
ITI.
In ITIs response to Mr Rs complaint on 22 January 2021 it said;
The timeframes within which communications were given were subject 
to unreasonable delay.
The delay in processing his transfer request was unacceptable and been subject 
to delay.
Part of his portfolio had been transferred but there was a problem and it asked 
for Mr R to check the documentation he had received from the administrator of 
the previous firm for the transfer to recommence.
It offered £150 ex gratia payment for the inconvenience and/or distress caused.
Mr R wasnt happy with the outcome so brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. In the meantime, ITI told us that it would increase its offer to Mr R to £350. 
Our investigator who considered the complaint thought it should be upheld. She said;
Mr R should be compensated for the inconvenience and the delay in transferring 
his ISA.
She thought overall, the increased offer of £350 was fair and reasonable for the 
poor customer service and communication.
She was satisfied that Mr R had shown his intentions to trade if he had had access 
to his account and ITI should put things right.
She outlined how ITI should compensate Mr R for the loss of opportunity to trade 
in three trades in particular.
In response to the investigator ITI made the following points;
It referred to emails from August 2020 which confirmed trades could be conducted by 
phone and that its dealing desk made outbound calls should a call be missed.
It was not the case the Mr R suffered a lost investment opportunity.
It later sought clarity on the trades being referred to by the investigator but 
didnt provide any further response.
And Mr R said;
Hed demonstrated that he wished to trade and;
questioned whether it was for ITI to prove why he would not trade rather than for 
him to prove why he would not.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me for a decision. I issued my 
provisional decision as I was thinking of reaching a different conclusion to the investigator 
and I wanted to give everyone the chance to reply before issuing any final decision. Here is 
what I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, my provisional decision is that I think Mr R should receive a payment 
for the inconvenience and distress that he suffered but I dont think there is 
sufficient evidence for me to make an award for trading losses. Ill explain why.
Mr Rs inability to trade
Mr R told us he wanted to carry out trades on his ISA account during the time of the 
transfer. He asked ITI if this was possible but didnt receive a satisfactory answer so 
didnt trade. Mr R has said he suffered a financial loss because of this.
Mr R uses other platform providers as well as ITI and he told us he had carried out 
similar transactions with those providers which he said he would have carried out on 
his ITI account if he had been able to. And he has given us evidence in the form of 
contract notes of the trades he did carry out with two other platforms he used during 
the time of his ISA transfer.
He has told us that depending on his current thinking/news/price fluctuations and 
cash available on the respective accounts, he tended to carry out similar trades over 
the various platforms. And Mr R has given us evidence of trades subsequent to the 
ISA transfer which were carried out over the other platforms which suggest this 
pattern of behaviour has been continued.
In the investigators opinion she was satisfied that there was sufficient evidence of 
Mr Rs intention to trade on his ITI account that were similar to those carried out on 
the other platforms. And Mr R provided us with a spreadsheet of what he says he 
would have done with his ITI shareholdings if he had been able to sell them and 
reinvest the proceeds, evidencing the financial loss he has suffered of around 
£68,000.
In cases such as these I have to carefully consider whether a financial loss has 
been suffered. To conclude that it has, I need to be persuaded that Mr R would 
have made specific trades but for ITIs error. So, Ive reviewed the correspondence 
Mr R had with ITI to see whether that applies in Mr Rs case.
Ive reviewed the relevant correspondence in date order; I note that for his AIM shareholdings Mr R was told on 10 August 2020
that these would not appear on ITIs platform and could only be traded 
by phone. This was reiterated on 26 August.
 In one of the later conversations ITI said it was able to see that Mr R had 
logged into his account on 10 August and could have traded online but 
chose not to.
There is an email conversation that originated from Mr R on 19 August 2020. 
He questioned his ability to access both of his accounts (this complaint is 
only dealing with his ISA account) with the same login information he has 
been given. He was responded to on the same date and which included the 
comment if you want to trade please call [the phone number].
 On 24 August 2020 a message was sent to all customers saying  in the 
meantime if you would like to trade shares you can do so via telephone on 
[the phone number] and selecting the option for the Dealing Team.
Mr R chased in October/November about the transfer and questioned his ability to 
trade during this time and I see that 
 on 22 October 2020 Mr R asked, whilst the transfer is still in progress am I 
still able to trade with ITI? Mr R chased for a response and asked the 
same question on 4 November 2020. He chased again on 12 November 
and said he had been unable to trade on his portfolio for a long time.
 He received a response on 1 December saying as soon as you onboarded 
with ITI as a client you have always had the opportunity to trade directly 
through the dealing desk over the telephone on the following number [the 
telephone number].
 Mr R responded that at busy periods such as first thing in the morning it was 
very difficult to speak with a trader as there was so few of them. To which 
ITI responded .if you were not aware that we offered a trading service 
over the telephone why were you calling us to talk to a trader? And Mr R 
said that he was aware that there is telephone service but my question 
regarding dealing is not the same, it was as my ISA is in the process of 
being transferred am I still able to trade?
 In an email conversation Mr R had with ITI in May 2021 he said he didnt 
receive a response to his question about being able to trade during the 
transfer of his ISA and the people he had contacted at ITI didnt know the 
answer either. ITI referred to the emails he had received on 19 August 2020 
and that its trading section on its website never referred to any time when a 
customer could not trade or insist that during certain circumstances trading 
status is affected  therefore Mr R wasnt ever not able to trade and had no 
reason to think so.
So, I think ITI was answering a different question to the one that Mr R was asking. 
And from ITIs perspective it had no reason to think that Mr R couldnt trade if he 
wanted to and didnt understand why he had such an opinion. It had told him as 
early as 10 August 2020 that if he wanted to trade, he could do it by phone.
I note that in correspondence with us Mr R said I was informed I would have to call 
the Dealing Desk to trade, when I enquired how many Dealers they had available on 
the phone, I was told there only a few. This is an issue when dealing at busy time 
e.g. 8am as the Dealers are unavailable or there is a limited time to make a trade.While there were the delays that Mr R experienced, I cant see any reason why he 
would have thought there might have been a problem with him carrying out a trade. 
However, I do recognise that transferring an ISA account from one platform to 
another isnt an everyday procedure for such an active trader as Mr R and he 
wanted comfort from ITI that he could trade as usual. Ideally ITI would have 
responded directly to his question more quickly and I would agree that Mr R 
experienced poor customer service because of this.
However, this doesnt necessarily lead me to conclusion that Mr R has suffered a 
financial loss. We know from what Mr R has said that he was able to speak with the 
dealing team so there was the opportunity for him to trade if he had wanted to. But 
there is no evidence of him attempting to place an order.
I appreciate Mr R has told us that his trades were time sensitive and dependent 
upon news and price fluctuations etc plus cash availability on his respective 
platform accounts. So, I can sympathise with Mr R that he couldnt contact ITI to 
trade as and when he liked in order to pinpoint a price or take advantage of the 
quick changes in a share price. It must have been very frustrating for him and ITI 
has acknowledged that it was busy during this time. But while I appreciate Mr R 
was not able to trade as and when he would have liked, I think this is more of a 
reflection of the vagaries and ups and downs of trading in the stock markets, rather 
than an outright failing by ITI.
Mr R has told us he wanted to trade and couldnt but its clear from the above that 
he had been given the dealing desks phone number early on and has told us he 
had been able to make contact. While it would have been more ideal if ITI had 
responded to his query sooner, I havent seen anything to make me think that he 
was told by ITI that he couldnt trade. And if Mr R was that determined and he 
wasnt getting the answer he wanted, I think there was the availability through the 
dealing desk for him to place a trade, if he had wanted to.
The service provided by ITI
HMRC guidelines for the transfer of a stocks and shares ISA are that they should 
be completed withing 30 days. And clearly these guidelines were exceeded in this 
case.
And it is very clear from Mr Rs submissions, and the documents he has provided  
he has referred to many emails and phone calls  that Mr Rs experience with ITI 
has been a poor one. Mr R suffered significant delays throughout  from his initial 
request to transfer the account in August 2020 through to trying to get the actual 
transfer completed in January 2021. And during the transfer process Mr R didnt 
think he was in a position to trade.
I dont know the size of the client base that ITI took over from the previous provider 
that went into administration. But and as already acknowledged by ITI, I think its 
likely that the new additional accounts and investments will inevitably have had an 
impact on ITIs capacity and ability to deal with new customers and increased 
requests. And it seems evident there were some IT issues.
Putting the matter right
That being said, its clear Mr R has had a very difficult time during the process and 
Im sure feels stressed and inconvenienced by the whole affair. The investigator acknowledged this, by agreeing the increase in the offer by ITI to £350 was fair and 
reasonable in this case.
As Ive said above, Ive carefully considered Mr Rs points and I am aware he feels 
strongly about his complaint. But I have also borne in mind our long-standing 
approach to awards for distress caused. Clearly, it must have been very frustrating 
for Mr R not being able to take the action he wanted to with his accounts. ITI initially 
offered £150 and increased it to £350. But bearing in mind the trouble Mr R has 
been caused and ITI not being quicker in answering his question about his ability to 
trade during a transfer, I think an award of £500 would be a fairer reflection of the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr R.
Mr R didnt agree with my provisional decision. In response he said;
He didnt think my conclusion was justified as during the period he was emailing 
and calling the Dealing Team, but it couldnt tell him if he could trade either, they 
referred all of his queries to other teams.
His original reason for transferring his shareholdings was the stocks were not 
available to trade on ITIs online platform and lack of staff in the Dealing Team. 
The onboarding process and trying to trade had been a nightmare.
He believed his question about whether he could trade during the ISA transfer was 
a straightforward question and simple to answer. No-one at ITI could answer that 
question yet he was expected to know it. Not once did an ITI representative 
understand what he was asking for. 
In my provisional decision I had said that Mr R had not demonstrated that he 
wanted to trade but he could think of no other reason to contact ITI regularly over 
an extended period asking them a question directly about trading if I did not wish 
to do so. 
He didnt attempt to trade because the question about whether he could trade in 
the first place during a transfer was a precursor to making a trade. It was never 
suggested to him that he should try and make a trade as the people he was in 
contact with didnt know either. 
The service he has received from ITI is and was terrible and particularly compared 
to other brokers where he could use an online platform and if he did need to call 
customer services/dealing line they are responsive and understand their own 
processes.
He was justified in asking ITI a question on whether he could trade or not during a 
transfer which he had searched for on its site and made numerous calls and 
emails. 
ITI didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.While I recognise Mr Rs strength of feeling about his complaint and his inability to trade in 
particular, the comments he has made in response to my provisional decision havent 
caused me to change my mind as to the outcome. However, I want to assure Mr R that I 
have very carefully reconsidered the whole complaint file and the points he has made.  
Mr R has said he wasnt sure if he could trade on his ISA account during a transfer 
process. But Ive nothing to suggest that his inability to trade came about as a result of any 
comment or information given by ITI. 
It was Mr Rs own question about whether he could trade. And while I agree that no doubt 
he was extremely frustrated by the lack of any positive responses when he did make 
contact with ITI, I cant see that it was ITI that caused Mr R to come to the conclusion that 
there was a possibility he might not be able to trade. 
Mr R has said that attempting to trade when it had not been clarified whether he could or 
not didnt make sense. It was ITI themselves who said they werent sure whether he could 
trade, and he was told that his query had been passed to the transfer team. It was never 
suggested to him that he should try and make a trade as the people he was in contact with 
didnt know either. He concluded that no doubt they would have advised me against it as 
they themselves did not know whether it was possible. And he said by him asking a follow 
up question like can I trade in company XYZ would have resulted in the same response 
as they didnt know.  
But I think these comments in particular are sufficient for me to conclude that Mr R didnt 
attempt to place any trades. And Im satisfied that was his own decision. It was Mr R who 
reached the conclusion that the dealing team would have advised him against placing a 
deal as it didnt know the answer to his question. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that he 
was told this by ITI in response to him trying to place a trade. 
ITI had already told him could trade on his account by phone. I reiterate my comments 
made in my provisional decision about the early contact Mr R had in August 2020 with ITI 
and that it was made clear he could trade over the phone for any of his shareholdings 
He was told on 10 August 2020 that his AIM shares would not appear on ITIs 
platform and could only be traded by phone. This was reiterated on 26 August.
Mr R had logged into his account on 10 August and could have traded online but 
chose not to.
There is an email conversation that originated from Mr R on 19 August 2020 about 
his ability to access his accounts. He was responded to on the same date and 
which included the comment if you want to trade please call [the phone number].
On 24 August 2020 a message was sent to all customers saying  in the 
meantime if you would like to trade shares you can do so via telephone on [the 
phone number] and selecting the option for the Dealing Team.
And further to the above comments I made in my provisional decision I also note Mr R was 
emailed on 26 August which said as I already explained on Aug 10th your small segment 
AIM stocks are not supported on the phoenix platform, therefore you will not see them on 
the platform even if it was working. You can only trade these via telephone.
So overall, with reference to Mr Rs ability to trade, on balance I am satisfied that Mr R was 
made aware he could do so by phone and early on in his relationship with ITI. And I am 
also satisfied that it was Mr Rs own conclusion that it wasnt worth trying to place a trade 
as he would have been advised against it. There is nothing to show that this was the case  or that he was told by ITI that this was the case  and that it put up any barriers to him 
doing so  with the exception that ITI has told us it was very busy during this time and we 
know Mr R couldnt always access the dealing team as and when he wanted.  
Im satisfied Mr R could have continued to trade up to the point his transfer completed, 
albeit not online but over the phone if necessary, which I think was a reasonable 
alternative. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant reasonably say that but for ITIs error 
or actions, that Mr R missed an opportunity to trade because he wasnt able to trade 
during the transfer process. I havent been provided with any evidence to show that Mr R 
tried and failed to make an actual trade so I dont think ITI should have to compensate him 
for any lost investment or trading opportunity. 
Putting things right
However, Im still of the opinion that the service and response times Mr R received werent 
satisfactory and as a result Mr R has been caused trouble and upset. So ITI should pay him 
£500 for the distress and inconvenience he has been caused. 
I appreciate that no doubt Mr R will be disappointed that I havent upheld his complaint any 
further than I have done, but again, I hope I have been able to explain the reasons for my 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I partially uphold Mr Rs complaint and ITI Capital Limited should put 
the matter right as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman