DRN-3159866
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a curtailment claim
they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out a single trip travel insurance policy through a broker in July 2019.
The policy was intended to cover a round-the-world trip Mr and Mrs W planned to take
between 2 February 2020 and 1 July 2020. The trip was booked through a travel provider Ill
call F. Mr and Mrs W flew abroad as planned and were staying in a country Ill call N.
However, on 17 March 2020, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all
but essential travel abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic and on 23 March 2020, the FCO
advised all UK nationals abroad to return home. Mr and Mrs W asked F if it could amend
their booking, but it didnt do so. So Mr and Mrs W booked new flights back at their own
expense. They were able to recover the costs of pre-booked accommodation and car hire.
But they were left out of pocket for their remaining around-the-world flights and the new flight
they took home. So they made a claim on their travel insurance policy.
Great Lakes turned the claim down. It said the circumstances of the claim were specifically
excluded by the policy terms.
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with Great Lakes decision and they asked us to look into their
complaint. They told us that theyd been able to get a chargeback for the costs of their 
prebooked flights from F. So they said their outstanding claim was for the cost of their new
return flights back to the UK.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. He accepted that the
claim wasnt strictly covered by the policy terms. But he noted that the policy specifically
excluded claims if a policyholder travelled against FCO advice. And he didnt think the
Insurance Product Information Document had highlighted the exclusion Great Lakes had
relied on to turn down the claim. He felt the combined effect of the policy terms was that and 
Mrs W werent covered if they did continue with their trip and they werent covered if
they didnt, which made the policy useless to them. He didnt think the way the policy
documents were presented made the combined effect of the policy clear. He considered this
led to a significant imbalance between the rights of Mr and Mrs W and Great Lakes. And he
didnt think Mr and Mrs W wouldve taken out the policy if theyd known they wouldnt be
covered if the FCO advice changed. So he concluded the fair outcome would be for Great
Lakes to assess Mr and Mrs Ws claim under the curtailment section of the policy.
First provisional decision
I issued my first provisional decision on 6 August 2021. In my first provisional decision, I
explained the reasons why, based on the evidence available at that time, I thought it was fair
for Great Lakes to turn down Mr and Mrs Ws claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr and Mrs Ws policy and the circumstances of their claim to decide whether Great
Lakes considered it fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ws policy, as these form the
basis of their contract with Great Lakes. Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs W had to cut
their trip short due to Covid-19, so I think it was appropriate for Great Lakes to consider the
claim under the Amendment or cancellation costs section of the policy. This provides the
following cover:
We will pay You for pre-booked unused travel and accommodation expenses that You
have paid, or have agreed to pay, under a contract which You cannot get back if it is
necessary and unavoidable for you to cancel or cut short your journey. (Bold is my
emphasis.)
In my view, the policy terms make it clear that Great Lakes will only cover pre-booked travel
expenses if a policyholder needs to curtail their holiday. The contract doesnt cover any new
or additional expenses a policyholder incurs in doing so. This means that while I appreciate
Mr and Mrs W incurred significant costs in buying new return flights to the UK; these costs
simply arent covered by the terms of their policy. So I dont think I could fairly direct Great
Lakes to meet these costs.
Mr and Mrs W have told us that they managed to recover their accommodation costs and car
hire and latterly, that they were able to charge back the costs of their pre-booked flights from
F. So it doesnt seem to me that there are any pre-booked travel or accommodation
expenses outstanding which they havent been able to recover from elsewhere. And it
remains the case that Mr and Mrs W wouldve always needed to pay for a return flight to the
UK. In this case, from what Mr and Mrs W have told us, it appears that F has already
refunded their original return flight cost. Overall, it doesnt appear that Mr and Mrs W have
any outstanding pre-booked accommodation and travel expenses which would be covered
by the curtailment section of their policy.
This means that I dont think I need to make a finding on whether it would be fair and
reasonable for Great Lakes to assess the claim in line with the amendment and cancellation
costs section of the policy. Thats because even if I did think it ought to do so, as Ive
explained, it doesnt look like there would be any cover for the costs Mr and Mrs W are
looking to claim for.
Ive considered the remaining terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ws policy. But it doesnt
appear that any other section covers the specific circumstances of their claim. So while I
sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ws position, because I appreciate theyve been left out of
pocket, I dont currently think Great Lakes needs to do anything more.
In response to my first provisional decision, Mr and Mrs W told us that, in fact, they hadnt
been able to recover all of their pre-booked costs. They said that theyd previously just
outlined their major expenses. They sent us evidence of some pre-booked costs which
remained outstanding. These were for around £308.
Great Lakes maintained that the costs fell outside of the scope of the policy cover. 
I issued a second provisional decision on 11 October 2021. In that decision, I explained that 
I still didnt intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, but for different reasons. I said:
I understand the situation which Mr and Mrs W found themselves in was completely
unprecedented and outside of their control. I also understand, when the insurance waspurchased in July 2019, the circumstances that unfolded surrounding Covid-19 couldnt have
been foreseen by either policyholders or by insurers.
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore,
Great Lakes obligations under its contract with Mr and Mrs W are limited by the terms,
conditions and exclusions which are set out in the policy.
Mr and Mrs Ws policy states that Great Lakes will pay for a policyholders unused costs if a
holiday is curtailed because of one of a list of specific insured events. The Amendment or
Cancellation section of the policy says that Great Lakes will cover curtailment claims if
theyre caused by one of the following reasons:
1.You dying, becoming ill or injured.
2. the death, injury or illness of a Close Relative, Business Associate, Your travel
companion or a Close Relative or friend living overseas with whom You plan to stay.
3. You being called for jury service or as a witness (but not an expert witness or
where Your employment would normally require You to attend court) in a court of
law.
4. an accident to a vehicle in which You were planning to travel which happens within
seven days of the date You planned to leave which leaves the vehicle unusable (this
applies to self-drive Journeys only).
5. if You are a member of the armed forces or police, fire nursing or ambulance
services and You have to return to duty because of an emergency.
6. You being made redundant from full-time, continuous, permanent employment as
long as You are entitled to payment under the current redundancy payments law and
that, at the time of booking Your Journey it was unforeseeable.
7. the police needing You to stay after a fire, flood or burglary at Your Home less
than 48 hours before the date You planned to leave.
8. You having to retake or resit any exam which counts towards Your final
qualification as part of You attending a university or any other tertiary education
institution, subject to the dates of these exams not having been made public prior to
the Relevant Time.
9. You becoming pregnant after You have purchased the policy and You will be more
than 32 weeks pregnant (24 weeks for multiple pregnancy) at the start of, or during Your 
Journey or Your doctor advises You are unfit to travel due to complications of
pregnancy.
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Ws trip wasnt curtailed for any of the above reasons.
This means their claim isnt covered under the Amendment or cancellation section of their
policy.
Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of Mr and Mrs Ws insurance contract. But I dont
think they held cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances they found themselves
in.
Our investigator correctly pointed out that Mr and Mrs Ws policy wouldnt have provided
cover if theyd gone ahead and continued to travel against FCO advice. He thought this left
Mr and Mrs W in an unfair position. There may be some limited situations where, if I didnt
think an insurer had clearly and transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy
provisions relating to claims for changes in FCO advice and/or claims for travelling against
FCO advice, I might think it was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside
of the policy terms and conditions. However, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for
me to ask Great Lakes to do so here.This is because the Amendment or cancellation section of Mr and Mrs Ws policy also
includes a specific list of things Great Lakes specifically excludes from cover. This list
includes:
claims caused or contributed to by or on the order of any government, public or local
authority.
Its difficult to pinpoint with any certainty one specific reason for Mr and Mrs Ws claim. Their
claim documentation suggests that both the FCO advice against travel on 17 March 2020
and the decision of the government of a country they were due to travel on to to close its
borders to all non-residents with effect from 20 March 2020 fed into their decision to cut
short their trip. I think its most likely then that combination of factors  the spread of Covid-
19, FCO advice and government restrictions both in the UK and abroad  are all likely to
have impacted to some degree on Mr and Mrs Ws choice to return to the UK early.
I note that Mr and Mrs W paid out for a new flight on 19 March 2020. This was the same day
the government of one of their destinations announced its decision to close its borders. And
Mr and Mrs W didnt return to the UK until 24 March 2020  a day after the UK restrictions on
movement were announced. These restrictions remained in force until after Mr and Mrs W
would originally have been due to return to the UK.
So not only are the reasons for the curtailment of Mr and Mrs Ws holiday not covered as
listed, insured events under their policy, I think its likely the exclusion Ive quoted above
would apply to the circumstances of their claim anyway.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W, as I appreciate theyve been left out of pocket through
no fault of their own. But this doesnt mean Great Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably by
declining their claim.
Overall, I still dont plan to tell Great Lakes to do anything further.
Great Lakes didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with my findings and Ive summarised their response. They said 
they didnt feel there was any point in providing additional information, as the goalposts kept 
changing and they were disappointed with the way I had treated them. The whole situation 
had been a nightmare and they hadnt been able to get any guidance from their broker 
following the change in FCO advice. Theyd tried their best to comply with the FCO and had 
booked the only return flight which had been available to them. They didnt see what else 
they couldve done in the circumstances. If the Insurance Product Information Document 
(IPID) had been clearer about the conflicting cover, theyd have taken out a different policy. 
And once theyd arrived back in the UK, they were passed between the broker and Great 
Lakes and quoted clauses which didnt apply to their claim in order to reject it. It had been an 
extremely unprofessional service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W and while Ive carefully 
considered all theyve said and sent us, Ive decided it was fair for Great Lakes to turn down 
their claim. Ill explain why.
First, I appreciate Mr and Mrs W feel that theyve been treated poorly. Im independent and 
impartial of both parties and I need to make decisions which are fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, based on the available evidence. When I first considered this complaint, 
the evidence indicated that Mr and Mrs W were only claiming for the cost of their new flight, 
as theyd told Great Lakes theyd been able to recover their accommodation and car hire 
costs. And they told our investigator theyd been able to charge back their original flight costs 
and were claiming around £5900 for their new flight home.
As I set out, even if I had concluded the FCO exclusion hadnt been properly highlighted; 
additional costs still wouldnt have been covered by the curtailment section of the policy. In 
response to that provisional decision, Mr and Mrs W provided evidence of some additional 
costs they hadnt been refunded. So I then needed to decide whether or not it was 
reasonable for Great Lakes to decline to cover these costs. Taking into account the 
prohibitive regulations by any government exclusion I explained above and the reasons Mr 
and Mrs W set out on their claim form for cutting short their trip, I thought Great Lakes had 
turned down the claim fairly.
It's clear that Mr and Mrs W found themselves in an unprecedented situation, which was 
completely outside of their control. I entirely understand why they followed the FCOs advice 
to return as soon as they could to the UK and I also appreciate that they incurred significant 
costs in doing so. I do sympathise sincerely with their position and I think they acted sensibly 
in the circumstances. But it doesnt follow that Great Lakes should therefore pay their claim 
when its not covered by the terms of the contract and in fact, their reasons for cutting short 
the trip were specifically excluded.
I explained in my provisional decision that in some limited circumstances, I might conclude 
that if an insurer hadnt clearly and transparently signposted a policyholder to the FCO 
exclusion within the policy documents, it ought to pay a claim outside of the policy terms. 
And I appreciate Mr and Mrs W say they wouldnt have bought the policy if theyd been 
aware of the conflicting information. In this case though, even if I didnt think the FCO 
exclusion had been clearly drawn to their attention by Great Lakes, Im satisfied the 
prohibitive restrictions clause would have likely applied to their claim anyway.
And while I dont doubt that there were some delays by Great Lakes in progressing the 
claim, I need to bear in mind the unprecedented number of claims and calls insurers were 
dealing with at that time, given the rapidly evolving situation. This led to inevitable delays in 
dealing with claims. So while I appreciate it wouldve been helpful if the claim had been 
assessed more quickly, I dont think I can fairly direct Great Lakes to pay compensation on 
this basis.
Overall, in the circumstances of this complaint, Ive decided it was fair and reasonable for 
Great Lakes to turn down Mr and Mrs Ws claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman