DRN-3411454
The complaint
Miss S complains that Experian Limited (Experian) merged a third partys details with hers 
adding them on to her credit file.
What happened
Around May 2021 Miss S was declined an application for credit and was told by the lender to 
check her credit file. In June 2021 she asked Experian to provider with a copy of her credit 
report, when she received it on 15 June 2021, she noticed it contained information that 
wasnt hers. She complained to Experian on 27 June 2021.
Experian responded to Miss S, apologising for the error and explaining that her details and 
the third partys detailed were both very similar and their system hadnt been able to tell 
them apart. They confirmed the data had now been removed and paid Miss S £75 in 
compensation for the error.
Miss S wasnt satisfied with this response and so brought her complaint to this service. She 
told us the impact this mistake had had on her over a number of years. The investigator that 
looked into things felt Experian should increase its compensation offer to £200, as this was 
in line with what wed expect.
Experian agreed to the increase in compensation. But Miss S didnt agree, she didnt think it 
went far enough to make up for the impact the mistake had on her life, both physically and 
mentally. The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that Experian incorrectly recorded a third partys data on Miss S credit 
file. My understanding is that this has now been corrected - so I wont be considering this 
point further or making a finding on it.
Miss S has also said that Experian failed to protect her personal data and breached GDPR 
and as such it should pay a hefty fine. I must tell her that its the role of the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) to make findings about this not the role of this service, and so I 
wont be considering this or making a finding on it.  
The focus of my decision will be to consider what is fair compensation for the error Experian 
made. In order to do this, Ive considered what Miss S has told us about the impact the error 
has had on her. She has told us that she has been declined for credit in the past, and that 
this has caused her stress and other health issues. She has provided evidence to support 
what she has said.
I appreciate that being turned down for credit would have been disappointing, and extremely 
stressful as it meant Miss S wasnt able to do things she wanted to do. However, for me to 
be able to say this is Experians fault I would need to be sure the sole reason for the 
declined credit applications was due to Experians error. This is because lenders take into 
account a whole spectrum of information before agreeing to lend and so Id need to be 
satisfied that no other factors were involved. And I cant say that I am, because although the 
letters she has provided from lenders say for her to check her credit file, they dont give a 
specific reason as to why they turned down the lending. Having said that I do believe the 
error would have been at least a contributing factor.
Miss S has told us that her inability to obtain credit because of this error has caused her to 
have various health issues. The evidence is provided to support this show that her health 
issues began before 15 June 2021, when she found out about Experians error. So, I cant 
fairly say the error is the cause of Miss S health issues. Having said that I do accept that is 
likely it did exacerbate them.
When thinking about the overall impact Ive thought about the inconvenience suffered by 
Miss S and the health issues she has suffered, Ive also considered that Miss S has told us 
she has been refused credit over a number of years, but only checked her credit report in 
June 2021. Although, I cant say when the error happened as Experian doesnt have any 
copies of her credit report dating back to earlier applications, so the error may have only 
been a recent one. I thinks it fair to say had she checked her credit report when she was 
refused credit in earlier years, the impact of the error may have been reduced.
Ive also taken into account that Experian put things right very quickly once it was aware of 
the error. Miss S complained on 27 June 2021, and Experian had put things right by 8 July 
2021. So, it took the little over a week to make sure all of the information on Miss S credit 
file was correct.
Having considered everything Im satisfied that £200 is fair compensation to put things right 
in the circumstances.
I understand Miss S strength of feeling about this matter and know that she will be 
disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying to resolve her 
dispute with Experian  can do for her. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Experian should pay Miss S £200 in compensation for the impact its 
error has caused her. It is entitled to deduct any compensation payment is already made to 
her from this amount.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Miss S complaint about 
Experian Limited. And I now require it to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman