DRN-4179189
The complaint
Mrs T complains Next Retail Limited trading as Next Directory didnt notify her before closing 
her account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator, for 
these reasons:
Next has said Mrs Ts account was closed in March 2022 because it hadnt been 
used in two years, but before doing so they emailed her two months in advance to 
explain her account would close if it wasnt used. Ive seen the terms and conditions 
that apply to Mrs Ts account and seen they allow Next to close an account if two-
months notice is given to their customer. Mrs T says she didnt receive the emails 
notifying her that her account would close, so Ive had to decide what I consider is 
most likely to have happened.
Next has sent us a copy of an audit trail from their system that shows emails were 
sent to Mrs T in January 2022 and February 2022. This evidence suggests the 
emails concerned account closure after dormancy of two years, and the email 
address used is the same as the one we hold for Mrs T in this complaint. Mrs T says 
she didnt receive these emails and has questioned the validity of the system notes 
and has asked for more detailed evidence from Next. I can understand why Mrs T 
would like this; however, Im not persuaded theres a reason to question the validity 
of the evidence weve received. Its for individual businesses to determine how 
information is stored on their systems, and that isnt something our Service has the 
power to change. Next has sent us the evidence they have to demonstrate what was 
sent to Mrs T, and Im satisfied it is sufficient to conclude that its more likely than not 
an email was sent to Mrs T, in January 2022, explaining her account would close in 
two months time if it wasnt used.
Mrs T has also explained shes unhappy her account was closed because there was 
a pandemic during the period her account wasnt used. While I understand why 
Mrs T may not have used her account during the pandemic, its not for us to tell Next 
what their policy for dormant accounts should be. Therefore, I cannot ask them to 
change their position for the reasons Mrs T has suggested. I appreciate Mrs T was 
sent a replacement card with a June 2020 start date, but I dont agree this means 
Next has done anything wrong. Ultimately, while Mrs Ts account was still open Id 
expect her to be sent a new card if a previous one was due to expire. Had they not 
done so, Nexts actions would have prevented her from using her account if she 
wanted to.
Given the above, I dont consider Next treated Mrs T differently to other customers 
with similar circumstances. Im persuaded its most likely that an email was sent to 
her in January 2022 explaining her account would close if it wasnt used. Im aware 
the system notes say the email was opened by Mrs T, and that she disagrees that 
happened. But even if she hadnt opened the email, it wouldnt change my mind. 
Thats because I consider Next just needed to send the email to the correct address. 
Im satisfied that was done, and I dont consider it would be fair to hold them 
responsible if something may have gone wrong after that point. Its for this reason 
I wont be asking Next to reopen Mrs Ts account.
If Mrs T wants a new Next account, shell need to apply for one. I consider thats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances because Next are obligated to ensure any 
lending they offer is affordable  and they can only do that if a new application is 
completed and reviewed.
Next offered Mrs T £30 as a gesture of goodwill due to the inconvenience she 
experienced having to raise a complaint. Id say that offer is reasonable in the 
circumstances because I dont consider Next treated Mrs T unfairly. Im aware Mrs T 
didnt accept the £30 gift card sent to her, so if shed like this award paid to her, shell 
need to tell Next if she wants this in the form of the gift card or paid to an account of 
her choosing.
Ive not commented on the issues regarding Mrs Ts subject access requests as Im 
aware shes raised the matter with the Information Commissioners Office.
For these reasons, Im upholding Mrs Ts complaint, albeit not in the way she hoped.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mrs Ts complaint.
Next Retail Limited trading as Next Directory has already made an offer to pay £30 to settle 
the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Next Retail Limited trading as Next Directory should pay £30.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman