DRN-4130871
The complaint
Mr J complains that Financial Administration Services Limited (Fidelity) wont refund its 
service fees, which he says he never agreed to.
What happened
Mr J had a stocks and shares ISA with a business I will refer to as L. L stopped being an 
ISA manager so it couldnt keep Mr Js ISA on its platform. Mr Js ISA was transferred to 
Fidelity in or around September 2021. Mr J says he never approved the transfer and that he 
didnt agree to Fidelity charging any fees.
Fidelity said that Mr J was sent information about its fees before his ISA was transferred. 
And that his written agreement to the fees wasnt required.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
that Fidelity had made Mr J aware of its fee and how it would be deducted and that hed 
been given the opportunity to transfer his account elsewhere if he didnt agree.
Mr J asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. He said, in summary, that 
Fidelity needed his written consent to be able to deduct fees from his account and that just 
sending out its terms wasnt enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about Fidelity. I cant comment on anything L did or didnt do but I am 
aware that it communicated with Mr J about it ceasing to be an ISA manager and 
transferring his account to Fidelity if he didnt give alternative instructions by an agreed date. 
Mr J didnt give alternative instructions, so Im satisfied that  by default  he agreed to his 
ISA being transferred to Fidelity. In doing so, he agreed to its terms. Im satisfied he was 
given a copy of Fidelitys Doing business with Fidelity document which included its terms 
and conditions and information about its fees. I appreciate this was quite a long document, 
but I find it did set out information about its service fee reasonably clearly.
Fidelity did not need Mr Js written agreement to deduct its service charge from his account. 
Mr J had given his consent by agreeing to move his account, albeit the move to Fidelity was 
the default option because he hadnt given alternative instructions.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont find Fidelity is obliged to refund its fees.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman