DRN-4150070
The complaint
Miss S complains that she was entered into the incorrect finance agreement in relation to a 
car that was supplied to her by Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor 
Finance (CBL). 
What happened
In June 2022, Miss S entered into a hire purchase agreement with CBL for a used car. The 
car was registered in September 2018, which means it was around four years old and had 
travelled 49,800 miles when it was supplied to Miss S. The cash price of the car was £9,495. 
No deposit was paid, so the total amount financed on this agreement was £9,495 over 47 
monthly repayments of £207.24 with a final optional repayment of £3,532. 
Miss S complained to CBL about the type of agreement that shed been given. Miss S said 
the mileage had been recorded incorrectly on the initial agreement, and in August 2022 
shed been given a new proposal with a lower monthly repayment of £187.90 each month, 
on a conditional sale agreement. However, Miss S said she noticed her monthly repayment 
and her agreement type remained unchanged. 
In October 2022 CBL issued their final response to Miss S. They explained theyd need to 
set up another finance agreement. However, CBL issued a further final response to Miss S 
in January 2023 where they advised the agreement would not be changed, but that she 
wouldnt be charged for any excess mileage while she had the vehicle. 
Unhappy with their decision, Miss S brought her complaint to our service for investigation. 
Having reviewed all the information on file our investigator recommended that Miss S 
complaint should not be upheld. Our investigator concluded that CBL were not responsible 
for the conditional sale agreement not going ahead, and that there were no grounds for Miss 
S to reject the car. Our investigator said Miss S should observe the terms of the original 
agreement.
Miss S disagreed with our investigators view and explained that she shouldnt have to pay a 
higher amount because of CBLs inaction. Miss S also pointed out the car wasnt as 
described as the mileage was incorrect and so believed she should be allowed to reject it.
Following Miss S response, our investigator changed their view to recommend the complaint 
is upheld on the basis that Miss S and CBL both signed the new agreement. Our investigator 
felt it was fair that CBL honour the revised costs.
CBL didnt accept this recommendation. They said as the dealership were party to the 
contract, but didnt agree to it, then the new agreement wouldnt be binding, and so they 
didnt think Miss S was losing out. So as CBL didnt agree to our investigators view the case 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated personal contract purchase agreement. As such, 
this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Miss S is unhappy because she believes shes having to pay more each month for an 
agreement which she believed had been cancelled and reproposed to a new agreement 
with a lower monthly repayment.
Both parties are in agreement that the issue which brought rise to the complaint was the 
incorrect mileage that was recorded on the PCP agreement. Both parties recognise that the 
correct mileage at the point of supply was 56,700 (as detailed on the advert and sales 
invoice) however on the PCP agreement it was recorded as 49,800. CBL system notes 
suggest the reason for the incorrect mileage was related to some confusion with 
quotations. However, as neither party is in dispute of this, Ive not focused on the reasons 
why. 
CBL have provided a copy of the original PCP agreement which was signed in June 2022 
and is still active. Both parties are in agreement on this point. CBL have also provided us 
with a copy of the conditional sale agreement (CSA) that was signed by them and Miss S in 
August 2022. 
Having reviewed the CSA, I can see that its signed by CBL on 18 August 2022. In CBLs 
response to our investigators view they pointed out that the agreement was tripartite, 
meaning it was an agreement between themselves, Miss S and the dealership which they 
said must be agreed by all parties to make it binding. I acknowledge this may be the case 
from an administration point of view, however, in section 1.1 of the terms and conditions of 
the CSA, it says the CSA is an agreement made between CBL and Miss S and that the 
funds will be paid to the supplier (dealership) when both parties have signed the 
agreement. 
A copy of the signed agreement was also provided to Miss S, so I think its reasonable that 
Miss S believed the agreement became active and was in place. Ive seen nothing on file 
which suggests that Miss S was made aware that the CSA didnt become active until her 
original monthly repayment amount continued to be taken.
In an email to our investigator in May 2023, CBL said Miss S hadnt been financially 
disadvantaged because they continued to pay according to the terms which they previously 
agreed and werent charged more as a result of things. However, I dont think its fair to 
dismiss the difference in amounts on each agreement on the basis that there was already 
an active agreement in place which Miss S had agreed to.  
Both agreements were over a period of 48 months and for the cash price of the car which 
was £9,495. However, the CSA had monthly repayments that were £19.44 less than the PCP agreement. It had a total amount repayable that was around £1,166.87 less than the 
PCP agreement. Had CBL honoured the signed contract, Miss S would have been paying 
less. 
What I find particularly compelling in this case, is that Miss S and CBL, both signed and 
therefore effectively entered into a new contract which wasnt made live because of what 
appears to be an administration issue between the dealership and CBL. 
In their final response of January 2023, CBL attempted to resolve the complaint by waiving 
any excess mileage charges. Although I think this action addresses any excess mileage 
costs as a result of the incorrect mileage being recorded, I think focussing on the mileage 
element dismisses the evolution of the concern which is that Miss S was assured through a 
signed contract, that shed benefit from paying around £1,166 less than her original 
agreement. So, all things considered, Im satisfied that in the circumstances of this 
complaint, CBL havent acted fairly and needs to put things right for Miss S.
Putting things right
I acknowledge that Miss S has previously requested to reject the car. However, as Ive 
seen no evidence that suggests the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied 
to Miss S, I wont be instructing CBL to facilitate a rejection. CBL have already advised in 
their final response, that Miss S wouldnt be charged for any excess mileage. So, in 
addition to this, Im persuaded its fairer in the circumstances to have the total amount 
payable on the agreement reduced to reflect what it would have been had the CSA gone 
ahead.
Im in agreement with our investigator that Miss S should be refunded the additional 
amounts of £19.44 that shes been paying on her agreement each month up to the date of 
settlement. However, unlike our investigator, as the total amount payable on the new 
agreement would have been £1,166 less than the PCP, CBL should deduct the refund from 
this amount and reduce the outstanding balance with the remaining amount accordingly. 
This differs from our investigators view, as their calculation didnt consider the final optional 
payment to purchase the car. I dont think itd be reasonable for Miss S to have to pay this 
full amount if she decided to purchase the car, so I think its fair that the total amount 
payable on the CSA is taken into consideration and deducted from the total amount 
payable on the PCP. 
Given my redress differs to what was recommended by our investigator, I wrote to both 
parties explaining why, and I gave each party an opportunity to comment, however, neither 
party has responded. As both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead 
with my final decision. 
The total amount payable on the PCP agreement is £13,272.52 (A). And the total amount 
payable on the CSA is £12,105.65 (B).  The difference between the two is £1,166.87 (C). 
However, Miss S has already been paying the additional amount of £19.44 each month from 
when the agreement started, to the present date, Ill refer to this amount as D. 
So, CBL should refund the amount of D, to Miss S. CBL should then deduct the total of D 
from C and reduce the outstanding balance on the agreement by that amount.
CBL should pay 8% simple interest on the refunded amount. In addition, Im in agreement 
with our investigator that Miss S has invested a significant amount of time into this issue and thats not withstanding the stress and inconvenience that would have caused her. I 
think CBL should pay Miss S some compensation for this and Im in agreement with our 
investigator that £150 is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I uphold this complaint and instruct Close Brothers Limited trading as Close 
Brothers Motor Finance to:
Refund to Miss S the additional £19.44 shes been paying on her agreement since 
August 2022 up to the date of settlement (D). 
Deduct D from C (as described above) and rework the PCP agreement to ensure the 
outstanding balance is reduced by that amount. 
CBL should pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunds to Miss S from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement 
CBL should pay Miss S £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by this issue.
If Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the interest part of my 
award, it should tell Miss S how much its taken off. It should also give Miss S a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman