DRN-3929153
The complaint
Mr T complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) didnt set up a regular
overpayment on his mortgage.
What happened
Mr T took out a repayment mortgage with Nationwide in 2007.
In August 2017, Mr T reviewed his account and applied for a new fixed rate. Mr T says he 
told the representative he wanted to make overpayments in order to clear his mortgage 
before retirement. He understood Nationwide was setting this up for him and up until 2022,
he thought hed been making overpayments every month. 
Nationwide looked into Mr Ts concerns and agreed Mr T intended to make overpayments,
but it said it wasnt clear who was supposed to set that up. Nationwide offered £60 to say
sorry for any worry or distress caused and an additional £25 for the delay in investigating his
complaint.
Mr T remained unhappy, so our investigator looked into his concerns and thought his
complaint should be partially upheld. They said Nationwide should adjust Mr Ts account to
show that overpayments were made up to the point Mr T ought reasonably to have been
aware he wasnt making overpayments  around two and a half years after the event. As
Nationwide disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision on 16 February 2023. Below is an extract of what I said:
Mr T has explained that the new fixed rate product he applied for was on a better rate than
his previous product. This meant his contractual monthly payments (CMPs) reduced, and
he was able to afford overpayments. The notes recorded at the time confirm this was
discussed and the representative calculated whether Mr T could reduce his mortgage term.
As this option wasnt affordable, the representative agreed Mr T could make overpayments
of £145 per month instead.
Mr T was sent a letter on 15 August 2017 detailing what was discussed. The letter
referenced overpayments a few times as follows:
you would like to make small overpayments add [sic] hoc onto your mortgage 
account as and when you have disposable income
overpayment set up at 145 per month
you hope that you may even be able to clear the mortgage within 10 years by 
overpaying as and when you can
CUSTOMER HAPPY TO SET UP AN OVERPAYMENT OF £145 EXTRA
Mr T says he never saw the advisers notes, but the letter was addressed to him correctly,
and Ive not seen any reason to suggest it wouldnt have been received at the time.
The notes can be interpreted as contradictory, as there is a suggestion a regular payment
was set up, but the notes also say the overpayments would be made as and when, which
wouldnt be possible if a regular payment was to be arranged. The notes dont confirm who
was supposed to set up a regular payment, but I think they were written in order of
discussion and the final reference is that the customer, Mr T, was happy to set up an
overpayment.
Considering everything, I think its more likely than not Mr T was supposed to arrange the
payment himself and this wouldnt be surprising given this type of payment would usually be
made by standing order. That means it would be under Mr Ts control, as opposed to a direct
debit which would have been more suitable for Mr Ts CMPs. I also havent seen anything to
suggest Mr T signed an agreement to put a standing order in place for overpayments, and
Mr T hasnt said that he did either.
So, I dont think the above notes confirm the representative was supposed to set the
overpayments up. That means I dont think Nationwide is responsible for the overpayments
not being made. In any case, even if Nationwide was responsible, I dont think its
reasonable to ask it to cover the cost of all the overpayments now. I say this because I think
Mr T would have had multiple opportunities to realise something had gone wrong and I think
he should have brought this to Nationwides attention much sooner than he did.
Mr T wanted to reduce his debt by making overpayments on top of his CMPs. Mr T was
aware how much his CMP was, and he would have seen this amount being debited from his
current account. So, I think Mr T ought to have realised, fairly quickly, that no additional sum
was being taken from his account. And if those funds werent being taken, then I would have
expected him to have those funds available still.
In these circumstances, if Mr T had accrued the funds on his current account instead, I
would have asked Nationwide to allow Mr T to make a lump sum payment to make up for the
missed overpayments. But it doesnt appear as though Mr T has the funds available, and I
dont think its fair to ask Nationwide to make his overpayments for him. Theres no
guarantee Mr T would always have made overpayments, if any. I note the CMP with the
overpayment he wanted to make was greater than his previous CMP, and the notes at the
time refer to him making overpayments as and when.
In addition, the annual mortgage statements clearly set out the cost of the CMPs expected in
one column and the credits to the account in another. These figures matched each other
every month and clearly show that no overpayment was being made. Mr T would have
received the statement every year between 2017 and 2022.
I know Mr T has referred to wording on the annual statement that says:
This payment doesn't include any overpayments that you may be currently making. We'll
continue taking any overpayments you've arranged, as well as the payment that's due.
Mr T says he took this to mean his overpayments werent included on the statement. Ive
thought about this carefully, but I think hes referred to this comment out of context. Looking
at the placement of this wording, I think its very clear this comment is made in relation to the
monthly cost of the mortgage going forward  the CMP. The statement then goes on to set
out all credits and debits and Mr T would have expected to see his overpayments there.Mr T didnt phone Nationwide until 7 June 2022 to query why the overpayments werent in
place  almost five years later. And for the reasons Ive given above, if Mr T thought the
overpayments had been set up by the representative at the time, I would have expected him
to have raised this with Nationwide much sooner than he did. Particularly as there were a
number of ways Mr T could have noticed that the payments werent being made. So, I think
its more likely than not Mr T was supposed to arrange the payments himself and I cant ask
Nationwide to make his overpayments for him if he didnt do this.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr T, I understand he was hoping to have paid off
his mortgage sooner so he could retire earlier. But I dont think Nationwide should be
expected to pay for that. As Ive said above, if Mr T kept the funds aside and wanted to pay
them off now and continue with overpayments going forward, Id expect Nationwide to
accommodate that in the circumstances. But I dont think it would need to do anything more
than that.
Nationwide has offered Mr T £85 compensation though, so if he wants to accept that now he
still can.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following my provisional decision, Nationwide responded and confirmed it had no further 
comments. 
Mr T responded and reiterated that he didnt receive the letter dated 15 August 2017. Mr T 
says, if he had seen the letter he would have contacted Nationwide to clarify who was going 
to set up the overpayment. Mr T has asked if Nationwide can prove the letter was received. I 
dont think it would be possible for Nationwide to prove this. But even if Mr T didnt receive 
the letter, I have explained why I think Mr T had a number of reasons to notice the payment 
wasnt in place within the first few months. For example, Mr T ought reasonably to have 
noticed there was no additional regular payment leaving his bank account every month. 
Mr T says Nationwide agreed it had no reason to disbelieve what hes said, and that 
contradictory information was given. I appreciate Nationwides response implied that, but 
regardless of what Nationwide has said, I have to form my own decision based on the 
evidence and information Ive seen as an impartial party. And I dont think Nationwide saying 
it doesnt disbelieve Mr T means it agrees with him. Nationwide is accepting that Mr T may 
have had the impression he did, but that doesnt mean it agrees its responsible for the 
payments he didnt make. 
Mr T has also said he still thinks the wording on his statements meant that overpayments 
wouldnt be shown. As I explained in my provisional decision, the comment Mr Ts referred to 
on his statements only confirmed that the figure shown was his contractual payment. And 
that it didnt include anything else such as overpayments. It also explained that there 
wouldnt be any impact on any overpayments in place if his contractual payment had 
changed. This was true and I dont think it was misleading. Any overpayments would still 
have been reflected on the overall outstanding balance of the account and would have been 
listed under the section which showed credits and debits to the account. In Mr Ts case, 
none of that information was visible and so I still think Mr T had reason to query this much 
sooner than he did. 
 Ive considered everything Mr Ts said, but my reasons for not upholding his complaint 
remain the same. Mr T wanted to make overpayments to his account, but this didnt happen. 
Given the circumstances I think it would be fair to expect Nationwide to accept the funds 
from Mr T now, as a lump sum.  But I cant ask Nationwide to pay a substantial sum off 
Mr Ts mortgage for him. Mr T had multiple opportunities to realise a regular overpayment 
hadnt been set up, yet he didnt inform Nationwide of this until around five years later. 
Ultimately, Mr T took out a mortgage with Nationwide and agreed to repay it. He was entitled 
to make overpayments to reduce his debt sooner if he wanted to, but he didnt do this. Mr T 
had the benefit of those funds, and it wouldnt be fair to ask Nationwide to write off a 
substantial portion of his mortgage for the legitimate debt he still owes.
So, for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
If Mr T now wants to accept Nationwides offer of £85 compensation he can sign and return 
the settlement form attached.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman