DRN-4281883
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly declined a claim under their legal 
expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Allianz, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers for which 
it takes responsibility. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have been involved in a long running dispute with their neighbours, which has 
resulted in numerous claims being made with different legal expenses insurers over many 
years, as well as several complaints being brought to our service. 
In early 2022, an Ombudsman at our service issued a final decision upholding Mr and 
Mrs Ms complaint against their previous legal expenses insurer  who Ill refer to as U  
and directed it to take certain action. Mr and Mrs M say U didnt comply with the 
Ombudsmans directions, so they made a claim under their new legal expenses insurance 
policy with Allianz to take action to enforce the decision. 
Allianz declined the claim on the basis that the contract in dispute between Mr and Mrs M 
and U was entered into before their policy started. But Mr and Mrs M dont agree, they say 
that both the date of the Ombudsmans final decision and Us non-compliance of it occurred 
within Allianzs period of cover, so it should accept the claim. They raised a complaint, which 
they brought to our service.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he was satisfied Allianz had declined the 
claim in accordance with the policys terms and conditions and it hadnt acted unfairly. As Mr 
and Mrs M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When assessing whether a claim is covered under an insurance policy, the starting point is 
deciding whether an insured event has occurred. In other words, there must be a legal 
dispute that falls within a section of cover.
 Mr and Mrs Ms legal expenses policy with Allianz has the following sections of cover:
Personal injury
Your home
Services and personal property 
Employment pursuit
Employment defence
Tax enquiry
Motor prosecution defence
Jury service
Probate
Ive considered the descriptions of each section of cover set out within the policys terms and 
conditions. Having done so, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs Ms claim falls within one. The 
most relevant section of cover for their dispute with U is services and personal property, 
which says:
Whats covered:
Legal costs incurred in bringing a claim or beginning civil proceedings against a third 
party or organisation for:
The purchase, hire, lease, or sale of any personal or private goods or the provision of 
services for your private or personal use.
But Mr and Mrs Ms dispute isnt about the provision of a service provided by U  rather, its 
about enforcing a decision from our service. So Im not satisfied theres a valid claim here. 
Ive also considered the policys exclusions, in particular the following:
Any enforcement proceedings or procedure arising from a successful outcome 
where settlement is not then made, unless relating to claims concluded successfully 
under this policy.
Im persuaded this exclusion applies here. I say this because Mr and Mrs M want to enforce 
our decision which directed a settlement from U, and this wasnt in relation to a claim under 
Allianzs policy.
Allianz has also highlighted the following policy exclusion, which it seeks to rely on in 
declining the claim:
Any dispute arising from a contract entered into prior to the inception of this Legal 
Expenses policy
Mr and Mrs M say they entered into the contract with our service during Allianzs period of 
insurance. But as our Investigator has already explained, Mr and Mrs M dont have a 
contract with us  we operate under the Financial Services and Market Act 2000 as an 
informal dispute resolution service. 
Furthermore, their claim to Allianz is about a dispute with U  not us  so the contract in 
question would be the insurance contract between Mr and Mrs M and U. I say this because 
the dispute regarding the enforcement of our decision arises from their contract of insurance 
and a claim made under it.
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for Allianz to 
decline cover for Mr and Mrs Ms claim and Im not persuaded its acted unfairly. So I dont 
uphold the complaint. 
Our final decisions are legally binding, so Mr and Mrs M can enforce our decision against U 
in court. And whilst they may wish to seek legal advice, theres no requirement for them to 
be legally represented in this process. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman