DRN-4356027
The complaint
X complains that ReAssure Limited did not act fairly in relation to a pension withdrawal. He 
says that ReAssure advised him to delay the withdrawal until the following tax year so that 
he would pay less tax. When he later came to take the pension, it had risen in value and he 
was unable to make the withdrawal without taking financial advice. He also complains that 
he was given false or misleading information about the requirement to take financial advice. 
He felt that ReAssure were preventing him from accessing his money.
What happened
In early 2021 X contacted ReAssure Limited to ask about drawing his pension as a lump 
sum. On 23 March the fund value was £29,270.89 and the pension had a Guaranteed 
Annuity Rate (GAR) which was higher than would be available on the open market at that 
time.
X said ReAssure advised him to delay the withdrawal until the new tax year in order to 
reduce his tax charge.  
On 8 April 2022 X contacted ReAssure again to withdraw his pension as a lump sum. A 
retirement options pack was produced on 13 April but not issued until 27 April. On 4 May he 
was told incorrectly that he did not have to take advice to access his pension as a lump sum.
X complained to ReAssure because he was unhappy that he had to take advice to access 
his fund as a lump sum. ReAssure explained to him that this was a legal requirement that 
they were unable to waive. But they did accept that they had been too slow in sending out 
the options pack, so offered £100 by way of apology. 
Having taken advice and provided the necessary proof to ReAssure, X received his pension 
fund as a lump sum. But he was still unhappy so he brought his complaint to this service.
His main concern was that in March 2021 he says ReAssure advised him to wait until the 
new tax year because that would reduce the amount of tax he would have to pay. By the 
time he came to take the pension the value was over the £30,000 limit at which he would 
have to take advice. And ReAssure were not authorised to give advice. 
Our investigator agreed that ReAssure had caused a delay in sending out the options pack, 
and also made a mistake in telling him he didnt need advice. But because the incorrect 
information was corrected (and was a legal requirement in any case) the investigator felt that 
the compensation already offered was a fair outcome. 
X disagreed with the investigators opinion. The dispute was referred to me for a final 
decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 21 August 2023. Ive corrected two typographical errors 
but otherwise it said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am providing this provisional decision as, based on everything I have seen thus far, I intend 
to depart from the investigators recommendation in some respects. I have had the benefit of 
listening to the call recordings, as well as all the other evidence provided by both parties. 
I initially asked ReAssure to provide recordings of all phone calls with X between January 
and April of 2021, because it was in early 2021 when X said he was advised to delay 
drawing the pension. Because of the volume of calls ReAssure was unable to provide 
recordings of all of them. But I am satisfied that I have listened to enough calls to make a 
decision on the two main issues in question. 
In the interests of avoiding further delay, and to give X the decision he needs I thought this 
would be a proportionate way to proceed. I accept that X may have some misgivings that we 
do not have all the call recordings. But he has also said that he has some call recordings but 
was not willing to provide them. If he changes his mind on this point, I am willing to listen to 
any recordings he provides. So this provisional decision is based on what I believe to be fair 
and reasonable based on the evidence I have available.
Since this is a provisional decision, both parties will have the opportunity to provide any 
further evidence or arguments before I give my final decision.
The requirement to take advice
X was told, correctly, that he had to take regulated financial advice in order to access his 
pension as a lump sum because it had a GAR and the value was over £30,000. He was told 
this in his retirement options letter of 23 March 2021 and on the phone. 
But he was also told that PensionWise was an alternative to taking regulated financial 
advice. PensionWise is a service set up by the government that gives over 50s some 
information to help them choose what to do with their pensions. While possibly helpful for 
those (unlike X) who did not  know what they wanted to do, PensionWise could not have met 
the requirement for regulated financial advice. 
However, in one of the call recordings X and the ReAssure representative discussed the 
possibility of waiving the requirement to take advice. And in another call the representative 
said that she would be in trouble if she released money without this requirement being met. 
Both of these would suggest that it was ReAssures decision or policy to require 
policyholders to take advice, which is incorrect. 
In fact, the requirement to take advice was a legislative requirement (Pension Schemes Act 
2015). In order to meet the requirement, a regulated financial adviser would need to sign a 
form declaring that they had given advice on the pension in question. This was not 
sufficiently explained to X until 19 May 2022. I think that if X had known this earlier on, then 
although he still may not have liked it, he would have found it easier to accept. 
In providing the conflicting and incorrect information, particularly the indication that it might 
be possible to waive the requirement, I think that ReAssure caused X to believe that 
ReAssure was preventing him from accessing his own money. And I can see why this was a 
cause of some frustration. ReAssure should pay X compensation to reflect this, a point I will 
return to later.
Did ReAssure advise him to delay?
X says that ReAssure advised him to delay taking the withdrawal in order to reduce the tax he would need to pay. 
I have listened to X and the ReAssure representatives discuss the taxation of the withdrawal 
 25% tax free with the rest taxable and the ability to reclaim any overpayment of tax. The 
information given is accurate. In none of the calls does the representative advise X to delay 
taking the withdrawal, or even discuss that the tax might be lower if he was to wait. And one 
of the call handlers explicitly tells X that We cant give advice or a personal 
recommendation. 
So, in the absence of any other evidence, I am unable to find that ReAssure gave X any 
advice. Where there was information provided on tax it was accurate. So I find that 
ReAssure acted fairly in this respect. 
Even if X was told that waiting until the new tax year would reduce the rate of tax he paid, 
then that amounts to no more than factual information rather than advice. 
If Xs concern is whether ReAssure acted outside of their regulatory permissions then that is 
a matter for the Financial Conduct Authority, who regulate ReAssure. And I understand that 
X has already been in touch with the FCA. It is not the function of this service to punish 
regulated businesses, but to resolve disputes and, where we think detriment has been 
caused, to try to rectify that.
So in summary I intend to uphold Xs complaint in respect of the conflicting information 
ReAssure provided, but not in respect of whether ReAssure advised him to delay. 
Putting things right
X says that ReAssure caused him some distress and anxiety. I have already explained why I 
think that the different explanations over time and particularly the suggestion that the 
requirement could be waived would have led him to think that ReAssure were preventing him 
from accessing his money without good reason. And I think this would have made the 
process more stressful than it would otherwise have been.
X says that ReAssure have paid him a total of £200 by way of redress and/or compensation. 
I agree that £100 is a fair sum in relation to the delay as detailed in the letter dated 9 May 
2022. 
But having listened to the phone calls I think that the conflicting/incorrect information and the 
time taken to resolve the whole issue merit an additional award of £400, making a total 
payment of £500 for that element of the dispute.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ReAssure has responded to my provisional decision and has accepted what I said. X has not 
responded.
Since no new arguments or evidence have been offered, I remain of the view I set out in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
ReAssure must pay X an additional £400, on top of what it has  already paid, for the inconvenience and distress caused by their delays and conflicting/incorrect information. The 
payment must be made within 28 days of the date of this final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold Xs complaint against ReAssure Limited. I require 
ReAssure Limited to make a payment to X as described in the Putting things right section 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Martin Catherwood
Ombudsman