DRN-3230437
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some solar panels.
What happened
Mr R bought solar panels for his home in October 2016. The purchase was funded by a 
three-year loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of 
the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mr R into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr Rs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr R, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding over the term of the loan. This 
restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a 
number of assumptions on future performance. Ikano didnt respond, so the case was 
referred for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ikano is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr R was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So I think that Ikano didnt treat Mr R fairly and he lost out because of what Ikano did wrong. 
And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Ikano needs to do to put things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Rs complaint for Ikano to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr R from the solar panels so 
he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, and any future benefits 
once the loan has ended.
However, I dont think this should be calculated over the three-year term of the loan. That is 
because  while I accept that Mr R was told that the panels would be self-funding over a 
reasonable period of time  I am not persuaded that he was told they would pay for 
themselves and the interest on the loan in only three years. So for the purpose of calculating 
Mr Rs compensation, I think that a reasonable period would be ten years.
If the calculation shows that Mr R is paying (or has paid) more than he should have, then 
Ikano need to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
him by way of explanation.
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Ikano to 
restructure the loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Mr R in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost-neutral over the term of ten years.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr Rs monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would have paid more each month than he should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as he would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, 
I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr R 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Mr R and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr R and he pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mr R accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr R has settled the loan, Ikano should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with interest at 8% a 
year.
If Mr R has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Ikano, and then Ikano must:
1. Refund the extra Mr R paid each month with the Ikano loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr R receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr R paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr R receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr R the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr R first 
contacted Ikano that means the claim should have been upheld. I will direct that Ikano must 
pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party responded by the deadline. So there is no reason for me to depart from my provisional findings, and I confirm them here.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Ikano Bank AB (publ) to put things right in 
the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman