DRN-3307153
The complaint
Mr S says Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr S took out a 24-month instalment loan for £3,000 from 118 118 Money on 10 June 2020.
The monthly repayment was £214.90 and the total repayable was £5,157.60.
Mr S says he was sold a loan he could not afford, and no questions were asked about his
expenditure.
The adjudicator said the complaint should not be upheld. He thought the checks 118 118
Money carried out were proportionate and showed that the loan would be affordable for
Mr S.
Mr S disagreed, he said he was asked no questions about his expenditure. He asked for an
ombudsmans review so the case was passed to me to make a decision.
I reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator and so I issued a provisional decision - an 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision. I asked for any comments or new 
evidence by 9 February 2022.
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see 118 118 Money asked for some information from Mr S before it approved the
loan. It asked for his monthly income and completed income verification with a third party. It
says it asked for monthly expenditure and would have revised this based on national
averages. I note Mr S disputes providing any information on his monthly costs but because
of my overall conclusion I need not make a finding on this point. The lender also checked   
Mr Ss credit file to understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. 
From these checks combined 118 118 Money concluded Mr S had sufficient disposable 
income to afford the loan.
Our investigator found 118 118 Money wasnt wrong to lend to Mr S saying its checks
showed Mr S had sufficient disposable income to take on the additional financial
commitment. I have reached a different conclusion. Ill explain why.
I dont think 118 118 Moneys checks were reasonable or proportionate. 118 118 Money
carried out a credit search as part of its checks. This showed Mr S had £4,034 of unsecured
debt across 9 active accounts. These were all up-to-date. So at first look he didnt appear to
be heavily indebted or failing to manage his existing commitments. There were a number of
defaults, but these were settled and predominantly from 2015.
However, the search also showed that Mr S had taken out at least 29 short-term (most likely
high-cost payday) loans in the previous 24 months. Arguably that could in itself have led 118
118 Money to decline the application, but at the very least the lender should have reacted to
that information and completed a fuller financial review to get the assurance it needed that
its loan would be sustainably affordable for Mr S.
I have looked at copies of Mr Ss bank statements for the three months prior to his
application to understand what better checks would most likely have shown 118 118 Money.
I am not saying the lender had to do this, but its one way it could have better understood
Mr Ss financial situation. The statements show it is clear Mr S did not have the disposable
income the lender calculated. Whilst his monthly income was as he declared (on average
£1961.29) he was persistently reliant on his overdraft to cover all his living costs and existing
credit commitments. Even on payday he remained overdrawn each month. He also had a
high-cost line of revolving credit and had used a buy-now-pay later option to purchase
goods. So I think if 118 118 Money had carried out better checks it would have realised Mr S
finances were under pressure.
Mr S was having problems managing his money when he applied and given the 29 loans in
the last two years it seems he hed been trapped in a harmful debt cycle for some time. I
think there was a clear risk the loan would be unsustainably affordable for Mr S. It seems he
would most likely fund the repayments from other borrowing such as his overdraft or short- 
term loans. There is no evidence 118 118 Money asked about the purpose of the loan to
know whether Mr S intended to clear any of his existing debt with it.
It follows I currently think 118 118 Money was wrong to lend to Mr S.
I then set out what 118 118 Money would need to do to put things right if I upheld Mr Ss 
complaint.
Mr S responded to my provisional decision before the deadline saying he had nothing further 
to add. 118 118 Money did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
As neither party provided any new information or evidence in response to my provisional
decision, it follows I have no reason to change the findings or outcome I set out in it.
I find 118 118 Money was wrong to give the loan to Mr S.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr S to repay the capital that he borrowed because he had 
the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have 
been provided to him.
So 118 118 Money must:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments
Mr S made as payments towards the capital.
If this results in him having effectively made payments above the original capital
borrowed, then 118 118 Money should refund these overpayments with 8% simple
interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have
arisen, to the date of settlement*.If this results in there being an outstanding capital balance the parties should work
together to agree a repayment plan that is affordable for Mr S.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to deduct tax from this interest. 118 118 Money
should give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ss complaint. Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) must 
put things right as set out above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman