DRN-2929499
Complaint
Ms J has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly continued applying charges 
on her overdraft which caused her financial difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Js complaint and thought Lloyds should have realised 
Ms J was struggling in April 2016. He said that Lloyds needed to refund all the interest, fees 
and charges it added to Ms Js overdraft from this point as result. Lloyds disagreed. So the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think Lloyds acted unfairly when it 
renewed Ms Js overdraft in April 2016. 
By this point, Lloyds would have seen that Ms J had been hardcore borrowing for a number 
of months. In other words, Ms Js account remained persistently overdrawn for lengthy 
periods while only briefly returning to credit. Lloyds says this isnt really relevant here as    
Ms J was using her overdraft for her business and so not in line with its purpose and Ms J 
could have chosen to remove or reduce her overdraft. 
Ms J did have another account with Lloyds. And its possible some of the transactions on this 
account were also business related. But its clear that most of what was going out of this 
account wasnt business related. And, in any event, its clear that this overdraft wasnt 
suitable for business purposes. So I dont think its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to now 
argue that the facility wasnt being used for its intended purpose when it ought reasonably to 
have realised this may have been the case and taken steps to address this some time ago. 
Furthermore, while Ive noted Lloyds argument that Ms J, on occasion, had the ability to exit 
her overdraft, it was clear this wasnt happening. I dont agree a customer whos significantly 
overdrawn for extended periods is managing their account well, or that this demonstrates its 
reasonable to increase their limit in the way Lloyds did here  especially when it is apparent 
that the accountholders overall indebtedness is also increasing with other credit. 
Overall, I think that by April 2016 Lloyds shouldnt have provided Ms J with an overdraft on 
the same terms and instead treated her with forbearance rather than adding even more 
interest, fees and charges on the overdraft. All of this means that Lloyds should have 
realised that Ms J was struggling to manage her overdraft and offered her assistance. As 
Lloyds didnt react to Ms Js account usage and instead continued charging before 
increasing her overdraft limit, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Ms J ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time when she was already 
struggling to repay what she owed. So Im satisfied that Ms J lost out because of what 
Lloyds did wrong and that it should put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what Lloyds needs to do to put things right for Ms J
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Js complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Ms Js current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from April 2016 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Ms J to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If Lloyds considers it appropriate to record negative information on Ms Js 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the account from April 2016.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Ms J along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Ms Js credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give  
Ms J a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Js complaint. Lloyds Bank Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman