DRN-4037624
The complaint
Mr H complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has declined to cover storage and recovery 
costs following his claim for the theft of his vehicle, under his motor insurance policy.   
What happened
Mr H says he put his car up for sale in October 2022. A potential buyer offered him another 
car plus £400 for his vehicle, which he agreed to. Mr H gave the buyer his car keys and he 
drove it away. He then amended his insurance in order to cover his new car. However, Mr H 
says the bank transfer for £400 didnt materialise and he later found out from the police that 
the car hed been given was stolen. 
Mr H contacted UKI, but it declined his claim. He was told there was no cover where the loss 
is the result of deception by someone pretending to buy his car. 
Mr Hs car was later found by the police. He had to pay storage and recovery fees to have it 
returned to him which he thinks UKI should cover. He says he cancelled his policy after the 
car was recovered but doesnt think he should be charged a cancellation fee. Mr H also says 
he was quoted higher insurance premiums when seeking alternative cover. He thinks this is 
related to the claim. He doesnt think this is fair as his claim was declined. 
In its response to Mr Hs complaint UKI maintained it had acted according to its policy terms, 
and so hadnt done anything wrong. It says a total of £228.48 was outstanding on Mr Hs 
policy that required payment.  
Mr H didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Hs complaint in part. He didnt think UKI acted unfairly in 
declining Mr Hs claim or when recording the claim on the Claims and Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE) database. But he says UKI had claimed the full annual premium from Mr H 
although it hadnt paid any costs when declining his claim. He thought the business should 
refund the part of the premium from the point of cancellation onwards. But as the claim had 
been correctly declined, he didnt ask UKI to refund the recovery and storage charges. 
UKI recalculated what was owed on Mr Hs policy. Prior to this point no cancellation fee had 
been raised as the full annual premium had been charged. When actioning our investigators 
recommendation, it says this generated a cancellation fee. The post cancellation premiums 
were deducted, and this left a balance of £63.70 for Mr H to pay. £48.16 was for a 
cancellation fee and £15.54 for time on cover. 
Our investigator communicated this to Mr H, but he didnt agree to pay the cancellation fee. 
He says he will take UKI to court before hed pay this. Because he didnt think hed been 
treated fairly Mr H asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
Its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding Mr Hs complaint in part. Im sorry his car was stolen. I 
understand this must have a very distressing time for him. But I havent seen reason to add 
to the award our investigator suggested. Ill explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Mr Hs policy terms say:
We wont cover loss or damage to your car if someone takes it by fraud or deception while 
pretending to be a buyer.
I think this term is clear. Mr Hs testimony confirms his car was taken by deception. He 
handed the car keys to the potential buyer and allowed him to drive away his car. When he 
did this, he didnt have confirmation that the buyers payment had been received into his 
bank account. Similarly, he hadnt seen the V5 document of the stolen car he received. I 
cant see that he took any other steps to make sure the person he was dealing with was a 
genuine buyer. In these circumstances I dont think UKI acted unreasonably when relying on 
its policy terms to decline his claim. 
As Mr H made a claim, its not unreasonable that UKI recorded it on the CUE database. This 
provides an accurate account of Mr Hs claim history despite his claim being declined.  
Ive thought about Mr Hs view that the recovery and storage fees should be paid by UKI. As 
well as his view that its cancellation fee for £48.16 is unfair.
Im sorry Mr H has had to pay additional fees for the storage and recovery of his stolen car. 
But as his claim has been correctly declined  it follows that UKI isnt responsible for any 
losses Mr H has occurred as a result of the theft of his car. 
I agree with our investigator that its reasonable for UKI not to charge its full annual premium 
in these circumstances. The policy does allow for retention of the full annual premium in the 
event of a claim. If this is paid in instalments it says the full amount owing must be paid. But 
UKI declined cover here, so it hasnt actually paid any costs. In these circumstances I think 
its reasonable for UKI to deduct the premium charges owed post cancellation of its policy.
UKI has shown that when calculating what was owed on Mr Hs policy in this way, this left an 
outstanding balance of £63.70. As discussed, this includes a £48.16 cancellation fee. Ive 
thought about whether its fair for UKI to charge this fee. 
We asked UKI to demonstrate that it had made Mr H aware that a cancellation fee would 
apply when he agreed to its policy. In response it says this information is contained in the 
policy booklet that it provides to all customers when the policy is incepted. I acknowledge 
what it says but this doesnt show UKI made Mr H aware a cancellation fee could apply, prior 
to agreeing his policy.
Ive thought about whether Mr H wouldve acted differently if hed been aware of the 
cancellation fee. I dont think he would. Most insurers charge a fee to cover administration 
costs when a policy is cancelled. Mr H needed insurance when he took out his policy, so I 
dont think knowledge of the cancellation fee will have altered his decision to buy insurance. 
We dont think £48.16 is an unreasonable amount to cover the administration costs involved 
when cancelling a policy. So, in these circumstances I dont think it was unfair for UKI to charge this fee in line with its policy terms. 
Having considered all of this, I dont think UKI treated Mr H unfairly when relying on its policy 
terms to decline his claim and charge a cancellation fee. But I dont think it treated him fairly 
when retaining his full annual premium. I think its reasonable that UKI should recalculate the 
final balance, as communicated previously, to remove the premiums owed post cancellation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. U K Insurance Limited should:
deduct the premium charges owed post cancellation from Mr Hs policy from his final 
account balance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman