DRN-3698809
The complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC will not refund payments he believed were going to a 
legitimate investment company, and a legitimate scam recovery company.  Mr W says both 
companies turned out to be scams which resulted in him losing money he had paid them in 
good faith.
Mr W is represented by Refundee Ltd in this matter.  For simplicity, I will refer to Refundees 
actions and submissions as those made by Mr W.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
Between June and September 2019, Mr W made several payment transfers from his Lloyds 
Bank account to a company he says he believed were a legitimate investment firm.  Mr W 
says he later discovered he had been scammed and lost all the money he had invested.  In 
early 2021, Mr W says he was contacted by a company which told him they could recover 
the money he lost as a result of the scam in 2019; but to do this, they would require a fee.  
Mr W paid this by way of two payment transfers from his Lloyds Bank account to a 
cryptocurrency wallet.  Mr W says that this too was a scam and that he received nothing in 
return for his payments.  The total amount of money Mr W claims he lost because of these 
scams is almost about £60,000.
Mr W contacted Lloyds Bank about this matter and asked it to try to recover his 
losses/refund him.  As this did not happen, Mr W raised a complaint which he referred to this 
Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  As Mr W did not 
accept the investigators findings, this matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less detail than 
the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If there is a 
submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is simply 
because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this complaint.
I would also like to highlight that I acknowledge Mr W has sought to rely on decisions from 
our Service regarding other complaints.  However, this Service deals with complaints on a 
case by case basis  so I will only be considering the facts of the complaint in hand.
Lloyds Bank has provided a transcript of a telephone call which took place on 23 June 2019 
between one of its advisers and Mr W.  This call came about because of a significant 
payment transfer Mr W had attempted to make to the alleged scam company concerned, 
which Lloyds Bank stopped.  I have summarised the key points of the transcript here:
Mr W explained to the adviser that the payment intended was meant to go to an 
investment company he had come across via social media.  He also added he had 
previously made a £250 card payment to this company.
The adviser told Mr W that he would have to go into branch to unblock his online 
banking, as the adviser believed the company Mr W wanted to make the payment to 
was a scam.
Mr W said he was currently abroad and that if the adviser unblocked his online 
banking, he would not make any payments to the company.
The adviser said that he could not find any information about the company and 
suggested that Mr W do some research before making any further payments to them.
As Mr W was abroad, the adviser unblocked Mr Ws online banking and again urged 
him to research the company.
The adviser also told Mr W that now he had been warned about making payments to 
the company, if he chose to do so regardless and they turned out not to be legitimate 
 Mr W would not receive a refund.
Mr W accepted the above and said he would wait to see what happens with the £250 
payment he had made; thereafter he would decide what to do next.
Having considered the telephone call transcript carefully, I am satisfied that Lloyds Bank 
provided Mr W with a sufficient and impactful scam warning  clearly setting out that he 
should not attempt any further payments to the alleged scam company until he did some 
research about them.
Mr W says he does recall the above telephone call, but  [he does not feel he] came out of 
it with it being made clear to [him] that this was a scam. Instead, he feels that they [Lloyds 
Bank] might have been suggesting that it was a bad investment.  Mr W adds that whilst 
Lloyds Bank may have correctly identified the scam,  this was backtracked on numerous 
occasions and the call was finished in a way that unfortunately led [Mr W] to believe it 
wasnt.
I do acknowledge the point Mr W is arguing, however, I do not agree with it.  To my mind, 
there might be an element of subjectivity regarding Mr Ws recollection of what was 
discussed during the telephone call. 
Having considered the transcript objectively (as far as one reasonably can), I am satisfied 
that the spirit of the message the adviser was trying to convey to Mr W was that they 
believed he was likely being scammed, and so he should proceed with caution before 
attempting any further payments.  On at least two occasions during the call, the adviser said 
he believed Mr W was being scammed.  I am not satisfied that Lloyds Bank was simply 
warning Mr W against making a bad investment  particularly given the fact banks should 
not be providing investment advice to their customers in such circumstances. 
Further, during the course of the call, Mr W accepted that he had probably been a bit naive 
and that he would wait for a month or so to see what would happen to the £250 payment he 
had made.  However, only a few days later, Mr W made the significant payment transfers in 
question to the alleged scam company.
For the above reasons, I am satisfied that Lloyds Bank provided Mr W with a sufficient, 
robust and impactful scam warning during the 23 June 2019 telephone call; a warning which Mr W did not heed.  I do not find that Lloyds Bank should have probed Mr W further during 
the call, because, to my mind, the adviser went far enough in their questioning.  Moreover, I 
am satisfied that once Lloyds Bank had provided Mr W with a scam warning, it had 
discharged its duty to protect him from financial harm.  Thereafter, the proverbial ball was in 
Mr Ws court in terms of deciding whether he wanted to attempt further payments.
I will turn now to whether Lloyds Bank should have intervened and stopped the successful 
payment transfers Mr W made to the alleged scam company.
As I touched upon above, banks have a duty of care to protect their customers from financial 
harm.  Equally, they also have a duty to follow their customers payment instructions.  These 
are two conflicting duties banks must try to balance carefully.
In Mr Ws case, I find that Lloyds Bank fulfilled its duty to protect him from financial harm by 
stopping the £10,000 payment he attempted, asking him questions about it and providing 
him with a clear scam warning (see above).  
Not long afterwards, Mr W decided to make the payment transfers concerned.  Whilst I 
acknowledge that these were for significant amounts, I do not find it was necessary for 
Lloyds Banks to intervene and stop them.  I say this because Mr W made the transfers only 
a few days after Lloyds Bank had spoken to him about the £10,000 payment it had stopped 
 so I do not find that Lloyds Bank was required to intervene again.
In any event, I am not persuaded that even if Lloyds Bank had intervened and stopped Mr 
Ws payments  it would have made a difference.  That is to say, it would not have been able 
to dissuade Mr W from making the payments.  I say this primarily because Mr W did not 
heed Lloyds Banks scam warning on 23 June 2019  and so I am not persuaded, on 
balance, he would have likely listened to another similar warning thereafter.
For the above reasons, I am satisfied that Lloyds Bank correctly discharged its duties to Mr 
W in respect of protecting him from financial harm, whilst also following his payment 
instructions.  It follows that I would not have expected Lloyds Bank to intervene and stop Mr 
Ws payments.
Transactions in 2021
Turning now to the two payments  via cryptocurrency  Mr W says he thought he was 
making to a company which would be able to recover his losses from the 2019 alleged 
scam.  Mr W says Lloyds Bank should have flagged these payments and stopped them.  
Having considered this, I am unable to agree.  I say this because I am not persuaded that 
Lloyds Bank ought to have intervened regarding the payments.  That is, I am not persuaded 
Lloyds Bank ought to have been altered to the payments, delayed them and asked questions 
to get to the bottom of what was going on.  In my view, I do not find the payments 
remarkable in any way to be cause for concern.
Taking all the above points together, I will not be asking Lloyds Bank to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2022.
 Tony Massiah
Ombudsman