DRN-4109085
The complaint
Mr J complains about the advice Thomas, Carroll Independent Financial Advisers Limited 
(TCIFA) gave to him to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme, the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mr J to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, I will refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Js. 
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Js employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension 
schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The 
compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original schemes benefits 
for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from the original scheme. 
Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer their benefits to a 
private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Js employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
On 18 September 2017, the BSPS provided Mr J with an updated summary of the transfer 
value of his scheme benefits, following the RAA taking effect. These benefits had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of around £314,800.
In the meantime Mr J was referred to TCIFA by a family member for advice about his BSPS 
pension. TCIFA met with him in July 2017 and conducted a fact-find. Amongst other things it 
noted that Mr J was 51 years old, married to Mrs J who was 52. They were both working. 
They had three children aged 11, 13 and 17. They owned their own home subject to an 
outstanding mortgage of £17,000. They had savings and investments totalling around 
£50,000. They both had other pension entitlements. Mr J had another DB scheme pension 
which would pay him £15,600 at age 60. He had also joined his employers recently set up 
defined contribution (DC) scheme. He and his employer were together contributing a sum 
equivalent to 17% of his salary to that. TCIFA also obtained a transfer value analysis 
(TVAS) report which set out the growth rates required (the critical yields ) to match the DB 
benefits from an alternative pension arrangement. 
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
On 22 November 2017, TCIFA produced its first Financial Planning Report setting out its 
analysis and recommendations. It recommended that Mr J should transfer his BSPS benefits 
to a named SIPP. It appears Mr J met with TCIFA again on 28 November 2017 as he signed 
some forms on that date. The next day, 29 November 2017, TCIFA produced a second 
suitability report. It repeated some of the analysis from its earlier suitability report, including 
recommending that Mr J should transfer his funds to the named SIPP. It also recommended 
that he use the services of a discretionary fund manager to manage his investment portfolio. 
In summary the suitability reports said that transferring would:
Allow Mr J to retire at age 60 while giving him flexibility to access his benefits as 
required and ideally earlier in retirement.
Address his concerns about the possibility of the BSPS2 moving into the PPF in the 
future. 
Allow him to leave any residual pension as a lump sum to his family on his death.
 
Mr J accepted TCIFAs recommendation and transferred his BSPS benefits to the named 
SIPP.
In December 2022 Mr J complained to TCIFA that its advice was not suitable for him. TCIFA 
replied in February 2023. It didnt uphold his complaint. In brief it said its recommendations 
enabled Mr J to achieve his objectives and as such its advice was suitable for him.
Mr J referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators 
looked into it. He thought the advice was unsuitable as Mr J wasnt likely to improve on the 
benefits he was already guaranteed by transferring. And he didnt think the other reasons 
given for transferring made it worthwhile. 
TCIFA disagreed with our Investigators complaint assessment. It said our Investigator had 
placed too much weight on the critical yields. It added that its analysis had shown Mr J could 
meet his income needs in retirement while also allowing him flexibility and improved death 
benefits. It added that Mr J had made an informed decision to transfer and had already 
retired which he couldn't have done if he hadn't transferred.
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion. So it was referred for an 
Ombudsmans final decision.
Earlier this month (November 2023) we asked Mr J to update us on his retirement plans. 
Contrary to TCIFAs comments that he had already retired, Mr J told us he is still employed 
full time by the same employer. He said he hadn't accessed the benefits from his SIPP. He 
added that he currently believes he will retire at age 65.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of TCIFA's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, TCIFA 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate it was in Mr Js best 
interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those our Investigator gave.
Reasons for my decision 
At the time TCIFA advised Mr J the regulator required it to produce a TVAS showing the 
relevant critical yields. The TVAS showed the critical yields to match the benefits from both 
the DB scheme at Mr Js anticipated preferred retirement age of 60 and the schemes normal 
retirement age of 65. Having done so TCIFA noted the critical yields were unlikely to be 
achieved by transferring. I agree with TCIFA's analysis here. So I don't intend to do an 
in-depth analysis of a comparison between the DB scheme benefits and those from the 
named SIPP. Save to say that, given that the critical yields were most likely not achievable I 
think by transferring Mr J was, potentially, making himself poorer in retirement. 
TCIFA said our Investigator placed too much weight on the critical yield comparison. It said 
Mr J was willing to take an investment risk given its drawdown projections. I've noted its first 
suitability report said that if Mr J took equivalent benefits to those of his DB scheme then  
assuming his investments grew at the regulators mid-level projection rate of 5%  the fund 
would last Mr J beyond his life expectancy. But there would be little point in Mr J giving up 
the safeguarded benefits of his DB scheme only to achieve benefits of an equal level outside 
of the scheme. That's because he would be putting his funds at risk in order to do so. And 
the regulator said at the time (COBS 19.1.7B) that advising firms should not consider a rate 
of return that matched the DB scheme benefits as sufficient in itself to justify a transfer. 
In addition while a year-on-year average growth of 5% was not impossible, it was anything 
but guaranteed. Further, as far as I can see, TCIFA hasn't produced cash flow scenarios 
which model what would happen if there was a market crash or a sustained period of poor 
performance. So I'm not persuaded that TCIFAs drawdown projections demonstrate that it 
was in Mr Js best interests to put his funds at risk.Also, one of TCIFAs reasons for recommending a transfer was to allow Mr J to access funds 
earlier. But any sums he drew down from his personal pension in the early years of 
retirement would reduce the remaining pension pot and have the knock-on effect of lowering 
the sums available to benefit from any investment growth. So drawing down funds from an 
earlier date could decrease one or all of the following:
The amounts Mr J could take as income later in retirement.
The time frame he would have funds available for.
The remaining sum available as a death benefit.
It follows that Mr J taking money from his SIPP early, particularly if he drew down larger 
sums in early retirement, could have a significant effect on his income security for his 
remaining retirement years. In contrast the benefits from the DB environment would continue 
to grow in line with the relevant indexation regardless if Mr J took it early. So I'm not 
persuaded that transferring was in Mr Js best interests.
In any event Mr J had no need to transfer his DB scheme benefits in order to retire at age 
60.
Mr and Mrs J said they needed a gross income in retirement of £2,300 a month. Their other 
pensions income, before considering the BSPS scheme, would give them an income of 
£1,900 a month. A shortfall of £400 a month or £4,800 a year. Mr Js entitlements from the 
BSPS2 at age 60 was £12,739 if he took a full pension or a tax free cash (TFC) lump sum 
of £58,304 and a reduced pension of £8,745. Those figures are comfortably above the 
amount required to bridge the shortfall in Mr and Mrs Js desired retirement income at age 
60. And their income would increase again when their state pensions became payable at 
age 67. So Mr J didn't need to transfer his BSPS benefits in order to be able to take early 
retirement. But I don't think TCIFAs suitability reports do enough to make this clear.
That said, its true to say that Mr J couldnt have had the same level of flexible access to his 
DB funds as he could from a SIPP. While he could have chosen to take DB benefits early, if 
hed wanted to take a TFC lump sum, then he would have had to take that at the same time 
as drawing a regular income from his pension. Whereas the SIPP would allow him to draw 
down funds as he saw fit.
But while I can see why that might have been an attractive prospect for him, Im not 
persuaded Mr J had any concrete need to vary his income throughout retirement. But, if he 
believed he did there was no requirement for him to give up the safeguarded benefits from 
the DB scheme in order to have some flexible access to retirement funds.
TCIFA noted that Mr J and his employer had begun contributing to a recently set up DC 
pension scheme. Mr J and his employer were together contributing a sum equivalent to 16% 
of Mr Js salary to that pension. TCIFA said Mr J could anticipate that his DC pension would 
be worth around £80,000 by the time he turned 60. 
The nature of a DC pension means this already provided Mr J with flexibility  he wasnt 
committed to take its benefits in a set way. Mr J could have taken lump sums as and when 
required and adjusted the income he took from it according to his needs. He also had 
savings of around £50,000 that he could have made withdrawals from if he wanted to. So, I 
think if Mr J retained his BSPS DB pension, this combined with his other DB pension and his 
DC pension, would have likely given him flexible access to pension funds if that was what he 
needed. So he didnt need to transfer from the BSPS scheme to have some flexible access 
to cash. It follows that I don't think it was in his best interests to recommend a transfer and 
potentially to put his funds at risk by doing so. Also, if TCIFA had advised Mr J to join the BSPS2 and he had later decided he needed 
greater flexibility than the scheme provided, then he could have chosen to transfer from that 
scheme nearer to his retirement age. So it wasnt a decision he needed to make 
straightaway. 
TCIFA also recommended the transfer because it would allow Mr J to leave any residual 
pension to his family on his death and they could access that in a way they saw fit. In 
contrast the DB scheme would pay a set amount for his children while they remained in 
education, after that the scheme would pay 50% of Mr Js pension entitlement to Mrs J. In 
contrast he could leave any sums remaining in his SIPP on his death to his family. But I dont 
think the possibility of more attractive death benefits was a sufficient reason to recommend a 
transfer. 
TCIFAs priority was to advise Mr J about what was best for his retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum to family 
after death. But in transferring out of his DB scheme Mr J was essentially giving up a 
guaranteed, index linked, increasing income in retirement, for the potential for a lump sum 
for his family that they may not receive for many years to come. 
I don't doubt that the CETV figure would have appeared an attractive sum to be able to leave 
as a legacy. But, in reality, the amount remaining on death following a transfer was always 
likely to be different. As well as being dependent on investment performance the fund would 
be depleted by Mr Js withdrawals from it in his lifetime. So, how much would remain in it on 
his death depended on a number of factors. And there may not have been much left in his 
SIPP if he lived a long life, the investments performed poorly, or if he took large sums from it 
early in his retirement. 
It follows that I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
potential decrease of retirement benefits for Mr J. And ultimately TCIFA should not have 
encouraged Mr J to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
In reply to our Investigators complaint assessment TCIFA has stressed the unusual situation 
that BSPS members like Mr J found themselves in. I understand Mr J approached TCIFA 
because he was concerned about the stability of the BSPS and the actions and indeed the 
future of his employer. I can also understand Mr Js concerns about the safety of his 
pension. His employer had been consulting about the future of the scheme and there was 
still a possibility that the BSPS2 wouldn't go ahead. I'm also aware that many scheme 
members were concerned that, in time, the BSPS2 itself might also move to the PPF. And 
that had likely motivated Mr J to seek advice.  
But I think TCIFA could have done more to allay Mr Js fears about this. Prior to Mr J seeking 
advice the PPF announced that the terms of the RAA had been agreed. Subsequently, in the 
period when TCIFA was advising Mr J, on 28 August 2017 the BSPS administrators 
provided scheme members, including Mr J, with an important update in respect of BSPS 
transfer values. The update said an expected payment into the BSPS of £550 million by 
Mr Js employer, as part of its agreement with The Pension Regulator, was likely to result in 
an improvement to transfer values. The confirmation that Mr Js employer had made the 
payment was announced on 11 September 2017. And that led to the BSPS sending Mr J an 
updated CETV. Then, in October 2017, before TCIFA produced its suitability reports, the 
BSPS sent Mr J his "time to choose" letter which included information about his likely 
entitlements under the BSPS2. So I think TCIFA should have been aware that it was more 
likely than not that the BSPS2 would go ahead. In those circumstances, while entry into the PPF was still a possibility, I think TCIFA should 
have explained to Mr J that this was unlikely to be his only option. TCIFAs role was to 
objectively address any concerns Mr J might have had. Its job wasnt to simply transact what 
he might have thought he wanted to happen. And, even if Mr Js pension had moved to the 
PPF, it would have still given him a guaranteed income that would comfortably have met his 
needs. He would be unlikely to improve on these benefits by transferring. He could also have 
still taken early retirement from the PPF. For example at age 60 it would have paid him a full 
pension of £12,462. So, entering the PPF was probably not as concerning as Mr J might 
have thought, and I dont think any fears he held about this meant that transferring was in his 
best interest. 
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Js best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. I also havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Mr J wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB 
scheme. So, Im upholding the complaint as I think TCIFAs advice to Mr J was unsuitable for 
him.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the TCIFA to put Mr J, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr J would most 
likely have remained in the DB scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if TCIFA had given 
suitable advice. Thats because the BSPS2 offered superior revaluation rates and index 
linked increased than the PPF.
TCIFA must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
TCIFA should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr J and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what TCIFA 
based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr J has confirmed he has not yet retired and has no plans to do so at present. 
So, compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr J 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, TCIFA should:
calculate and offer Mr J redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr J before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pensionoffer to calculate how much of any redress Mr J receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr J accepts TCIFAs offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr J for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Js end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr J as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, TCIFA may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Js 
likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction 
of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Thomas, Carroll 
Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr J the compensation amount as set out in 
the steps above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Thomas, Carroll Independent Financial Advisers Limited pays Mr J the balance.
If Mr J accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Thomas, Carroll 
Independent Financial Advisers Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr J can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr J may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman