DRN-3011526
The complaint
 Ms F complains about the poor level of workmanship following a claim under a home 
emergency policy with British Gas Insurance Limited (BG). 
 
What happened
 In April 2018 Ms F contacted BG as she had a leak under her bath. It sent an engineer who 
replaced the bath waste and piping. Around 10 months later Ms F discovered that there was 
another leak under the bath that caused damage to her ceiling and the floor under the bath. 
and contacted BG. It sent a second engineer, who Ms F said told her that the cause of the 
leak was the poorly fitted waste and pipework from the previous repair. 
Ms F contacted BG for it to investigate the cause of the leak. She said that it took several 
phone calls before an engineer was sent. Following this, BG said that the leak was caused 
by corroded shower seals and as such, it wouldnt be liable for the damage caused to Ms Fs 
property. Ms F didnt agree with this assessment, as she had been told that the cause was 
due to the poor workmanship. So, she referred her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said 
that BG hadnt provided enough evidence to show that the leak was as a result of corroded 
shower seals. Also, the second engineer replaced the same parts as the first engineer which 
would suggest that the leak was from the faulty repair. He recommended that BG reimburse 
or pay for the damaged floor. As well as pay £150 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused.  
Ms F accepted the view, BG did not. It provided photos and a video that showed that there 
was movement of the bath and poor sealant and this was the reason for the leak not poor 
workmanship. So, it asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Having done so, I will be upholding this complaint.  I hope my findings go some way in 
explaining why Ive reached this decision.
Ms F held a home emergency policy with BG and in April 2018 she contacted BG as she had 
discovered a leak. The engineer it sent commented that the shower seals were corroded and 
noted that this wasnt covered by the policy.  However, in the notes it indicated that the bath 
waste was replaced.  I have had a thought about what this means. I think that it wouldve 
been more likely than not, that had the engineer found the shower seals were leaking, then it 
wouldve been reasonable for him to have stated this. But he did not. 
What was mentioned was that he replaced the bath waste as in his opinion this was where 
the leak was coming from. BG provided photos and a video which it said showed a poorly 
maintained bath and that there was a huge gap between the bath and tiles that wasnt 
sealed.  It maintained that as there was significant evidence of other issues that would cause 
leakages, it wasnt fair for BG to be held accountable. 
I have reviewed the photos and the video. Whilst I accept that the sealant around the bath 
and tiles had failed, I havent seen any contemporaneous notes in which the engineer 
indicated that this was a cause of the leak. Also, the date of the photos and video appear to 
be around 18 months after the leak. BG were asked to provide evidence from the second 
engineers visit that could support its contention that the leak was possibly caused by the 
movement of the bath and the failed sealant. This wasnt provided. 
Ms F reported another leak around 10 months after the first. She said that the BG engineer 
who attended told her that the cause of the leak was the faulty repair from the first visit. He 
then replaced the same parts as the first engineer. 
BG has not provided any evidence to show that either the second engineer found the leak to 
be coming from the poor sealant and moving bath or that it was coming from the corroded 
seals (Ms F doesnt dispute that the shower seals were corroded). In addition, the parts 
changed by the second engineer were the same as the first replaced parts. So, taking all of 
this into consideration, I dont think BG has provided enough evidence to rule out that the 
leak didnt originate from the faulty repair carried out by the first engineer. 
Putting things right
 To put matters right, BG should cover the full cost of the damaged floor/ceiling, as Ms F has 
yet to have it repaired. 
Finally, given that this whole experience wouldve caused a level of distress and 
inconvenience and Ms F had to repeatedly chase BG for updates, I think its fair that BG 
ought to pay £150 compensation for the trouble this caused. 
 
My final decision
 For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. 
British Gas Insurance Limited should cover the full cost of the damaged floor/ceiling. 
British Gas Insurance Limited should also pay £150 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the above amounts within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Ms F accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the above amounts from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms F how much its taken off. It should 
also give Ms F a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman