DRN-4346890
The complaint
Ms T complains about Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) who didnt repair her 
device correctly, following a claim under her gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms T damaged her phone and as she held a policy with Assurant, she made a claim. The 
claim was accepted, and Assurant told Ms T to take her phone to its approved repair, for 
them to repair the phone. 
Ms T said that when she received the phone back, it began to work intermittently as the 
screen wouldnt respond and applications would randomly open and close. Ms T also said 
that the phone displayed an error message, indicating that a non-branded part was detected 
in the phone. 
Ms T took her phone to the phone manufacturers store. She was advised that as the part 
used in the repair was non-branded, this invalidated her existing phone warranty. 
Ms T returned to the Assurant repairers, who said that they would investigate it. But, when 
she collected her phone from them a few days later, they advised her that it could find 
nothing wrong with the phone. She also noticed that the battery was dead. Ms T charged her 
phone and found that it still had the same issue. In addition, the battery was quickly draining. 
Ms T contacted Assurant directly, who advised her this time, to return the phone to them for 
further investigation. But as Ms T had lost faith in Assurants ability to correctly assess and 
repair the phone, she declined this. 
Ms T wanted Assurant to replace the phone, so she raised a complaint. In its final response, 
Assurant maintained its position and indicated that under the policy terms and conditions, it 
was permitted to use non-branded parts in its repair. It asked Ms T to return the phone for it 
to carry out investigations. And it said that it was authorised to carry out repairs, by the 
phone manufacturer.  
Ms T was given her referral rights and as she remained unhappy, she referred a complaint to 
our service. One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought that it shouldnt 
be upheld. She said that Assurant was able to use unbranded parts in its repairs, as per the 
policy terms and conditions. She concluded that it was fair for Ms T to return the phone to 
Assurant, so that it could investigate the issue with the phone. And then for it to decide what 
the best next steps would be. 
Assurant accepted the view. Ms T did not. She said that Assurant had broken her phone and 
invalidated its warranty. She said that under the policy terms and conditions once Assurant 
had invalidated her warranty, it would repair or replace the device as necessary. But she 
disputed whether Assurant was her phone manufacturers approved repairer. And because 
of this, she said she would only except either a replacement of her phone with a new phone. 
Or for the phone manufacturer only, to carry out the repair. So, she asked for a decision from 
an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Ms T, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive considered all the evidence and comments provided to me by both parties. In particular 
the extensive comments made by Ms T. As an informal, impartial, dispute resolution service, 
we are tasked with coming to a decision with the minimum of formality. As such, it isnt 
necessary for me to address each, and every point raised. But I have considered each point 
raised, when deciding what are the main issues of the complaint. I think, the main issues of 
this complaint are whether Assurant was fair to request the return of Ms Ts phone for further 
investigation. And whether Assurant ought to replace the phone, or get it repaired by the 
phone manufacturer, as Ms T requested. 
Ive reviewed the policy terms and conditions, as it outlines Assurants obligations when it 
accepts a claim. The relevant term states: 
What you need to know about the claims process: Repairs may be made using readily 
available parts, or we may provide refurbished products, which may contain parts which are 
of similar or equivalent specification, and which may include unbranded part.
Ive had a thought about what this means. And I think from the policy, Assurant is able to 
carry out repairs to a device, using non-branded parts. So, Im satisfied that it was able to 
use those parts, if necessary. 
Im aware that Ms T said that the phone displayed an error message that a non-branded part 
was detected. She said that Assurant told her that the error message is normal and would 
disappear after around two weeks, but she said the message was still displaying, long after 
this time. 
Given that Im satisfied that Assurant are able to use non-branded parts in the repair of 
devices, I cant agree that it was unreasonable for it to have used those parts during the 
repair, as it had complied with the policy terms.
Ms T evidenced the fault with her phone with video recordings. She said that due to this 
ongoing fault and the error message being displayed, this invalidated her phone 
manufacturers warranty. She felt that the phone was now devalued as a result. She relied 
on the following from the policy terms and conditions: 
If any repairs authorised by us under this policy invalidate the applicable manufacturers 
warranty, we will repair or replace your mobile phone, as necessary, in accordance with the 
terms of the applicable manufacturers warranty for the unexpired period of the applicable 
manufacturers warranty.
And she contended that as Assurant werent able to do this as it wasnt the phone 
manufacturers approved repairers. Assurant has confirmed that it is an approved phone manufacturers repairer and therefore 
authorised to carry out repairs. It has also offered to investigate the phone before it either 
repairs the phone or replaces it. 
I think the term that Ms T has highlighted clearly outlines this. Furthermore, within the policy 
it specifies the following: 
If your mobile phone is damaged or breaks down we will either: 
(1) repair the mobile phone (where possible), or
(2) replace it with a mobile phone of the same make, model and memory size. If we 
cannot do this, you will be given a choice of models with an equivalent specification. 
I think that both terms of the policy indicate that Assurant will initially attempt to repair (where 
possible) or replace the phone. I understand that Ms T is reluctant to allow Assurant the 
opportunity to investigate what is wrong with the phone, but I dont think its reasonable for 
me to direct Assurant to replace the phone, without it having the opportunity to determine the 
issue with the phone. 
Consequently, I think Assurant has adhered to the policy terms and conditions. And I dont 
agree that it shouldnt be permitted to assess the phone, before deciding the next steps. 
That is, whether to repair or replace the phone. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Ms T will be, I dont 
think Assurant had been unfair or unreasonable to request the return of her phone, for it to 
carry out further investigations. Accordingly, I cant reasonably ask Assurant to do anything 
further here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman