DRN-4435738
The complaint
Company M (M) complain Epayments Systems Ltd (Epayments) blocked their account 
and withheld the funds in it. 
What happened
On 11 February 2020 the regulator, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) placed 
limitations on Epayments. As a result Epayments were not able to process any transactions 
until the limitations were lifted. So, because of this M couldnt access their funds.
The original restrictions were later lifted on 23 February 2022 and Epayments began the 
process of reviewing its customers accounts and refunding them. Unhappy with their funds 
being withheld, M complained.
In September 2022, Epayments announced it was closing its business. The business hasnt 
closed yet, as Epayments is staying open to refund account holders, like M, who havent 
received their money yet. As part of this process, Epayments is reviewing accounts in line 
with its legal and regulatory obligations before processing payments. 
In October 2022, M complained to Epayments. In its response, and in short, Epayments 
made the following key points: 
- Epayments has begun the process of entering into a solvent wind-down. It 
encourages customers to withdraw their funds subject to supplying any required 
information to allow it to do so
- Its sorry M arent happy about how Epayments communicated its issues and what 
was going on. But it published details of the event and its plans at the earliest 
opportunity
- Epayments informed M that several checks should be completed on their account to 
ensure the information it had for Ms account is up to date and complete. After this, 
Epayments would be able to grant M access to their funds. In October 2022 
Epayments reached out to M with the request for additional information and 
documentary evidence 
- Epayments is under a regulatory obligation, under the AML process, to request such 
information. As a regulated company, it is required to put in place the necessary 
procedures to mitigate the risks to which its exposed to. Collecting and verifying the 
personal data of its customers is a mandatory process that it must complete 
M then referred their complaint to this service. Epayments made an offer to M to resolve 
their complaint. It offered to pay them 1% of the account balance plus £150. M did not 
accept this. 
In November 2022, Epayments temporarily suspended processing some payments. This 
was done to allow checks to be carried out to ensure any refunds paid were consistent with 
Epayments legal requirements. 
One of our Investigators looked into Ms complaint. In summary, they found:
- Epayments should refund M the funds held in their account subject to further checks 
being completed as required by the FCA
- Epayments is responsible for M not having access to their funds. Thats because its 
accounts were restricted due to weaknesses in its financial crime controls that were 
identified by the FCA
- As M was deprived of their funds, Epayments should compensate them by paying 
8% simple interest on them from when they were first blocked up until settlement
- Epayments should pay M £150 compensation for the inconvenience theyve been 
caused 
- If any currency conversion fees, or other fees/commissions are charged by 
Epayments, or their banking partner, during the refund process, these should also be 
refunded
M agreed with what our Investigator said. Epayments explained that its requested specific 
information about their transactions, which is whats holding up their checks and release of 
funds. 
Epayments later said its doesnt accept our Investigators findings. In short, it said: 
- Epayments is required by the FCA to withhold the funds until the FCAs Know Your 
Customer (KYC) checks are outstanding
- Epayments hasnt breached its contract with M
- This service has no evidence that M would not have either put the funds into another 
non-interest bearing EMI (Electronic Money Institution) account or invested in a 
highly lucrative investment vehicle. Therefore the award of 8% is inappropriate 
- The ombudsman service should refrain from making any award that interferes with its 
ability to wind down in an orderly manner in the interests of all its customers 
As Epayments didnt agree with what our Investigator said, this complaint has now been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
As a regulated business, Epayments has certain obligations which it must comply with. 
Epayments is subject to regulation by the FCA. The FCA applied restrictions on Epayments 
for reasons widely publicised and also detailed on its company website. As a result, 
Epayments suspended its operations. This impacted M, given they had no access to their 
funds from February 2020.
Whilst the FCA requested Epayments to suspend its activities there was nothing it could have done in relation to returning Ms funds during this period. Epayments say it shouldnt be 
held liable for any detriment to M whilst the FCAs limitations were imposed.
After carefully considering this, Im not persuaded its fair or reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint to find Epayments didnt do anything wrong. I say that because Epayments 
had to suspend its operations due to failures on its part. So I think Epayments should put 
things right by addressing the fact M has been deprived of their funds through no fault of 
their own.
From the information Ive seen it doesnt appear as though M have had their funds returned. 
I note Epayments have been asking them for information related to checks its obligated to 
carry out relating to identity of its directors, and origin and entitlement to the funds.
As a regulated business, Epayments must comply with extensive legal and regulatory 
obligations. These generally cover the entire period of its customer relationship  from 
application to eventually the end of the relationship. This includes KYC checks and/or 
Customer Due Diligence (CDD).
So any refund of funds should be subject to these checks. Its worth noting these checks 
include not just the verification of a customers identity, but also establishing the purpose and 
intended nature of the business relationship and origin of funds.
Epayments argue there isnt any way of knowing how M would have used their funds should 
they have had access to them. Awarding 8% simple interest when a regulated businesses 
customer has wrongly been deprived of their funds is in line with the approach at this 
service. I havent seen compelling enough reasons why M shouldnt be awarded 
compensation in this way, so Im satisfied this is fair redress.
Im also satisfied £150 compensation is fair award for the inconvenience this matter has 
likely caused M. In reaching this award, Ive considered Ms directors, and any staff involved, 
would have had to take timeout of their normal business activity to deal with this matter.  So 
Im persuaded they would have been inconvenienced by Epayments restricting their account 
through no fault of their own. 
When Epayments is able to release the funds to M, I dont think its fair or reasonable for it, 
or its banking partners, to charge them any conversion or commission fees. So these should 
not be applied.
Im aware Epayments is going through a winding down process. To be clear, its not my 
intention to interfere with Epayments winding down of its business  thats not the role of our 
service. My role here is ultimately to decide what a fair way to resolve individual complaints 
between businesses and their customers, based on the individual facts of the complaint.
Based on the facts of Ms case, Im satisfied its fair for Epayments to redress them as 
detailed above.
Putting things right
Epayments must satisfy its legal and regulatory obligations - which include any KYC or CDD
checks - before releasing the funds to M. Once its able to do this, Epayments must do the 
following to put things right:
- Pay 8% simple interest on Ms funds from when it first restricted their access up until 
settlement*- Not apply any fees or charges when releasing the funds to M  as detailed above. If it 
or its banking partner do apply such charges, they should be refunded
- Pay M £150 compensation for the inconvenience it has caused
*If Epayments considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct tax from that interest, 
it should tell M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if they ask 
for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Epayments Systems Ltd must now put things 
right as directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman