DRN-4441859
The complaint
Mrs C complains about Santander UK Plc making a direct debit error and withholding her 
interest payment. 
What happened
Mrs C has a 123 current account with Santander and in order to qualify for interest she 
arranged a second direct debit mandate with Company A. Mrs Cs first direct debit with 
Company A was arranged back in 2015 and this second one in 2023.
 
However, when Mrs C didnt receive interest on her account, Santander said there was only 
one direct debit set up and she didnt qualify. Mrs C complained to Santander as she had 
completed a mandate and Company A confirmed it had been set up.
Santander say they havent made an error, that the second direct debit wasnt set up and 
Company A have taken a second payment using the same mandate but a different 
reference. But this is refuted by Company A.
Mrs C is convinced Santander have made the mistake here, so she complained to our 
Service. However, our investigator couldnt see that Santander had made an error.
As Mrs C remains dissatisfied, this case has now been referred to me to look at.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.  
I should first explain our role is to be impartial and objective and we have a mandate to 
resolve complaints in an informal way, asking both parties to submit their evidence and 
arguments to enable a decision based on the submissions presented.
And, where we think a business hasnt acted fairly and / or reasonably in the circumstances, 
to decide what should be done to put right any financial, or non-financial losses that a 
consumer has experienced. In cases where information is incomplete, inconsistent or 
contradictory, I must reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what 
I consider most likely to have happened in light of the available information.
I have sympathy with Mrs Cs situation here and can understand her frustration and 
disappointment. This is because she clearly completed and signed a second direct debit 
mandate with Company A to qualify for interest, can see two separate payments regularly 
leaving her account and Company A say they definitely processed two direct debits. Yet, 
Santander say there is only one direct debit and wont pay her the interest due on her 
account.
Having carefully reviewed all the information on file, Im not persuaded that Santander have 
made a mistake here. 
Although Im satisfied Mrs C completed a second direct debit mandate, and sent this to 
Company A, Santander say they didnt receive it. Santanders records show they only have 
one direct debit set up on their system, which is the one set up in 2015 and referenced 
number 13. 
Company A are confident they have received payments from two direct debits and although 
Mrs C believes that Santanders statements show this to be the case as there are two 
Company A reference numbers, Santander contest this. Santander have presented evidence 
in the form of a system report which shows one mandate with two references, so I cant 
agree with Company As assertion that the payments are proof. Also, Santander cant 
control which mandate or what reference a business uses and have no record of the new 
mandate. So, I cant see that the issue is due to a Santander processing error, and I think it 
is more likely than not to be due to other reasons such as:
Company A not sending the direct debit to Santander
The direct debit mandate not being received by Santander due to it being lost in the 
post. Unfortunately, Company A use the postal system instead of the standard 
electronic method for sending new direct debits. 
Santander receiving the direct debit but mislaying it 
As mentioned above, our service can only consider the available information. Also, we are 
unable to interrogate business files or systems to check information or determine errors and, 
from the information available, it isnt possible to determine if one of the businesses or the 
postal service is responsible. So, it would be unfair for me to uphold this complaint, and say 
Santander are responsible and should be expected to make an exception and recognise two 
direct debits, when I cant see that this is the case.
I appreciate Mrs C will be frustrated and disappointed as she hasnt done anything wrong 
here, but Im unable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2024.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman