DRN-3311255
The complaint
Ms R complains that instead of giving her a loan Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard approved a money transfer from her credit card. 
What happened
In January 2019 Ms R called Barclaycard. During the call, Ms R said shed received a letter 
from Barclaycard and asked about balance and money transfers. 
Ms R told Barclaycards call handler she wanted to apply for a money transfer. During the 
call, the process was completed and a money transfer for £4,212.73. Barclaycard also 
charged a fee of £80.04. The money transfer was recorded on credit card statements that 
were sent to Ms R. 
Ms R later complained to Barclaycard and said she thought the money transfer was made as 
part of a loan application and not as a money transfer from her credit card. Barclaycard 
didnt uphold Ms Rs complaint and said it had acted in line with her instructions when 
completing the money transfer. Barclaycard paid Ms R £100 to apologise for the delay in 
responding to her complaint. 
Ms R referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Barclaycard had dealt with Ms Rs complaint fairly and didnt asked it to take further 
action. Ms R asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms R has told us she thought she was applying for a loan when she asked about the money 
transfer. Ive listened to the call where the money transfer was completed in order to check 
whether it was clearly explained. I didnt hear Ms R mention a loan. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms R but during the call she advised Barclaycard had sent her offers 
about balance and money transfers in connection with her credit card and that she wanted to 
ask about them. The call handler checked whether Ms R wanted to do a balance or money 
transfer. Ms R confirmed it was a money transfer. 
Ms R went on to agree the amount required and the full terms associated with the money 
transfer were read. Ms R agreed to proceed and the funds were transferred as requested. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms R but Im satisfied Barclaycard acted in line with her instructions 
when it processed the money transfer in January 2019. 
Barclaycard paid Ms R £100 to reflect delays responding to her complaint. Im satisfied thats 
a fair and reflects the inconvenience caused to Ms R. 
As Im satisfied Barclaycard dealt with Ms Rs complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything 
else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman