DRN-3046019
The complaint
Mr K complains that Fresh Insurance Services Group Limited didnt auto-renew his
commercial vehicle insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr K purchased his insurance policy through Fresh. When the policy was coming to the end
of its term Fresh wrote to Mr K to let him know his policy wouldnt automatically renew.
Mr Ks policy then lapsed and a couple of months later he was stopped by the police for
driving without insurance.
Mr K called Fresh to find out why his van was showing as not being insured. Fresh explained
that his policy had reached to the end of its term and hadnt renewed, as Mr K hadnt asked
Fresh to renew it. Mr K didnt think this was fair and complained, he said hed thought his
policy would automatically renew as hed paid his previous premium in full.
Fresh looked into his complaint and didnt uphold it. It said that its terms of business say they
may automatically renew come policies, however it had written to Mr K to let him know his
policy wouldnt automatically renew. Mr K didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint
here. He said his policy should have automatically renewed and Fresh had made an IT error
by not renewing it. He also said hed spoken with an advisor at Fresh who agreed his policy
should have automatically renewed and had said Fresh would provide a letter of indemnity
for him to give to the police. As Mr K wasnt happy with Freshs decision on his complaint, he
brought it to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 18 August 2021 where I said:
Freshs terms of business say, We will inform you if we are able to offer automatic renewal
and we may renew your policy automatically each year unless you request otherwise.
Fresh wrote to Mr K two weeks before his policy was due to lapse to let him know his policy
wouldnt automatically renew. Ive reviewed this e-mail and Im satisfied its clear that Mr Ks
policy wont automatically renew.
On the same day Fresh text Mr K, the text said, Please check your email for your renewal
quote from [other business name], challenge us to beat any alternative quote on... Ive
reviewed this text and Im not persuaded it was clear from this that Mr Ks policy wouldnt
automatically renew, or that he needed to get in contact to discuss his renewal.
Following our investigators assessment, she asked Fresh if it had let Mr K know his policy
had lapsed. Fresh confirmed it should have let Mr K know his policy lapsed but due to an
error this wasnt done. Its good industry practice to send two notifications to let a 
policyholder know their policy is due for renewal. While Fresh has sent Mr K an e-mail and a
text, Im not persuaded the text was clear that his policy wouldnt renew or that he needed to
take any action. Also, as it didnt send the notification to say that his policy had lapsed, as it
said it should, Im not persuaded Fresh did enough to let Mr K know his policy wasnt going
to automatically renew and had come to an end.
Mr K said he didnt receive the e-mail saying his policy wouldnt automatically renew. I think
its most likely that if Fresh had sent the notification his policy had lapsed then its likely he
would have seen this and arranged for a new policy to be set up. I say this because Mr K
uses his van for work and he previously had insurance on it. Also, in the initial set up call he
asked about when his policy would start to make sure there wasnt a gap in cover between
his old one ending and this one starting.
So, if Fresh had sent the second notification as it should have, Im satisfied Mr K would have
bought another policy. It therefore follows that he then wouldnt have been stopped by the
police for driving without insurance. He said hes paid £170 to have his van towed and is due
to appear in court in a few days time, for driving without insurance. To put things right Fresh
should pay Mr K the £170 he paid to have his van towed. It should also provide him a letter
of indemnity to say Fresh will step in a consider any claims, between the date his policy
lapsed and when he was stopped for driving without insurance. Mr K can then provide this
letter to the court.
If the court convicts Mr K for driving without insurance, Fresh should pay any fines Mr K
receives along with any court and legal costs he incurs for the offence of driving without
insurance. Fresh should also pay Mr K £500 for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience
he suffers for having to attend court and being stopped by the police for driving without
insurance. 
Mr K responded to say he accepted my provisional decision. Fresh responded to say it didnt 
accept it. In summary it said it wasnt Freshs fault if Mr K had an issue with his e-mail and 
didnt receive the renewal notice, which it said was clear. Fresh also said it thought the text 
message didnt give any indication Mr Ks policy would renew and should have prompted 
him to check his e-mails and call them. It also said it thought the text implied Mr K would be 
looking for alternative quotes and that he should know if payment for the policy had been 
taken, and that its his responsibility to ensure he has cover. Fresh also said the lapsed 
notification that it didnt send would have been sent by e-mail which Mr K also might not 
have received. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Freshs response, but its not persuaded me to change my decision. I say 
this because while the text didnt say Mr Ks policy would automatically renew, it also wasnt 
clear that his policy wouldnt. While it did say to contact Fresh to challenge it to beat the 
renewal quote its only referring to the price of the policy. So, Im not persuaded the text was 
clear enough to let Mr K know his policy was due to end. 
I understand Fresh said it thinks Mr K had an issue with his e-mail address and therefore if it 
had sent the lapsed notification, then Mr K wouldnt have received that either. Mr Ks e-mail 
address is the same one hes used to bring his complaint here. It therefore appears that the 
issue was more to do with that one e-mail either not being received or missed. So, if Fresh 
had done what it was supposed to and sent the lapsed notification, I think its most likely it 
would have been received.   
In regard to Freshs points about Mr K being responsible to ensure his van was insured, 
while this is the case there is also a responsibility on Fresh to ensure Mr K knows when his 
policy ends. And as Fresh didnt send Mr K two notifications, as I think is good industry 
practice, to let Mr K know when his policy would end, Im not persuaded Fresh did all that it should. For the reasons explained in my provisional decision Im satisfied if Fresh had, then 
Mr K would have purchased another policy. 
So for these reasons Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional decision. 
My final decision
Mr final decision is that I uphold this complaint, I require Fresh
Insurance Services Group Limited to:
1. Write Mr K a letter of indemnity to say it will step in and consider any claims made
    against Mr K for the time he was driving without insurance, until the date he was
    stopped by the police
2. Pay Mr K the £170 he was charged to have his van towed
3. Pay Mr K the £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused
4. Cover any court fine, fees or legal costs Mr K incurs from him being stopped by the
    police for driving without insurance  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman