DRN-2740017
The complaint
Ms C complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her a life and 
critical illness insurance policy.
What happened
In 2007, Ms C was taking out a mortgage with her mother. Shes explained this was to help 
her parents out and the intention was to sell the house as soon as some home 
improvements had been done. Halifax sold Ms C a life and critical illness policy which had 
the same term as the mortgage, and the amount of cover decreased in line with the 
mortgage. Ms C complained in 2019 as she explained she never needed this cover.
Halifax felt the cover was suitable as she had taken the mortgage out with a joint party. 
When our adjudicator considered the complaint, they felt the policy had been mis-sold. The 
adjudicator explained that it was clear from the point of sale documents that the intention 
was to sell the property and repay the mortgage very quickly. So, in this case, it wasnt 
suitable to recommend a policy when the intention was for the house to be sold in any event. 
The adjudicator recommended Halifax refunds Ms Cs premiums for the policy and pays 8% 
simple interest on the amount from the date it was paid to the date of settlement.
Halifax didnt respond to the adjudicators view so the complaint was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our adjudicator that this policy wasnt suitable for Ms Cs 
circumstances at the time. Ill explain why.
Ms C has explained that the mortgage was taken to release some equity in her parents 
house at a difficult time. The intention was then to sell the house soon after to enable her 
parents to downsize and to repay the mortgage. Ive noted the mortgage was for a small 
portion of the overall house value and that the house was sold and mortgage repaid many 
years ago. So, I think its likely the intention here was always to repay the mortgage quickly, 
and to sell the house in any event. Its also clear from the point of sale notes that Ms C made 
Halifax aware the house was intending to be sold hopefully within six months.
Ms C has said she was told to take out the life and critical illness policy. Whilst I cant be 
sure what was said to her at her meeting, Ive looked at whether the recommendation in this 
instance was suitable for Ms Cs circumstances. Having done so, I dont think that it was.
Whilst having this policy in place would mean that if Ms C passed away or became ill the 
mortgage could be paid off, Ive not seen that she had a need for this protection. The 
intention to sell this property quickly was made clear at the outset. So, if Ms C had passed 
away, its clear the property would be sold to ensure the mortgage was paid off. And given 
the level of equity in the house at the time I think its reasonable to assume this wouldve 
been the case. I can also see that the house was later sold in line with Ms Cs intentions at 
the start.
Halifax hasnt provided anything to show why Ms C had a need for the life and critical illness 
cover when it was sold, and so I dont think it was suitable for her circumstances and 
intentions at the time. 
Putting things right
On Ms Cs acceptance of this decision, Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax must do the 
following:
- Refund the premiums Ms C has paid for this policy up until the date of acceptance of 
this decision
- Pay Ms C 8% simple interest* on this amount from the date the premiums were paid 
to the date of settlement.
*If Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Ms C how much its taken off. 
It should also give Ms C a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax must follow the instructions 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman