DRN-3825943
The complaint
Miss Z complains that Cuvva Limiteds system failures prevented her from renewing her 
monthly motor insurance policy. She wants it to compensate her for losing a years No 
Claims Bonus (NCB) or refund her premiums. 
What happened
Miss Z had four months of continuous cover with Cuvva. She was then unable to renew her 
cover and she couldnt go on to complete a years NCB. She said this was because of a fault 
with Cuvvas system. 
Cuvva said Miss Z couldnt get a quote for a new subscription as she was abroad. When she 
returned to UK, it said an error prevented her from renewing her subscription, which was no 
longer continuous in any case. Cuvva offered Miss Z two £50 monthly discount codes to use 
on her next subscription. But Miss Z was unhappy that its errors meant she lost four months 
towards a years NCB.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
policys terms and conditions stated that it couldnt be bought from outside UK. He thought 
Cuvva should have better explained this at the time. But he thought its offer of compensation 
was fair and reasonable for the frustration caused. And he thought its error when Miss Z 
couldnt renew her subscription in UK didnt cause her further loss as her continuous cover 
had already broken. 
Miss Z replied that she thought it was unfair that she hadnt earned her years NCB. She 
thought Cuvva hadnt made it clear that she couldnt buy the policy outside the UK. Miss Z 
asked for an Ombudsmans review, so her complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Z has told us of the inconvenience caused when she couldnt use her car whilst it was 
uninsured. I can understand that this, and the failure of her subscription attempts, must have 
been frustrating. 
Miss Z used an app to manage her subscription with Cuvva. I can see that when Miss Z tried 
to renew her monthly subscription from abroad, she was told that this had failed due to a 
system error and she would need to get a new quote. But Cuvva later explained that 
consumers can buy policies only whilst they are in the UK. So it wasnt possible for Miss Z to 
maintain her policy. 
Ive looked at Cuvvas terms and conditions and I can see that it states under Our Services 
at the start of the document: 
Currently it's not possible to buy our products when you're outside the UK.
This is Cuvvas business choice, so I cant say that it should have allowed Miss Z to 
purchase cover whilst she was abroad. But I think it should have clearly explained that at the 
time when Miss Z told it that she was outside the UK, but it didnt. 
So Miss Z had the frustration of long online chats and attempts to renew her subscription 
when this wasnt possible. But I think Cuvvas offer of compensation, and short-term cover 
so that she could set up a new policy when she returned, was fair and reasonable redress 
for this. 
When Miss Z returned to the UK, she was again unable to renew her subscription on the 
app. Cuvva said this was due to a new technical issue. I can see that Miss Z was frustrated 
by this, but her continuous subscription had already been broken. So I cant say that this 
caused Miss Z further loss. Again, I think Cuvvas offer of a voucher was sufficient 
compensation for the frustration caused. 
Miss Z completed only four months towards a years NCB. So I cant reasonably say that 
Cuvva needs to offer her a years NCB. And as Miss Z had benefit of her cover, which is a 
legal obligation, I cant say that Cuvva needs to pay her any refund of her premiums.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman