DRN-4058812
The complaint
Mr P complains Phoenix Life Assurance Limited (Phoenix) gave him poor service regarding 
the three personal pensions he held with it.
What happened
The history of this complaint is detailed and well known to both parties. So, this background 
wont provide a timeline of all the events and correspondence. Instead, it will only include the 
background I think is relevant to addressing Mr Ps complaint. 
Mr P had three personal pension plans with Phoenix  plans ending 318, 308 and 49K. In 
2021, Mr P was approaching retirement and asked Phoenix for retirement packs for his 
three plans, which would include their quoted current value. 
Phoenix sent Mr P packs for 308 and 318, but didnt send a pack for 49K. Soon after, it 
wrote to Mr P to say the pack for 318 was incorrect and enclosed the correct pack. Mr P 
complained to Phoenix about these issues and asked for up to date packs for all three plans, 
in one envelope. Phoenix sent Mr P new packs for 308 and 49K. 
But Mr P had to chase Phoenix for the 318 pack, and he asked it for the claim forms needed 
to encash his plan benefits. Phoenix said it would send these and call Mr P back. After about 
a week, Mr P complained to Phoenix as he hadnt received the documents or a call back.
On 2 September 2021, Phoenix sent Mr P a final response letter (FRL). This accepted it 
had missed two opportunities to send Mr P a pack for 49K and had previously sent him an 
incorrect pack for 318. And while the senior call handler Mr P spoke to was best placed to 
deal with his queries, a manager should have spoken to Mr P if hed insisted. Phoenix 
offered Mr P £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this poor customer 
service caused. It also explained why its system correctly showed Mr Ps intended retirement 
date as age 70, why it couldnt guarantee to send three retirement packs in one envelope, 
that it had sent Mr P new packs for his plans, and processed his claim for 318. 
Mr P contacted Phoenix later in September 2021 to say he was unhappy it took eight weeks 
to send its FRL and it had brushed over some of his complaint points. Mr P wanted Phoenix 
to look at his complaint points again, and said hed lost confidence in its quotes being 
accurate.
Phoenix confirmed the figures it used to process Mr Ps claim for 318 were correct. However, 
it reiterated its apology and offer of £200 compensation. It also reminded Mr P he could refer 
his complaint to our Service, and would need to do so within six months of its FRL dated 
2 September 2021.
Over the next few months, Mr P and Phoenix had further communication. From November 
2021 onwards, Mr P raised further complaint points with Phoenix. In summary, that it caused 
delays regarding encashing plans 308 and 49K by asking him to verify bank details hed 
already verified and by not paying him when it should have. That it recalculated its quote for 
plan 308 to make sure it was just over the £30,000 threshold for requiring independent 
financial advice and prevent Mr P buying an annuity elsewhere. That Phoenix hadnt called 
him back as he wanted on 14, 18 and 19 January 2022, in addition to the lack of promised 
call backs hed raised in his previous complaint.  Mr P wanted Phoenix to breakdown how it 
had reached its encashment values, otherwise he assumed it was making them up. 
On 15 March 2022, Phoenix issued a further FRL. It acknowledged Mr Ps concerns about 
how the value of plan 308 was calculated, but ultimately it was satisfied it had given him the 
correct quote and made clear it wasnt guaranteed and would be recalculated when it was 
encashed, but Mr P didnt want to encash at that time due to the advice requirement. 
Phoenix said it had explained to Mr P that it had followed the calculation procedures set by 
HMRC, that it needed to manually calculate the Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) 
benefit provided by 308, and the final value of 308 included a terminal bonus.
But this FRL also accepted Phoenix had made further errors. It said its backlogs meant it 
paid the encashments later than it should have. It didnt call Mr P back in January 2022 
when it promised to. And it asked him to verify a bank account hed already verified. Phoenix 
apologised and offered Mr P a further £150 compensation for this further poor customer 
service, plus 8% interest on the late payments. Phoenix also offered Mr P an additional £100 
for its delay in logging his November 2021 complaint. But it made clear that this FRL didnt 
give Mr P new referral rights to our Service about the complaint points it had addressed in 
the FRL dated 2 September 2021. 
Mr P came to our Service on 29 March 2022.He was still unhappy with Phoenix. Particularly, 
that it hadnt provided the calculations hed asked for, hadnt logged his November 2021 
complaint sooner, and had addressed his further complaints under one FRL. 
Our Investigator said we couldnt look at the complaint points addressed in the 2 September 
2021 FRL, as they were brought to us more than six months after Phoenix issued that FRL. 
But we could look at the lack of call backs in January 2022, the unnecessary request for 
bank account verification, and the payment delays. And she thought Phoenix had accepted it 
had made errors and had already offered a fair and reasonable way to put them right. 
Regarding Mr Ps concerns about Phoenixs calculations of his plan values, she said the 
annual plan statements had set out reasonable information about this. 
Mr P disagreed. He said Phoenix couldve emailed its 2 September 2021 FRL to him instead 
of posting it. And our Investigator hadnt addressed any of his complaint points, including 
why Phoenix couldnt provide a breakdown of how it calculated plan values, Phoenix 
notifying HMRC about interest it paid him, and how it had handled his complaint.
Our Investigator didnt change her mind and explained our Service couldnt consider Mr Ps 
points about Phoenixs complaint handling, as that isnt a regulated activity. As agreement 
couldnt be reached, this complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by explaining that our Service cant consider all of the complaint points Mr P 
has brought to us. I realise this will be very disappointing for him, but we dont have a free 
hand to consider every complaint brought to us. Instead, we must follow the Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) rules set out by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. 
One of these rules (DISP 2.8.2) says that we cant look at a complaint if it was made more 
than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its final response, redress determination or summary resolution communication, unless the 
business consents to our Service considering it, or unless our Service thinks the failure to 
comply with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
I note Mr P says Phoenixs 2 September 2021 FRL didnt fully address his concerns, and he 
carried on communicating with Phoenix about them. But Im satisfied Phoenixs September 
2021 FRL constitutes a final response to the concerns Mr P had raised up to that point. I say 
that because it addressed his concerns about not sending packs for 49K when it should 
have, providing an incorrect quote for 318, its handling of calls, its recording of his intended 
retirement date, and why it couldnt send all the packs in one envelope. And it told Mr P he 
could refer those complaint points to our Service if he remained dissatisfied, but must do so 
within six months of the date of that FRL. And while Phoenixs March 2022 FRL reiterated 
this, Im satisfied it didnt look at those complaint points again or give Mr P new referral rights 
to our Service regarding them. 
Mr P referred these complaint points to our Service on 29 March 2022, which is more than 
six months after Phoenixs September 2021 FRL. Therefore, he has brought these complaint 
points to us outside the six-month time limit and so we dont have the power to consider 
them.
Phoenix hasnt consented to our Service considering these complaint points. So, the only 
way we could consider them is if I thought exceptional circumstances had prevented Mr P 
from bringing them to us within the six-month time limit. Mr P says he waited because he 
wanted to bring all his complaints about Phoenix to us at the same time. But the bar for 
exceptional circumstances is a high one  the example given in the DISP rules is that of a 
consumer being incapacitated. And I dont think anything Mr P has told us about amounts to 
him being incapacitated or otherwise unable to bring his complaint within the six-month time 
limit, as I can see Mr P was able to carry on communicating with Phoenix after its September 
2021 FRL. So, Im satisfied exceptional circumstances dont apply here.
Mr P is also unhappy with aspects of Phoenixs complaint handling. In particular, posting 
rather than emailing the September 2021 FRL, logging his November 2021 complaint too 
late, and addressing his further separate complaints under one FRL. DISP rule 2.3 sets out 
the kind of activities our Service can consider complaints about, and complaint handling isnt 
regulated or an activity listed in DISP 2.3. And I think these specific issues relate solely to 
Phoenixs complaint handling process rather than any underlying regulated activity. So the 
DISP rules mean I cant consider the points Mr P mentions about Phoenixs handling of his 
complaints. Therefore, I leave it to Mr P to decide whether he would like to accept the £100 
compensation Phoenixs March 2022 FRL offered for its delay in logging his complaint.
But Im satisfied that the remaining complaint points Mr P has brought to our Service are 
ones we can consider, because theyve been brought to us within the time limits required 
and they are about regulated activities listed in DISP 2.3. For clarity, these complaint points 
are that Phoenix didnt call Mr P back in January 2022 as he wanted, unnecessarily asked 
him to verify his bank account, delayed its payments to him, and didnt provide breakdowns 
of its calculations. Therefore, Ive considered these complaint points. 
Phoenix itself accepts it didnt call Mr P back when it should have done, and that it 
unnecessarily asked him to verify a bank account hed already verified. Im satisfied this 
caused Mr P some distress and inconvenience, which Ill return to. 
Phoenix also accepts its backlogs meant it unnecessarily delayed making payments to Mr P 
following his requests to encash plans 308 and 49K. Regarding plan 308, I can see Phoenix 
should have processed the payments of £6,093.47 (tax free cash) and £51.54 (first annuity payment) on 29 October 2021 but didnt do so until 10 November 2021. Regarding plan 49K, 
Phoenix should have processed the payment on 14 January 2022, but didnt do so until 
19 January 2022. Mr P suggests Phoenix should have made an immediate electronic 
payment, but Phoenix is entitled to choose which electronic payment method it uses, and the 
BACS payment method it used means it necessarily takes three to five working days 
between funds leaving Phoenix and arriving with Mr P. Given all this, Im satisfied Phoenix 
caused unnecessary payment delays of twelve days for plan 308 and five days for plan 49K. 
Phoenix has already offered to pay Mr P 8% interest on these payments, from when they 
should have been paid until when they were paid, and Im satisfied thats a fair and 
reasonable way to compensate Mr P for not having use of these funds when he should have. 
Mr Ps told us he refused this offer, yet Phoenix notified HMRC of the late payment interest. 
But Ive seen nothing in the correspondence between Mr P and Phoenix to suggest hes 
complained to Phoenix about this specific point. If this is something Mr Ps unhappy about, 
hell firstly need to complain to Phoenix about it, so it has the chance to investigate and put 
things right if necessary. And if Mr P is unhappy with Phoenixs response to this new 
complaint point, then he may refer it to our Service for an impartial investigation. 
In addition to the 8% interest, Phoenix has also offered Mr P £150 compensation for the poor 
customer service it accepts it gave him when it unnecessarily delayed the payments, didnt 
call him back in January 2022 as he wanted, and asked him to verify a bank account hed 
already verified. Im satisfied these errors would have caused Mr P some inconvenience, 
frustration and concern, especially as they followed earlier errors that Phoenix had 
previously accepted it made and offered Mr P compensation for. That said, I think that 
inconvenience, frustration and concern was over a relatively short period of time. So taking 
everything into account, Im satisfied the £150 Phoenix has offered for these instances of 
poor customer service is fair and reasonable compensation here. 
I understand Mr P is concerned Phoenix hasnt provided a detailed breakdown of how it 
calculated his plan values. I note Phoenix says its explained to Mr P that its followed 
HMRCs calculation procedures, and that for plan 308 it needed to manually calculate the 
GMP value and include a terminal bonus. And I note our Investigator explained the 
underlying investments meant that plan values could regularly change. The copies of the 
retirement packs and plan annual statements Ive seen include information about 
Mr Ps plans and how Phoenix might use this when working out his pension benefits. 
But I appreciate Mr P is looking for more than that. And whilst Phoenix isnt obliged to 
provide such calculations as a matter of course, I think the circumstances here mean it 
would be helpful for Phoenix to give Mr P something more detailed to reassure him that 
everything is in order. And theres nothing to suggest Phoenix cant provide this kind of 
information to Mr P. So, I think its fair and reasonable for Phoenix to provide copies of the 
specific detailed calculations it carried out in order to reach the values it paid Mr P in 
November 2021 for plan 308 and January 2022 for plan 49K. Phoenix should provide these 
to Mr P in a clear, simple format. Ill also say here that Ive seen nothing to persuade me 
Phoenix deliberately caused the quote for plan 308 to exceed the £30,000 threshold for 
requiring independent financial advice for its own benefit, as Mr P suggests.
Putting things right
Phoenix should pay Mr P the 8% simple interest it has already offered in respect of the 
delays when making payments on plans 308 and 49K. It should also pay Mr P the £150 its 
already offered him as compensation for the distress and inconvenience its poor customer 
service caused him. In addition, Phoenix should also provide Mr P with detailed calculations 
to show how it arrived at  the plan values it paid him in November 2021 for plan 308 and 
January 2022 for plan 49K. Those should be provided in a clear and simple format.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Phoenix Life Assurance Limited should pay Mr P the 8% 
simple interest it has already offered in respect of the delays when making payments on 
plans 308 and 49K. It should also pay Mr P the £150 its already offered him as 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience its poor customer service caused him. 
In addition, Phoenix Life Assurance Limited should also provide Mr P with detailed 
calculations to show how it arrived at  the plan values it paid him in November 2021 for plan 
308 and January 2022 for plan 49K. Those should be provided in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman