DRN-2808045
The complaint
Ms M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to refund transactions she 
didnt recognise.
What happened
On 9 June 2020 Ms M reported disputed transactions on her account from 7 and 8 June 
2020. The disputed transactions related to two betting companies (A and B in the table 
below). A didnt challenge the chargeback so the payments were refunded but B responded 
on 2 July 2020. On the same day Barclays sent Ms M the evidence from B and advised her 
that if she wished to continue to dispute the transactions, she should respond within ten 
working days explaining why. Ms M didnt respond, and her fraud case was closed. 
Ms M later disputed the transactions in bold to B.  
Date Time Merchant/log in Transaction type Amount
02/06/20 11.40 A Debit card online £20
02/06/20 15.59 A Debit card online £20
02/06/20 16.16 A Debit card online £50
03/06/20 14.17 A Debit card online £50
04/06/20 22.47cc Mobile banking log on
06/06/20 12.02 A Debit card online £5
06/06/20 12.03 A Debit card online £50
06/06/20 12.14 A Debit card online £50
06/06/20 12.14 A Debit card online £50
07/06/20 00.44 Mobile banking log on
07/06/20 10.51 B Debit card online £100
07/06/20 13.48 B Debit card online £100
07/06/20 15.20 B Debit card online £100
07/06/20 16.51 Mobile banking log in 
08/06/20 14.30 B Debit card online £100
08/06/20 22.16 B Debit card online £500
08/06/20 22.18 B Debit card online £500
08/06/20 23.26-
23.31Account at B 
accessed from same 
IP address as mobile 
banking log ins
08/06/20 23.34 Mobile banking log in
A and B have confirmed that the accounts were set up using Ms Ms personal information. 
The account with A was set up in April 2020 and a £20 payment was made. A has said that it 
has received contact about bets placed and deposit limits. B has confirmed that the account 
was set up using Ms Ms full name, date of birth, address, email address and mobile 
telephone number, and has provided the IP address used. B also confirmed the security and 
verification checks it completed when the account was set up. 
During our investigation we asked Ms M if anyone else could have had access to her debit 
card. At this point Ms M said that her then ten-year old grandson could have gained access 
to her card when he stayed at her home. Ms M later confirmed that her grandson admitted 
hed used her card on betting sites.
What Barclays say
Barclays held Ms M liable for the disputed payments. In summary, it said:
- B has confirmed the account was opened using Ms Ms full name, address, email 
address, date of birth and mobile telephone number and the IP address used. The 
personal details werent printed on Ms Ms card so could only have been provided by 
Ms M or someone known to her. The IP address was the one most commonly used 
by Ms M for mobile banking, suggesting it was Ms Ms home address. 
- The IP address used matches the one used for mobile banking on 7 and 8 June 2020 
and Ms Ms mobile banking app was accessed using the five-digit security code she 
set up.  
- As Ms M logged into her mobile app on 7 June she will have seen the transactions 
but didnt report them until 9 June. If she cancelled her card or called Barclays on 7 
June the transactions on 8 June could have been prevented.
- Barclays didnt find it credible that a ten-year old had used Ms Ms card and 
registered on gambling sites. The behavior isnt typical of a child even if they are able 
to compromise card details. Barclays also said its unlikely a child would use an 
adults genuine details given that any registration confirmation would be sent to the 
cardholders phone or email address. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
- It was less likely that Ms Ms grandson had created accounts with three gambling 
companies including B and used them over a period of time.
- If Ms Ms account was compromised hed expect to see other spending.
- Any potential winnings couldnt be accessed by a third party.
- All of Ms Ms contact details were used to set up accounts, including the account with 
B. And a different company says it received contact about bets and limits. The 
investigator felt it was unlikely a 10-year old would do so. 
- The disputed transactions were often followed by mobile banking logins from the 
same IP address.
- If the payments werent authorised hed expect them to be reported sooner than they 
were. Payments to other gambling companies that were disputed at the same time 
were made from 2 June 2020 and Ms M didnt report them until 9 June 2020.  
Ms M didnt agree with the investigator. She said:- She has never gambled before,
- The original investigator upheld her complaint and was satisfied with her explanation. 
- The transactions were made at a very distressing time for her as her father was 
terminally ill and died on 17 June 2020. 
- She has noted that her details are saved on her laptop which may be how her 
grandson gained access.  
As Ms M disagreed with the investigators findings, the complaint has been passed to me to 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or
contradictory, I must reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on
what I consider is most likely to have happened given the available evidence.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The
basic position is that Barclays can hold Ms M liable for the disputed payments if the evidence
suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them.
Authorisation is made up of two parts. Authentication and consent. Authentication is usually
referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, Barclays has supplied evidence that
shows Ms Ms debit card details were used to make the payments and Im satisfied the 
disputed transactions were authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which Barclays and Ms M agreed to operate the account to 
allow Barclays to make payments on Ms Ms behalf. For example, Barclays terms and 
conditions set out that if a payment is arranged through the use of a device (Ms Ms debit 
card), then Barclays accept that the instruction to make the payment is authorised by the 
account holder.
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable 
Barclays to hold Ms M liable. I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests its 
more likely than not Ms M consented to the payments being made.
I cant know for certain who carried out the disputed payments, as I wasnt present at the
time. So, in order to reach my decision, I take all the available evidence into account and
make my decision on what I think is more likely than not to have happened.
Having looked at all the evidence and considered Ms Ms explanation carefully, Im not
persuaded by what she has said. And on balance Ive ruled out that a third-party
was responsible for making the payments without Ms Ms consent. So, I dont think it would 
be fair or reasonable to say Barclays needs to refund her. I say this for the following 
reasons:
- Although I only need to consider disputed transactions to B (as Ms M hasnt suffered 
a loss from A) I need to consider the full facts of this case. On 3 April 2020 £20 was 
paid to A and this payment has never been disputed. Four payments were then made 
to A on 2 and 3 June 2020, but these payments werent reported to Barclays until 9 
June even though Ms M logged into her mobile banking app on 4 June 2020. Further 
payments were made to A on 6 June and again Ms M logged into her mobile banking 
app the following day but also didnt report any disputed transactions at that stage. So, before the disputed payments to B, there is evidence of activity on gambling sites 
from April 2020 and of mobile banking log-ins that would have shown these 
transactions.
- All the disputed transactions to B were made from the same IP address as the one 
used on the Barclays mobile banking app and which appears to relate to Ms Ms 
home address. More significantly, after three transactions to B on 7 June 2020 Ms M 
logged into her mobile banking app from this same IP address so Ms M would have 
seen the payments or pending payments. Then on 8 June 2020, around three 
minutes after the account at B was last accessed, and from the same IP address, Ms 
M has logged into her mobile banking app. On the balance of probabilities, I consider 
the person who completed the transactions to B also logged in to Ms Ms banking 
app.
- A five-digit security code is required to log into Ms Ms mobile banking app. Even if 
Ms Ms grandson had access to her mobile phone I havent been provided with any 
explanation as to how these security details were compromised. And I cant see why 
a 10-year old child would want to log into his grandmothers online banking after 
making gambling transactions. Im persuaded its more likely that Ms M logged into 
her online banking app to check her transactions.   
- The account with B was set up using Ms Ms genuine personal details and these 
same details were also provided to A. I find it unlikely a 10-year old boy would know 
and use all of these genuine details. I also consider it unlikely that a 10-year old 
made calls to A about bets and deposit limits. I say this because I dont consider a 
child of this age could pass himself off as Ms M or would have sufficient knowledge 
to have these conversations. 
- A third party wouldnt have had access to any winnings as they would be credited to 
Ms Ms account. 
- Im aware that Ms M says she didnt know she could block her card on the mobile 
banking app and waited until after the weekend to report the disputed transactions to 
Barclays. But I would have expected her to report any disputed transactions 
immediately by telephone. This isnt what happened here. Disputed transactions on 7 
and 8 June 2020 werent reported until the following day. 
Overall, Im persuaded its more likely than not that Ms M consented to and authorised the 
payments to B. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman