DRN-3915020
The complaint
Mr L complains about the price Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited trading as 
Hargreaves Lansdown (HL) gave him when he purchased some shares. 
What happened
On 2 March 2022 Mr L was looking to buy some shares in a company Ill refer to as A. The 
price at the time was around 65p, but the volume of shares Mr L was looking to buy 
combined with the volatility in the share price of A meant that a deal for 65p never took 
place. Instead, the trade was executed at a price of 70.1p. 
Shortly after the trade, Mr L called HL to complain. HL looked into his concerns, but didnt 
think it had done anything wrong. It said that it didnt set the market price, and it merely 
transmitted the price it was receiving from its market makers to Mr L in the form of a quote 
that was live for 15 seconds. It said that Mr L accepted that quote and the trade was 
executed correctly. 
Mr L didnt agree and referred his complaint to this service. In his complaint he said:
He accepted the price of 65p for his transaction, but it was later surprisingly changed 
to 70.1p  this meant it cost him £500 more than he intended and agreed to pay. 
He immediately complained about this error, but was told there had been no mistake 
and that he had accepted the quote of 70.1p which he disputed. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ls complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
short, she concluded that the evidence showed Mr L had accepted a quote of 70.1p, and 
that the pricing data she had seen supported HLs explanations for why the price fluctuated 
so significantly at the time. She also referred to his phone call with HL shortly after the 
transaction, in which Mr L confirmed himself that he had accepted the quote of 70.1p, but 
was unhappy that this quote appeared to him to be higher than the prevailing market price. 
Mr L didnt agree. He maintained that the price he accepted was 65p, not 70.1p, and that HL 
had changed the price of the trade without his agreement. He maintained that he was no liar, 
and this was clearly an error by HL. 
There was some further correspondence, but as the matter couldnt be resolved, the case 
was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, but I dont have much to add to what the investigator has 
already told him. Ive read and considered his submissions and the evidence he has 
provided, but I wont be commenting on anything I dont consider relevant. 
The starting point is the contract note which Mr L received that clearly shows the price his 
trade was executed at. This price wasnt set by HL  it was the price it received from the 
market. In my experience, its unlikely a trade like this would go ahead without the price 
being accepted by the consumer. Mr L has provided no evidence of the price of 65p which 
he says he accepted at the time, except for his testimony. But his testimony has not been 
consistent. Im not finding that Mr L has been untruthful  but his second phone call with HL 
immediately after his trade is persuasive evidence that nothing in fact went wrong with this 
transaction. I find this call persuasive because it was immediately after the trade. 
In this call, Mr L explained the difficulties hed experienced in buying shares in A at the price 
of 64 or 65p. He explains that he tried a few times, and whenever he accepted that price the 
transaction didnt go through. He then explained that when he finally managed to get a price 
that he was able to accept, it was 70.1p  but he then noticed that on HLs website shares in 
A were trading at 64p immediately after. His query to HL was about this discrepancy, and not 
an error with the transaction itself. HL explained to Mr L about the fluctuation in As price on 
the day, and explained that he was trying to buy significantly more shares than the exchange 
market size which also affected the price he was being quoted. When HL summarised to 
Mr L what had happened, Mr L repeated very clearly that the 15 second quote was 
obviously 70.1p  but he complained that this price was completely out of line with reality. 
Taking all this into account, including the contemporaneous evidence from Mr L at the time, 
Im satisfied that Mr L was given a price of 70.1p to buy the shares in A which he accepted. 
Im not persuaded he accepted a quote of 65p that was unilaterally changed later by HL. In 
terms of this price, whilst I understand why he was dissatisfied, I think HL has clearly 
explained and demonstrated this was the prevailing market price at the time for his trade, 
and as such, it executed his trade in line with relevant standards on best execution.  
For these reasons, Im satisfied that HL executed Mr Ls order correctly and neednt do 
anything further to put things right. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman