DRN-1511728
The complaint
Miss A complains that Lloyds Bank Plc incorrectly cancelled a direct debit shed set up on 
her account. Shes also unhappy with the compensation it offered in recognition of its error.
What happened
Miss A held a cash account with Lloyds. On 19 September 2018 she set up a direct debit 
instruction with her car insurance provider. 
On 11 October 2018, Miss A contacted Lloyds to query a payment of £200.62, which had 
debited her account that day. She said she didnt recognise the direct debit beneficiary and 
asked Lloyds to clarify who the direct debit had been paid to. 
Lloyds offered to cancel the direct debit instruction and recall the payment that had debited 
Miss As account. She asked it to proceed on this basis. And the funds were returned to Miss 
As bank account the same day. But this direct debit was to pay for Miss As car insurance. 
So, her insurer cancelled her policy.
Miss A didnt realise the direct debit had been payable to her car insurance provider, or that 
it had cancelled her insurance policy, until 31 October 2018 when she was stopped by the 
police and prosecuted for driving whilst uninsured. Miss As car was impounded and, later, 
destroyed. And, at the conclusion of Miss As prosecution, the court imposed a financial 
penalty. But it decided not to disqualify or endorse her licence with penalty points.
Miss A wasnt happy about what had happened. She thought Lloyds was at fault. So, she 
complained.
In its final response to Miss As complaint Lloyds accepted it should have done more to 
investigate the direct debit instruction when she contacted it to query the payment. And it 
acknowledged it was partially responsible for the consequences of Miss As direct debit 
being cancelled. 
In recognition of its error, Lloyds apologised to Miss A and paid her £300 for the distress 
and inconvenience shed been caused and an additional £450, which represented half the 
value of her car. But it said Miss A also had a responsibility to know what payments were 
debiting her account and to keep track of any direct debits shed set up. It therefore 
declined to cover the full value of Miss As car.
Being dissatisfied with the way Lloyds proposed to resolve her complaint Miss A referred it 
to our service. She said Lloyds error had caused her to be without the use of a car for 
some time and she said she had a disabled dependant. She therefore thought the 
compensation Lloyds had paid didnt adequately recognise the impact of its mistake on her 
or her family. And she wanted Lloyds to pay the financial penalty that the court imposed 
for the driving whilst uninsured offence.
Our investigator assessed the evidence provided by Miss A and Lloyds but didnt 
recommend upholding this complaint. They thought Lloyds had dealt with Miss As complaint 
fairly. And they thought the financial resolution it had proposed was reasonable in the 
circumstances. But Miss A disagreed with the investigators view of her complaint. She felt 
more compensation should be awarded and asked for her complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Miss A experienced here. I can see how strongly she 
feels about her complaint. But, having thought about everything she and Lloyds have said, 
Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator. I appreciate Miss A will be 
disappointed by this outcome. But I hope she can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
Lloyds has accepted it could have done more to investigate who the direct debit was due to. 
Ive listened to the telephone recording from when Miss A contacted Lloyds on 11 October 
2018 in order to query the direct debit payment that had debited her account. And Ive seen 
the procedure Lloyds is supposed to follow when a customer doesnt recognise the direct 
debit originator. 
Its clear that Lloyds didnt adhere to its direct debit originator process when it cancelled Miss 
As direct debit instruction and recalled the payment that had debited her account. And, like 
our investigator, I think Lloyds could have done more to investigate the identity of the direct 
debit beneficiary. 
Lloyds doesnt dispute any of this. So, the issue here is whether it acted fairly and 
reasonably in offering to put things right. In thinking about this, Ive considered things from 
both sides. 
Im satisfied an award of compensation is warranted given what happened here. Lloyds has 
already offered to compensate Miss A £300 for the impact its error had and an additional 
£450, which represents half the value of her car. 
Its clear Miss A doesnt think this amount adequately reflects her distress and 
inconvenience. But Im afraid I have to tell her that I agree with our investigators view that 
£750 is a fair amount, which takes into account the financial and non-financial loss she 
suffered. Ill explain why.
Our service isnt here to punish businesses. When deciding what potential compensation to 
award our service must take two things into account: financial loss as a result of any 
business error and non-financial loss, including inconvenience and upset. 
Miss A says shes suffered a financial loss as a result of Lloyds error, which is unfortunate. 
Ive seen evidence that her car was destroyed after being impounded. And shes said her car 
was valued at £900. Shes also said hes incurred a fine for the driving whilst uninsured 
offence that was proven at court. In addition to this, Miss A has told our investigator shes 
been reliant on taxis while shes been without a car.
I understand that Miss A would like me to tell Lloyds to reimburse her for all losses shes 
incurred. But Ill explain why I dont think that would be fair here.
While Lloyds could have done more to investigate the identity of the direct debit beneficiary, I 
also think there was a responsibility on the part of Miss A to keep a record of any direct debits shed authorised on the account. She regularly accessed her account via online 
banking. And I think she ought to have known when direct debit payments were due to debit 
her account and the amount they were for.
This particular direct debit had been newly set up. And I appreciate the reasons why Miss A 
has told our service she didnt recognise the name of the direct debit beneficiary. But Id 
have expected Miss As insurer to have sent her a direct debit schedule, which would have 
shown the date payment instalments would be collected, the amount the payments would be 
for and the name of the company that would collect them. I say this because its usually what 
happens where a policy of insurance has been set up and a customer wishes to pay on a 
monthly basis.
I understand that Miss A had set up her communication preferences with her car insurer to 
paperless  and had provided  an incorrect  email  address.  So, she didnt  receive  any 
correspondence  her insurer  sent electronically.  I realise  this was a mistake  Miss  A made  
unintentionally.  But it would  be unfair  for me to hold Lloyds  responsible  for that error.  
And I think  this error  also played  a part in what  went  wrong  here.
I think  Miss  A should  have  expected  to receive  communication  from her insurer  following  
the commencement  of her policy.  And I think  its reasonable  to expect  her to have  
contacted  her insurer  when  no correspondence  was received.  If shed  have  done  so, I 
think  shed  have  discovered  her email  address  had been  input  incorrectly.  I also think  
its most  likely  Miss  A would  have  then received  a payment  schedule.  So, its probable  
shed  have  been  aware  of when  her direct  debit  payments  were  due and the name  of 
the company  theyd  be collected  by. 
Had Miss  As email  address  been  correctly  set up I think  shed  have,  most  probably,  
received  emails  from her insurer  after her payment  had been  recalled  by Lloyds  to 
explain  that if she didnt  make  the required  payment  her policy  would  be cancelled.  
Again,  I cant  fairly  hold Lloyds  responsible  for the fact that Miss  A didnt  receive  emails  
from her insurer  because  shed  entered  her address  incorrectly.
Based  on the evidence  Ive seen  I think  it was reasonable  for Lloyds  to accept  partial  
responsibility  for what  happened  to Miss  A. But, for the reasons  outlined,  I think  some  
responsibility  has to also lie with Miss  A. It would  therefore  be unfair  if I were  to 
apportion  the fault for what  happened  entirely  with Lloyds.  
I havent  seen  any evidence  of the expenses  Miss  A incurred  when  she was reliant  on 
taxis  for transport,  which  means  I cant  ask Lloyds  to reimburse  her for costs  she 
incurred  here.  
I appreciate  Miss  A has incurred  a financial  penalty  at court.  But I dont  think  it would  be 
fair for me to tell Lloyds  to contribute  to that because  it was Miss  As legal  responsibility  
to ensure  she was insured  each  time she drove  her car.
Ive already  mentioned  Miss  A told Lloyds  and our service  that the value  of her car was 
£900.  This amount  hasnt  been  disputed  by Lloyds.  So, Im satisfied  it can be accepted  
as correct  here.  In the overall  circumstances,  I think  Lloyds  payment  for half the value  
of Miss  As car was fair.
Turning now to awards for non-financial loss there isnt a set formula that we use to calculate 
awards for particular errors. Its my role to consider what impact the banks actions have had 
on the consumer and to decide, within guidelines set by our service, whether compensation 
would be appropriate in the circumstances. Its clear to me that Miss As experience here went beyond mere irritation. Shes told our 
service she was caused distress and worry by what happened. And she said this also 
impacted on her family, which included a disabled dependant. I dont dispute any of that. 
I recognise that Miss A would have had to spend some time contacting Lloyds to understand 
what had led to driving without insurance. So, Ive thought about the length of time it took for 
this issue to be resolved. 
I can see Miss A raised a complaint with Lloyds by telephone in early November 2018, which 
was shortly after she discovered her insurance had been cancelled as a result of her direct 
debit being cancelled and recalled. Lloyds has provided copies of its final response to Miss 
As complaint, which is dated 27 November 2018. 
In responding to Miss As complaint so quickly I think Lloyds has demonstrated that it 
promptly investigated what happened and candidly accepted responsibility for its part in what 
had taken place here. I appreciate that Miss A continued to communicate with Lloyds after 
the date of its final response letter. But this was because she was unhappy with the 
compensation Lloyds had offered to resolve her complaint.
In the overall circumstances, Im not persuaded Miss A needed to spend a great deal of time 
communicating with Lloyds about the issues affecting her. And Im satisfied Lloyds accepted 
responsibility for its error quickly and candidly from the outset. 
Ive carefully thought about everything Miss As said. But Im persuaded the payment Lloyds 
has already made already recognises the impact of what happened. Im satisfied £300 
compensation is a fair amount of compensation thats proportionate to the inconvenience 
and worry that Miss A wouldve been caused here. Its in line with our approach in similar 
scenarios and its what I would have told Lloyds to pay. 
Ive taken on board all of Miss As comments about what happened. And I understand she 
feels very strongly about the issues raised in her complaint. I appreciate she wants Lloyds to 
pay more compensation. But I havent seen enough to persuade me that a higher award is 
warranted here. So, Im not going to ask it to do anything further. This now brings to an end 
what we, in trying to resolve Miss As dispute with Lloyds informally, can do for her. Im sorry 
we cant help Miss A any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman