DRN-1633426
 
The complaint
Ms B complained that Erudio Student Loans Limited (Erudio) incorrectly defaulted and 
terminated her student loan agreement, when she had applied for repayments to be 
deferred. 
What happened
Ms B took out a student loan some years ago. The student loan agreement allows for 
repayments to be deferred, if specific criteria are met and evidenced. Deferments need to be 
renewed annually by the account holder. 
Ms Bs most recent period of deferment ended on 9 June 2018. Erudio had written to her in 
May 2018 to let her know it hadnt received a completed deferment application form and so 
repayments on her account would become due on 10 June 2018. Erudio also wrote to Ms B 
in June 2018 to let her know that her loan agreement was at risk of being terminated if her 
account was in arrears. And if the agreement was terminated, then Ms B risked losing all of 
her contractual rights such as deferment of repayments and loan cancellation. Ms B didnt 
make any repayments. 
Erudio sent Ms B a Notice of Sum in Arrears letter on 11 September 2018 and a Default 
Notice on 13 September 2018, which asked Ms B to pay the arrears listed. Shortly 
afterwards, Ms B submitted a deferment application. 
Erudio began to process the deferment application and wrote to Ms B on 25 September 
2018 to tell her she needed to provide additional specific evidence, in relation to her income, 
before it would make a decision about the deferment. The letter said Ms B had 60 days to 
submit the additional evidence or the deferment application would expire. Erudio sent 
reminder letters to Ms B several times during the following two months. The information 
wasnt sent by Ms B and Erudio wrote to her on 27 November 2018 and said that as it didnt 
receive a completed deferment application, the current period of deferment had ended and 
Ms B was required to make repayments on her loan. 
Ms B didnt make any repayments and as a result Erudio sent a Default Notice to Ms B on 
13 February 2019. Ms B wrote to Erudio on 5 March 2019 and provided further information in 
support of her September 2018 application for deferment. Erudio wrote to Ms B on 14 March 
2019 and said Ms B hadnt made any repayments on her account so her account had 
defaulted and Erudio terminated her loan agreement. Erudio said the termination of the 
agreement meant Ms B could no longer apply to defer repayments and she also lost the 
rights she had to have the debt cancelled in the future.  
Ms B complained to Erudio. It didnt uphold her complaint. It said Ms Bs deferment period 
ended in June 2018. It said an account is eligible to default after four full months of arrears 
have accrued. So it sent a Default Notice to Ms B on 13 September 2018, advising that the 
outstanding arrears would need to be paid to stop the default. Erudio said Ms B didnt make 
any repayments. 
Erudio said it received Ms Bs deferment application in September 2018 but decided it 
needed further evidence of Ms Bs income. It wrote to Ms B but didnt receive a response 
and so the deferment expired. Erudio said the default had been suspended when the 
deferment was applied for, so a new Notice of Default was issued in February 2019 when 
the application wasnt completed. This letter asked Ms B to contact it by 11 March 2019 to 
pay the outstanding arrears. As no payment was received, the account defaulted and a letter 
confirming this was sent on 14 March 2019. 
Erudio said it received a letter from Ms B on 11 March 2019, which was the day her account 
terminated. It said the letter didnt contain a deferment application form and the information 
was not sufficient for a deferment to be put in place. Erudio said its aware Ms B said she 
stayed in contact with it and so doesnt think it was fair the account was defaulted. Erudio 
said the only letters received were 21 September 2018 and 11 March 2019, so Ms B was not 
in constant contact with it. 
Ms B remained unhappy and referred the complaint to this service. She said she fulfilled the 
terms of the deferment of her account before her account was terminated and so it was 
incorrectly terminated. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Ms B didnt send the additional 
information requested in September 2018 until March 2019, which was after the deferment 
period had ended. Ms B told our investigator she had difficulty understanding what Erudio 
needed from her, but our investigator said Ms B could have contacted Erudio to clarify what 
was needed. Our investigator said Ms B would have needed to submit another deferment 
application form in March 2019 if she wanted to make another application for deferment. Our 
investigator said it wasnt made explicitly clear to Ms B that she needed to complete another 
form, but it was made clear in November 2018 that the deferment process had ended. 
Our investigator concluded Erudio had acted fairly when it terminated Ms Bs account, as it 
had given Ms B enough notice that the account would be terminated if the arrears were not 
paid, which they werent. And, at the time the account was terminated, a completed 
deferment application had not been received. 
Ms B was unhappy with this outcome and so this complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
My understanding is that Ms B needs to submit a new request for deferment of repayments 
on her student loan account every year. And if this request for deferment isnt made, then 
monthly repayments on her account have to be made by her in the usual way. If these 
monthly repayments arent made and the account falls into arrears, then Erudio can 
terminate the loan agreement and ask Ms B to repay the loan in full. And if a request to 
repay in full is made, then Ms B can no longer apply to have payments deferred and loses 
the right to have her loan considered for cancellation in the future.  
The crux of this complaint is that Erudio terminated Ms Bs loan agreement in March 2019, at 
around the same time Ms B forwarded the evidence of her income, which had been 
requested by Erudio in September 2018.Ms B, believes Erudio should have processed the 
evidence she sent in March 2019 as part of the earlier application. Ms B also believes she 
provided enough information in September 2018 for Erudio to be able to fully process the 
application then. Looking at the September 2018 application, I think Erudio made a reasonable request when 
it asked for further evidence of Ms Bs income. And I dont think Ms B sent enough 
information for her application to be approved in September 2018. For instance, Ms B 
submitted a letter from her partner with her application, indicating that he supports her 
financially. Erudio asked for information about the level of support being provided, along with 
proof that this amount was being paid into her bank account. And its allowed to ask for this 
because some of the criteria for deferment are based on the account holders income, which 
might need to be proved. I realise that Ms B said in March 2019 that she submitted this letter 
in error, but Erudio had no way of knowing that in September 2018. 
Ms B also said the letters sent by Erudio asking for more information in support of her 
September 2018 deferment application werent clearly enough worded for her to know what 
was being asked of her. However, Ive looked at the letter sent on 25 September 2018 and 
Im satisfied that what was being requested was clearly worded. It may well be the case that 
Ms B wasnt sure what she needed to do, but it was clear she needed to do something if she 
wanted her deferment application to be processed. I think Ms B could have contacted Erudio 
to clarify what was needed. Im also satisfied that Erudio gave Ms B a reasonable amount of 
time to submit the additional information. 
Erudio wrote to Ms B on 27 November 2018 and made it clear that as the information hadnt 
been received within the required 60 days, and so a completed deferment application hadnt 
been submitted, the current period of deferment had ended. The letter also lets Ms B know 
she can reapply for deferment on Erudios website. 
Im satisfied that when Ms B sent the additional information to Erudio in March 2019, it had 
already done enough to let her know that the deferment process ended in November 2018, 
that it was no longer processing her September 2018 application and that she would need to 
reapply to start the deferment process again. So I dont think Erudio acted unfairly when it 
said it hadnt received a completed deferment application in March 2019 and because 
Ms Bs account was in arrears, subsequently defaulted and then terminated Ms Bs 
agreement.   
Im mindful of the fact that when Ms B wrote to Erudio in March 2019, it was her intention to 
have her repayments deferred. And I think Erudio would have been aware of her intention 
when it received her letter. So Ive considered whether Erudio should have started a second 
deferment application process and contacted Ms B to let her know to resubmit a new 
deferment application form. But I would only ask it to do this if there were exceptional 
circumstances that meant Ms B wasnt able to submit the additional information within the 
required 60 days. But I cant see that there are any exceptional circumstances in this case. 
Erudio have acted fairly during this process and I could only ask it to do something different 
if it acted unfairly or if exceptional circumstances applied. 
Ms B also complained that Erudio suggested she hadnt stayed in contact with it. She felt 
she had and so it wasnt fair that the account was defaulted and terminated. I can see that 
Ms B wrote to Erudio twice prior to her account being terminated  once in September 2018 
and once in March 2019 so I dont think Erudio was acting unfairly when it said Ms B wasnt 
in constant contact with it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman