DRN-3976047
The complaint
Mr P complains that Grattan Plc is unfairly holding him liable for an outstanding balance on 
his account and has recorded adverse information on his credit file. 
What happened
Mr P held a running credit account with Grattan which could be used to make purchases 
from Grattans catalogue. Mr P ordered some electronic goods from Grattan which was paid 
for using his running credit account. 
Grattan says Mr P input his local shop as the delivery address rather than his home. This 
local shop acted as a parcel collection point for certain Grattan purchases, but this particular 
purchase wasnt eligible for pick-up at that location using Grattans usual courier. Grattan 
says Mr P was able to circumvent those restrictions by inputting the shop address as his 
personal delivery address. Before he had attempted to collect the goods, Mr P contacted 
Grattan to say he no longer wanted the item and asked for it to be returned. However, the 
local shop could not locate the parcel, although it told Grattan that Mr P had already 
collected it. 
Mr P refused to pay for the goods on his running credit account. Grattan said that it 
considered the charge was fair and he would be required to make the payments. As Mr P 
continued to refuse payments Grattan have added additional fees and interest as well as 
marking his failure to pay with credit reference agencies. Mr P feels this is unfair. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said that our service didnt 
have the power to consider Mr Ps complaint about the purchase of the goods themselves as 
that was a retail dispute and our powers only allowed us to consider complaints about 
financial services. He considered Grattan had acted fairly in the way it had administered the 
credit account. The terms and conditions Mr P agreed to said that he was required to pay 
any outstanding balances and that failure to pay would result in interest and fees. He 
considered Grattan were entitled to record Mr Ps failure to pay with credit reference 
agencies. 
Mr P didnt agree. He said that Grattan were in breach of his rights under the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service can only consider Mr Ps complaint if it relates to an activity covered by our 
rules. Those rules can be found in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Handbook of rules and Guidance. DISP 2.3.1R sets out the activities 
I can consider a complaint about. The parts that are relevant to Mr Ps complaint are:
(1) regulated activities

or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried on by the firm in connection 
with them.
The regulated activity that is relevant here is: exercising the lenders rights and duties under 
a regulated credit agreement. In other words, I can only consider any complaint Mr P has 
made which is specifically about his running credit account facility with Grattan or any 
ancillary activity carried out by Grattan in connection to it.
Grattan acted in two different capacities when dealing with Mr P. One is in its capacity as a 
provider of a regulated consumer credit agreement, the other is as a retailer of goods and 
services. This is an important distinction because our rules only permit me to look at 
complaints which relate to the provision of the regulated credit agreement or anything 
ancillary to it. 
I cant investigate or comment on any complaint which relates to Grattans retail activities. 
This is because the retailing of goods or services isnt a regulated activity (or any other 
covered activity under our rules), and nor was it ancillary to Grattan providing or 
administering the credit account. Instead, the providing and administering of the credit 
account was ancillary to the retailing activity rather than the other way around. This is 
demonstrated by the fact that Mr P was free to use other payment methods to pay for the 
goods he ordered. 
The key part of Mr Ps complaint relates to Grattans retail activity, that is the ordering, 
delivery and return of goods purchased. While the purchase of the goods was funded by the 
running credit account, his complaint about the purchase, delivery and return of those goods 
doesnt relate to the provision of the credit agreement, other than to say it is unfair he has to 
pay the outstanding balance because of failures with the retailing activities. 
The credit agreement and its terms and conditions dont set out any contractual obligations 
on Grattan, as a credit provider, for the purchase and delivery of the goods. The terms limit 
themselves to the provision of a credit facility and the associated repayment terms. There is 
nothing within the credit agreement terms that might limit Mr Ps liability to pay for purchases 
in the event of a dispute. Any dispute Mr P might have about goods he has purchased is 
separate to the contractual obligations he agreed to within the credit agreement. 
Mr P has also referred to his rights under the CRA. However, those rights dont arise from 
his relationship with Grattan as a provider of credit. They only arise between Mr P and 
Grattan in its capacity as a retailer. As the retailing of goods isnt an activity I can consider a 
complaint about, I cant comment on whether Grattan has acted fairly towards Mr P in 
relation to his rights under the CRA. Thats not to say he doesnt have a valid complaint, just 
that I dont have the power to investigate or comment on that specific issue. If Mr P feels that 
Grattan has acted unfairly in relation to its retail activities, he may wish to pursue that 
complaint through other avenues.
Part of Mr Ps complaint does relate to the provision of the credit agreement and those 
issues I can consider. These are the fairness of Grattan seeking repayment under the credit 
agreement for the goods Mr P has a dispute about, Grattans decision to apply further 
interest and charges due to non-payment and the fairness of it recording non-payment with 
credit reference agencies. 
There is an ongoing dispute between Mr P and Grattan as to whether he should be given a 
refund for the goods. That isnt something for me to get involved with for the reasons Ive set 
out above. As Ive also set out earlier in the decision, there arent any terms within the credit agreement that set out Mr P would be entitled not to pay back amounts he has borrowed in 
the event he raises a dispute. As Mr P made the purchase using the credit facility, I think its 
fair and reasonable he pays back the amount he borrowed, especially as it is still in dispute 
as to whether he took possession of the goods from the shop they were delivered to. It 
wouldnt be fair nor reasonable for me to direct Grattan to write off a balance where the 
underlying retail dispute remains unresolved. 
Mr P has chosen not to make repayments towards the outstanding balance. While 
I understand the reason hes chosen to do this, Im satisfied Grattan are entitled to apply 
interest and fees onto the balance due to non-payment. The terms of the credit agreement 
allow them to do this and Ive not seen any persuasive reason to say they shouldnt do so 
here, or that it would be unfair for them to do so. 
Lastly, I think Grattan has acted fairly and reasonably in updating credit reference agencies 
with Mr Ps failure to repay. Lenders are expected to record accurate and fair information to 
credit reference agencies. I consider it is accurate and fair for it to be reporting that Mr P 
hasnt made payments when he has failed to do so. For this reason, I dont think it has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr P in the way it has recorded information with credit 
reference agencies.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman