DRN-1671725
The complaint
Mr C says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2003 in one of the banks 
branches at the same time as Mr C applied for his credit card. It gave him accident, sickness 
and unemployment protection. The policy ended in January 2005 and the card is still active.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Here are my reasons why:
Mr C says he was unaware that PPI was part of the contract he signed. But on his credit 
card application form he marked a box on the form indicating that he wanted to take out 
PPI. And he couldve not ticked the box or signed the application if he didnt want it. So, 
Im satisfied Barclays made it clear the PPI was optional and Mr C agreed to take it out. 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr C so it had to check if it was suitable for him. I 
think it was based on what Ive seen about his circumstances at the time. Mr C told us he 
wasnt entitled to any sick pay and the PPI would have paid out for each successful 
accident and sickness claim for up to 12 months. It also gave him up to 12 months 
redundancy cover. Mr C said he had around £5,000 in savings but the PPI would have 
allowed him to use these for other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep them 
intact for his future needs. Overall, I think the PPI would have been useful for Mr C if he 
was sick, had an accident or lost his job.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mr C chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted 
this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr C 
wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance 
I think he would still have taken out the policy.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr C, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman