DRN-2441915
The complaint
Mr H complains Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (Argos) has treated him unfairly 
by applying deferred interest to his account when he missed the deadline to pay a balance 
for a buy now pay later promotion (BNPL). 
What happened
Mr H has a store card account with Argos, which he took out in 2014. He regularly spends 
on the account and has made use of several BNPL offers. However, Mr H has sometimes 
missed the due date for the BNPL offers due to existing medical conditions, which affect his 
memory and concentration. 
In recent months, Argos has refunded a number of interest charges applied to his account as 
a result of him missing the BNPL repayment dates. However, when he missed another 
deadline in July 2020 it didnt make a refund. As a result £47.12 of interest was added to his 
account. 
Mr H complained that interest had been charged but it didnt let him know of this in advance. 
He also thought a text message sent as a reminder to review a statement was sent too early 
and that it should be sent on the day of expiry. Argos didnt uphold his complaint. It 
explained the card statement issued in June 2020 set out the balance of the BNPL, the due 
date and what deferred interest would be applied if that was missed. It acknowledged Mr Hs 
support network had reduced due to the pandemic and offered to set up a third party to help 
manage his account, but this had been declined. It also said Mr H could enter a note in his 
diary or a reminder on his phone prompting him to review his account or call Argos on 12th of 
each month to see if there was BNPL payment due. It also provided a phone number for a 
support team who could provide additional support. 
Not happy with that Mr H asked for us to look into the matter. Our investigator upheld the 
complaint. Although she was satisfied the terms and conditions of the account entitled Argos 
to apply interest when a BNPL due date hadnt been met, because of the previous refunds 
she felt Argos had a created an expectation that would continue going forward. She also 
thought sending a text message would be a reasonable adjustment. 
Argos disagreed and asked for the matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman. It said the 
interest had been applied in accordance with the terms of the account and the previous 
refunds had been done as a gesture of goodwill  due to Mr Hs existing medical conditions. 
It also said that it doesnt have the facility to send a text a week before the due date and Mr 
H can use the Argos Mobile App to set such a reminder.
 
The matter was referred to me for review and determination. The investigator made 
enquiries about the App with Mr H. He confirmed he had this, but Argos hadnt made him 
aware previously that he could set reminders on it. The investigator also asked Argos for a 
copy of the texts sent to Mr H but the content is not available as these are automated. I 
understand them to be a reminder to review a statement and notification of interest being 
charged.
I issued my provisional decision on 20 November 2020 explaining why I wasnt minded to 
uphold this complaint. In that provisional decision I said:
There is no dispute between the parties that under the terms and conditions of the 
account Argos is entitled to charge deferred interest where the balance under a 
BNPL offer hasnt been paid by the due date. 
Mr H has existing medical conditions which affect his memory and concentration. 
When determining complaints, we take the law, regulatory requirements and good 
industry practice into account. It seems to me that the Equality Act 2010 (the Act) 
would be applicable here. In deciding this complaint, it isnt my role to make a finding 
about whether or not Argos has acted unlawfully under the provisions of the Equality 
Act 2010. That is a matter for the courts. But I have taken into account the provisions 
of the Act when reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
 
Under the Act there is a duty to make reasonable adjustments for disabled people so 
they arent at a substantial disadvantage in comparison with non-disabled people. 
But that doesnt mean a business has to make any adjustment a person asks for  
the requirement is for reasonable adjustments. 
I understand and accept that due to Mr Hs existing conditions he has problems with 
his memory, which has resulted in him missing the deadline for a number of BNPL 
offers. I can see from the information provided that Argos has made refunds of some 
the interest charged this year as a gesture of goodwill. Mr H has said he thought he 
had an agreement in place that this would continue to happen. Whilst I accept Argos 
may have agreed a refund on occasions previously, I think that is far from agreeing it 
would always do so; and Ive not seen persuasive evidence that it did.
 
I consider the previous refunds to be a positive step. But I dont think that binds 
Argos to continue making refunds if Mr H missed a BNPL deadline again; and I dont 
think that would be a reasonable adjustment under the Act, as it would place Mr H in 
a more advantageous position than non-disabled people, which isnt the purpose of 
the Act. 
Mr H has requested he be texted a week prior to a BNPL due date, or on the day, to 
ensure he makes payment on time. Im not persuaded this would necessarily amount 
to a reasonable adjustment, although it isnt clear if Argos actually assessed that. I 
say this because Argos has many different BNPL offers throughout the year, all with 
different due dates and running for different lengths of time  as can be seen from Mr 
Hs own statements. To provide such a service for one customer, would likely either 
require an IT change and/or manual oversight of the account. Both of those are likely 
to have cost implications.
I make this finding having borne in mind that Argos has suggested a number of different 
options for Mr H to be reminded of the due date for any BNPL offers, which include:
Mr H can set additional reminders in the Argos Mobile App which is available as an 
additional service. Although Mr H has the App and has said he wasnt made aware of 
this service previously, he hasnt said why this wouldnt or couldnt meet his needs for 
a reminder. 
Argos has said that Mr H can set a reminder in his diary or his phone. I understand 
most phones nowadays offer such a facility  Mr H hasnt said his doesnt or provided 
any explanation as to why this wouldnt be a sufficient prompt for him to meet his 
requirement to pay a BNPL balance by the due date, to avoid any deferred interest. Argos has offered to set up a third party of Mr Hs choosing on the account to help 
him manage it  this is because Mr Hs usual support network has been impacted by 
the pandemic. I understand Mr H doesnt want family or friends to help him, as he 
would like to maintain a level of independence, but that is different to not being able 
to use another partys help because of his conditions.  
Argos has provided the number for its support team to see if any other additional 
support can be provided. 
Im satisfied there are options open to Mr H to ensure he makes any BNPL balance 
payment on time and some of these have always been open to him, even if not provided 
by Argos  such as setting a reminder in his phone. In the absence of any reason as to 
why he cant use these because of his condition, rather than he doesnt want to, Im 
satisfied Mr H hasnt been disadvantaged. 
I turn now to the addition of interest. As mentioned above, there is no dispute that Argos 
is entitled, under the terms and conditions of the account, to add deferred interest to an 
account where the BNPL balance repayment date hasnt been met. 
Mr H was told in the June 2020 statement that £47.12 would be applied if this particular 
BNPL offer wasnt paid by July 2020. Mr H missed that payment date and so in 
accordance with the terms the interest was charged. Im satisfied Argos has treated Mr H 
fairly given the number of refunds it had already made. And Mr H could have taken steps 
himself to set reminders either when he made the BNPL order, or when he received his 
monthly statements. In the circumstances, Im not currently minded to find Argos has 
done anything wrong and so Im not minded to ask it to refund the interest charged. 
Argos has said it has nothing further to add. Mr H didnt agree the outcome reached was fair, 
In summary he has said:
A goodwill gesture is a one-off. Argos had agreed to refund interest on numerous 
previous occasions when a BNPL deadline was missed. As such Mr H believes this 
was an agreement. And if it was going to stop, he should have been notified of this in 
advance so that he could make a choice about whether to continue using the 
account. 
The ombudsman has referred to equal rights, but he isnt going to spend thousands 
of pounds in order to take Argos to court over this interest. 
He still believes the complaint should be upheld and felt the investigator was on his 
side. That her outcome has been overturned feels like a kick in the teeth and he has 
been blind-sided by this. 
He accepts he has acted outside of the contract, but Argos also has by making 
previous refunds. 
He is pursing this because he believes it is right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also listened to the call Mr H had with one of my investigators in response to my 
provisional decision. I understand he is disappointed with my provisional findings, particularly 
as he felt the investigator had been on his side. But it not the role of this office to take sides 
in any dispute; we are independent and impartial of both complainants and businesses. And 
I can only uphold a complaint if I find a business has done something wrong. Where I have 
found a business has done something wrong, I will require it to put that right.  As set out in my provisional findings, there isnt any dispute that under the terms and 
conditions of the account, Argos in entitled to add interest where a deadline for repaying the 
balance of a BNPL promotion hasnt been met. That is the basis of the contract between Mr 
H and Argos. This condition is also reset out in the statements that Mr H is sent. 
I accept that Argos may have previously agreed to make refunds when the deadline has 
been missed. I also accept that Mr H may have believed that meant an agreement was in 
place. But I still havent been provided with any persuasive evidence that Argos actually 
entered into a separate agreement with Mr H that it would always do so.  In the absence of 
such evidence, I remain satisfied those were goodwill gestures; that there was more than 
one of them doesnt alter that. And because there is no actual agreement, I wouldnt expect 
a it to notify him in advance that no further refunds would be made  after all, it cant know 
whether or not Mr H would miss any further deadlines. 
Mr H appears to have misunderstood my reference to the Equality Act 2010. At no point was 
I suggesting he take action against Argos in court. Rather I was setting out the expectations 
and obligations placed on a business with regard to it making reasonable adjustments for 
disabled people. I also pointed out it wasnt clear that Argos had made such an assessment. 
Nevertheless, I didnt find making a refund, or a request to text on the day or for someone 
have manual oversight of the account, to be a reasonable adjustment for the reasons given. 
I had made this finding because there were several mechanisms that Mr H could, and can, 
use to ensure he meets any BNPL deadline date. Although he has voiced his unhappiness 
at my provisional findings, he has not provided any argument that any of those facilities or 
options arent something that can meet his needs for a reminder of the deadline date. 
In all the circumstances and realising Mr H will be very unhappy with this, I dont find Argos 
has done anything wrong. The interest was added in accordance with the terms of the 
account, which Mr H agreed to when taking it out. Argos has acted positively in the past by 
making refunds when it didnt have to. But I find no basis on which to find that binds it to 
continue doing so. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman