DRN-3553487
The complaint
Mr D complains about the information recorded on his credit file by Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
(Moneybarn) during his time of financial difficulty. 
What happened
In January 2017, Mr D entered into a 48 month conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn 
for a used car. He was required to pay monthly instalments of £233.
Around June 2018, Mr D was unable to work due to an accident. He received no income 
during this time which led to him experiencing financial difficulty and the account falling into 
arrears. Over the period of several months, Moneybarn arranged a number of repayment 
plans based on what Mr D could afford. Mr D said although he later returned to making the 
contractual payments, Moneybarn had reported missed payments on his credit file from July 
2018 onwards. Mr D said this was impacting on his ability to obtain credit so he complained. 
Moneybarn outlined the history of the account and the repayments plans. They said Mr D 
had been clearly advised that his credit file would be impacted and until the arrears were 
cleared, it would be recorded as missed payments but the overall balance would reduce with 
time.
Unhappy with their response, Mr D referred the complaint to our service and the loan was 
settled in March 2021. Our investigator recommended the case wasnt upheld. They 
believed Moneybarn had acted fairly and as the account was in arrears this would reflect on 
the credit file as missed payments until the account was brought up to date. 
Mr D disagreed and maintained his position. He stressed missing a payment and the 
account being in arrears were two separate issues. Mr D wanted his credit file updated. 
In April 2022, I issued my provisional decision upholding the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend to uphold Mr Ds 
complaint.
At this point, I wish to emphasise that financial businesses such as Moneybarn have the 
obligation to report fair and accurate information about their consumer to credit reference 
agencies (CRA).
As a starting point, Ive looked at the history of the account and the payment history. Having 
done so, its clear the first missed payment was around June 2018. I understand this was the 
time Mr D was unable to work. After Mr D told Moneybarn about his financial difficulties, I 
can see from July 2018, they agreed to a number of repayment plans based on what he 
could afford over a period of several months. I also note Moneybarn agreed to extend the 
agreement by two months in January 2021 in order for the arrears to be paid and the 
agreement was eventually settled in March 2021. Based on what Ive seen, I believe 
Moneybarn acted fairly in the measures they applied in order to assist Mr D during his time 
of financial hardship.
Concerning matters relating to Mr Ds credit file, Ive reviewed the letters confirming the 
repayment plans. It says As you won't be clearing your arrears balance, this could have a 
negative impact on your credit score and the vehicle may be at risk. Additionally having 
read Moneybarns contact notes I can see in January and February 2019 when discussing 
the repayment plans, Mr D was advised that the arrears will shows as arrears or missed 
payments on his credit file. Overall, although Im satisfied Mr D was told the arrears would 
adversely impact his credit file, I do believe Moneybarn couldve been clearer about how this 
would be recorded from the outset.
When reviewing this complaint, Ive referred to the Information Commissioners Offices 
guidance on the Principles for the reporting of arrears, arrangements and defaults at credit 
reference agencies. This is industry wide guidance about the information financial 
businesses report on an individuals credit file so I believe its reasonable to take it into 
consideration when reviewing this case. 
In part, it says:
If you do not make your regular expected payment by the agreed time and/or for the agreed 
amount according to your terms and conditions, the account may be reported to the CRAs 
as being in arrears. If this continues over time, the level of reported arrears will increase, 
which may result in the lender taking some form of action.
It goes on to say where revised payments or repayment plans are agreed with the financial 
lender this should be reflected on the credit file however how its recorded will depend on 
whether it was a temporary or permanent change. In this case, based on the contact notes 
and the duration of the repayment plans, there is no suggestion Moneybarn intended the 
reduced payments to be a permanent change although I accept due to what Mr D could 
afford, these repayment plans went on for some time. In any event, Im satisfied it was a 
temporary change.
The guidance outlines depending on the period and the amount of the arrangement to pay, 
arrears may continue to be reported but for temporary arrangements its expected the 
individual would return to paying the contractual terms. Having reviewed the payment 
history, I can see Mr D didnt meet the contractual payments during two periods, that is June 
to October 2018 and January to February 2019. However from March 2019 onwards, he 
returned to making the contractual payments and more often than not, he paid a bit more in 
order to reduce the arrears. 
Mr D has provided a copy of his credit report dated October 2020 although Im conscious its 
not a full credit report. It shows Moneybarn recorded missed payments from July 2018 
through to October 2020. I havent been provided with a more up to date credit file as part of 
my investigation but given the missed payments recorded, I suspect an updated credit file 
would show missed payments continued to be reported up to when the account was settled 
in March 2021 this is because the account remained in arrears up until that point. 
I accept the account was in arrears at the time Mr D returned to paying the contractual 
instalments in March 2019 and this was the case up until the account was settled in full. 
However based on the ICOs guidance, once he returned to making the contractual 
payments, I dont believe it was fair for Moneybarn to record it as missed payments just 
because the account was in arrears, the arrears couldve been recorded or reflected in 
another way for example via the account status or the account balance outstanding. I dont 
believe Moneybarn recording payments from March 2019 onwards as missed was a fair or 
accurate reflection of Mr Ds payment history from that point onwards. In line with the ICOs guidance, I believe its reasonable for Moneybarn to record missed 
payments for the periods of June to October 2018 and January to February 2019 as the 
contractual payments werent met. In addition, I believe its fair for them to update Mr Ds 
credit file to show the account was subject to an arrangement to pay from July 2018 up until 
the account was settled in March 2021. I consider this to be a more fair and accurate 
reporting of the status of the account. 
Mr D said due to Moneybarn recording such adverse information on his credit file for over a 
year, it impacted his ability to get credit or credit at a favourable rate including his mortgage. 
I understand why he feels strongly about this and he wants to be compensated. In order to 
award such financial losses or to award compensation, I must be satisfied that it was a direct 
result of the business failing. Here that would mean I would need to be satisfied had it not 
been for Moneybarn recording missed payments from 2018 and not stating the account was 
subject to an arrangement to pay, Mr D wouldve been able to obtain credit or done so at a 
more favourable rate.
I dont have sufficient detail nor evidence about his applications for credit so I cant 
reasonably say thats what happened. While I accept his credit score is most likely to have 
been impacted, I cant say with any certainty this was the only reason for Mr Ds ability or 
lack thereof to obtain credit. The decision to lend, is a commercial one made by a financial 
business and while an individuals credit score will undoubtedly be a consideration, there are 
many other factors that are taken into account. On this basis, I wont be asking Moneybarn 
to compensate Mr D.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Moneybarn acted reasonably to help Mr D 
during his time of financial difficulty by agreeing to repayment plans and extending the 
agreement. However I dont believe the information they reported on Mr Ds credit file was 
fair nor accurate. To put things right, they should amend Mr Ds credit file to show missed 
payments for June to October 2018 and January to February 2019, payments were met from 
March 2019 onwards and the agreement was subject to an arrangement to pay from July 
2018 up to when the account was closed in March 2021. 
Lastly, I must make Mr D aware that in the event he accepts this decision and Moneybarn 
updates his credit file as Ive said, how this will appear on this credit file will depend on the 
individual CRA. Im aware some CRAs provide a simplified version of a credit file so I 
encourage Mr D to check his full credit file once the changes have been made. Given the 
amount of time this incorrect adverse information has been reporting on Mr Ds credit file and 
the worry its caused him, I believe Moneybarn should also pay £100 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused.
Response to the provisional decision
Mr D accepted the findings but felt that the compensation wasnt enough and £400 should 
be awarded given he wasnt able to obtain credit at a lower interest rate. 
Moneybarn disagreed. In summary, they said they dont report whether a payment is missed 
or late, they only report the number of months an agreement is in arrears. That is, if the 
account is one month in arrears they will report it as 1 and if the account remains in arrears 
they continue to report for every month its in arrears, e.g. 2, 3 and so on. They said how this 
is reflected will depend on the individual CRA as it would be displayed in different ways, it 
could display as 1, arrears or missed. Moneybarn said they cant be held responsible for 
how the CRAs or free credit checking websites display the information they report. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Further to Moneybarns response, I asked Mr D to obtain a full credit report from one of the 
three main CRAs which he has kindly provided. Having considered it, I can see the account 
was reported as being in arrears as described by Moneybarn above. From when the 
agreement started, it reports as 0 for some time meaning the account was being managed 
within the terms of the agreement. However in 2018, it starts reporting as 1 meaning a 
repayment up to one month was late. This coincides with when Mr D fell into financial 
hardship. Over the course of a number of months this increased to 4 meaning repayments of 
four or more months were late. For each month, it shows the accounts outstanding balance 
and as previously mentioned it shows it remained in arrears up until the account was settled.  
Based on this further information, Im satisfied Moneybarn fairly and accurately reported the 
status of the account. They have not recorded it as missed payments. As mentioned above, 
it would appear how account arrears are reflected may differ with each individual CRA. For 
some, it will reflect as missed payments as was the case in the previous credit report Mr D 
provided. 
In light of the above, Ive changed my decision. Im satisfied Moneybarn correctly recorded 
the status of Mr Ds account and how it was being managed therefore they dont need to do 
anything further. I no longer require them to pay any compensation. I appreciate Mr D will be 
disappointed by the change of outcome but I hope he understands the reasons for doing so.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman