DRN-3262692
Complaint
Mr B says that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly charged him after he was 
persuaded into keeping his packaged bank account to avoid overdraft fees.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Bs concerns. She didnt think that Halifax had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr B disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the 
various amounts Halifax charged Mr B over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a 
bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get 
involved with.
Mr B is unhappy he was dissuaded from switching to a free account in 2016. Mr B says he 
was dissuaded from switching because he was told that it would cost him more to use his 
overdraft if he did. Ive thought about what Mr B has said. But what Mr B was told in 2016 
was true because Halifax charged £1 a day to use an overdraft with a limit of the amount he 
had. And the monthly packaged account fee was less than a months worth of planned 
overdraft fees. 
So I dont think that Mr B was misled into keeping his packaged account. He was provided 
with factual information and chose to make a decision based on information that was 
accurate at the time. And although I do understand why he might be unhappy Halifax didnt 
offer overdrafts to customers on better terms than it did, Ive already explained that its not 
for me to look at Halifaxs overdraft charging structure as a whole.
Mr B also appears to be unhappy that Halifax didnt notify him that it would now be cheaper 
to simply pay for using his overdraft as and when he did so, when it implemented a change 
to its overdraft pricing structure in November 2017. But while I understand why Mr B may 
have might have wanted Halifax to get in touch to explain that the position had now 
changed, I do think its unreasonable to expect a bank to go back through its records and 
check whether any historic statements made in respect of overdrafts remained true in light of 
these changes. 
I think that Mr B would have been sent details of the changes to the structure in advance of 
them being implemented. And it was up to him to decide whether paying for an overdraft 
when he used it would now be in his best interests, especially as Halifax wont have known 
whether it was still the case he wasnt using the benefits of his packaged account. Its also 
my understanding that the information provided to customers about the changes, invited 
them to get in touch in the event they had any questions on how these changes might affect 
them.
The records Ive seen suggest that Mr B did get in contact with Halifax about the fees on his 
current account on a number of occasions. But the only records I can see of him contacting 
Halifax during the period between the changes being implemented and his complaint, was 
with regard to him acting as a power of attorney on a relatives account and a complaint he 
wanted to make about Payment Protection Insurance in July 2019. So I cant see that Mr B 
did ask Halifax about how the changes would affect him or even discussed account fees 
whether packaged account or overdraft at all. So I dont have enough here to say that 
Halifax misled Mr B once the changes to the overdraft pricing structure were implemented 
either.  
In any event while I dont think that Mr B was misled and I havent looked at Halifaxs 
charging structure per se, it still possible that Halifax wont have acted fairly and reasonably 
towards Mr B if it applied any interest, fees and charges to his account in circumstances 
where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr B was 
experiencing difficulty. So Ive also considered whether there were instances where Halifax 
didnt treat Mr B fairly and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where Halifax continued 
charging Mr B even though it knew he was in financial difficulty or it ought to have realised 
this. Having thought about everything, I dont think that Halifax treated Mr B unfairly or 
unreasonably here though. 
The contact notes Ive been provided with suggested that Mr B got in touch with Halifax on a 
number of occasions between 2016 and August 2017 saying that he was having trouble with 
the fees on his account. The contact notes and Mr Bs account statements show that, on 
many of these occasions, Halifax refunded unarranged overdraft charges. 
The notes also suggest that Mr B was offered the option of switching to a free account but 
didnt want to go ahead with this because he wanted to keep the option of having an 
overdraft on the cheapest terms. But Ive already explained why I think that Mr B wasnt 
misled at this stage and while he might have wanted an overdraft on more advantageous 
terms I cant say that Halifax ought to have offered this at this stage. And Im satisfied that by 
refunding a significant amount of the fees, Halifax were trying to help him.  
I do acknowledge that Mr B has gone through a difficult time. But everything Ive been 
provided with does indicate that Halifax did take steps to assist him when he got into contact 
to say he was having difficulty managing. And, in these circumstances, I dont think that 
Halifax did mislead Mr B or treat him unfairly.
Overall and having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. I realise that this will be very disappointing for Mr B  especially as its taken 
some time for their case to reach this stage. But I hope that hell understand the reasons for 
my decision and at least feel that his concerns have been listened to.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman