DRN-3645576
The complaint
Mr G has complained about advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal)
in relation to a defined benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS). Portal processed the
transfer of Mr Gs OPS benefits alongside another smaller pension fund on an insistent
client basis to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP).
Mr G is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill refer to all
representations as being made by Mr G.
What happened
In my provisional decision sent in July 2022 I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Suitability of advice
Portal has said that the advice it gave was suitable because it did not recommend to Mr G
that he should transfer his pension. Instead he insisted on doing so. After he insisted, it
recommended a provider and investments which it felt were right for him.
But I disagree. I dont think Portals actions were appropriate or fair.
COBS 2.1.1R required Portal to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of its client. And, as part of that, COBS 9.2 required Portal to take
reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was suitable for Mr G. To achieve this,
COBS 9.2.2R said Portal had to obtain enough information from Mr G to ensure its
recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear the related investment risks
consistent with these objectives, and that he had the necessary experience and knowledge
to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
In addition, there were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from
defined benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1.
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer
out of a defined benefits pension scheme;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to
make an informed decision;
3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later
than when the key features document is provided; and
4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to
transfer, or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be
suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it
can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer or opt-out is in the
client's best interests.
So, Portal needed to begin by assuming a transfer from Mr Gs OPS was not suitable,
then consider Mr Gs specific circumstances and objectives. It needed to assess the options
available and look at what was in his best interests. It needed to provide a comparison of
what the situation would be if he opted to transfer his pension from his OPS and what it
would be if he didnt, making clear the differences and risks. And it needed to make sure that
Mr G understood all of this information so that he could make an informed decision. All while
ensuring it acted honestly, fairly and professionally.
A letter was sent to Mr G on 15 May 2015 titled Reviewing your pension- here are your
options. The letter explains that Portal has gathered all of the information it needs to start
giving him pension advice. The letter briefly mentions the transfer value of his OPS as
£12,428 and the critical yield of 12.8% but says these figures will be explained at the
paraplanner appointment. The letter then goes on to outline three options available to Mr
G. Option 1 is to do nothing, option 2 is for a pension release and option 3 is to take full
benefits and retire with an income. Option 1 does not include any detail of the benefit to Mr
G of staying in his current plan, while both of the other options include the benefit of taking
TFC.
I accept there had been some contact prior to this letter  with an initial enquiry having been
registered prior to Portal gathering information about Mr Gs existing pension schemes and
Mr G also signed a form that allowed Portal to gather information about his existing
provisions. But I think the letter indicates, before a meaningful fact find had been completed,
the discussion being skewed towards a particular outcome, especially as it only talks about
the benefits of leaving the OPS.
Portal carried out a fact find on 19 June 2015. But there doesnt appear to have been any
information gathered about Mr Gs income needs in retirement. The question around this on
the form has simply not been answered. I think it would be difficult, without an attempt
having been made to understand this, for any recommendation to be entirely suitable for Mr
Gs circumstances, bearing in mind the primary aim of a pension is to provide income in
retirement. There is also nothing in the fact find to indicate that Mr G had any other
retirement provisions in place  so its likely he had limited capacity for loss with his OPS.
But this isnt reflected in the risk assessment.
The requirement noted for Mr G needing TFC was to pay off some credit card debt. But it
appears this would have been a nice to have rather than an urgent need. The credit card
debt appears to be Mr Gs only debt at the time and there is nothing to suggest he was
unable to keep up with his payments. He also still had monthly disposable income. So, Im 
sure Mr G would have liked to pay off his credit card, but I dont think the informationcollected shows Mr G had an urgent need to access TFC.
In my opinion, the discussions around TFC seemed to be about how Mr G would spend the
money if it was available, rather than what he needed and whether giving up guaranteed
lifelong benefits, and opting out his OPS was in his best interests. And again, this followed
the earlier correspondence that had already been skewed toward the outcome of taking
TFC.
Portal recorded Mr Gs attitude to risk as balanced, based on the information recorded in the
fact find. But I dont think some of the answers given support this.
To the statement people who know me would describe me as a cautious person Mr G
answered, Strongly agree.
To the statement I feel comfortable about investing in the stock market Mr G answered
disagree.
To the statement I generally look for safer investments, even if it means lower returns Mr G
answered Agree.
To the statement I generally prefer bank deposits to riskier investments Mr G answered
Agree.
To the statement I find investment matters easy to understand Mr G answered, no strong
opinion.
To the statement I am willing to take substantial risk to earn substantial returns Mr G
answered Disagree.
To the statement I have little experience of investing in stocks and shares Mr G answered,
Strongly agree.
To the statement Id rather take my chances with high risk investments than increase the
amount Im saving Mr G answered, Disagree.
Mr G is noted as having strongly agreed that he had little experience in investing, people
would describe him as cautious and he generally looked for safer investments. Overall Mr G
appears to be more comfortable saving than taking risks. Not to mention the limited capacity
for loss Ive already noted. I think Mr G is more likely to have had a low/cautious ATR, his
pension seems to be his only available provision at retirement.
So, I don think the focus of the initial correspondence and the fact find was what
was in Mr Gs best interests. It seems to have been largely around how much TFC could
potentially be taken and what this might be used for  not whether that was appropriate. And
I think that could very well have misled Mr G into thinking that releasing TFC was what
Portal thought was best.
On 26 June 2015, following the fact find, Portal wrote to Mr G in a letter titled Important
information about accessing your pension early.
The letter briefly mentioned the critical yield required from a private pension to meet the
benefits under his existing OPS to be 12.8% and that he would be giving up a guaranteed
pension of £899 per annum and TFC of £2,497. The letter also commented on the small
transfer value of Mr Gs other pension being £633 and that he could release TFC of £158
from this. But besides this this limited information there were no comparisons in the letter forMr G to consider. Instead the letter immediately explained Mr Gs option of having Portal
help him release TFC, albeit as an insistent client.
The document included an insistent client form with boxes for Mr G to tick to signify he
understood the critical yield figures and that, if he went ahead with the transfer he would be
giving up a guaranteed pension of £899 and TFC at age 65, he might expect to receive £276
per annum at age 66 after taking immediate TFC.
Mr G was also required to tick a box confirming that transferring his current scheme was
against the advice of Portal and had to complete a small section explaining why he wanted
to access TFC early.
Mr G wrote I need cover my debts. He also ticked the required boxes before returning the
form to Portal.
The letter and attached form gave no consideration to any other ways Mr G could potentially
raise the funds to meet his objectives, if indeed he did have a genuine need to do so, other
than directing him to third party organisations like citizens advice for help with debt
management. For example, Ive not seen anything to suggest any information was gathered
about whether Mr G couldve potentially taken benefits from his OPS scheme early  given
he was already over the age of 55 at the time of the advice. Portal may argue that Mr G
would have declined this option but based on what Ive seen it doesnt appear to have even
been considered, discussed, or outlined.
I think Portals conclusion that the critical yield made the transfer unsuitable was correct. But
given the lack of any significant comparison or information for Mr G to consider, I dont think
Portal provided full and clear advice to Mr G, such that it left him in a position to make an
informed decision about the transfer or about being an insistent client.
Immediately after saying that transferring would be against its recommendation, Portal
promoted the option of still releasing money from Mr Gs pension  the focus being that this
was something it could help with provided he signed an enclosed form to proceed on an
insistent client basis. It also encouraged this form to be returned, at which point it said it
would send out application forms and a suitability report detailing its advice.
I dont think it was reasonable to ask Mr G to complete and return this form accepting he was
to be treated as an insistent client and having made the decision to transfer out of his OPS
before a suitability report and advice based on the report was even produced.
At the point Mr G was required to complete and return the form it appears to be a pre-drawn
conclusion that he would be going ahead with the transfer.
A suitability report was issued on 8 July 2015. The report repeated that the transfer was
against Portals recommendations. And it included some further risk warnings that, amongst
other things, releasing funds early could reduce Mr Gs income in retirement, taking TFC at
this stage would mean no further TFC could be taken later, and by transferring away from
the OPS Mr G would most likely be unable to reverse this decision.
But it didnt give any context to the transfer not being recommended  particularly in relation
to Mr Gs specific circumstances. There was no additional comparison of the benefits that Mr
G would be entitled to under his OPS in comparison to those potentially available under a
personal pension  indeed other than the value of the OPS pension and the guaranteed
pension per annum, the OPS benefits were not summarised at all within the suitability report.
The report also said if Mr G continued to pay his debt through monthly contributions, ratherthan taking TFC he will have a total repayment of £3,910.89 calculated at a market
average rate of 10.55% APR on the debt, with a pension value of £20,635 based on 5%
growth at retirement. But if he took TFC and used that to pay off his debt and paid the
money he wouldve been putting towards the debt into his pension you will have total
contributions into your pension of £4,693.06 (this has been grossed up due to tax relief)
and a pension value of £21,116 based on 5% growth at retirement. This indicated to Mr G
that hed potentially be better off in broad terms by transferring  which undermined previous
statements by Portal to the contrary. So, I think generally these statements are misleading.
Portal has made assumptions about the interest rate when it could have requested the
actual rates giving a more accurate assessment. Which I think further shows that Mr G was
not given clear enough information to enable him to make an informed decision.
The report went on to recommend a specific provider and specific funds that Mr Gs pension
should be invested in. The covering letter sent with the suitability report also stated: Please
read - my pension recommendation is enclosed, and that following the recommendation
would mean Mr G would have access to TFC. The letter further stated, I believe I have
made a recommendation suitable for your situation. I think these statements suggest Portal
thought it was a good idea that Mr G should transfer his existing pension.
The covering letter included a further declaration for Mr G to complete which repeated the
acknowledgements in the insistent client declaration that he had previously returned. But this
document had a pre-typed statement requiring Mr G to simply sign to show he was fully
aware of all the risk he would be taking transferring his pension. This statement was not in
Mr Gs own words and I dont think it demonstrates he was fully aware of all the risks
involved.
Even with the content of this form in mind I think there was significant enough doubt and
contradiction in the correspondence Mr G was sent for him to believe that Portal was in fact
recommending a transfer.
The suitability report did touch on alternative methods of raising the funds Mr G needed to
meet his objectives, namely taking a loan, or using his existing disposable income. But this
section of the report, as explained above also appeared to favour the option of TFC as it also
said that by redirecting the payments Mr G was currently making against his debt would
result in Mr G receiving a higher pension value at retirement.
The report says that Mr G did not have enough disposable income to service his needs,
although this was not expanded upon. Mr G was only paying the interest off his debts so the
capital sum would not have been reducing. He had disposable income of around £200 each
month and a low amount of debt, so it is possible a loan could have been serviced by his
disposable income. This would have allowed Mr G to start paying off his actual debt rather
than just the interest. This option would also have allowed Mr G to keep the benefits offered
by his OPS. There was also no meaningful comparison between using the alternative
methods and taking the risk of transferring Mr Gs pension provisions.
I dont think the suitability report was sufficient as a recommendation not to proceed, and I
dont think Mr Gs objective was robustly tested by Portal. Mr Gs only objective appears to
be for him to pay off a relatively small credit card debt and I think it may have been possible
to meet Mr Gs objectives in other more suitable ways. I think the correspondence in general
muddied the waters, which I think on balance likely led Mr G to believe Portal felt the transfer
was appropriate.
I dont think the investments recommended to Mr G were appropriate. As Ive said
previously, I dont think the answers Mr G gave in his fact find support the view that he had abalanced ATR, which was the basis his investments were selected on.
Taking everything into account I dont think the advice given by Portal was suitable.
Insistent Client
Portal treated Mr G as an insistent client. Ive already detailed a number of flaws with the
process that Portal followed. And overall, I have concerns with the process used and
whether Mr G was in fact an insistent client.
In the final response letter Portal sent to Mr G in answer to his complaint, it said it had
complied FCAs COBS 19.2.1. It said that it:
fully investigated and analysed your pension plans as their gathered findings were shown in
your post sale options letter and suitability report  this made it clear to you that a pension
transfer was not suitable for you and you were better off staying with your existing pension
providers.
Portal said that when Mr G received the post-sale options letter dated 26 June 2015 he
decided to go against Portals advice and proceeded on the basis that he would be treated
as an insistent client.
But the letter Portal has referred to was sent to Mr G before he received Portals full
suitability report, and it promoted the opportunity for Mr G to proceed on an insistent client
basis. The letter included an insistent client form, and while its not in dispute that Mr G
signed the form, the options Mr G was asked to agree to only required him to place a tick in
a box to confirm his understanding. The section Mr G was asked to write himself only asked
why he wanted to access funds early against the advice that had been given. I dont think
enough importance was given to the fact Mr G was going against professional advice
despite it not being in his best interests. In any event, Mr G simply wrote what he would be
spending the funds on I need cover me debts.
Although this declaration was in Mr Gs own words his response did not cover why he
wanted to ignore professional advice and proceed with an unsuitable transfer above any
other alternative that could be explored, or why it was so important for him to clear his small
credit card debt at the time. I cant see that Portal asked Mr G to confirm the reasons behind
transferring his pension being so important, which after receiving his limited response seems
appropriate.
So, Mr G didnt have all of the information he needed to make an informed decision  the
form did highlight the critical yield figures and that Mr G would be giving up a guaranteed
pension. It also gave limited information about what he might achieve should he proceed
with the transfer. But I think it was unreasonable to ask Mr G whether he wanted to be
treated as an insistent client or not before providing the suitability report.
Only after receiving Mr Gs confirmation that he wished to proceed did Portal send Mr G the
formal suitability report. And while the report stated that transferring would be against
Portals recommendation, this was followed by the recommendation to transfer out of the
OPS to a personal pension in the same report. Which, as Ive said above, I think undermined
the recommendation not to transfer.
I dont think the process was geared towards Mr G making an informed, considered
assessment of the reasons why he shouldnt be transferring  as if it was, I feel that would
have involved Portal providing the full recommendation to Mr G, allowing him to consider this
on his own, and then revert to Portal if he still wished to proceed.On the contrary, I would go as far as to say that Portals process was designed to facilitate
the transfer, with significant emphasis placed on the release of funds and how this could be
achieved from the outset. I dont think that providing Mr G with a means of proceeding
against the advice, without establishing why he wanted to go against it, why the apparent
requirements were truly necessary and why alternatives werent truly more appropriate,
demonstrates that Portal had his best interests in mind.
Overall, I think this shows that Portal made it altogether far too easy for Mr G to agree that
he was an insistent client rather than allowing him time to think about the advice not to go
ahead with the transfer.
Would Mr G have acted differently?
Mr G said he wanted to access TFC to clear credit card debt. But again, I believe the
discussions were around what he would have liked to use this money for rather than him
needing to release funds. As mentioned previously, Mr G had a disposable income and there
is no evidence to suggest Mr G wasnt managing his small credit card balance affectively. I
dont think Mr G had a true need for the funds, or that he would always have transferred his
OPS and taken TFC if Portal had used a more appropriate process.
Taking this into account, I think, as an inexperienced investor, had Mr G been provided with
more appropriate and robust advice around why the transfer was not suitable, I dont think
hed have gone ahead. I know Portal says the transfer was against its recommendation 
which overall was in my view correct. But the process Portal used, including the suitability
report ultimately issued after Mr G had been directed to the insistent client route, lacked
sufficient clarity, reasoning and rigour  for all the reasons set out above. And, in my view,
meant Mr G wasnt able to make an informed decision. If he had been provided with more
appropriate information and reasoning, so that he fully understood the risks and long-term
implications involved in transferring his OPS and investing as he did, and hadnt been
directed towards the insistent client route, I think he would have acted differently and
retained his deferred benefits. As a result, I think Mr Gs complaint should be upheld.
On balance, if the transfer hadnt taken place, I think Mr G wouldve retained his OPS
benefits until drawing them at age 65, and had Mr G retained his benefits in his OPS I dont
think he would have transferred the benefits of his smaller pension either just to release the
small sum of £158 in TFC. Had it not been for Portals failings I dont think Mr G would have
gone ahead with the transfer. So, the funds wouldnt have been invested as they were. So, I
think it is appropriate to hold Portal responsible for the losses Mr G has incurred.
Portal should put Mr G, as far as possible, into the position he would now be in but for the
unsuitable advice.
To put things right I said:
Putting things right
My aim in awarding redress is to put Mr G as far as possible in the position he would be in
now if Portal had given him suitable advice. I think Mr G would have remained in the OPS. I
also think he would have retained his other existing personal pension arrangements. Portal
has only briefly mentioned this smaller fund and it appears to have only been included as Mr
G transferred his OPS at the time.
What should Portal do?To compensate Mr G fairly, Portal must determine the fair value of his transferred pension
benefits as outlined in Step One and Step Two below. If the actual value is greater than the
fair value, no compensation is payable.
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the current SIPP at the date of the calculation.
fair value  step one
If Mr G had been given suitable advice, I think he would have remained in the OPS scheme.
Portal must therefore calculate the value of the benefits Mr G lost as a result of transferring
out of his OPS in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the FCA in
its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable
OPS pension transfers.
The calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Mr Gs acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Gs
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Gs SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
fair value  step two
Portal must calculate the notional value of Mr Gs personal pension if he had remained
invested there. This should be calculated from the date of investment in the SIPP until the
date of my final decision.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Novia SIPP Still exists 
and liquidNotional value 
from previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 90 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr G's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the
end date. Portal should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any additional sum paid into the Novia SIPP should be added to the notional valuecalculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the Novia SIPP should be deducted from the notional value calculation
at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill
accept if Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of
deducting periodically.
The combined value of the sums produced by the above two steps is the fair value.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid
into Mr Gs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. The
compensation amount must, where possible, be paid to Mr G within 90 days of the date
Portal receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal
to pay Mr G.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
I gave both Mr G and Portal time to respond to my provisional decision, but no further 
information was provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr G, nor Portal provided anything further for me to consider. So, I see no reason to 
make a finding different to that I made in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint as follows.
Determination and money award: I require Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr G the
compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Portal
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr G any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Portal Financial
Services LLP to pay Mr G any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr G the balance. I additionally recommend any interest
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr G.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman