DRN-3483106
The complaint
Ms W has complained about poor customer service and delays by Barclays Bank UK PLC 
when she was trying to arrange a new mortgage (with a different lender) to repay her expired 
interest-only mortgage with Barclays.
To settle the complaint, Ms W wants compensation for trouble and upset, and financial 
redress to cover the additional interest shes paid to Barclays, as well as loss of rent 
because she wasnt able to re-mortgage, borrow extra funds, renovate and rent out a 
bungalow shed inherited.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several thousand pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
In addition, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, and in the 
investigators letter dated 8 April 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so there is no 
need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my 
decision. Finally, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information 
that might lead to Ms W being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of 
what happened quite brief.
Briefly, Ms W had an interest-only mortgage with Barclays, originally taken out jointly with 
her then-husband, Mr C, from whom she is now divorced. For a number of years Ms W has 
been the sole occupant of the property and in her divorce settlement I understand she was 
awarded the entire equity in the property. However, there was no transfer of equity to 
change the title at the Land Registry, nor any application to Barclays for a Change of Parties. 
Therefore both the legal title and the mortgage remained in the joint names of Ms W and 
Mr C  and in Barclays records Ms W was still on the banks records as Mrs C (and may 
also have been at the Land Registry, although nothing turns on the Land Registry point in 
relation to this complaint).
In January 2021 the mortgage was due to reach the end of its term. Ms Ws original intention 
was to repay Barclays from the proceeds of sale of her mothers bungalow, whether or not 
her mother was still alive at the time the mortgage ended; had that been the case, her 
mother would have moved in with Ms W. However, her mother had passed away and Ms W 
inherited the bungalow. Ms W has explained that the property needed modernisation, and, 
prior to the pandemic, she would have expected to sell it within six months in its non-
modernised condition.
It was only when the pandemic hit that it became apparent Ms W wouldnt be able to sell the 
bungalow so she looked into re-mortgaging her own property, repaying the mortgage to 
Barclays and borrowing additional funds to renovate the bungalow so she could rent it out in 
order to cover the mortgage repayments.
Ms W applied to MBS for a mortgage on her own property, and a mortgage offer was issued, 
but it was one of MBSs conditions that the property had to be in Ms Ws sole name. This 
meant there needed to be a transfer of equity, for which Barclays consent was required.
Ms W says there were long delays at her solicitors due to the pandemic, but as she had less 
than three months before her mortgage offer expired, Ms W decided it would be quicker for 
her to deal with this herself and get the transfer of equity processed by the Land Registry. 
Mr C had consented to this, but the Land Registry explained to Ms W that Barclays consent 
was required to remove Mr C from the property title. 
Ms W asked Barclays about this on 10 May 2021. On 17 May 2021 Barclays replied 
(addressed to both Ms W  still recorded as Mrs C in the banks records  and Mr C) saying 
it had no objection in principle but that the bank required the borrowers solicitors to contact 
the bank before formal consent could be given. Barclays also asked for confirmation that the 
solicitors were on Barclays panel.
A letter sent to Barclays by Ms Ws solicitors about the transfer went astray, and I see from 
Barclays contemporaneous notes that on 2 June 2021 Barclays asked Ms W to confirm the 
name of the solicitors who were acting for her. Ms W confirmed she was dealing with the 
transfer of title herself. On 15 June 2021 Ms W was reminded about the banks letter of 17 
May 2021. On 16 June 2021 Ms Ws solicitors contacted Barclays. 
Unfortunately, that didnt resolve the matter, because the solicitors werent on Barclays 
panel. Barclays also identified that the mortgage account was still held in Ms Ws former 
married name of Mrs C. As a result, Barclays needed confirmation of change of name to 
ensure it was dealing with the correct party.
On 30 September 2021 Barclays received a letter of consent from Mr C agreeing to be 
removed from the mortgage account. It wasnt until 6 October 2021, however, that Ms W 
provided proof of change of name.
There was a further glitch because, on Barclays system, the mortgage had expired, and so 
it wasnt possible to process a transfer of equity on an expired mortgage account. 
Ms Ws mortgage offer with MBS expired, and her application for a transfer of equity at the 
Land Registry expired, but she was able to find a new lender which was more relaxed in its 
approach and didnt require a transfer of equity prior to agreeing to a new mortgage. 
Ms W complained to Barclays. The bank acknowledged its customer service could have 
been better and offered £600 in total compensation for delays and for not responding 
promptly to correspondence. However, Barclays didnt think it was responsible for the 
transfer of equity not going through.
Dissatisfied with Barclays response, Ms W complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think Barclays needed to do anything more. Ms W disagreed, reiterating all her previous arguments about why she 
thought Barclays had been at fault. Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said at the outset, I will concentrate on what I consider to be the relevant complaint 
points, which is what I am required to do by our enabling legislation.
Although requests to remove a party from a mortgage are generally straightforward, this one 
was not; the mortgage term had expired and the account remained (in Barclays records) in 
the joint names of Mr and Mrs C. 
First of all, Barclays has acknowledged there were customer service issues and delays, and 
offered compensation of £600 for this. So what I have to consider is whether Barclays should 
pay any additional compensation for what Ms W says are its shortcomings in failing to deal 
with her transfer of equity.
Ms W was divorced some years ago and although the court ordered the property be 
transferred to her, subject to the mortgage, it appears that no steps were taken at the time 
by Ms Ws solicitors to put in place a transfer of equity or a change of parties on the 
mortgage, and Ms W has said that this couldnt have taken place without her having to sell 
the property. Consequently, it wasnt until the mortgage term expired that Ms W realised that 
the legalities would need to be taken care of in order to satisfy MBSs terms and conditions.
I cant hold Barclays responsible for the lending criteria and terms and conditions of another 
lender. It wasnt Barclays that was saying there had to be a transfer of equity and change of 
parties before Ms W was able to go ahead with her new mortgage  it was MBS.
Regrettably letters sent to Barclays, and signed for, went astray. This was unfortunate, and 
was most likely due to human error, combined with staffing issuing arising from the 
pandemic. I do appreciate it caused upset to Ms W, however, and duplication of work on her 
part.
I appreciate Ms W was trying to deal with the matter herself, but I think she might not have 
realised that, from Barclays point of view, the bank had not one, but two, borrowers on the 
account and so needed to take into consideration the legal implications, the risk to the bank 
and ensure that the transaction was above board. It wasnt just a form-filling exercise. So Im 
satisfied it was reasonable for Barclays to ask that solicitors deal with the matter, rather than 
just one of the borrowers on the account, notwithstanding that there was a letter of consent 
from Mr C. Barclays was entitled to ensure that it was not exposed to legal risk and having 
solicitors act on this type of transaction is standard industry practice.
Barclays explained to Ms W in its letter of 17 May 2021 that it would need solicitors acting for 
Ms W (and Mr C) to contact the bank, and that they would need to be on Barclays panel. I 
note that in her response dated 22 April 2022 to the investigators findings Ms W says ..It 
has now transpired that [Barclays] have told the Ombudsman that they need contact from a 
solicitor on Barclays board [panel] which has never once been mentioned in the last 8 
months that I have been fighting with them But that is patently not the case, because 
Ms W was told in May 2021 that her solicitors would need to be on Barclays panel.Ive also noted what Ms W has said about Barclays panel requirements and that these are 
not clear. However, experienced conveyancing solicitors would, or should, be aware of the 
need to be on a particular lenders panel, and that if they were not, that theyd need to apply. 
It was up to the solicitors to do this, if they wanted to deal with this matter with Barclays. I 
cant hold Barclays responsible if Ms Ws solicitors didnt take steps to rectify the position.
Ive also noted what Ms W said about the change of name. But there was no formal change 
of name noted on the account and Ms W was still shown as Mrs C in Barclays records. 
Given this, it was reasonable for Barclays to ask for confirmation of change of name before it 
could proceed with an application to transfer the mortgage account out of the joint names of 
(in its records) Mr and Mrs C to Ms W.
A further problem was encountered when Barclays staff werent able to process a change of 
parties on an expired mortgage account. Barclays letter to Ms W  that it could only do this if 
there was a re-mortgage  was a bit of a computer says no response, and I think Barclays 
could have explained the position better, clarifying that this was a systems issue because 
the mortgage term had expired. This was an unusual situation because, once a mortgage 
term has come to an end, it would only be if one party was taking out a new mortgage with 
Barclays that a change of party would be needed. So its not surprising that the banks 
system wasnt set up to deal with this most unusual scenario.
Its unfortunate that the change of parties and transfer of equity couldnt be carried out 
before the MBS mortgage offer expired in July 2021. However, Im not persuaded that that is 
the fault of Barclays, given that it was necessary for panel solicitors to represent the banks 
interests in the matter, and that the solicitors didnt appear to address this.
I can see that Ms W was very anxious to get the matter resolved, and at some stages was 
emailing and telephoning multiple times a day, usually speaking to different people. This, 
unfortunately, didnt help, as it meant several people were all trying to find out what was 
happening, and resulted in internal confusion amongst the staff, with various teams that 
covered expired interest-only mortgages, customer complaints and legal issues all thinking 
the other teams were handling the matter. 
I am told that Ms Ws new lender didnt need there to be a transfer of equity or change of 
parties before Ms Ws remortgage could go ahead. I cant see that Barclays was told about 
this, and, indeed, both Ms W and the bank proceeded (after the MBS mortgage offer had 
expired) as if this was still necessary. If the bank wasnt aware that the new lender didnt 
need this, I cant hold Barclays responsible for continuing with the process to remove Mr C 
from the mortgage and for the bank to give consent for him to be taken off the title deeds.
In the circumstances, having looked at everything that happened, other than the customer 
services issues for which Barclays has offered compensation, Im not persuaded that overall 
the bank is responsible for the transaction not proceedings before the MBS mortgage offer 
expired on 21 July 2021. Im also satisfied that it was reasonable for Barclays to ensure that 
there was a valid change of name, and that any solicitors acting were on its panel. 
Given this, I am not persuaded Barclays should be responsible for any additional interest 
Ms W paid on the mortgage. 
Im also not persuaded Barclays is liable for loss of rent on the bungalow. Ms Ws position 
throughout  as recorded in Barclays contemporaneous notes  was that a sale of the 
bungalow was to be the repayment vehicle for the mortgage on Ms Ws house. The notes 
record that on 28 April 2021 Barclays was told, although the property was being marketed, sale has been unsuccessful so far due to Covid as cant have viewings. Also needs some 
urgent work so has had to take it off the market. Is also looking at a refinance.
At no point was Barclays told that the intention was to renovate the bungalow as a rental 
property and so there is no basis on which it would be fair or reasonable to expect the bank 
to compensate any losses Ms W claims to have sustained for this.
I appreciate this was a stressful experience for Ms W, but, looking at the matter impartially, I 
am not persuaded all the errors she has attributed to Barclays are all the banks fault, for the 
reasons Ive explained above. In the circumstances, Im satisfied the compensation of £600 
offer by the bank is fair and reasonable, and Im not ordering the bank to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I simply leave it to Ms W to decide if 
she want to accept the £600 compensation offered by Barclays Bank UK PLC in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman