DRN-2658462
The complaint
Mr L complains Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe SE unfairly required 
charged him to pay his motor insurance policy excess.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr Ls car was involved in a collision with a third partys car. He called his 
insurer, Aioi, who felt, based on his account, that the third party was responsible for the 
incident. Because of that, Mr L was referred to a credit hire firm to deal with the claim and 
provide a hire car without him being required to pay the policys £1,150 excess.
It turned out the credit hire firm werent willing to deal with Mr Ls claim due to pre-existing 
damage to his car. So Mr L was required to claim for the damage to his car on his Aioi motor 
insurance policy. Hes unhappy Aioi required him to pay the policy excess before 
undertaking any repairs. He says the policy terms waive the excess where a claim isnt his 
fault. 
Aioi responded to a complaint from Mr L. It didnt change its position. It says the policy terms 
only require it to waive the excess when its likely it will fully recover the claim costs from the 
third party. It doesnt feel thats the case. 
Mr L doesnt accept that so came to this service. As the excess hasnt been paid his car 
hasnt been repaired. He wants the excess waived, his car repaired and compensation for 
the repairs being delayed.
Our investigator said Aiois decision not to waive the excess was fair. He didnt think its 
refusal to do so made it responsible for any delay to repair of Mr Ls car. So he didnt 
recommend Aioi do anything differently. Mr L didnt accept that, so the complaint has come 
to me for a decision. 
Aioi, in its complaint response to Mr L, accepted it had made mistakes with his referral to the 
credit hire firm and with information provided about the policy excess during a phone call. 
Mr L accepted its offer of £75 compensation for these issues. He hasnt raised them with this 
service, so I havent considered them here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls policy says he must pay an excess for any claim. The terms also say Aioi will pay the 
cost of repairs to his car less any excess.  His policy documents show the excess to be 
£1,150 in total.
However, the policy goes on to state that the excess will be waived if the loss or damage is 
another partys fault  and its more likely than not Aioi will recover any amount it pays for his 
claim, in full, from the other party.
So for Aioi to waive the excess it needs to think it will probably recover everything it pays for 
Mr Ls claim from the third party. That would require the third party being deemed fully at 
fault  not just partially to blame. 
The policy terms allow Aioi to conduct, defend and settle any claim made against Mr Ls 
policy. That means it may make a decision he doesnt agree with. But it needs to act fairly 
and reasonably when doing so. 
The third-party claims Mr L to be fully at fault. As far as Im aware Aioi hasnt accepted he 
was. But it feels dashcam footage and an independent witness dont support the third party 
being fully to blame. Aioi feels, based on the available evidence, its unlikely a court would 
find the third party fully at fault. Because of that it doesnt believe its more likely than not it 
will recover the full claim amount. So its refused to waive the excess. 
Having watched the dashcam footage, unfortunately for Mr L I cant say Aiois position is 
unfair or unreasonable. I can understand why it doesnt feel it would probably be able 
recover the full claim costs, including the repairs to his car, from the third party. So I cant 
say its decision not to waive the excess is unfair. 
Mr L says other parties, including his own solicitor, feel he was wasnt at fault for the 
incident. That may be the case. But Im considering Aiois actions in this complaint. And I 
dont think its position is unfair or unreasonable. Mr Ls unhappy Aiois changed its position 
on his liability. It seems to have done that after receiving further information, including the 
dashcam footage, which is something its entitled to do. I cant say thats unfair or 
unreasonable.  
Aiois decision not to waive the excess is fair and reasonable. It was Mr Ls decision not to 
pay it. Thats means I cant say Aiois responsible for his car not being repaired or any 
inconvenience hes experienced as a result. And Im not going to require it to waive the 
excess or pay him any compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman