DRN-3483140
The complaint
Mr J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc carried out a search on his credit file.
What happened
Mr J says he applied for a HSBC currency account which didnt have any credit facilities. He 
says HSBC carried out a hard search on his credit file without telling him it would do so. Mr J 
would like the search removed and compensation for what took place. He says HSBC said it 
may perform a credit search for certain accounts and as a result of what took place was 
unable to take advantage of other banking offers as too many searches would have taken 
place on his credit file. Mr J would like compensation in line with those missed opportunities 
and the search removed from his credit file.
HSBC says it hasnt made a mistake and says all account applications are subject to credit 
scoring with the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). It says it makes clear to customers in 
the application process that a credit search will be carried out and that Mr J agreed to that 
search.
Mr J brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mr J had accepted the account terms and conditions when he applied for the 
account which made clear there would be a credit search.
Mr J doesnt accept that view and says there was no mention of the credit search in August 
2021 when he applied for the account and says HSBC do not carry out such searches for 
example on a savings account. He questions the lawful basis of a search for an account 
without a credit facility.
I asked both sides for further information. Mr J says he wouldnt have applied for the account 
if he had known a search would be carried out. He confirmed he read the terms and 
conditions and HSBCs privacy notice. And says it said If you apply for new products or 
services (including credit like a mortgage, personal loan or credit card), we may perform 
credit and identity checks on you with one or more credit reference agencies (CRAs). When 
you use our banking services, we may also make periodic searches at CRAs to manage
your account with us.
HSBC says all its accounts are subject to a credit search and says it has provided the 
screens as well as information Mr J would have seen when applying for the account. It says 
there is a separate section on credit searches in the online account application. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have looked carefully at HSBCs account terms and conditions; the online process Mr J 
would have followed, and the information HSBC provided him with when he applied for the 
account. Having done so I can see that HSBC makes clear that it will search a credit file and 
use that information to process an account application and that it requires consent to do so. I 
think it likely that Mr J would have provided that consent as I cant see how the application 
would have progressed without it. So, Im satisfied that on balance Mr J would have agreed 
to HSBC carrying out a credit search and am also satisfied that HSBC has made clear that it 
does so on all accounts regardless of their type. 
I can see that Mr J accepts that he read and agreed to the privacy notice in any event. I 
make clear that Im satisfied that HSBCs online application process requires consent to the 
credit search before it could be progressed and there is a separate clear section dealing with 
such searches. Im satisfied that the privacy notice also told Mr J that HSBC may carry out a 
credit search and gave examples, which I dont think are exhaustive, about when it may do 
so. 
I appreciate Mr J questions why HSBC would need to carry out such a search. But we are 
not HSBCs regulator and its not our role to comment on its business practice. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr J agreed to HSBCs account terms and conditions and applied 
for this account himself. Im also satisfied the online process included a section on credit 
searches which made clear one would be made and that Mr J would have agreed to it in 
order for the application to be made. And the privacy notice told Mr J a search may be 
carried out. It follows that I cant fairly order compensation as Mr J would like or that the 
search be removed from his credit file as Im satisfied that HSBC made clear that a search 
would be carried out.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman