DRN-2754608
The complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax added legal costs to the balance 
of his mortgage.
What happened
Mr R had a mortgage on repayment terms with Halifax. From about 2013, he began to 
experience ill health and also lost his job, and the mortgage began to fall into arrears.
By 2016, Mr R had found another job. But he wasnt able to keep up with the mortgage 
payments, and for several years he paid only the interest element  not the capital 
repayment element  of the monthly payments. There was no formal agreement with Halifax 
that he could do so.
As a result, even though Mr R was making payments each month, the arrears continued to 
increase and by 2019 were over £30,000.
Halifax took legal action, which came to court in early 2020. Mr R managed to make a lump 
sum payment of £20,000 and put the property on the market. The property sold and the 
mortgage was redeemed in September 2020.
Mr R has complained about Halifaxs actions in not offering him a new interest rate and 
moving to repossession, and Ive dealt with that in a separate decision.
This complaint is about legal fees of around £8,000 that Halifax added to the mortgage 
balance, and which Mr R therefore paid when he sold the property.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive set out in my other decision the reasons why I dont think it was unfair for Halifax to take 
action in this case. Mr R had been in financial difficulty for many years, and while more 
recently he was paying the interest, he hadnt been able to make his full mortgage payments 
for a long time, and there was no sign of that changing in the future.
The terms and conditions of the mortgage allow Halifax to recover any costs it incurs in 
managing the mortgage from Mr R. These include legal fees from any repossession 
proceedings.
Ive looked at the fees the solicitor charged. The amounts match the amount Halifax added 
to the mortgage. And I dont think the fees are, overall, unreasonable for the work that was 
done in incurring them. 
That means that Halifax was entitled, according to the mortgage terms, to charge the legal 
fees. And in the circumstances, I dont think it was unfair that it did so. I said in my other 
decision that it wasnt unfair that it took action when it did  having allowed Mr R several 
years to try to get the mortgage back on track  and the legal fees represent the costs of the 
action it took. I dont therefore think I can fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman