DRN-2315470
The complaint
Mr T complains about how  U K Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against his travel 
insurance policy. Reference to UKI includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
Mr T has travel insurance as a benefit of a bank account. In November 2019, whilst on 
holiday abroad, Mr T collapsed in the street. Whilst he was unconscious a thief stole his 
mobile phone and wallet. 
Mr T contacted UKI and told it that he uses his phone to monitor his blood sugar levels and 
wanted a replacement device to do that. UKI told him that it would need a medical report, 
police report and to do a GP check and it directed him to the nearest hospital. Mr T went to 
the hospital and received treatment for hypoglycaemia. He obtained a medical report and 
reported the matter to the police. 
UKI declined the claim. It said that Mr T hadnt told it about his diabetes. That wasnt in fact 
correct, as Mr T had done so.
In response to Mr Ts complaint, UKI said that he had in fact declared his medical condition 
and it made a mistake in checking its system, which caused a delay in determining his claim. 
It paid Mr T compensation of £100 in relation to that. UKI said that it was right to decline     
Mr Ts claim for a replacement device and that it was necessary to ask for evidence.  
Mr T didnt think that the compensation of £100 was enough and pursued his complaint. He 
says that he received poor service. He felt very vulnerable as he was unable to monitor his 
diabetes which meant that he experienced several medical episodes during the remainder of 
his trip, which required the assistance of others. Mr T says that as his wallet was also stolen 
during the trip, he couldnt buy a new device. He says that the compensation of £100 isnt 
enough because:
He had to use someone elses computer and internet connection to obtain a police 
report.
In order to obtain a medical report, he had to ask strangers if he could use their 
phone, he was stressed waiting at the hospital and incurred cost in getting back to 
his residence. He had no phone or map to help him.
He suffered inconvenience in asking strangers whether he could use their phone to 
make an excessive number of international calls. 
His trip was ruined from 1 November 2019 until he returned to the UK on 3/4 
November 2019, as he felt vulnerable and unsafe without a device to monitor his 
diabetes. 
UKI shouldnt have asked him to provide a medical report and a police report if it 
wasnt going to meet his claim because of its mistaken understanding that he hadnt 
told it about his diabetes. 
Mr T wants UKI to pay hospital and taxi costs and £750 for his distress and inconvenience. 
One of our investigators looked at what happened. He thought that the compensation of 
£100 UKI had paid to Mr T was fair. The investigator said that UKI made an error and should 
have realised that Mr Ts diabetes was covered under the policy. But he said that even if UKI 
hadnt made that error, its unlikely that it would have been able to meet the claim before      
3 November 2019, when Mr T was due to return to the UK. The investigator didnt think it 
was unreasonable to ask Mr T for a medical report and a police report, or to review his 
medical records, and its unlikely that all that would have been done before Mr Ts planned 
return to the UK.
Mr T didnt agree with the investigator. He said that the investigator hadnt understood or 
fully appreciated the impact of UKIs mistake on him. Mr T said, in summary:
UKI shouldnt have put him to the trouble of obtaining a medical report as it 
mistakenly thought that he hadnt told it about his diabetes. 
He questions why UKI would need to review his medical records.
If UKI couldnt assist with replacing a medical device, it should have explained that to 
him when he first made contact. 
It wasnt reasonable for UKI to refer him to online banking, as he couldnt access 
internet banking. 
UKIs failure to provide emergency medical assistance affected him greatly, as he 
couldnt control his blood sugars for the remainder of the trip.
The investigator considered what Mr T said but didnt change his view. As there was no 
agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. 
In this decision Im looking at Mr Ts complaint about the service he received when he 
initially made his claim. Mr T has made a further claim on the policy for medical costs. As 
those matters were not dealt with in UKIs final response to Mr T, I dont look at those 
matters here. As the investigator has explained, if Mr T is unhappy with the outcome of that  
claim, he needs to take the matter up with UKI in the first instance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im conscious that Ive condensed what I dont doubt was a very worrying time into a short 
narrative. That reflects our service that, wherever possible, aims to be informal. But Im 
satisfied that Ive captured the essence of what happened. 
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr T has very strong feelings about this matter. Hes 
provided detailed submissions to support his complaint, which I have read and considered. 
However, I trust that he will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider 
the central issue, that is, whether the compensation UKI has already offered is fair and 
reasonable.  the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy. The policy doesnt cover every 
situation a traveller might find themselves in and, more specifically in this case, doesnt 
provide for emergency replacement of medical devices. The policy does provide cover for 
stolen personal possessions and emergency medical, surgical or hospital treatment. 
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint because I think that the compensation of £100 UKI has 
already paid is fair and reasonable. I say that because:
Its common ground that UKI made an error in that it initially said that Mr T hadnt told 
it about his diabetes. I think that caused confusion at the outset, but it didnt alter the 
outcome of Mr Ts claim.
I agree with Mr T that UKI should have told him at the outset that the policy doesnt 
cover emergency replacement of medical devices. 
I appreciate that Mr T was unable to monitor his blood sugar via the app on his 
phone and thats a serious and worrying difficulty for someone with diabetes. But 
under the terms of Mr Ts policy, UKI wasnt required to remedy that. 
I dont think that UKI was wrong to ask Mr T for a medical report, police report and 
further medical information. UKI requires that information in order to validate Mr Ts 
claim for medical treatment and stolen possessions. I agree with the investigator that 
its unlikely that UKI could have dealt with his claim for his stolen phone and wallet  
before he returned to the UK, as Mr Ts remaining time abroad was quite short. 
The major part of the distress and inconvenience Mr T suffered - for example, having 
to ask strangers for use of their phone and internet access - was as a result of the 
theft of his phone and wallet and not because of the errors UKI made. 
I think that Mr T suffered some distress and inconvenience as a result of the errors 
UKI made but I think that the compensation of £100 it has already paid is fair and 
reasonable. In reaching that view Ive considered the nature, extent and duration of 
Mr Ts distress and inconvenience caused by UKIs errors in mistakenly saying that 
Mr T hadnt disclosed his diabetes and in failing to tell him at the outset that the 
policy doesnt cover emergency replacement of medical devices.  My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr T but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold his complaint 
as I think that the compensation U K Insurance Limited has already paid is fair. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman