DRN-4152313
The complaint
Mr T complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) 
irresponsibly issued a credit card to him, and increased the credit limit, which he couldnt 
afford the repayments on.
I appreciate that he made a joint complaint with his wife, but as the account is in his name 
alone, he is the appropriate complainant.
What happened
Mr T was provided with a credit card by Tesco in August 2009. The initial credit limit and 
increases in that limit are shown below:
Date Credit limit
Account open Aug 2009 £4,600
1st increase Sept 2012 £6,600
2nd increase Aug 2013 £8,600
3rd increase Feb 2015 £10,600
4th increase Oct 2017 £12,600
5th increase Dec 2018 £14,600
He first complained to Tesco in July 2022. He said that he had difficulty in keeping up with 
the repayments. His wife has health problems and had recently lost her job. He thought that 
Tesco shouldnt have approved any increase in the credit limit as he already had loans and 
other credit cards.
Tesco said it carries out checks before credit limit increases:
1. Taking into consideration information supplied regarding circumstances (it wasnt notified 
of any changes)
2. Reviewing and taking into consideration information found with the Credit Reference 
Agencies (CRAs) 
3. Reviewing and taking into consideration account history 
4. Affordability checks are built in as part of its credit lending criteria.
It asked for details about income, outgoings, and outstanding debts with other lenders during 
the original application. Whilst it didnt obtain any evidence of the income, there would be no 
obligation for it to do so. It said it is reasonable for a business to work on the basis that the 
information they are being provided with is truthful.
Tesco had no records of its checks prior to the October 2017 limit increase. For that increase 
it said that after reviewing the account conduct and information held at the CRAs, it was 
happy to increase Mr Ts credit limit. it couldnt find any error with the actions it had taken.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Adjudicator said that Tesco Bank 
shouldnt have increased the credit limit to £12,600 as sustainable monthly repayments 
towards that and his other debts took up a significant proportion of Mr Ts income. She said 
as Tesco shouldnt have increased the limit beyond £12,600 it should refund all interest and 
other charges applied to the account above that limit.
Tesco didnt agree. It believes it's clear that its checks were reasonable and proportionate, 
with every indication that Mr T would be able to support a credit limit increase on both 
occasions (4th and 5th increase). In particular it didnt agree that it would be reasonable to 
apply a minimum payment of 5% a month in respect of his credit debts including the Tesco 
debt. It said a 3% figure is appropriate for revolving (credit card/credit account) debts.  
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive taken that approach into account in considering Mr Ts complaint. 
So, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, but it 
needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and 
amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the 
credit and the consumers circumstances. As a lending relationship continues over time and 
the level of credit increases, lenders may need to obtain further information from a borrower 
to check whether theyre lending responsibly and that the repayments are sustainable for the 
customer.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Tesco complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr T would 
be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr T would have been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances at the time of each application, was there a point 
where Tesco ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Ts indebtedness in 
a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided 
further credit?
initial issue and credit limit increases in September 2012 and August 2013 inclusive.
Tesco has no information concerning the credit checks carried out in respect of the issue of the card or the September 2012 and August 2013 increases. Its not required to retain such 
records more than six years after the lending decisions in respect of the issue of the card or 
credit limit increases. But it says that Mr T would have passed its financial assessments. 
Mr T hasnt been able to provide bank statements or details of his debts or income. In light of 
that I cant say whether or not Tesco made fair lending decisions in respect of the original 
issue of the credit card or the credit limit increases in September 2012 and August 2013.
credit limit increase in February 2015 
This was an increase to £10,600, from £8,600. Tesco isnt able to produce any records of its 
checks but says that it carried out a review of Mr Ts circumstances before it agreed to 
extend further credit to him. It said Mr T had no bankruptcy, debt management program or 
county court judgements, there were no accounts in default or arrears. The review showed 
he had external debts of around £51,900. I have seen no details of Mr Ts income and 
expenditure, nor any records of his debts or income at this time. Mr T hasnt been able to 
produce any bank statements. So, while, on the face of it Mr T had a high level of debt, I 
havent seen any documentary evidence to show he wasnt managing that or that he couldnt 
afford the increase in credit limit. So I cant make a finding as to Tescos lending decision in 
respect of this credit limit increase.
credit limit increase in October 2017
This was an increase to £12,600. (from £10,600). Mr T had around £36,150 of external 
credit, which, with the new limit, our Adjudicator said Mr T was potentially liable for paying 
£2,434 a month on the basis of paying 5% of his outstanding balances each month. With a 
monthly mortgage payment of £719 our Adjudicator calculated that, he would be paying 
around £3,156 a month on those debts alone out of an income of £3,470, without taking 
account of his other committed and everyday expenditure.
Tesco said this was unrealistic. It believes a 3% payment for unsecured debts would be a 
reasonable figure. And it says the outstanding debt included that owed to Tesco. It has 
produced the following calculations:
Monthly net 
incomeInternal and 
external debt3% for 
unsecured 
debt 
payments30% of 
income for 
living 
expensesMortgage 
paymentNet 
disposable 
income
£3,472 £36,157 £1,084.71 £1,041.60 £719 £626.69
 .
Firstly, our view on payments for revolving credit is that a 5% monthly payment is realistic in 
order to give the consumer a prospect of paying off the credit within a reasonable period of 
time. Secondly I think that the maximum payment for the entire credit limit should be taken 
into account. I say this in particular because I would observe that in the month prior to the 
credit limit increase, Mr Ts balance went up to £7,498 from £5,859 the month before. As I 
shall set out below, Mr T had almost reached this new credit limit in November 2018 
So, on a likely overall unsecured debt of £42,957 (£36,157 less Tesco balance of £5,859, 
add credit limit £12,600), Mr T was potentially liable for a monthly payment of £2,148, just to 
service his debts, around 61% of his income. Whilst I note that he kept up the monthly 
payments on his account, I think the increase was clearly unaffordable. So Tesco should 
refund all interest payments and other charges above the £12,600 limit.credit limit increase in December 2018
This was an increase to £14,600. Mr Ts income had gone down by over £200 a month. But 
his internal and external debt had (according to Tescos figures) increased by over £3,400. 
In November 2018, the balance on the Tesco card had increased to £12,379. Whatever 
checks Tesco may have done in respect of this new limit, I think, from the information it had 
obtained, it was unaffordable. I note that his balance increased to £13,746 by April 2019. He 
paid this off, but the balance reached over the £14,600 limit by September 2019. Whilst 
Tesco couldnt necessarily predict that would happen, I think all the indications were there 
from the previous use of his card and the increase in indebtedness that this was a real 
possibility. I think this increase was unaffordable.
So, for the limit increases for which we have evidence of Mr Ts income, expenditure and 
use of his account, I think Tesco shouldnt have approved those increases, above the 
£12,600 limit.
Putting things right
As I dont think Tesco should have increased Mr Ts credit limit above £12,600, I dont think 
its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that limit. 
However, Mr T has had the benefit of all the money he spent on the account so I think he 
should pay this back. Therefore, Tesco should take the following actions:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to 
balances above £12,600. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr T along with 8% 
simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement. Tesco should also remove all adverse information recorded after 17 October 
2017 regarding this account from Mr Ts credit file. 
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £12,600, Tesco should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr T for the remaining amount. Once Mr T 
has cleared the outstanding balance over £12,600, any adverse information recorded 
after 17 October 2017 in relation to the account should be removed from his credit file.
Tesco should arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr T for any remaining amount.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Tesco Bank to provide the remedy set out under 
Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman