DRN-2330022
The complaint
Ms P complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) acted unfairly and unreasonably in 
declining her claim under a travel insurance policy. She wants the claim paid and 
compensation for the trouble and upset shed suffered due to UKIs conduct.
What happened
Ms P had an annual travel insurance policy as part of her packaged bank account. Ms P was 
abroad with a friend between 13 and 15 March 2020, and said that her trip had been 
negatively affected by Covid-19. She said that nothing was open and the theme park, which 
was the reason for the trip, had shut. Ms P wasnt able to return earlier as the train company 
was updating its platform and she couldnt change her return ticket or afford to pay for a 
flight. She told UKI that she had checked the theme park was open before travelling, but its 
plan changed after arrival.
Ms P made a curtailment claim to UKI on 21 March 2020 for the full costs of her trip (hotel, 
travel and theme park tickets). Ms P said her claim wasnt accepted and had been withdrawn 
without her knowledge. She added that it took weeks to find out her claim had been 
withdrawn as UKI said that the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against 
all but essential travel on 17 March 2020, though it also said this was after Ms Ps trip had 
finished. Ms P complained and confirmed again the dates she had travelled.
UKI said it couldnt pay for lack of enjoyment of a holiday, though it accepted that the visit 
to the theme park was the main purpose for the trip, as Ms P had used the hotel and train 
tickets. It added that the theme park tickets could be used later until 31 March 2021, so this 
wasnt a financial loss as required under the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Ms P said her claim was not because she hadnt enjoyed herself, but because due to the 
pandemic there was nothing to do as tourist attractions and restaurants were closed and she 
couldnt go to the theme park as planned. Ms P pointed out she hadnt been able to return 
earlier but she felt her trip had been curtailed. UKI paid £100 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused by the inability to explain why her claim had been closed, and a further 
£50 compensation for the further trouble and upset caused by the sending of an incorrect 
decline letter.
Ms P complained to us. She added that she was shielding due to her health making her 
extremely clinically vulnerable and couldnt afford to rearrange the trip again before the 
tickets for the theme park expired. Ms P had asked for a refund of the tickets but to date 
without success.
The investigators view was that UKI was at fault and the complaint should be upheld in part. 
He said that the cost of the theme park tickets should be paid by UKI as Ms P wasnt able to 
use them by 31 March 2021 due to lack of funds and her health, and her attempts to get a 
refund had failed. But the investigator said the restrictions in the country affecting 
restaurants and other places only came into effect late into the trip, and Ms P had used the 
train tickets and hotel. Ms P hadnt cancelled or curtailed her trip and the policy specifically 
excluded lack of enjoyment, so the investigator said the hotel and train tickets shouldnt be 
refunded.
UKI disagreed. It said Ms P didnt make it aware of her health issues, and noted that shed 
been happy to travel despite the widespread knowledge of Covid-19 by that point. UKI said 
Ms P wasnt inclined to go again to use the tickets, which wasnt covered by the policy. The 
investigator said when Ms P travelled, there was no FCO advice against it and pointed out if 
shed cancelled instead, it was unlikely any claim wouldve been paid. He didnt change his 
view. UKI said that there was no financial loss as the tickets could be used.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I refer to UKI, Im also referring to its agents. The relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy. The curtailment section is about 
when a policyholder has to return early from their trip for a number of reasons. None of these 
reasons happened in Ms Ps case  she wasnt able to return early as she couldnt afford to 
book a flight and couldnt change her return ticket. The FCO advice against all but essential 
travel wasnt issued until after Ms P returned (this was one potential insured event). As a 
matter of law, UKI is correct in saying that the policy doesnt cover loss of enjoyment or the 
circumstances of Ms Ps claim.
But I also have to think about whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. By mid- 
March 2020, Covid-19 was affecting Europe and various steps were being taken by 
European countries, including the one Ms P visited. While the theme park was closed, the 
other attractions and restaurants were open until 11pm 14 March 2020.
I looked at the cancellation section of the policy. If Ms P had chosen not to travel because 
shed become aware of the situation in the country she visited, under the terms and 
conditions of the policy she wouldnt have been covered either for such a claim. In addition, 
the policy does exclude claims for lack of enjoyment and says claims must be for 
irrecoverable losses.
Having looked at the evidence available to me and considered what each party has said, I 
think it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to refund the costs of the theme park tickets in 
line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. Im persuaded that its an 
irrecoverable loss as Ms P cant get a refund and cant afford to pay again to visit the country 
to use them (not least as Im not going to ask UKI to consider the hotel and travel costs as 
explained below). While I accept Ms P didnt tell UKI about her health when she made her 
claim, and the situation has changed over the following months, both in terms of lockdowns 
and the severity of Covid-19 at various times of the year, the purpose of the trip was to visit 
the theme park and this wasnt possible. 
And while the theme park tickets could be used up to 31 March 2021, Im not persuaded that 
in the circumstances this is likely or was likely when UKI made its decision for Ms P to be 
able to use them. Ms P would have to pay significant sums to travel, FCO travel bans have 
been in place for much of the time, and looking at the position now, the theme park is closed 
until April 2021. This services position is that if an item believed to be recoverable becomes 
irrecoverable, its fair and reasonable for the insurer to take that into account and consider 
the claim again. The theme park tickets are an irrecoverable loss now and its fair and 
reasonable for UKI to accept the claim for them and apply the remaining terms of the policy in considering the matter.
But in relation to the hotel and travel costs, as set above, Im not persuaded that Ms Ps trip 
was effectively curtailed bearing in mind the extend and impact of the restrictions. As I 
outlined above, for the majority of Ms Ps trip, the non-essential facilities and attractions in 
the country were open. There were only a few hours in the daytime of 15 March 2020 that 
Ms Ps trip was affected by these closures. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable, given 
Ms P did use the hotel and the train tickets or in the circumstances, including the wording of 
the policy, for UKI to accept this part of the claim.
Ive considered the handling of Ms Ps claim. UKI itself accepts that it didnt act fairly or 
reasonably in failing to tell Ms P why her claim had been withdrawn and how it 
communicated with her. But £150 compensation is fair and reasonable for the trouble and 
upset caused by this. Ms P had to ring and hold for some time to find out what was 
happening, but UKI did correct its error in the decline letter quickly.
Putting things right
UKI should accept Ms Ps claim in respect of the theme park tickets and consider it in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy as an irrecoverable loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and UK Insurance Limited should accept 
Ms Ps claim in respect of the theme park tickets and consider it in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy as an irrecoverable loss. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or reject my decision before 24 
February 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman