DRN-1643332
 
The complaint
Miss M says HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2000 when Miss M applied for a 
credit card. Miss M initially spoke to the bank by phone and then completed and returned 
an application form by post. The policy gave her protection against accident, sickness and 
unemployment, and some life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is contradictory (as some of it is here), I have based my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely given the available 
evidence and what we know about how HSBC sold PPI at the time. I know Miss M felt the 
adjudicators view sided with the bank. As an independent and impartial organisation we 
dont act on behalf of either consumer or banks - theres no benefit for us to find in the favour 
of one party over the other.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss M says she didnt select PPI, and the No box she ticked has subsequently been 
obscured by the bank, covering up that she declined PPI. She didnt tick the Yes box as the 
form now shows. The bank disputes this. Whilst I accept that the copy of the form does not 
show the No box  and therefore whether it was populated, the form does clearly show that 
the Yes box was selected. Miss M refers to a 2003 application she made for a credit card 
and I can see she declined PPI then, but I cant agree that is evidence that the bank 
fraudulently added it to the credit card account she opened in 2000. 
I have considered Miss Ms comments very carefully, but I also have to take into account 
how long ago this sale was and how that might impact what she recalls. Overall, given the 
balance of the evidence, Im satisfied HSBC made it clear the PPI was optional and I think 
its most likely Miss M agreed to take it out.
HSBC didnt recommend the PPI to Miss M so it didnt need to check if it was suitable for 
her. It was up to Miss M to decide whether the policy was right for her, bearing in mind her 
ability to make her credit card repayments if she was unable to work or lost her job.I agree its possible the information HSBC gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think Miss M chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations. 
And the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
Miss M cant recall her sick pay entitlement or if she had savings at the time. The PPI would 
have paid out in addition to any work benefits for up to 12 months for successful accident 
and sickness claims. It also gave her 12 months redundancy cover.  And it would have 
allowed her to use any savings to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep 
them intact for her future needs. She also said her parents would have helped, but thats not 
suitable alternative protection. Its not guaranteed and peoples circumstances can change.
So, based on her circumstances and the terms of the PPI, I think it unlikely Miss M wouldve 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think she 
would still have taken out the policy.
It follows I dont think Miss M has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
My decision is I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman