DRN-3402923
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with the replacement phone Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) provided in 
response to her claim. She thinks the phone is faulty and should therefore be replaced under 
the terms of the warranty. 
What happened
In May 2021, Mrs D made a claim on her mobile phone insurance policy and received a 
replacement refurbished iPhone. This came with a 12-month warranty to protect against any 
defects. Approximately three months after receiving the phone, Mrs D asked to claim on the 
warranty as she said the device had overheated and wouldnt turn on.
After the phone was inspected by an engineer, Amtrust told Mrs D the issue wasnt covered 
under the terms of the warranty. They said the phone had been bent and this was the reason 
it no longer turned on. They therefore invited her to make a new claim and said a further £50 
excess would apply. 
Mrs D then complained as she didnt want to pay for a second excess. She also said it was 
the parts used in the phone, such as the battery that must have caused it to overheat, bend 
and stop working. Amtrust didnt agree and said their position remained the same based on 
the findings of their appointed engineer.
When Mrs D contacted our service, she also complained that she went without a phone for 
six weeks while she waited for Amtrust to confirm their position. She eventually decided to 
source a brand new phone independently. However, she still feels a replacement phone 
should be supplied under the warranty given the time frame involved. Amtrust have therefore 
kept the insured device in storage pending the outcome of this complaint.
Our investigator thought Amtrust had acted fairly by relying on the findings of the engineer 
and didnt think they should do anything else in relation to the warranty. She also said 
Amtrust informed Mrs D of their decision approximately one week after receiving her phone 
and issued a final response within the eight week time frame the regulator ( the Financial 
Conduct Authority) allows. So, she didnt think they'd caused any delays.
Mrs D didnt accept the investigators opinion, so Ive considered the complaint afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why. 
The policy terms define the warranty as follows: 
The period where we will resolve any defects in materials and workmanship when we 
repair or replace your gadget in the event of a claim, when your gadget is used 
normally in accordance with manufactures guidelines. For repairs the warranty 
provided is 3 months and for a replacement the warranty provided is 12 months. 
This warranty will also include the costs associated with transporting the device to 
and from our repair centre. The warranty we offer does not cover wear and tear, 
damage by computer viruses, normal maintenance, accidental damage or any 
indirect loss.
The warranty is therefore limited to resolving defects in materials or workmanship and 
doesnt provide any cover for accidental damage. I should also state that regardless of the 
terms of the warranty, Amtrust were required to provide Mrs D with a replacement phone 
that was in good working condition in response to her original claim. 
As Mrs D is aware, Amtrusts appointed engineer inspected her phone and concluded it 
couldnt be turned on as it was damaged and bent. If Mrs D had been provided with a phone 
in that condition, Id reasonably have expected her to have said this straight away rather 
than waiting three months. I appreciate Mrs D has said she didnt notice the problem and the 
phone could have been bent when it was supplied. But based on the picture Ive seen and 
the extent of the damage - Im satisfied this is unlikely.
I accept its possible for a phone to overheat and stop working due to a defect, but the 
evidence doesnt support this conclusion in relation to Mrs Ds device. The engineer said the 
phone had been bent and this action had damaged the parts inside. Im also satisfied 
Amtrust acted fairly by relying on the findings of their engineer as they are a technical expert.
Mrs D has said some models of iPhones are known for bending easily and information about 
this is available online. However, Im required to base this decision on the available evidence 
about her specific phone. As mentioned above, Ive not seen anything which suggests the 
phone was faulty when it was supplied, or that it later stopped working due to a defect. So, I 
think Amtrust acted fairly by declining to take any action under the warranty and offering to 
set up a new claim instead. 
Mrs D waited until she received a response to her complaint, before deciding to source a 
new phone. However, as Amtrust told her a replacement wouldnt be provided under the 
warranty promptly, Im satisfied they didnt cause any avoidable delays or prevent her from 
making alternative arrangements. The final response was also issued within the regulatory 
eight week period. So, Im satisfied they didnt delay this either.
Mrs D has asked for the phone to be returned to her in the event this complaint isnt upheld  
Amtrust are open to this. Ill therefore leave it up to the parties to arrange the return directly.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman