DRN-4293196
The complaint
Mr L complains about the quality of a van that was supplied to him under a hire agreement 
with Lex Autolease Limited, trading as Lex Autolease. 
What happened
In March 2018 Mr L took out a hire agreement with Lex for a new van. Under its terms, he 
was to pay £423.47 a month for a minimum of 24 months. Mr L says the agreement was 
extended twice - each time by one year. 
Mr L has told us the van needed a number of repairs, which were initially covered by the 
manufacturers warranty. Lex have confirmed the warranty records show the following 
repairs were carried out:
Date Repair Mileage
February/March 2019 Replaced exhaust gas recirculation 
(EGR) cooler 
Replaced rear brake calliper36,006
October 2019 Replaced coolant pump 40,554
June 2020 Replaced crankshaft seal
Replaced window lifter switch 
Replaced turbocharger40,645
October 2020 Replaced two-part flywheel 45,724
Mr L says the van broke down again after the manufacturers warranty had expired. He says 
he had to pay £530 for recovery due to the size of the van. Mr L says the timing belt had 
failed, costing £2,200 for repairs. He says the garage told him the timing belt should last up 
to 130,000 miles - and that previous breakdowns may have caused it to decay. 
In November 2021 Mr L complained to Lex about the amount hed had to pay to have the 
van recovered and repaired. He also complained about the overall number of faults hed 
experienced during the time hed had the van.
In December 2021 Mr L contacted Lex to say the van had broken down again less than a 
month after the last repair - this time due to a problem with the ignition. Mr L says it 
remained undriveable, so he had to source another vehicle for work. 
Lex issued their final response to Mr L in January 2022. They didnt uphold his complaint 
about the recovery cost, saying they hadnt arranged this as his contract didnt include 
maintenance. They said they also hadnt upheld his complaint about the cost of repairing the 
timing belt, because thered been no previous faults with the timing kit and the van was no 
longer under warranty. 
But Lex acknowledged thered been a number of issues with the van. They upheld this 
aspect of Mr Ls complaint, offering to waive the cost of terminating the contract early if he 
wished to do so. They also offered him £100 for his inconvenience. 
Mr L accepted Lexs offer to end the lease early. But he remained unhappy with the way 
theyd handled things, so he referred his complaint to our service. 
Mr L also made a second complaint to Lex about invoices theyd sent him after the van was 
returned. Im not going to discuss that second complaint here, because thats being 
investigated as a separate matter. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ls complaint about the problems hed experienced whilst the 
van was in his possession. Although the investigator felt there were a high number of repairs 
to the van during 2019 and 2020, he noted these were covered under warranty, at no cost to 
Mr L. He also noted Mr L had extended the agreement twice, suggesting he was happy that 
it was fit for purpose.
The investigator didnt think any of the earlier repairs were linked to the timing belt issue, so 
he wasnt persuaded that Lex should cover the cost of that repair. He thought Lex had acted 
fairly by offering to terminate the agreement early without charging Mr L the usual penalty for 
doing so. He didnt think they needed to do anything more. 
Mr L disagreed. Ill summarise his main points:
Hed ensured the van was regularly serviced as required. At the time he extended the 
agreement it was running well. 
Hed been advised by a manufacturers garage that the timing belt shouldnt have 
failed at 65,000 miles.
After contacting his broker for help, theyd advised him to raise a problem vehicle 
case with Lex. Lex had then offered to end the agreement early and recover the van 
as a non-runner. 
The van was classed as a problem vehicle due to the numerous repairs carried out. 
So, it wasnt fit for purpose, and shouldnt have been leased to him. It should have 
been withdrawn from hire and replaced. 
The repairs had cost thousands of pounds. As a leased vehicle, these costs 
shouldve been covered by Lex.
My provisional decision
On 27 June 2023 I issued a provisional decision, saying:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr Ls complaint is about a van supplied under a hire agreement. Hes told us that hes a 
sole trader, and that he needed the van for his business. Im satisfied that this is a regulated 
agreement, and that I can look into Mr Ls complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982 is relevant to this complaint. It says 
under a contract such as this one for goods hired in the course of a business, theres an 
implied term that the quality of those goods is satisfactory.The test thats applied is whether the goods were of a standard that a reasonable person 
would regard as satisfactory, taking into account the way they were described, the price and 
all the other relevant circumstances. In this case, I bear in mind that this van was supplied to 
Mr L from new. 
Mr L has told us that he had a number of problems with the van breaking down, which began 
in the first year of the lease. He says that although this was annoying, it didnt cause him any 
major issues whilst recovery, repair and a replacement vehicle were provided free of charge 
under the manufacturers warranty. 
I think its fair to say the issues of major concern for Mr L started in October 2021, after the 
manufacturers warranty had expired. So, Ill focus my decision on the problems with the van 
from that point onwards. I note that Mr L feels strongly that these faults were due to this 
being a problem vehicle from the start. 
Timing chain failure
Mr L has provided a copy of the garages invoice dated 13 October 2021 and his debit card 
receipt, showing he paid £2,199.34 for the following work:
Replaced damaged camshaft module
Replaced cam sensor
Fitted new timing belt & water pump
Replaced faulty battery.
Mr L says hed had the van serviced regularly, as required. He says it had only covered 
around 65,000 miles - and that hes been advised the timing chain shouldnt have failed at 
that sort of mileage. He feels it had decayed due to the previous problems with the van. But 
Ive seen no supporting evidence of this. 
Im aware that the life expectancy of a timing chain can vary  it can be as short as 60,000 
miles. A number of factors can cause increased wear and tear, such as not changing the oil 
on time, not using the right grade of engine oil, and/or hauling heavy loads. Ive seen no 
evidence to show this failure was caused by earlier breakdowns.
I bear in mind that, by this time, the van was over three years old and was no longer covered 
by the manufacturers warranty. I do think its reasonable to expect a commercial vehicle of 
that age might need some parts to be replaced due to wear and tear. I think that was 
something for Mr L to weigh up when he decided to extend the lease for a fourth year. 
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that the timing chain failed because the van hadnt 
been of satisfactory quality. Ive seen no evidence to suggest this was anything other than 
normal wear and tear. Im satisfied that the agreement terms made it clear that Mr L was 
responsible for keeping the van in good repair, at his own expense. So, I dont consider Lex 
liable for this repair cost. Ignition problem
Mr L told us the van broke down again in December 2021. As Lex upheld his complaint 
about the number of faults hed experienced, I dont think theres any dispute that theyd 
supplied him with a van that hadnt been of satisfactory quality. 
I agree that was a reasonable conclusion to reach. So, I think it was fair for Lex to offer to 
terminate the agreement early without applying the usual penalty charge for doing so. 
Ive seen a copy of the email Mr L sent to Lex on 22 December 2021, in which he made 
them aware that the van was undriveable since it had broken down again. In those 
circumstances, Id also expect Lex to refund any monthly rental payments Mr L made from 
that point onwards, to reflect the fact that he was no longer able to use the van.
Mr L says he relied on the van for his business as a sole trader. He told us that the earlier 
faults didnt cause him major issues, because he was given a courtesy vehicle whilst this van 
was at the garage. And I dont think hed have extended the agreement twice if those earlier 
breakdowns caused him significant problems.
But he says having to source another vehicle has put him under a lot of financial strain. 
Having given careful thought to what Mr L has told us about this, I think Lex should pay him 
a total of £200 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
For the reasons Ive explained, I intend to uphold this complaint and direct Lex Autolease 
Limited to:
Refund any monthly rental payments Mr L has made for the period after 22 
December 2021.
Remove any adverse information thats been recorded on Mr Ls credit file in respect 
of monthly rentals that would otherwise have become due after 22 December 2021.
Add interest to each of the refunded payments, calculated from the date of each 
payment until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year.
Pay Mr L a total of £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
I invited both parties to send any further information or comments theyd like me to consider. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties responded, asking for clarification on various points and providing further 
information. 
Much of the information Mr L provided went back over things hed already told us - or related 
to his second complaint about things that have happened more recently. Ill summarise the 
additional information and comments he made about this complaint:
Lex combined a recovery package in his monthly lease. The recovery package theyd 
sold him wasnt fit for purpose, because they hadnt checked that the length of the 
van was acceptable to their recovery agents. This mis-sale of the recovery package 
had resulted in him having to pay a recovery charge of £530.
Hed had the van serviced twice whilst it was in his possession  in January 2019 
and June 2020. The garage had told him theres no specific mileage at which the 
timing belt should be replaced, but it should have been checked on every major 
service. He provided a copy of an invoice dated 15 June 2020 showing a full service 
had been carried out, and an email from the garage about life expectancy of the timing belt. 
Even when the van was under warranty, it was at the garage for weeks due to all the 
repairs needed and high workloads at the time. At one point the company that 
provided the courtesy vehicle had contacted him about stopping the hire, as repairs 
had taken nearly six weeks.
The demand for vans and parts during the COVID-19 pandemic led to soaring prices. 
He relied on his van for work, so had no option but to get a replacement van when 
this one broke down out of warranty. 
Lex agreed to credit/refund the rental invoices for the period after 22 December 2021. But 
they said they felt their offer of £100 was fair for the inconvenience Mr L had been caused. 
They said they didnt think they should be liable for inconvenience caused to Mr L by having 
to source a replacement vehicle for his business, because this was something he was going 
to have to do anyway.
After reviewing the evidence again, I wrote to both parties explaining that my decision 
remained the same. I gave both parties another opportunity to send me any more comments 
or information theyd like me to consider before I made my final decision as to how this 
matter should be resolved. 
Lex responded, saying they now accepted my decision. 
Mr L asked for clarification on various points and provided further comments, much of which 
repeated things hes already told us. Ill summarise the new points he made about this 
complaint:
He felt he had no option but to extend the lease because he needed a van for work 
and prices had soared due to the COVID-19 pandemic. After the last breakdown hed 
had to use his credit card to buy another vehicle. This had cost him a lot of time and 
money. 
Online records show the van has been off the road ever since it was collected from 
him, which shows it was uneconomical to repair after the last breakdown.
Mr L said hed been given false and conflicting information by Lex  and that their full 
account notes would show this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to both parties for taking the time to respond to my provisional decision. Ive 
thoroughly reviewed and considered all of the information theyve provided. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
Timing belt
Ive reviewed the email Mr L obtained from the garage, dated 12 July 2023. This says 
technicians should check the timing belt on every major service, or sometimes every five 
years, depending on how much the vehicle is driven. 
Ive also reviewed the copy of the garages invoice dated 15 June 2020, confirming a full 
service was carried out. Mr L has also provided a photo showing some kind of check sheet, 
which he says shows the timing belt was confirmed to be in good condition at the time. I cant say what that check sheet shows, because Im unable to read much of whats written 
on it. 
But even if that check sheet does confirm that the timing belt was found to be in good 
condition in June 2020, that wouldnt change my decision. The evidence Ive seen shows the 
timing belt failed sixteen months later, in October 2021. Bearing in mind Mr L was using this 
van for his work as a self-employed courier, I think the timing belt failure was most likely to 
have been due to normal wear and tear. 
Recovery cost
Mr L believes the hire agreement was to include a recovery package. He says this was mis-
sold to him, and that Lexs account notes will show hes been misled about this. I wont be 
considering whether any aspect of this agreement was misdescribed or mis-sold to Mr L, 
because hed need to raise a complaint about that to Lex before our service can look into it.
I dont consider it necessary for me to review all of Lexs account notes to decide whether 
the agreement included a recovery package. Ive seen a copy of the hire agreement, which 
Mr L signed on 7 March 2018. I find this makes it very clear that Lex will only pay for a 
rescue and recovery service if this is stated to be included on page three. Page three of the 
document says Are maintenance services included: No. 
Mr L questions why the earlier breakdowns were covered. Ive seen evidence showing the 
van was initially covered by the manufacturers warranty, which included roadside assistance 
and recovery in the event of a breakdown. Lex told us that the manufacturer has confirmed 
their roadside assistance team last came out for the van in October 2020. Im satisfied that, 
when it broke down in October 2021, it would no longer have been covered by the 
manufacturer's warranty and recovery service. 
For these reasons, I dont find Lex to be liable for the recovery cost Mr L paid in October 
2021.
Ignition problem
Im pleased to see Lex have agreed to credit/refund the rental invoices for the period after 22 
December 2021. And theyve also now agreed to pay £200 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience Mr L was caused. 
I appreciate both parties feel strongly about the level of compensation thats appropriate in 
this case. So, Ill explain my reasoning. 
When he brought his complaint to us, Mr L said the earlier faults didnt cause him major 
issues because he was given a courtesy vehicle whilst this van was at the garage. Although 
Mr L told us it was there for nearly six weeks on one occasion, Ive seen nothing to suggest 
this caused him any problems. I appreciate Mr L had to have a van for work  and van prices 
rose sharply due to the COVID-19 pandemic. But I still dont think he wouldve extended the 
lease twice if those breakdowns had caused him significant distress and inconvenience. 
To be clear, I disregarded any distress or inconvenience Mr L suffered as a result of the 
timing chain issue because I consider that to have been due to normal wear and tear. And 
thats not something Lex would be liable for.  
But in December 2021, Mr L told Lex the van was undriveable after breaking down again. 
Hes told us that having to source another van was expensive and time consuming. Having 
thought about this, I dont think its fair to say Mr L wouldve suffered the same level of inconvenience at the end of the agreement because hed have had to replace the van 
anyway.
I think Mr L wouldve been caused a lot more stress and inconvenience by suddenly having 
to source a replacement van following a breakdown - with no means of continuing deliveries 
to customers until hed got one. And I think hed have been put under much greater financial 
pressure by having to pay for a second vehicle, when he was already making monthly 
payments for this one. So, I think £200 compensation is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Lex Autolease Limited to:
Refund any monthly rental payments Mr L has made for the period after 22 
December 2021.
Remove any adverse information thats been recorded on Mr Ls credit file in respect 
of monthly rentals that would otherwise have become due after 22 December 2021.
Add interest to each of the refunded payments, calculated from the date of each 
payment until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year.
Pay Mr L a total of £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
If Lex consider tax is deductible from the interest element of the award, they should Tell Mr L 
how much theyve taken off. They should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax if hes eligible.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman