DRN-3675075
The complaint
Mr R complains that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined his claim on his bike 
insurance policy.
Mr R has been represented throughout this complaint, however for ease of reading all 
references to Mr R include the actions of his representative. 
What happened
Mr R had bike insurance with Aviva to cover his mountain bike. In November 2021 the bike 
was stored in a secure bike storage area at his university when it was stolen. The thief 
gained access to the secure area and used an angle grinder to remove the bike lock.
Mr R made a claim on his insurance but it was subsequently declined. Aviva said that the 
bike lock Mr R had been using wasnt the one specified in the policy for the type of bike he 
owned. So as he hadnt met the conditions of the policy, the claim was declined. 
Mr R didnt think this was fair and made a complaint, but Aviva maintained its position. So he 
brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld and asked Aviva to reconsider the 
claim in line with the policy terms. He said that as an angle grinder was used to steal the 
bike, the type of lock wasnt material to the loss, so he didnt think it was fair to decline the 
claim on that basis.
Mr R accepted our investigators outcome. However Aviva didnt. It said that the insurance 
policy specifically lays out the type of lock that is required based on the value of the bike and 
this hadnt been met so the claim wouldnt be covered. It asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
Since the complaint came to me, I wrote to both sides to explain that I had come to a slightly 
different outcome to our investigator. While I agreed the complaint should be upheld, I 
thought Mr R had done enough to prove a valid claim. So I thought Aviva should pay the 
claim, rather than just re-consider it. 
Mr R accepted my provisional findings, however Aviva didnt. It said the insurance Mr R 
purchased is specialist insurance and has extra requirements because of this, including the 
requirement to have a certain standard of bike lock. It also said that the condition is laid out 
clearly in the policy terms and Mr R chose to ignore it, so it isnt fair for it to cover the claim.
Ive considered everything Aviva has said, along with all other available information when 
reaching my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Avivas point that Mr R has taken out specialist insurance for his bikes, and I 
can see that the policy specifies the type of lock that should be purchased. However when 
considering whether an insurer has acted fairly and reasonably when declining a claim I 
have to consider the specific circumstances of the claim. 
This service considers that it isnt fair and reasonable for an insurer to rely on a technical 
breach of policy conditions to decline a claim where that breach isnt materially connected to 
the circumstances of the claim. So wed expect the insurer to show how the breach has 
caused the claim to have happened or made it more likely that the need to claim arose. This 
is a long standing approach which is supported by Financial Conduct Authority guidelines.
So here, to say Aviva had acted fairly by declining Mr Rs claim, Id need to be satisfied that 
the breach of the terms had led to the need to claim. Here the bike was stolen using an 
angle grinder to break through the lock. And Aviva has accepted that this would have broken 
through any bike lock. For that reason Im persuaded that even if Mr R had used the 
specified standard of lock the theft would still have happened. I therefore conclude that it 
isnt fair or reasonable for Aviva to decline the claim on that basis.
In response to my provisional findings Aviva has commented that it may have taken the thief 
longer to break a more robust bike lock, and this may have meant they were disturbed 
during the theft or might have put them off altogether.  Ive considered this, but it doesnt 
change my position. When considering the width of a bike lock and power of an angle 
grinder Im not persuaded that the additional time, if any, would make a material difference. 
Further, the stolen bikes were in a secure bike store, meaning the thief would have been 
protected from public view, so I dont think a small amount of additional time would have 
likely made a material difference.
Based on this, I dont think Aviva acted fairly or reasonably by relying on the bike lock 
requirement in the policy to decline Mr Rs claim. And, as I said in my provisional findings, I 
think Mr R has done enough to prove a claim already. I therefore require Aviva to pay Mr Rs 
claim in line with the remaining policy terms.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Rs complaint. I direct Aviva Insurance Limited to 
accept Mr Rs claim and make payment to settle the claim inline with any remaining 
applicable policy terms, such as an excess. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman