DRN-3643634
The complaint
Mr W complains UK Insurance Limited Trading as Direct Line Insurance (UKI) caused 
unnecessary delays in his claim on his home insurance policy.
There are several parties and representatives of UKI involved throughout the complaint but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to UKI.
What happened
Mr W made a claim on his home buildings insurance policy for storm damage to his house 
roof in November 2021.
UKI sent its contractor to inspect Mr Ws roof and the claim was accepted. UKI appointed a 
builder to complete the roof repairs but Mr W said he did not want this contractor as they 
were general builders and not roofing specialists. 
Although UKI did not agree that its builder wasnt suitable, it looked to appoint another 
builder that specialised in roofs. A different contractor attended to inspect the roof. This 
inspection found that in addition to the storm damage there was also pre-existing wear and 
tear issues with the roof. It incorrectly sent Mr W a letter to say his claim had been declined. 
After Mr W brought this to UKIs attention, it apologised for its error and confirmed the claim 
had been accepted. UKI confirmed that after consideration of the second survey where it 
was found Mr Ws roof was also suffering from wear and tear as well as the accepted storm 
damage, it would now offer a cash settlement for the storm damage repairs. 
UKI offered Mr W a cash settlement for the storm damage. It also offered £100 
compensation.
Mr W declined this as he wanted the repairs to be undertaken by UKI. He said due to the 
delays caused by UKI the condition of his roof had got worse. UKI said it was not 
responsible for all the delays but increased its offer of compensation to £150. This was to 
cover for the delays caused by it and communication issues.
 
As Mr W was not happy with UKI, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said UKI had 
settled the claim within the terms and conditions of the policy. They said Mr W refused UKIs 
offer to undertake the work through its first contractors and so they thought the discounted 
settlement offer was fair. They said the compensation amount of £150 for the delays caused 
by UKI was in line with this services usual approach.
As Mr W is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Settlement of claim
 
I have considered if UKI acted within the terms and conditions of the insurance policy when 
settling Mr Ws claim. I have looked to see if UKI have been fair in offering a cash settlement 
and if the amount offered was fair.
UKI accepted Mr Ws claim for storm damage and a builder was appointed to undertake the 
work identified.  
I looked at the policy terms and conditions and it says on page 12;  
Section E, If you claim:
How we settle claims
If the buildings are damaged by any of the causes listed in [Section 1], we will either:
 repair or rebuild the damaged part using our suppliers
 pay to repair or rebuild the damaged part using your suppliers
 make a cash payment
If we can repair or rebuild the damaged part, but we agree to use your suppliers or make
a cash payment, we will only pay you what it would have cost us using our suppliers and
therefore the amount you receive may be lower than the cost charged by your suppliers.
If we cannot repair or rebuild the damaged part, we will pay the full cost of rebuild or
repair. If the damage to the buildings isnt repaired or rebuilt, we may pay the difference
between the market value of your property immediately before the damage and its value
after the damage.
We may take off an amount for wear and tear if the buildings were not in a good state of
repair at the time of the damage.
On page 7 of the terms and conditions it says;
This policy doesnt cover
Just like most insurers we dont cover
Wear and tear
 
At the start of his claim UKI gave Mr W the chance to be reimbursed by repair. It offered to 
repair the damage using its suppliers. I saw that Mr W rejected the repair by the appointed 
builder because they were general builders and not a specialist roofing company. 
As Mr W was unhappy with the way UKIs contractors had handled his claim so far, UKI 
appointed a new contractor. 
When attending to look at the damage to Mr Ws roof the second contractor found that in 
addition to the storm damage the roof was also suffering from wear and tear. 
Because of this UKI said it was only willing to offer a cash settlement. In this case the cash 
offer is £1,663.39.
The policy allows UKI to offer the cash settlement option, but we must be satisfied that the 
insurers offer to repair or replace was fair to begin with. If not, then it hasnt actually offered 
to indemnify the consumer and so its offer is unfair.
In view of the wear and tear to the roof, UKI only wants to cash settle for the damaged area 
its own contractor would have repaired as claim damage and not the area thats suffering wear and tear. So I think its reasonable for UKI to offer a cash settlement to allow Mr W to 
get all the works done. Which might be less than the cost to Mr W. Insurers often have 
arrangements with companies that mean they can get things repaired/replaced for less than 
the market rate the consumer might pay. So theres a cost to the insurer, which could be 
different to the cost to the consumer. 
It would be unfair for UKI to be forced to pay the cost to the consumer (which is usually more 
than the cost to the insurer) when its already done whats required under the terms of the 
policy. In this case it offered a repair to the damage before making a cash settlement offer.
Ive seen that Mr W provided three quotes from independent contractors all of which indicate 
pre-existing issues. None of the builders that provided quotes said they would take on just 
the storm damage repair. One said a full new roof was needed.
Therefore I do not uphold this part of Mr Ws complaint and think that UKI have been fair in 
the cash settlement offer it has made to cover the storm damage element to the roof.
Delays and errors with the claim
The storm damage to Mr Ws roof happened on 26 November 2021. UKI appointed 
contractors who went out to look at the damage. Mr Ws claim was accepted and on 13 
December 2021 a builder was appointed to carry out the repairs. 
This is a period of less than three weeks from Mr W notifying UKI of his claim and UKI 
accepting the claim and making an offer. I think this is a reasonable period of time and do 
not think a delay had occurred. 
On 14 December 2021 Mr W rejected the appointed builder. UKIs contractor tried to contact 
Mr W by phone without success. It did not follow up the unsuccessful phone call with an 
email. Mr W tried unsuccessfully to call back. UKI agreed there had been a lack of contact 
and paid him £50 compensation. Mr Ws claim did not progress until he contacted UKI in 
January 2022 and it was found it had incorrectly closed his file. 
I agree there was a short delay in progressing Mr Ws claim between December 2021 and 
January 2022 that was caused by UKI and its contractors.  But I cannot say all of the delay 
was caused by UKI.
In February 2022 the cash settlement was offered by UKI and it also offered a further £100 
in compensation for errors made and the delay caused. 
I do not uphold this part of Mr Ws complaint. I think B offered fair compensation for the 
delays it caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman