DRN-3237769
The complaint
Mr Q complains that Octopus Investments Limited (Octopus) provided misleading 
information about, and failed to manage adequately, his investment in an Enterprise 
Investment Scheme (EIS).
What happened
Mr Q invested £25,000 into an Octopus Enterprise Investment Scheme (OEIS 20) in 
November 2015. The EIS was focused on investing in smaller companies from the energy 
and healthcare sectors, particularly reserve power and solar energy projects. 
By 2020 the value of his investment had declined by about 80%, and Mr Q complained to 
Octopus. He would like Octopus to compensate him for his financial loss the stress caused 
to him. Mr Qs complaint, in summary, is that:
He understands that any EIS is a high risk investment, but there are differences in 
underlying strategies with some offering lower growth with lower risk. Octopus marketed 
OEIS 20 as focusing on capital preservation and investing in asset backed companies, 
which was inaccurate and misleading. Mr Q was told during a phone call that there was 
little chance of his investment declining in value and he expected a return of 95-100%. 
There was a disconnect between what was described as the investment strategy and the 
outcome delivered. If Mr Q had known about the risks to his capital, he wouldnt have 
invested in the EIS.
There was a lack of management on Octopus part to try and mitigate the declining value 
of Mr Qs investment. Octopus have not responded to requests from Mr Q and his 
adviser for information about his investment and the reasons for the drop in value. 
Octopus made loans to the investee companies which created a conflict of interest and 
meant the companies incurred extra interest costs. Although this was mentioned in the 
EIS brochure, there was no indication it would happen to the extent it did.
Octopus have said, in summary: 
The EIS was focused on companies with more predictable costs and more consistent 
revenue streams who would target capital preservation rather than strong capital growth. 
Capital preservation was the targeted objective, but it was not guaranteed and, as an 
EIS, Mr Qs investment still carried a high risk to his capital. The risks were clearly set 
out in the EIS brochure and other documents.
The investee companies and investment proposals were subject to robust due diligence. 
The EIS was a discretionary managed investment so Octopus retained the right to make 
all investment decisions at their discretion, in line with the mandate given and without 
prior reference to investors. The performance of Mr Qs investment is due to significant 
developments  including changes in legislation and government subsidies and falling 
energy prices - the combination of which was not foreseeable at the time he invested. 
It is not the result of Octopus acting inappropriately or negligently when selecting and 
managing the investments. 
The use of debt financing by the investee companies was clearly disclosed. Whilst a 
conflict of interest existed, this was explained in the EIS brochure and robustly managed 
to ensure that all transactions were conducted on an arms-length basis and in an 
appropriate manner. The terms agreed were not disproportionately high  they were set 
at rates consistent with terms for other energy related construction projects. 
At all times both before and after Mr Q invested, Octopus have been available to answer 
any queries he had. They have been transparent in all their communications with Mr Q 
and his adviser.
Our investigator thought the information provided to Mr Q had been clear, fair, and not 
misleading. She didnt think Octopus had misrepresented the potential risks of the EIS and 
concluded that they had done nothing wrong. Mr Q disagrees and has asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr Q that I have looked carefully at all the information he has provided. 
Having done so, I hope he wont take it as a discourtesy that I havent addressed every point 
he has raised. Instead, Ive concentrated my findings on what I consider to be the key factors 
in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome to his complaint.  
Octopus were not responsible for giving advice to Mr Q about his investment. So, it wasnt 
for them to decide whether the risks and other features of the EIS were suitable for him. 
Any complaint about the suitability of the recommendation would lie against the provider of 
that advice. 
Octopus were responsible for providing information to Mr Q so he could make an informed 
decision about whether to invest in the EIS. Once Mr Q had invested, Octopus had a 
mandate to make decisions on his behalf and they had to ensure their actions were 
consistent with the strategy set out in the EIS brochure.  
Capital preservation and risk
The cover of the brochure described the EIS as an investment that targets capital 
preservation and multiple tax reliefs. In a short section explaining how capital preservation 
worked (page 6), it said:
Capital preservation is a strategy designed for investors who aim to preserve the 
value of their investment rather than achieve high returns. Above all else, the goal is 
to return the original amount (the capital) to investors when they wish to get their 
money back.
That section concluded with the following paragraph: 
Of course, with any investment, your capital is at risk and capital preservation is not 
something that can be guaranteed. We always remind investors that an EIS is still
a high-risk investment. For full details on risks, please see pages 24 and 25.I think that section of the brochure made clear that while capital preservation was the goal, 
it was not guaranteed and the EIS was still a high risk investment. And Im satisfied that the 
rest of the brochure, and the other marketing material, both reflected that message and 
made clear the implications of the EIS being high risk. For example, the important 
information box on page 2 of the brochure said:
The value of an investment in this product may go down as well as up, and you may 
not get back the full amount invested.
And the section of the brochure explaining the key risks included the following statements:
Octopus EIS should be considered a high-risk investment. Even though we target 
capital preservation, your capital is still at risk.
We can make no guarantee of investment performance or the level of growth that 
may be generated.
  
The accompanying brochure Details of underlying investments had a separate page 
headed Focus on capital preservation. It explained that capital preservation was a strategy 
designed for investors aiming to preserve the value of their investment rather than achieving 
high returns. But it also said:
Octopus EIS invests in small unquoted companies that have a higher risk profile 
than larger companies. This is because smaller businesses have a higher failure rate 
than more established businesses, such as those that have their shares quoted on 
the London Stock Exchange Official List. In addition, smaller companies can change 
value more quickly and more significantly than larger companies. Your capital is at 
risk and there is no guarantee that the capital preservation objective will be met.
Mr Q has said the capital preservation strategy was emphasised strongly during a 
conference call involving him, his adviser, and Octopus. He says he was told there was little 
chance of his investment declining in value. 
Octopus do not have a recording or any other record of that call. While that is unfortunate, 
I dont think its unreasonable given that the call took place more than five years before Mr Q 
made his complaint.
Without a recording, I cant be sure what was said during Mr Qs call with Octopus. I think its 
likely that Octopus would have highlighted capital preservation as that was the aim of their 
investment strategy. But I dont think Ive got enough evidence to say that would have 
undermined the risk warnings given in the brochure and other documents provided to Mr Q 
and his adviser. And overall, I think Octopus made sufficiently clear that there was a 
distinction between the aim of capital preservation and the inherently high risk nature of the 
EIS investment.  
   
Management of the EIS and communication
The EIS brochure explained that Octopus would look to invest in smaller companies from the 
energy and healthcare sectors, which had characteristics that could help to deliver 
predictable revenue streams. It said that Octopus would look for investments in the energy 
industry that focused on proven technology, and with predictable costs and revenues. 
The EIS was a discretionary portfolio service and the terms and conditions said:You grant to us the exclusive right to manage your portfolio at our sole discretion 
and without prior reference to you or your adviser and to select and manage 
investments which correspond with the objectives and principles of your EIS service 
as set out in the brochure.
When Mr Q invested in the EIS he agreed that Octopus would manage the fund on the terms 
set out in the EIS brochure and the terms and conditions. The documentation explained the 
objectives of the EIS, how the investment process was expected to work and how the risks 
would be managed. In effect Octopus provided an investment management service and had 
a mandate to make investment decisions on behalf of investors.
 
The EIS brochure said that Octopus would undertake a rigorous process to identify suitable 
investment opportunities. Octopus have said that all the investee companies and their 
investment proposals were subject to robust due diligence and have provided information on 
the process that was followed. Ive looked carefully at what Mr Q has said and the 
information provided by Octopus. Based on what Ive seen, I think Octopus followed a due 
diligence process as set out in the EIS brochure. 
Although Mr Qs funds were invested across a portfolio of companies, they were all high risk 
assets. Unfortunately, in Mr Qs case, a number of the potential risks associated with this 
kind of investment have been realised and his portfolio has performed badly. I can 
understand why Mr Q feels strongly about what has happened. But, based on the evidence 
Ive seen, I dont think I can fairly say that Octopus failed to follow the mandate they had 
been given or acted negligently. 
The terms and conditions said that Octopus would provide Mr Q with a portfolio valuation 
report twice a year and that he could ask for a valuation at any time. Ive seen examples of 
the reports that Octopus sent to Mr Q. These included up to date valuations of Mr Qs 
portfolio and, in some cases, an investment manager update providing information on key 
developments affecting the companies he was invested in.   
Im satisfied that Octopus have provided Mr Q with regular reports on his portfolio.
I note that in their final response to Mr Qs complaint, Octopus provided an update on their 
plans to sell assets to enable investors to exit from the EIS. They also offered a further 
discussion with one of their investment managers. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, I dont think I can fairly say that Octopus have failed to 
keep Mr Q informed about the performance of his investment. 
Conflicts of interest
The fees section of the EIS brochure said that the investee companies would in the course 
of their day-to-day operations pay other fees to Octopus and companies related to Octopus.   
The conflicts of interest section of the brochure said that the investee companies may 
borrow money from sources that Octopus may manage or have a financial interest in. It went 
on to describe the controls Octopus had in place to manage conflicts of interest and make 
sure their customers were treated fairly. I note that Octopus have said that the loan terms 
were consistent with other energy related project lending and that they followed the conflict 
of interest process outlined in their product brochure.
I appreciate that Mr Q is unhappy with the extent of borrowing from Octopus by investee 
companies. But I think the EIS brochure made clear that investee companies might borrow 
from sources that Octopus had a financial interest in and pay fees to Octopus. And so, I 
dont think Octopus have done anything wrong on this point. Summary
I can understand why Mr Q feels strongly about what has happened to his investment. But I 
dont think I can fairly say that Octopus failed to provide sufficiently clear information to him 
before he decided to invest, or that they have failed to manage his investment in line with the 
mandate they were given. So, I dont think I can fairly hold Octopus responsible for Mr Qs 
losses and the stress those losses have caused him. I realise this will be a very 
disappointing decision for Mr Q, but I wont be upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Qs complaint 
against Octopus Investments Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman