DRN-1074725
The complaint
Ms R complains about the lack of visual aids displayed in National Westminster Bank Plcs 
(NatWest) banking halls, and with the service received while in the branch.
What happened
In May 2019, Ms R went into a NatWest branch in Cardiff to open a current account. After 
waiting for around 45 minutes, she was seen by someone but was then told she didnt have 
the correct identification to open the account. Ms R is unhappy as she wasnt told she would 
need to make an appointment to open the account, and she also wasnt given a list of what 
identification would be required. 
Due to the issues experienced in the branch, Ms R would like a sign in simple English
to be placed in a visible location, clearly explaining that customers will need to make an 
appointment if they want to open a current account. She would also like the list of 
requirements to open an account to be detailed on brochures. She wanted this for all 
customers, but especially those who may be from outside of the UK. She also wanted an 
apology from the branch manager for how her friend was spoken to. 
NatWest arranged for a call from a senior manager to be made. They also apologised to    
Ms R for the time she was left waiting in the branch before being seen. In relation to what is 
displayed in their branch halls, NatWest explained that campaign posters are used, along 
with other marketing brochures which set out what products are available and how they can 
be obtained. They also directed Ms R to their website which gives all the information that 
would be needed to open an account. Feedback was also given to the branch manager      
Ms R said she found to be unhelpful. 
Ms R wasnt happy with NatWests response, so she brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into everything and agreed that Ms R having to wait for 45 minutes 
before being seen by someone wasnt the level of customer service he would expect 
NatWest to provide. He also agreed that Ms Rs experience in the branch overall wasnt a 
good one as someone should have helped her sooner by providing her with the literature 
she needed detailing how to open a new account and what she would need. But while he 
agreed Ms Rs experience had been poor, he was satisfied that NatWest had acknowledged 
that and apologised. 
In relation to the information displayed in the branch, our investigator explained that he 
wasnt able to tell NatWest to introduce any new procedures or processes, but that he was 
satisfied that all branches do receive campaign posters and literature which is displayed in 
their banking halls. 
Ms R disagreed with our investigator. She felt he hadnt looked into her complaint points in 
enough detail. Because of this the complaint was passed to me for review. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms R believes that as the branch she visited is located in a multi-cultural location, a sign in 
simple English should be placed in the branch explaining to those not from Britain that it is 
advisable they make an appointment to open a basic account. It should also show how they 
should go about it. In addition, she would like a list of the documents customers will need in 
order to open an account to be visible, because she comes from a country where a drivers 
licence is accepted as enough to open an account. 
Ms R also feels that as some people dont use the internet, NatWest needs to make this 
information available in the branch itself. 
Ms R had made it clear that her main concern is about the lack of visible aids in the branch. 
So that is what I will focus on here. 
The financial ombudsman service is not a regulator. This means that with Ms Rs complaint, 
we dont have the power to ask NatWest to display the specific information Ms R has asked 
for. We have passed on Ms Rs comments, and NatWest are aware of the request. But 
ultimately it us up to them to decide what literature they wish to display in their banking halls. 
What we can look at are individual complaints, meaning we can look into the service Ms R 
received when she was in the branch, and how NatWests actions have affected her 
specifically. 
In relation to NatWest being culturally insensitive, I havent seen anything further than what 
Ms R has said, to suggest that this is the case and so I cant agree. I do agree that Ms R 
was left for an unreasonable amount of time in the branch before being helped, and that it 
would have been better if someone had spoken to her sooner. However I cant say that 
NatWest were insensitive to her or their multi-cultural surroundings. In relation to Ms Rs 
friend, we cant look at or comment on what happened to them as they arent a party to the 
complaint or an eligible complainant. However I am satisfied an apology was made and 
feedback provided. 
Should anyone go into a branch and ask to open an account, I am sure theyll be assisted by 
a member of staff. NatWest do also have a website that contains all of the information Ms R 
would like displayed  so I cant say theyve failed to make customers and potential 
customers aware of the correct procedures. 
Because of the above, I wont be asking NatWest to display anything different in their 
banking halls. 
 
 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman