DRN-2252995
The complaint
Mr O and Mrs O are unhappy that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) refused to 
cover the cost of a new boiler after its engineer caused irreparable damage.
What happened
Mr O and Mrs O had Platinum Home Insurance, including home emergency cover, with 
Admiral. For ease, I will refer only to Mr O throughout my decision.
Mr O reported to Admiral that he wasnt getting any hot water or heating. An engineer 
attended on the same day and again a week later after speaking with the boiler 
manufacturer. On the third visit, after parts had arrived, the engineer worked on the boiler. 
Mr O says there was a gush of water and he had to switch off the water at the mains outside. 
The boiler was damaged beyond economical repair (BER) and the water had damaged the 
wooden floor, a cupboard and the foodstuff inside the cupboard.
Mr O says the engineer told him it was his fault and hed pay for the new boiler out of his 
own pocket. The engineer said he couldnt close a valve after opening it, which Mr O 
believes wouldve stopped the gush of water and minimised the damage caused. 
The engineer arranged to come back the following day, but Admiral called Mr O to explain 
his boiler was damaged BER and, at 16 years old, there was nothing it could do. Mr O 
complained because his boiler was just over three years old and he thought Admiral should 
cover the cost of the new boiler he had installed. Admiral said it had made a mistake with the 
age, but its engineer hadnt caused the damage. It said the manufacturer confirmed the 
boiler was installed incorrectly, so the engineers, otherwise correct, actions simply revealed 
that. Admirals position hadnt changed and there was nothing it could do. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that the only expert information 
available reported that the installation was faulty, so it was likely that the engineer hadnt 
done anything wrong. As Admiral offered to reconsider if Mr O provided a different expert 
report, our investigator thought Admiral had acted fairly.
Mr O didnt agree. He said again that the engineer had offered to pay for making the 
mistake, and he thought Admiral should take responsibility for the cost of the new boiler.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr O will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint for broadly 
the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain.
The main issue of complaint here is whether Admirals engineer was at fault when repairing 
the boiler and, if so, whether Admiral should be responsible for the cost of the new boiler. Ill 
look at the complaint as a whole and decide whether Admiral handled the claim fairly and 
reasonably.
Ive looked at the policy documents and I can see that Admiral doesnt cover the cost of a 
replacement boiler:
IMPORTANT
If we are unable to repair your boiler/hot water system, cover under this section will no 
longer apply. We will not contribute towards the cost of a replacement boiler if your boiler/hot 
water system is deemed beyond economical repair.
The cover also excludes:
Any defect, damage or failure caused by:
Failure to comply with industry recognised standards
You or your contractors malicious or wilful action, misuse or negligence
With regards to boilers, any foreseeable breakdown caused by negligence or 
improper maintenance as judged by our authorised contractor.
I accept that in both cases the terms are referring to circumstances where the boiler is BER 
through no fault of Admiral. But, Mr O thinks Admiral is at fault, so I must consider whether it 
would be fair to ask it to pay anything towards the new boiler.
No-one is disputing the events which led up to the boiler being flooded, including the fact 
that it was because of what the engineer did that the boiler was flooded. The issue is 
whether it was because what the engineer did was wrong or, as Admiral says, the boiler was 
installed incorrectly so the engineers correct actions resulted in the damage.
Im not a boiler expert and nor am I expected to be. So, to decide whether Admiral has been 
reasonable I have relied on the evidence presented. 
Mr O says the engineer told him on the day that it was his fault and hed pay for the new 
boiler. Im not doubting Mr Os recollection, but I question whether what the engineer said 
was as straightforward as that. For example, he may have said if its his fault hell pay for a 
new boiler out of his own pocket. I can see how something like that wouldve been 
misunderstood. But thats just an example and of course no-one but Mr O, Mrs O and the 
engineer know what was said. 
Mr O also says that the engineer who installed his new boiler couldnt see that the old boiler 
had been installed incorrectly. Unfortunately, this isnt documented but I have, nevertheless, 
taken it into consideration.
Turning to the evidence provided by Admiral, the notes recorded on the day state that the 
engineer turned off the water to the boiler (not from the mains) as he would do normally. So, 
he would reasonably have expected the boiler to be safe to work on. I can see from the 
notes, and calls between the engineer and Admiral, that he contacted the manufacturer to 
seek advice about the boiler because it was an unusual error code. It appears that the 
manufacturer confirmed the pipework was installed incorrectly, meaning the cold water was 
flowing into the boiler instead of out. Given the description of events  the gush of water and 
Mr O having to turn the water off at the mains - that explanation seems reasonable. But I 
accept what Mr O says about the manufacturer confirming the installation was faulty based 
only on what the engineer told it. And that couldve been incorrect information.I appreciate that the limited available evidence is conflicting. But I think Admirals response 
to this situation was fair. It relied on the expert opinion of both the engineer and 
manufacturer, and rejected Mr Os request for it to pay for the new boiler. But it didnt 
dismiss Mr Os request out of hand. It also said that if Mr O provided an engineer report 
saying the boiler hadnt been installed incorrectly, then it would reconsider his request. In the 
circumstances, I dont think it wouldve been reasonable to ask Admiral to do any more 
without some firm evidence.
I understand that Mr O didnt get a report for personal reasons, and Im sorry to hear that. 
But it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Admiral to pay for his new boiler without persuasive 
evidence that its engineer caused damage.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman