DRN-1329331
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A say they were mis-sold a regular premium mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policies by Bank of Scotland plc (BOS). 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A took out a joint mortgage with BOS in 1990. At the same time they took out a 
regular premium MPPI policy to cover their repayments if either were unable to work due to 
accident or sickness or lost their jobs. The following year Mr and Mrs A took out a further 
mortgage (repaying their 1990 mortgage) and a PPI policy this time covering Mrs A only.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld because he didnt think 
there was enough information to show that the policies werent presented as optional and 
thought that the policies provided a suitable benefit to Mr and Mrs A. 
Mr and Mrs A disagree. They say it wasn't made clear PPI was optional and they didnt need 
it. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.
The sales took place over 25 years ago so unsurprisingly there is very little 
information available from the time of the sales. So Ive had to proceed on the basis of what 
information I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
BOS needed to make it clear to Mr and Mrs A that they had a choice in taking the policies. 
Mr and Mrs A havent provided any real specific details about the sales which is 
understandable considering the amount of time that has passed. And BOS havent given us 
any of the documents from the time of the sales. So I dont know exactly what was discussed 
about MPPI or how it was presented.
From what Mr and Mrs A have told us the policies were sold during a meeting. So I think it is 
likely MPPI was discussed and I think its likely that BOS wouldve made Mr and Mrs A 
aware that MPPI was optional and that Mr and Mrs A had MPPI because they freely chose 
to take it rather than anything else. 
I note that in the 1991 sale the PPI policy was taken in Mrs As sole name. I wouldve 
thought if PPI wasnt optional or presented as such both parties wouldve automatically been covered. So I think because only Mrs A was covered by this policy PPI wouldve been 
discussed and they chose to cover Mrs A only because that is the level of cover they 
wanted.
Ive not seen enough to say that they werent given a choice or that they didnt agree to buy 
it.
To put Mr and Mrs A in the best possible position Im treating the sales as if BOS advised 
them to take the policies. What this means is that BOS not only had to provide information 
about MPPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs A could make an 
informed choice about buying MPPI. It also had to make sure that if it were to recommend 
MPPI that the policies were suitable for Mr and Mrs As needs and circumstances.
I dont know if BOS did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policies were a 
suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs A for the following reasons:
They were eligible for the policies and it doesnt look like they wouldve been caught 
by any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policies which 
couldve made it difficult to make a successful claim.
 
Mr and Mrs A say they wouldve received some sick pay and had savings they could 
use to make their repayments if they couldnt work. But the policies wouldve paid out 
on top of any work benefits and savings and for potentially longer, covering them for 
up to 12 months if they were unable to work due to accident or sickness or if they lost 
their jobs. 
 
So I think the policies wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs A in their 
circumstances especially considering they were taking on a significant and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications if they were unable to meet their 
repayments I think Mr and Mrs A wouldve been interested in protecting them.
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policies werent affordable to Mr and Mrs A at 
the time. And if they decided they no longer wanted the policies they could cancel 
them.
 
I also need to consider whether BOS gave Mr and Mrs A information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policies out. 
I dont know if BOS did give all the information as it shouldve. But for the same reasons that 
the policies were suitable and based on what Mr and Mrs A has told us about their 
circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still taken out the MPPI policies if theyd 
been given all the proper information.
So this means Mr and Mrs A arent worse off as a result of any wrong doing by BOS.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint against Bank of Scotland plc. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman