DRN-2960326
The complaint
  Mr H has complained that Everyday Loans Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) lent to 
him irresponsibly. 
What happened
  Mr H was given a fixed term loan by Everyday Loans. The details of this is given below:
Date taken Instalments Amount Repayments
19/03/2020 30 £3000 £276.67
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He thought Everyday Loans had been 
wrong to provide Mr H with the loan. He concluded that Everyday Loans didnt make a fair 
lending decision based on what it had in front of it. Everyday Loans didnt agree with the 
investigators assessment. As the complaint hasnt been settled, it has been passed to me to 
resolve the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law.
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Hs complaint.
I think there are some overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr H would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? If not, what would 
reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Ultimately, did Everyday Loans make a fair lending decision?
As the lender, Everyday Loans should have taken steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr H 
irresponsibly.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment or affordability 
check. The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Everyday Loans had to think about 
whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Mr H.
Everyday Loans had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr H would be able repay his loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that Everyday 
Loans had to do, but it could consider a number of different things such as the loan amount, 
the length of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall joint financial 
circumstances.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for any particular application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Everyday Loans did what it needed to before 
agreeing to lend to Mr H.
Everyday Loans on the occasion it lent to Mr H, asked for information about his income and 
rent payment. It also says it carried out a credit check, Office of National Statistics (ONS) 
data and used bank statements to verify what Mr H was saying.
Everyday Loans say the checks it carried out showed that Mr H had enough disposable 
income to afford the loan repayments, but I dont need to draw any conclusions about what it 
says it did at the time and whether it did carry out sufficient checks on this occasion. This is 
because, on balance, I dont think Everyday Loans made a fair lending decision on this loan 
and I will explain why.
Everyday Loans was aware from the bank statements that Mr H provided, that he was 
repaying a lot more to his credit commitments than he was receiving in income from his 
employment. 
When I look through the statements for January and February 2020 for example, I can see 
that Mr H was paying out a lot more to service his credit and met the shortfall by borrowing 
more and also from payments from family members.  It would have been clear from Mr Hs 
bank statements, that Everyday Loans had in front of it, that Mr H was having problems 
managing his finances. 
Everyday Loans ought to have been aware at this stage that it would be unlikely, from the 
information it had gathered in front of it, that Mr H would be able to sustainably repay the 
loan over the extended period that he had taken it for, without borrowing further and getting 
himself into more debt.
The customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow further to meet the repayments. And it 
follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. Something which I think was the case here 
with Mr H when he took out this loan with Everyday Loans. I think the bank statements 
provided would have shown Everyday Loans that this more likely than not would be the case 
with Mr H.
I think on balance Everyday Loans ought reasonably to have realised that Mr H was finding it 
difficult to repay his existing credit commitments. It was unlikely that he would be able to sustainably repay the loan over the extended terms provided. I think in these particular 
circumstances (from the many different lenders and total amount of repayments to credit on 
the bank statements and how Mr H was funding them); Everyday Loans should reasonably 
have concluded that it was not appropriate to lend to him.
So, I agree with our investigators conclusions. I am upholding this complaint and direct 
Everyday Loans to put things right.
  
Putting things right
 I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr H to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he has had the benefit of that lending. But as I have concluded Everyday Loans 
shouldnt have provided the loan, so it should look to remove the interest and fees from the 
principal amount. I can see that Mr H repaid the loan on 20/04/2020.
Everyday Loans should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the lending and treat all the payments Mr H 
has made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Hs loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Everyday Loans should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he 
asks for one.
 
My final decision
  I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Everyday Loans Limited to put things right as I have 
described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman