DRN-2720232
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs G complain that AWP P&C SA is responsible for poor service in connection
with a home emergency insurance policy.
 
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against one insurance
company or other regulated financial firm at a time. Where its a complaint about a claim
under an insurance policy, we treat it as a complaint against the insurance company that
was responsible for dealing with that complaint.
In our final decision we name that insurance company, but we dont identify any other party.
Where we find that an insurance company has treated a policyholder unfairly, we assess the
impact on the policyholder, and we direct the company to pay compensation by reference to
that impact. That may include financial loss and distress and inconvenience. We dont direct
compensation by reference to deterring or punishing unfair treatment. We are not a
regulator.
Mr M was suffering from dementia and incontinence. He was living in his own home with
carers coming in. Mr Ms son (another Mr M) and daughter Mrs G had a lasting power of
attorney for him.
Mrs G had an annual home emergency insurance policy that included cover for Mr Ms
primary heating system.
The policy was branded with the name of a bank. For the year from January 2020, AWP was
the insurance company responsible for dealing with claims. Where I refer to AWP, I include
engineers and others insofar as I hold AWP responsible for their actions.
On 5 May 2020, Mr Ms central heating and hot water wasnt working. So Mrs G called for
help from AWP.
AWP visited on 6 and 7 May 2020 but didnt fix the problem  and later declined to do so.
That left Mr M without central heating and hot water for about a week until Mrs G got an
independent plumbing and heating engineer to resolve the matter at a cost of about £900.00.
Mr Ms son complained to AWP. It acknowledged the complaint on 18 May 2020.
Under the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute resolution rules, AWP shouldve written a
final response letter within eight weeks. It belatedly wrote a final response dated 12 August
2020. It declined the complaint but offered Mr M £100.00 for the delay. Unhappy with that,
Mr M and Mrs G brought the complaint to us.
our investigators opinion 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that Mr M
was left with no hot water or heating for six days. So Mrs G had no option but to leave her
family home and move into his property to boil the kettle to enable him to wash properly. The
investigator recommended that AWP should:
1. pay the £100.00 compensation already offered for delays in responding to 
the complaint; and
2. pay £350.00 for the impact this matter has had on a consumer that should 
have been prioritised: and
3. reimburse the cost of the repairs as per Mrs Gs engineers invoice; and
4. add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and Mrs G and to AWP on 26 February 2021. I summarise my findings:
I hadnt reviewed AWPs file which it had sent to us via an electronic link that the 
investigator was able to use but which later expired. We had asked AWP to send it 
again by 18 February 2021, but it hadnt done so. My decision was provisional, so 
AWP had a final opportunity to respond.
I kept in mind the AWP policy limit and the work it had done. Mrs Gs engineer didnt 
have to replace the pump or supply the three-port valve. But he did have to unblock 
the feed, remedy the messed-up wiring and replace thermostats damaged by it. And 
he did all that for £924.00 (no VAT).
Mrs G was a policyholder. She was concerned about Mr Ms well-being and about 
the consequences of staying with him during lockdown. I didnt doubt that AWP 
caused each of them extra distress and inconvenience at an already difficult time.
Mrs Gs engineer gave a separate estimate for correcting the installation of the valve
(£195.00) and for flushing the system (£475.00). I didnt consider that the policy 
covered the cost of flushing or that AWP caused the need for flushing. But I did 
consider that AWP shouldve installed the valve correctly.
Subject to any further information from Mr M or Mrs G or from AWP, my provisional decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint. I intended to direct AWP P&C SA to pay Mr 
M and Mrs G (jointly):
1. insofar as it hasnt already paid it - £100.00 compensation for its slow response to 
the complaint; and
2. £350.00 for distress and inconvenience; and
3. £924.00 in reimbursement for Mrs Gs engineers invoice; and
4. simple interest on £924.00 at the yearly rate of 8% from 20 May 2020 to the date 
of reimbursement. If AWP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M and Mrs G how much 
its taken off. It should also give either of them a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate; and
5. £195.00 for the estimated cost of correcting the installation of the valve
Mrs G has nothing to add in response to the provisional decision. AWP hasnt responded to 
the provisional decision. So I see no reason to change my view.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From a customer checklist, Im satisfied that another insurance company serviced Mr Ms
boiler in mid-March 2019.
The AWP policy covered up to £1,000.00 for call-out, labour, materials and overnight
accommodation. That figure included VAT, so it equates to about £833.50 plus VAT. Beyond
that, the policyholder would have to pay for work.
The AWP policy conditions included the following:
We shall be entitled to:
refuse to help if your home or services have not been maintained in a safe or
serviceable condition.
There were also exclusions of the following:
Routine maintenance of equipment, supplies or services in your home
and
Repairs to any system, equipment or facility which has not been installed or repaired
according to the manufacturers instructions or has been incorrectly used or
modified
Most home emergency policies exclude damage caused to central heating systems by
sludge or scale. AWPs policy excluded the following:
De-scaling or any work arising from hard water scale deposits
I consider that this excluded work arising from deposits of scale from hard water  but not
from deposits of sludge (which comes from corroded metal) or other debris.
I keep in mind that there were lockdown restrictions in place. In addition, there was a bank
holiday weekend from Friday 8 May to Monday 11 May 2020.
On its first visit on 6 May 2020, AWP identified a defective pump and a three- port valve that
appeared to have seized.
On its second visit on 7 May 2020, AWPs report identified black sludge and said that the
system was blocked. It didnt mention hard water or scale. From what happened later, I find
it more likely that the system was blocked not with scale but with debris that had fallen into
the header tank.AWPs engineer reported that he replaced the pump and three-port valve - but couldnt finish
wiring of the new valve. AWPs engineer thought the boilers printed circuit board (PCB) also
needed replacing.
Mrs G went to stay with her father to care for him.
When Mr Ms son chased up AWP, it said it was declining to do any more. As far as Ive
seen, it didnt mention hard water scale or the policy limit of £1,000.00. Rather it said that Mr
Ms system was too outdated for it to work on.
Mrs G instructed her own engineer. He said he had cleaned out the header tank and
removed solid debris from the feed. Thats why I find it likely that the system was blocked
with debris that had fallen into the header tank.
Mrs Gs engineer got the central heating system working. Ive seen his invoice for £924.00
and I accept that Mr M paid it on about 20 May 2020. The engineer later did a report. He
said that AWPs incorrect wiring of the valve had caused damage to two thermostats. He
said the following:
[if] the initial engineer (or even the 2nd engineer on arrival) had diagnosed the
problem correctly dealt with the blockage first, none of these parts would have
needed to be replaced
But I dont find it likely that Mrs Gs engineer wouldve seen the old pump or the old three-
port valve. So on balance I accept AWPs report that the old pump had burned out. I find it
likely that the old three-port valve wasnt repairable; I dont think AWP wouldve gone to the
trouble of trying to wire up a new one if it wasnt necessary.
Mrs Gs engineers report included a diagram showing that the valve shouldnt be installed
upside down. And a photograph shows that AWPs engineer had installed it upside down.
Since Mrs Gs engineer got the valve working, I accept his statement that AWPs engineer
had messed up the re-wring of the valve.
I dont think AWP had been correct about the PCB; Mrs Gs engineer got the boiler working
without replacing the PCB.
In its final response, AWP said the following:
whilst the boiler itself is fairly new, the rest of the system was not upgraded to
comply with current building regulations, as such this would be a decline on claims
with the home emergency policy.
However, AWP has the burden of showing that the policy excluded the claim. Ive thought
about the policy terms quoted above. I dont consider that AWP has shown us that its policy
terms required Mr M - when he had a new boiler- to upgrade the rest of his system to comply
with building regulations.
In any event, AWP has fallen short of showing a specific provision of the building regulations
or a specific manufacturers instruction with which Mr Ms system didnt comply. And AWP
has fallen short of showing that Mr Ms home or services hadnt been maintained in a safe or
serviceable condition.
So I consider that  in addition to replacing the pump - AWP shouldve unblocked the feed
and correctly installed the three-port valve.I keep in mind the AWP policy limit and the work it had done. Mrs Gs engineer didnt have to
replace the pump or supply the three-port valve. But he did have to unblock the feed,
remedy the messed-up wiring and replace thermostats damaged by it. And he did all that for
£924.00 (no VAT).
Mrs Gs engineer gave a separate estimate for correcting the installation of the valve
(£195.00) and for flushing the system (£475.00). As far as I know, that work hasnt been
done.
I dont consider that the policy covered the cost of flushing or that AWP caused the need for
flushing. But I do consider that AWP shouldve installed the valve correctly.
 
Putting things right
Overall - as far as the cost of work is concerned  I consider that the fairest outcome would
be for AWP to pay Mr M and Mrs G (jointly) £924.00 in reimbursement of the invoice and
£195.00 for the estimated cost of correcting the installation of the valve.
As they have been £924.00 out of pocket since about 20 May 2020, I find it fair and 
reasonable to direct AWP to pay Mr M and Mrs G (jointly) simple interest on £924.00
from that date at our usual rate.
Mrs G was a policyholder. She was concerned about Mr Ms well-being and about the
consequences of staying with him during lockdown. I dont doubt that AWP caused each of 
them extra distress and inconvenience at an already difficult time. On balance I find it fair 
and reasonable to direct AWP to pay them - jointly - £350.00 compensation for
this.
Mr Ms son bore the burden of complaining to AWP. He has given many examples of its
failure to return his calls. But he wasnt a policyholder so I cant direct compensation for his
distress and inconvenience.
Since AWPs final response offered to pay £100.00 compensation for its slow response to
the complaint, I will direct AWP to pay that to Mr M and Mrs G (jointly) insofar as it hasnt
already paid it.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct AWP 
P&C SA to pay Mr M and Mrs G (jointly):
1. insofar as it hasnt already paid it - £100.00 compensation for its slow 
response to the complaint; and
2. £350.00 for distress and inconvenience; and
3. £924.00 in reimbursement for Mrs Gs engineers invoice; and
4. simple interest on £924.00 at the yearly rate of 8% from 20 May 2020 to the 
date of reimbursement. If AWP considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M and Mrs 
G how much its taken off. It should also give either of them a certificate 
showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
5. £195.00 for the estimated cost of correcting the installation of the valve.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman