DRN-3640220
The complaint
Mrs M complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) completed and charged her for an 
unnecessary power flush after she claimed under her policy for a fault with her central 
heating. 
Mrs M had a HomeCare Four policy with BG, which provided her with home emergency 
cover for her central heating. Mr M brought the complaint on her behalf so, for ease, Ill refer 
mainly to him throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr M reported a fault with the central heating to BG and claimed under the home emergency 
cover. BG carried out around eight appointments before it fixed the problem. During that 
time, it quoted for a power flush, which Mr M accepted.
BG eventually fixed the problem, but only after replacing the filter, which had clogged up.
Mr M complained to BG because he didnt think the power flush was necessary. He said BG 
couldve simply replaced the clogged filter sooner and he and Mrs M wouldnt have been left 
without heating for so long during winter. Mr M was also unhappy that BG didnt send an 
accurate invoice for the power flush and, because he didnt pay it, BG threatened debt 
collection action.
BG agreed the invoice was incorrect and it acknowledged some service shortfalls, for which 
it paid £105 compensation. But it said the policy wouldnt have continued to provide full 
cover without the power flush.
Our investigator found that BG was aware of Mrs Ms health conditions and concluded that 
BG shouldve done more to help while heating was unavailable during winter months. For 
the overall shortfalls in service, our investigator recommended that BG pay Mr and Mrs M a 
further £145 to bring the total compensation to £250.
Our investigator also concluded that the power flush was unnecessary so BG should cancel 
the invoice and ensure any detrimental markers were corrected on the credit files.
Mr M felt it was a fair outcome. BG agreed to the increase in compensation, but it didnt think 
the power flush was unnecessary. It said the policy cover wouldve been restricted without it, 
so BG said the invoice, once correctly discounted, was valid.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mrs Ms 
complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive provisionally decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. But, while Im minded to uphold the 
complaint, Im not persuaded that BG should cancel the full cost of the power flush. Let me 
explain.
Compensation
Both parties agreed that the investigators proposal to increase the compensation to £250 
was reasonable in the circumstances. Having considered the evidence, I agree. Therefore, I 
dont intend to comment further on this issue, though it will form part of my overall decision.
Power flush
The evidence suggests that the cause of the problem was a blocked filter. Both parties agree 
that sludge/scale caused the blockage.
Mr M says he had power flushes completed in 2008 and around 2012 and I have no reason 
to doubt what he says. However, turning to BGs log of appointments, I see that it 
recommended a power flush in 2016 and during subsequent visits, but Mrs M declined. BG 
confirmed that cover is reduced in these circumstances.
Looking at the policy, it provides cover for repairs to the heat and hot water system, but it 
doesnt cover:
Damage caused by limescale, sludge or other debris  if weve told you before that 
you need to carry out repairs, improvements or a British Gas Powerflush, or a similar 
process, but you havent done so
The policy clearly states that if BG recommends a power flush and its not carried out, cover 
is no longer available for damage caused by scale or sludge. Although it was a chargeable 
job, it meant Mrs M still had the full cover available to her, meaning BG would repair her 
system. 
So, based on this evidence, I cant reasonably say the power flush was unnecessary. If BG 
hadnt completed the power flush, Mrs M wouldnt have been covered for repairs to her 
blocked system.
Invoice
Mr M said he didnt pay the invoice because it didnt reflect the discount BG had promised. 
BG confirmed this. If it hasnt already done so, BG should issue a new invoice showing the 
10% discount it promised. However, I cant reasonably say BG was wrong to chase payment 
for a completed service, so I wont be requiring anything further in respect of the debt 
chasers.
I said I was intending to require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
pay Mrs M compensation of £145 bringing the total compensation payment to £250, 
and
if it hasnt already, issue a new invoice for the power flush to reflect the 10% discount 
it offered previously.I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
BG confirmed it would issue the discounted invoice and pay the additional £145 
compensation.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with my provisional decision. Although they couldnt locate the 
2016 annual boiler service sheet, they provided the checklist for years 2014, 2015, 2018 and 
2019, pointing out that none mentioned the need for a power flush.
Further, they said a similar service provider didnt recommend the type of flush BG 
performed on systems of a similar age to theirs. Mr and Mrs M were unhappy that BG issued 
the discounted invoice immediately and started chasing payment, and they asked for the 
invoice to be cleared or, at least, reduced by 50%.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, but the outcome remains the same as that 
set out in my provisional decision. Ill explain.
Power flush recommendation
Mr and Mrs M said they have no recollection of BG recommending a power flush from 2016 
onwards.
Ive looked at BGs work notes again, and compared them with the annual service checklists 
Mr M provided. I agree that the checklists dont have any reference to a power flush. 
However, the work notes show that BG recommended the power flush when attending to 
faults on 8 March 2016, 6 November 2016, 30 November 2018 and 29 September 2020. 
None of these dates correspond to the annual service checks so I wouldnt necessarily 
expect to see any reference to a power flush on them. The evidence suggests that BG 
recommended a power flush on each of these occasions because there was a fault with the 
system which they were there to fix. 
So, while I have no reason to doubt that Mr M doesnt recollect being given the advice, the 
evidence suggests that BG did recommend a power flush on four occasions.
Age of system
I understand Mr Ms point about a similar service provider saying a different, perhaps 
gentler, power flush wouldve been appropriate given the age of his system. However, Mr M 
also said BG confirmed the flush may cause leaks in older parts of the system. It provided 
the relevant information for Mr M to make an informed decision before completing a power 
flush so, based on this, I cant see that BG did anything wrong.
Blocked filter
Mr M said if BG had been sufficiently competent, it wouldve identified the blocked filter and 
recommended changing it before suggesting a power flush. He also said BG fitted a 
magnetic filter which shouldve reduced the need for a power flush. Given that BG fitted a magnetic filter, it seems there was already some concern about the 
sludge present in the system. And the work notes show that BG attended on several 
occasions to fix faults with the system, so its not unreasonable to think BG recommended 
work that mightve resulted in a more substantial fix. Regardless of that, I havent seen 
anything to persuade me that BG failed to identify something sooner than it shouldve done, 
or that the recommendation for a power flush was inappropriate in the circumstances.
Invoice
I understand BG issued a revised invoice reflecting the 10% discount. My provisional 
decision explained that I was minded to require BG to issue that invoice. For clarity, then, Ill 
make that requirement again here. In the circumstances, BG may wish to allow Mr and Mrs 
M extra time to pay, but thats not something Ill require here.
Overall, I havent seen anything in the evidence, or within Mr and Mrs Ms new comments 
that persuade me BG was wrong to recommend the power flush. Therefore, my final 
decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Ms 
complaint and British Gas Insurance Limited must:
pay Mrs M compensation of £145 bringing the total compensation payment to £250, 
and
issue a new invoice for the power flush to reflect the 10% discount it offered 
previously.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman