DRN-3465323
The complaint
Mrs G and Mr H complain that Santander UK Plc refused to allow them to port their 
mortgage to a new property, leading to them paying an early repayment charge (ERC) to 
move to another lender.
What happened
Mrs G had a mortgage with Santander, which was subject to a five year fixed rate. During 
the fixed rate period, an ERC would apply if the mortgage was repaid early. 
In 2020 Mrs G and Mr H decided to move house. Although they had been living together, 
until this point the mortgage was in Mrs Gs sole name. But they wanted the new house and 
mortgage to be in joint names. So they applied to Santander to port their mortgage to the 
new property, adding Mr H to it in the process. They intended to port the existing balance 
without taking further borrowing.
Santander assessed their application, and refused it. It said it didnt think the mortgage was 
affordable. So Mrs G and Mr H applied for a new mortgage with another lender, which was 
granted.
By this point, the mortgage was only a few months from the end of the five year fixed rate 
period. The monthly payments were less than £350  but in repaying the mortgage early, 
Mrs G incurred an ERC of almost £9,000.
Mrs G and Mr H complained. They said Santander should have allowed them to port the 
mortgage, in which case the ERC would not have been payable at all. And they said that the 
ERC itself was unfair  since it far exceeded the payments left until the end of the fixed rate. 
They also complained that the ERC was fixed for the whole of the fixed rate, rather than 
reducing on a sliding scale. And so even if Santander was entitled to charge an ERC, the 
£9,000 charged was excessive.
Santander said that porting was always subject to an application being made, and was 
discretionary. It said Mrs G and Mr Hs application did not meet its lending criteria. And it 
said the ERC was properly charged and not unfair in amount.
Santander said that as a new borrower was being added, it had to carry out a full 
affordability assessment. It said the mortgage was not affordable based on Mrs G and 
Mr Hs income.
Mrs G and Mr H derive most of their income from rental properties, though each also has 
some self-employed income. Santander said that under its lending criteria it would only 
consider rental income from professional landlords, and as Mrs G and Mr H had other 
income too, they did not meet its definition of professional landlords. This meant it factored in 
notional running costs for each of the properties as part of the affordability assessment. And 
on that basis, the mortgage was not affordable.
Our investigator didnt think Santander had acted fairly. She said that Santander should 
refund the ERC, and account for the difference in interest rate with the new mortgage Mrs G 
and Mr H had taken. And she said it should pay them £250 compensation.
Santander didnt agree to that. It said Mrs G and Mr Hs new mortgage balance with their 
new lender was much lower than the old mortgage. So it offered to refund 50% of the ERC  
on the basis that if theyd reduced the balance with Santander while porting, theyd have had 
to pay a partial ERC. And it didnt think it should take account of the difference in interest 
rate. Mrs G and Mr H didnt accept that, so the case comes to me for a decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied Santander didnt consider Mrs G and Mr Hs application fairly, as it now seems 
to accept, having made an offer to refund part of the ERC.
When an existing borrower wants to add a new borrower, the lender can allow the 
application to proceed even if it doesnt pass an affordability assessment  provided the 
application is otherwise in the borrowers best interests.
It seems to me that this application failed the affordability assessment on a technicality, 
because of Santanders professional landlords policy. As landlords, Mrs G and Mr H 
receive rental income and have to pay the mortgages and other expenses such as 
maintenance and the costs of lettings. But the day to day running costs of the properties  
such as utilities  are paid by the tenants.
Because Mrs G and Mr H receive other income too, they didnt come within Santanders 
definition of professional landlords. Which meant that rather than look at the actual 
situation with their rental income profits, it assumed they were responsible for the running 
costs of the properties themselves. This inflated their expenditure  and meant the mortgage 
didnt appear affordable. 
But thats a technicality because of Santanders policy. In reality, theres little doubt Mrs G 
and Mr H could afford the mortgage they were applying for. It would have gone from being 
Mrs Gs alone, to a joint mortgage  adding Mr Hs income too. They had substantial 
savings, and were significantly reducing the loan to value. It wasnt affordable because 
Santander discounted part of their income  not because they didnt have that income in the 
first place.
Setting aside an affordability assessment might not be in a borrowers best interests where 
its clear that in practice they wont be able to afford the mortgage. But thats not the case 
here. And there were other reasons why the application was in their best interests  such as 
ensuring that both their incomes were taken into account. And allowing them to purchase the 
property and be responsible for the mortgage together, as they wanted. 
In my view, taking into account the mortgage regulations and acting fairly, Santander ought 
to have allowed this application. 
Putting things right
Had Santander allowed the porting application, Mrs G and Mr H wouldnt have had to pay an 
ERC. So in my view, its fair that Santander refunds the ERC.
Its offered 50% of the ERC because the new mortgage they actually took was much lower. It said that if theyd stayed with Santander and reduced their balance, they would have had to 
pay a partial ERC. And so they shouldnt have the benefit of both a lower new mortgage, and 
also no ERC to pay. 
But I dont agree about that. Mrs G and Mr H were combining their resources, and so didnt 
need such a big mortgage  and applied for less to their new lender. But had they stayed 
with Santander, they would have ported the full balance to avoid the ERC  and then, a few 
months later, when the ERC expired, reviewed their mortgage arrangements at that point. In 
other words, had nothing gone wrong they wouldnt have paid any ERC at all. Thats what 
ought to have happened, and so Santander ought to put them back in that position. 
Given my finding that Santander should refund the full ERC, I dont need to consider the 
secondary complaint about the fairness of the ERC.
I agree that Santander should also pay Mrs G and Mr H £250 compensation. I think that 
fairly reflects the annoyance and inconvenience of having to find another lender and incur 
the ERC.
However, I dont agree with the investigator that Santander ought to consider what rate 
Mrs G and Mr H might have been offered when the existing fixed rate expired, and compare 
that with the rate they took from their new lender.
In putting this complaint right, I look to put Mrs G and Mr H back in the position they would 
have been in had Santander allowed them to port. That means they would have carried on 
with their existing fixed rate until it ended in September 2021. At that point, they would have 
been free to look for a new rate with Santander or another lender  and, indeed, could have 
reduced their balance. 
Santanders failing in this case meant that Mrs G and Mr H were able to make that choice a 
few months early  but theyd always have had to make that choice at some point. And so I 
dont think it would be fair to expect Santander to account as part of this complaint for a rate 
that Mrs G and Mr H wouldnt have taken at the point of porting had nothing gone wrong.
The new mortgage Mrs G and Mr H did take from the existing lender had a very slightly 
lower interest rate. But it was for a much lower balance than the mortgage with Santander 
would have been. In the circumstances, given the differences between the two mortgages 
and the fact that had they ported they would have only had a few more months on the 
existing Santander rates, it seems to me that the simplest and fairest thing to do here is to 
disregard this and simply require Santander to refund the ERC. 
As this was a different outcome to the one the investigator reached, I put this to both parties 
to allow them to comment before making a final decision. Santander had no further 
comment, beyond reiterating that it thought its offer of a 50% refund was fair.
Mrs G and Mr H sent me a detailed reply, which Ive considered in full and taken into 
account. In summary, they said they couldnt go back in time and restore the position as it 
would have been had Santander allowed them to port. They said that Santander hadnt 
acted fairly, and ought to have known that from the start. Even when the investigator pointed 
it out, Santander still tried to get out of doing the right thing by only offering 50% of the ERC 
back.
Mrs G and Mr H said that they are individual consumers. Many individual consumers might 
be put off pursuing a complaint in their situation. But Santander is a large bank  so there is 
not a fair balance between them. Santander had every opportunity to get this complaint right. 
It knew the real position, but still tried to avoid a fair outcome. If Santander couldnt reach a fair outcome, it shouldnt be able to rely on me doing it for it. It has tried to take advantage of 
the situation using its greater power, and the outcome of this case should mark that. It 
should not be my role to protect Santander from a harsh outcome. 
Ive considered what Mrs G and Mr H say carefully. But Im afraid their argument is not one 
that I can accept. Its not my role to protect or punish either party to a complaint. Nor is it my 
role to mark that other people might be put off from complaining by making an increased 
award in this case.
My role is to determine, impartially and independently, whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint. I agree that we cant now go back in time. But I can try, as 
far as is possible, to put Mrs G and Mr H in the position they would have been in had nothing 
gone wrong. In that position, they would not have paid the ERC, and would have been free 
to re-mortgage and reduce their balance after a few months. 
So to put matters right, I will direct Santander to refund the ERC, leaving Mrs G and Mr H 
having re-mortgaged and reduced their balance without having to pay an ERC to do so. Im 
satisfied that gets as close as possible to restoring them to the position they would have 
been in. And Im satisfied that for the distress and inconvenience caused, £250 is fair 
compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Santander UK Plc to:
Refund the ERC, adding simple annual interest of 8% running from 16 April 2021 to 
the date of refund; and
Pay Mrs G and Mr H £250 compensation.
Santander may deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my award. But it should 
tell Mrs G and Mr H what it has deducted so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if they are 
eligible to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman