DRN-3233584
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, is holding him liable to repay 
two credit card debts that he says he never applied for.
Background
Mr B has explained that, after splitting from his wife, he had a meeting with his bank who 
provide his current account in order to receive some financial advice. Mr B was advised 
about a direct debit on the account that was being made towards a Halifax credit card. Mr B 
says from this, he began to investigate further, and found there were two credit card debts in 
his name, which he says he never applied for. The second credit card was being paid for 
from a current account held jointly by Mr B and his ex-wife. Mr B says he also doesnt recall 
applying for the joint account. Mr B has explained that he regularly worked away from home 
and now believes his wife applied for both cards without his consent or knowledge and 
intercepted his statements to avoid him finding out.
Unhappy about the credit card debts he was being held liable for, Mr B complained to 
Halifax. Halifax investigated Mr Bs complaint but declined to refund him. It said statements 
for both credit cards were sent to Mr Bs home address, that they were repaid from accounts 
in either Mr Bs sole name, or held jointly by him and his ex-wife and the card balances were 
made up largely from money transfers, where the money was also sent to his joint account.
Mr B remained unhappy so referred the complaint to our service. An investigator considered 
Mr Bs complaint and partially upheld it. She thought it was most likely that Mr B didnt apply 
for the credit cards, based on the cards having been applied for online and the contact 
information provided for Mr B being incorrect. However, she thought that it was more likely 
than not that Mr B had indirectly benefitted from the spend on both cards. She said money 
transfers had been made on both cards to Mr Bs joint account with his wife, and that this 
account had direct debits set up on it that she thought he would have benefitted from. She 
said Mr B also had cards in his own name for the joint current account.
The investigator therefore thought that Mr B should be held liable for the principle debt on 
both cards, but should not be liable for any interest or charges applied. Mr B disagreed with 
the investigators view. He didnt accept he had benefitted from the money transfers and that 
he had no knowledge of the joint account with his ex-wife until after they had split.
While Halifax also initially disagreed with the investigators view, it has since agreed to 
remove all interest and charges applied to Mr Bs credit cards. It has also agreed to remove 
any adverse information on Mr Bs credit file caused by this debt. 
As Mr B disagreed with the investigators view, the complaint has been referred to me for a 
final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Halifax has now agreed to not hold Mr B liable for interest and charges applied on the 
credit cards, what remains for me to determine is whether Mr B benefitted from the credit 
card debt and whether he should therefore be held liable for repayment of the principle sum.
As Ive explained, the spend on the credit cards in question was principally used to transfer 
money to a joint account Mr B held with his ex-wife. Mr B doesnt recall taking out this 
account. Ive reviewed the evidence available to determine whether I think its more likely 
than not that he did consent to this. Based on everything Ive seen, Im persuaded he did. 
The bank provider in question has confirmed that the joint account was initially held by just 
Mr Bs ex-wife, and that Mr B was added to the account in 2006. Mr B confirmed that in 
2006, his daughter was born and he discussed opening a joint account with his wife but this 
never happened. The bank provider has provided a copy of the application form submitted 
for Mr B to be added to the account. Mr B cannot recall this form, but has acknowledged the 
signature does look like his own. Ive considered whether I think its more likely that Mr Bs 
ex-wife forged this document, or that Mr B has forgotten applying for it due to the time that 
has since passed. Having considered everything, I think its more likely than not that Mr B 
did give his consent to being added to this account.
I say this because Mr B has acknowledged he was discussing a joint account with his then 
wife around the time he was added to this one. In addition, I think there was less for Mr Bs 
ex-wife to benefit from by adding Mr B to this account without his agreement  the account 
was regularly in credit, which Mr B would then have had equal entitlement to, and I cant see 
what Mr Bs ex-wife would have gained from adding him without his permission at this time. I 
appreciate Mr B may have forgotten about this account, and theres no available evidence to 
confirm if he made actual card transactions on the account or not  but I think he did consent 
to being a joint account holder.
Ive therefore looked at the available evidence of account usage, to see whether I think its 
more likely than not that Mr B did benefit from this account. I can see that, during the time Mr 
B has been a joint account holder, there have been direct debits on the account payable to 
water, internet, phone and gas providers. I think its likely Mr B wouldve been receiving a 
service from these payments that he was partially benefitting from, even if he may not have 
realised this joint account was funding those payments.
The credit card debts on Mr Bs Halifax cards were made up of money transfers made to this 
joint account. As Im persuaded that Mr B more likely than not benefitted from the credits 
made to this joint account, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold Halifax 
responsible for the principle sum.
I also have to consider the wider circumstances in this case. Monthly repayments for one of 
the Halifax credit cards were made from Mr Bs current account, registered solely in his 
name. This credit card has had an outstanding debt since 2018, meaning monthly 
repayments wouldve been taken from Mr Bs account from then onwards, until Mr B 
attended his branch for financial advice over a year later. While I appreciate Mr B wasnt 
expecting to see payments he didnt consent to on his account, there is a general 
expectation for customers to occasionally review their accounts for anything untoward. Its 
now also fairly common practice for individuals to intermittently check their credit report for 
their own security, which in Mr Bs case wouldve indicated from 2014 onwards that he had 
credit in his name he was unaware of. 
I therefore think Halifaxs offer to refund the interest and charges applied to the cards, as 
well as removing adverse credit information on Mr Bs file, is a fair outcome.I appreciate Mr Bs strength of feeling on this case and why he doesnt think he should be 
responsible for this debt. But based on the evidence available I dont think it would be fair to 
hold Halifax liable for additional debt on the card.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Bs complaint 
against Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax. I require Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax 
to:
Remove all interest and charges applied to both credit cards registered in Mr Bs 
name
Remove any adverse information on Mr Bs credit file relating to both credit cards
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman