DRN-3734795
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her accounts without giving a reason. 
She would like the accounts reinstated.
What happened
Mrs G had a current account and a savings account with Barclays.
Following a review Barclays wrote Mrs G a letter dated 10 March 2021 giving her 60 days 
notice to close her account.
Mrs G didnt get the letter until 3 May 2021. She was unhappy that Barclays had decided to 
close her accounts.
She has said she has been a customer of Barclays for 30 Years and she found Barclays 
decision to close her accounts upsetting, it had caused Mrs G financial and emotional worry.
She complained to Barclays. They said they hadnt made an error and they couldnt reopen 
her accounts.
Mrs G complained to our service. One of the investigators looked into the complaint. She 
said Barclays hadnt done anything wrong when it closed Mrs Gs account. And it didnt need 
to give Mrs G a reason.
Mrs G was unhappy with the view she said her funds had been held for months and that she 
had been given £50 for failures of customer service and the investigator hadnt 
acknowledged this.
The investigator responded she said funds were released to Mrs G on 21 June 2021. These 
were funds that had been paid into Mrs G s account with Barclays after it closed.  She 
thought the offer of £50 was fair.
Mrs G said the money hadnt credited her account until 2 August 2022.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Review
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mrs Gs account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Barclays were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mrs Gs account. 
Closure
Following the review, Mrs Gs account was closed. Its generally for banks to decide whether 
or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular 
customer. Unless theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank 
must keep a customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account 
closed.
Ive first considered whether Barclays acted fairly when it closed Mrs Gs account. Mrs G has 
pointed out that she has been a loyal customer of Barclays for many years and that the 
closure of her accounts has caused her a lot of problems and stress. Im sorry that whats 
happened has caused Mrs G trouble and upset. But its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mrs Gs accounts and Im satisfied Barclays acted 
fairly. The terms and conditions outline that the bank can close a customers account with 
two months notice, and in certain circumstances they can close an account immediately. In 
this case Barclays closed Mrs Gs account with two months notice. And having looked at 
these terms and all the evidence Im satisfied that the bank has applied the terms fairly. And 
it was entitled to close the accounts as its already done.  It follows I wont be asking 
Barclays to reinstate the account.
I appreciate that Mrs G didnt get the letter that Barclays sent her until 5 May 2021.I am 
satisfied that the letter was sent to the correct address, and I appreciate its upsetting for 
Mrs G to get the letter late, but I cant hold Barclays responsible for delays in the postal 
service.
Reason
Mrs G has said she would like to know the reason why her account was closed after all 
these years as a customer of the bank. Whilst Mrs G mayve expected to be given the 
reasons for the account closure. Barclays isnt required to give her a specific reason. And I 
can understand Mrs Gs frustration that she hasnt been provided a detailed explanation. But 
Barclays is under no obligation to provide this information to her, as much as shed like to 
know. So, I cant say Barclays have done anything wrong by not giving Mrs G this 
information. 
Release of funds and compensation for delay 
Mrs G has told us that there was a delay in her receiving £180 which was paid into her 
Barclays account on 14 June 2021, a few weeks after the account was closed. I have seen 
notes provided by the bank that show they were aware of this payment coming in and were 
trying to return this to Mrs G. Mrs G has said that the payment wasnt credited to her until 
2 August 2022. But Ive seen evidence in the bank notes and a copy of the letter from the 
bank that suggests the money was sent to Mrs G by way of a cheque on 21 June 2021.  Mrs 
G was also given £50 compensation for the failures in customer service and because Mrs G 
had to contact Barclays to try and locate her payment.
I appreciate that not being able to have access to this money was very inconvenient to Mrs G however the payment came into the Barclays account a few weeks after the account 
was closed so I think Mrs G must bear some of the responsibility for this delay. I think £50 
compensation she already received is reasonable and I wont be asking Barclays to pay 
anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman