DRN-4213776
The complaint
Mr R complains about Revolut Ltd. 
He says that Revolut should have stopped payments he made to a gambling website based 
in Sierra Leone and that Revolut should have used the chargeback facility to retrieve the 
funds after he was offered a refund as he wasnt able to play the games due to territorial 
issues.
What happened
In October 2022, Mr R made a number of payments totalling £11,550 to an online website 
offering gambling games. The website was based in Sierra Leone. 
Mr R is unhappy that Revolut allowed the transactions to go through, he says that as he had 
a gambling block on his account the transactions should have been stopped, and that 
Revolut should have contacted him given the number and value of the transactions.
Mr R also complains that he wasnt able to utilise the money that he sent to the gambling 
site, as he was unable to play any of the games offered due to territorial issues. He 
wants Revolut to refund him via the chargeback scheme as he was promised a refund from 
the merchant which he has not received.
Revolut didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. It said that while the gambling block was active on 
Mr Rs account at the time the transactions were made, it didnt stop these transactions 
because the merchant code used by the provider of the gambling facilities was not one 
which was connected to gambling and was also based overseas.
It did raise chargebacks on behalf of Mr R, but only some of these were successful  the 
others were rejected by the company Mr R paid.
Unhappy, Mr R brought his complaint to this Service.
Our Investigator looked into things but didnt think that the complaint should be upheld.
He said there was nothing Revolut could have done to prevent the payments that left Mr Rs 
account, and that Mr R raised the chargeback requests as per Mr Rs instructions  and so 
hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr R asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint, so it has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint for broadly the same reasons 
as our Investigator. I know that Mr R will be disappointed with this, so Ill explain why.
Mr R has made two main points as part of his complaint, so I will deal with them separately.
Should Revolut have prevented the payments Mr R made?
Mr R has explained that he had registered his details with two agencies which are designed 
to support people who compulsively gamble, and that he also had a gambling block placed 
on his account with Revolut at the time the payments were made. He also says that the 
frequency and amount of the transactions should have prompted Revolut to intervene and 
stop him from making the payments.
The agencies with which Mr R was registered are not part of Revolut, so it wouldnt be 
responsible for them not working correctly - however, as the site Mr R was using was not set 
up as a gambling site as explained below, I dont think that these agencies would have been 
able to prevent Mr R from making the payments anyway. 
I also dont think that Revolut is at fault for allowing the payments to leave Mr Rs account.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, and in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account Mr R 
authorised the payments in question here.
While I understand that Mr R feels that Revolut should have got in touch with him about the 
payments  I dont agree. They werent made as part of a fraud or scam, and Mr R wanted to 
make the payments at the time. 
I also dont agree that the payments were so unusual that Revolut should have got in touch 
with Mr R for any other reason. It appears that he was topping up his account on a regular 
basis in order to fund the payments he was making, and while the amounts did total a 
significant amount of money, individually the payments were not so high as to be seen to be 
putting Mr R at risk of financial harm, for example becoming overdrawn or unable to pay for 
other expenses. It seems as if the account was opened with the intention of making such 
payments away from Mr Rs usual current account as there is none of the normal activity, I 
would expect to see on an everyday account. 
I do understand Mr R had a gambling block on his account with Revolut which was in place 
and working at the time of the transactions  however the website Mr R was using was not 
based in the UK, and the merchant code used was not linked to gambling. So, this wouldnt 
have been picked up by Revolut  and I dont see how else it could have known that the 
payments were in fact going to a gambling site as it cant manually monitor every 
transaction.
So, taking everything account, I dont think that Revolut has done anything wrong by not 
preventing the payments from being made.
Chargeback
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr R 
does here, Revolut can attempt to go through the chargeback process. Chargeback isnt a 
right, but this service does consider it good practice to raise a chargeback, if within the time 
limits and if there is a reasonable prospect of success.
The second part of Mr Rs complaint is that Revolut was not successful in returning all of his 
funds through the chargeback process when he asked it to do so.There were two options for raising a chargeback request  the first covers fraud and scams 
(which doesnt apply here), and the other covers disputes. The chargeback for disputes 
covers things such as goods or services not provided, duplicate charges for the same 
purchase, a refund was promised by the merchant (for example a cancelled purchase) but 
not received, a subscription fee was charged after the customer has cancelled it or an ATM 
did not dispense cash either fully or partially. A customer can then add further information. 
Revolut has provided a copy of one of the chargeback requests Mr R completed, and I can 
see that he told it:
I have uploaded images of successful deposits and then an error constantly telling me that I 
cannot play the games and are not available from my country, and so therefore this is why I 
joined to play these games and if they are not available in my country I should be getting a 
refund because I am not receiving the service that I have joined for..
In my mind, this is an accurate reflection of what has happened here. 
Mr R says that Revolut should have requested the chargeback under the reason refund not 
received. 
However, while I know that Mr R says that he was promised a refund from the merchant and 
has provided screen shots which he says support this  I dont think that what he has 
provided shows that he was provided a promise of a refund from the merchant. 
One of the screen shots he has provided appears to have been from a different online 
casino than the payments were made to, and the copy of another transcript provided says 
that a refund request has been made  but not that it has been agreed.
So, even if Mr R had added that he was promised a refund which hadnt been received, I 
dont think that he would have been able to prove this was the case  and even if he was 
able to evidence this, the merchant can still dispute the chargeback, and as Ive explained a 
chargeback isnt a right. 
I understand that some of the Chargeback requests were successful  but this is because 
the merchant didnt dispute them  and it doesnt mean that Revolut should refund him the 
rest of the money he had paid, it means that the merchant didnt challenge the chargeback.
In summary, I dont think that Revolut has done anything wrong here. So, I wont be asking it 
to do any more than it has done already.  
I do understand that Mr R has been deprived of access to his funds, but this is not the fault 
of Revolut, and ultimately, this is a dispute between Mr R and the merchant in question. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman