DRN-3984288
The complaint
Mr H complains about the settlement he was offered by PCF Bank Limited, and hes upset 
they didnt accept his offer of reduced payments.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H but Im not asking PCF to take any further action here. Ill 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The settlement offer
Mr H has explained that had PCF sold the car earlier they would have a achieved a 
significantly higher value.
Ive had the benefit of being able to consider PCFs system notes. They show details of the 
calls Mr H had with PCF around the time of the settlement. 
From those notes it appears that Mr H told them he had a valuation of £13,600 in September 
2021. The notes say that the CAP clean valuation at the time was £14,450.
The car was eventually sold at auction in January 2022 and a system note from early 
January 2022 explains that Mr H had now obtained a valuation of £13,000. The notes 
explain that the CAP clean valuation was now £14,750.
I think the CAP clean valuations are the clearest indication of what the car would be likely to 
achieve at auction. Considering the limited damage noted in the pre-auction inspection 
report it seems the car would be considered clean and the £14,750 CAP clean valuation 
may have been a realistic expectation.
The car sold for £14,500 and when Mr H complained about the value PCF agreed to deduct 
a further £800 from the balance on the account.
I think that was fair. It represented more than the difference between the CAP clean 
valuation and the amount achieved at auction, and the evidence suggests it more than 
compensated Mr H for the impact of any delay, as the value in September 2021 was £300 
less than in January 2022.
So I dont think PCFs settlement offer was unreasonable and Im not asking them to take 
any further action about that.
Mr H is upset that when the debt was assigned to another company in August 2022 the 
balance had increased by about £1,000. This service is only able to consider complaints 
after the business has. I cant see that PCF have considered that complaint yet so, if Mr H 
remains concerned, he should refer that complaint to them.
The repayment offer from Mr H
Mr H offered to repay £200 per month towards the account, but PCF didnt accept that offer.
When a consumer is experiencing financial difficulties wed expect a business to be 
sympathetic and to show some forbearance. I think PCF had. Theyd deferred payments, 
and allowed reduced payments previously, but it was their assessment that the £200 would 
only increase the arrears on the account and they therefore offered a voluntary settlement. 
In all the circumstances, I think that was reasonable. I dont think the evidence suggested 
Mr H was likely to be able to sustainably afford repayments towards his account. It wouldnt 
have been responsible to increase his indebtedness further.
Ultimately, whilst I have every sympathy for Mr Hs situation, I dont think PCF have done 
anything wrong and Im not asking them to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman