DRN-3924039
The complaint
Mr B complains that TenetConnect Limited gave him unsuitable advice to switch his pension 
into a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and subsequently gave unsuitable investment 
advice for his funds. 
What happened
Mr B was advised by a firm named Lifestyle Financial Management Ltd who were an 
appointed representative of TenetConnect Limited (Tenet). For ease, Ill refer to Tenet 
throughout this decision. 
Mr B was advised by Tenet in 2008 to switch a personal pension to a new provider  
Skandia. Tenet produced a written recommendation for the transfer based on Mr Bs 
circumstances at the time. After Mr B accepted the recommendation, the switch went ahead 
in early 2009.
In March 2010 Mr B again met with Tenet and completed a fact-find about his circumstances 
at the time. 
Tenet noted that Mr B was 59 years old, married and in good health. At the time he was the 
director of his own business which was based in the construction industry. The fact-find also 
noted details about Mr Bs assets at the time. It said;
His Skandia pension had a transfer value of around £161,000.
He also had a pension that his company were paying contributions into worth around 
£13,000.
He had savings of £10,000 in an ISA and £20,000 in a bank account. 
He had £1,000,000 of business shares.
Mr B jointly owned his £250,000 home with his wife, and they also owned a second 
£140,000 house which was up for sale. 
The fact-find noted Mr Bs objective as the Transfer of Skandia pension to a SIPP with a 
view to taking non equity investments. It also noted that Tenet assessed Mr Bs attitude to 
investment risk as Medium/High and he had a target retirement age of 65.
Following the fact-find Tenet sent Mr B a written recommendation of their advice in a 
suitability report. 
The report noted that although the Skandia pension was set up in 2009, Mr B was interested 
in flexibility in terms of the range of investments on offer and different ways to take benefits 
through a SIPP. So theyd considered the possibility of transferring the Skandia pension to a 
SIPP.
Tenet said Mr Bs attitude to investment risk was progressive and as his pension benefits 
only made up a small part of his overall wealth, he was prepared to consider more 
sophisticated investments. They went on to say affordability is not an issue in this case as 
the funds already exist within your pension arrangements.
Tenet went on to recommend that Mr B switch his Skandia Pension to a Brooklands SIPP as 
it met his objectives of having flexibility in his investments and benefits. However, Tenet 
didnt recommend any specific investments at that time saying that theyd discuss specific 
investments with Mr B once hed decided to switch. 
Later, in April 2010, Tenet produced four further suitability reports on various investments 
they recommended to Mr B. These were;
£30,000 into the Mansion Student Accommodation fund  a Guernsey protected cell, 
open-ended investment company.
£30,000 into a Sustainable Land investment  an unregulated collective investment 
scheme (UCIS).
£15,000 into the Sycamore II Property Development fund  an exempt property unit 
trust (EPUT)
£30,000 into the Sycamore IV Property Development Fund  also an EPUT.
A further investment into a Sycamore IV fund was also made in 2011 but Tenet say Mr B 
made that investment on an execution only basis. 
Some of the investments Mr B made later failed and became worthless. Brooklands, the 
SIPP provider also went into administration in 2016. The pension was moved to Heritage 
pensions and has again moved more recently to PSG SIPP Ltd.
Mr B says that during conversations with his SIPP provider he was passed details of a 
professional representative who could help him complain about the advice hed been given 
from Tenet. So, Mr B complaint to Tenet in April 2020 via a professional representative. But 
for ease, Ill just refer to Mr B throughout this decision.
In his complaint Mr B said he thought the advice to transfer away from his Skandia pension, 
which was already invested in managed funds in line with his attitude to risk, was unsuitable. 
He said he didnt have any experience in managing his own investments or being invested in 
unregulated products. So, he didnt think Tenets investment strategy was appropriate. He 
asked Tenet to compensate him for any losses he suffered as a result of their advice. 
Tenet didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint as they said hed complained too late. 
An Ombudsman here at the Service decided that Mr Bs complaint hadnt been made too 
late as Mr B didnt have a cause for complaint more than three years before he made his 
complaint. And so, our investigator went on to consider its merits. 
Our investigator thought Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. She thought the new 
arrangement was more expensive and didnt think Tenet had accurately assessed Mr Bs 
assets. She said the investments made within the SIPP were too high risk for Mr B and 
Tenet shouldnt have recommended these types of investments to him. So, she asked Tenet 
to put Mr B back into the position he would have been in had he not transferred to the SIPP.
Tenet still disputed that Mr B had made his complaint in time. As there was no agreement, 
the complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I think it should be noted that Ive reviewed the previous Ombudsmans decision on whether Mr B made his complaint too late. And Ive seen nothing which makes me disagree 
with the outcome they reached.
However, for completeness I reached out to Mr Bs SIPP provider for any evidence of when 
Mr B was signposted towards a professional representative to make a complaint. PSG said 
There is nothing on record to evidence any communication between Heritage Pensions 
Limited and Mr [B] stating that a CMC  [Mr Bs representative] may be able to help him with 
his investments.
I also reached out to Mr Bs representatives to ask when and how Mr B had been referred to 
them. They said Mr B was referred to them in March 2019 by a helpline for Heritage 
Pensions who passed several of Brooklands clients to them with a view to supporting a claim 
about Brooklands to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. They supplied screen 
shots from their system to support their testimony which Ive shared with Tenet. 
In my opinion, theres nothing in the information provided by PSG or Mr Bs representatives 
that would cause me to disagree with the Ombudsmans view that Mr Bs complaint was 
made in time for our service to consider its merits. So, it doesnt change whats already been 
decided on the jurisdiction of this case.
Ive gone on to consider the merits of Mr Bs complaint and, for broadly the same reasons as 
our investigator, Im upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. 
The FCAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN) apply to all authorised firms including Tenet. Of 
particular relevance to this complaint is: 
PRIN 2: A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly 
PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment. 
In addition, where regulated investment advice is given, the more detailed Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules apply. Of particular relevance to this complaint are: 
COBS 9 which applies where a firm makes a personal recommendation in relation to a 
designated investment. 
COBS 9.2.1(1) says a firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal 
recommendation, or a decision to trade, is suitable for its client. 
COBS 9.2.1 (2) says that when making a personal recommendation, a firm must obtain the 
necessary information regarding the client's: 
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of 
designated investment or service; 
(b) financial situation; and 
(c) investment objectives; so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation, or take the decision, which is 
suitable for him.
COBS 9.2.2 says: 
(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to 
understand the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing, giving 
due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific 
transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing: 
(a) meets his investment objectives; 
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent 
with his investment objectives; and 
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio. 
(2) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where 
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment. 
(3) The information regarding the financial situation of a client must include, where relevant, 
information on the source and extent of his regular income, his assets, including liquid 
assets, investments and real property, and his regular financial commitments. 
In 2009 the Financial Services Authority (now FCA) also published a report and checklist for 
pension switching that is still applicable. That checklist identified four main areas where 
consumers had lost out:
They had been switched to a pension that is more expensive than their existing 
one(s) or a stakeholder pension (because of exit penalties and/or initial costs and 
ongoing costs) without good reason
They had lost benefits in the pension switch without good reason. This could 
include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed annuity 
rate (GAR) or the right to take benefits at an earlier than normal retirement age
They had switched into a pension that does not match their recorded attitude to 
risk (ATR) and personal circumstances
They had switched into a pension where there is a need for ongoing investment 
reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
Theres no evidence that the Skandia pension contained any kind of guarantees that were 
lost during the switch to a SIPP. So, I dont think the switch was unsuitable for that reason. 
However, I think some of the other areas of concern were present in Mr Bs switch. 
When Tenet recommended the Skandia plan to Mr B the previous year, theyd set out the 
charges as an annual management charge of 0.25% and fund charges of 0.74%. Regarding 
the SIPP fees, Tenet said;
The SIPP I recommend will be more expensive than the above Skandia pension plan 
if comparable funds were selected with immediate charges as follows.
Establishment Charge £300.00
Annual Administration charge £450.00
Adviser advice charge 1.0% per annum
Any investment funds will have additional management charges in addition to those of the SIPP.
Tenet therefore needed to explain why it was in Mr Bs best interests to move into a more 
expensive plan. Tenet say the move to a SIPP was worthwhile because Mr B would have 
access to more sophisticated/private market investments and those which dont wholly rely 
on stock markets. But as Ill go on to explain, Im not satisfied Mr B truly needed access to 
these markets and doing so wasnt in his best interests. 
Tenet didnt initially recommend any investments to be held in the SIPP, they were later 
recommended in separate suitability reports. 
However, the purpose of Tenets regulatory duties under COBS is to provide consumer 
protection taking into account the differing risks involved in different kinds of investments, the 
differing degrees of experience and expertise consumers have and the needs consumers 
may have for the timely provision of information and advice that is accurate and fit for 
purpose. 
When recommending the SIPP, Tenet needed to have a reasonable basis for believing that 
their recommendation would meet Mr Bs objectives and that he was able to bear any related 
investment risks. Mr Bs recorded objective for transferring to the SIPP was the access to a 
wider range of investments through a SIPP. 
I consider the risks of Mr B transferring his existing pension and the risks of his intended 
investments through the SIPP with these monies were related to the establishment of the 
SIPP itself. Applying COBS 9.2.2, Im satisfied Tenet couldnt simply recommend a SIPP 
without knowing what they were intending to recommend once the SIPP was established. 
I consider that in order to advise on the merits of setting up the SIPP, Tenet needed to have 
regard to Mr Bs wider circumstances including how his funds were currently invested and 
what the intended investment strategy would be. Assessing the suitability of a SIPP in 
isolation without considering the whole transaction is not reasonably possible. 
I think that was demonstrated in Tenets suitability report when they set out the comparative 
illustrations for the Skandia pension and SIPP. The illustrations said  based on 7% returns 
for both policies and a retirement age of 65  that the Skandia pension may return £195,000 
and the SIPP £207,386. But this illustration was misleading as the illustrations didnt make 
allowances for the investments initial or annual management charges. So the illustration 
appeared to show the SIPP was likely to produce better returns when, in reality, Tenet had 
no idea what the returns would be as no investment strategy had been decided. And theyd 
already accepted it was a more expensive proposition. 
The SIPP may have offered different ways in which Mr B could access his funds. But he was 
still five years from taking his benefits and there doesnt appear to have been a plan in place 
for how Mr B would access his benefits or produce an income in retirement. So, Mr B could 
have revisited those flexibilities in five years time when he came to retirement. Switching his 
funds to a SIPP earlier meant his fund was going to experience higher fees in the meantime. 
Mr B was already invested in managed funds within his Skandia pension which Tenet had 
only moved him into the year before. At that time the Skandia pension was said to have 
given Mr B access to a broad range of investments from many external investment 
managers which appeared to meet Mr Bs objectives. He was invested in line with his 
attitude to investment risk in a far simpler arrangement that, due to his experience, he was 
more likely to understand. I dont think advice to move into a more expensive and complex 
arrangement was truly in Mr Bs best interests and therefore wasnt suitable advice. While I consider the advice to switch to a SIPP alone was unsuitable and unnecessary, Ive 
also gone on to consider the investment recommendations Tenet later made. And I dont 
think those were suitable for Mr B either. Ill explain why. 
In applying COBS 9.2 Tenet needed to ensure Mr B had the necessary experience and 
knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management 
of his portfolio.
Theres little detail in the 2010 fact-find or suitability report to demonstrate why Mr B was 
interested in alternative investments. And theres few details about his experience or 
knowledge of these kind of investments. Mr B worked in the construction industry and didnt 
have a background in financial services or investment. I havent seen any evidence that hed 
previously dealt in non-mainstream investments or had any particular interest in them. 
Tenets 2010 fact-find recorded that Mr B had £1,000,000 worth of business shares. It failed 
to record what it meant by that and Mr B disputes that hes ever owned shares in any 
business with that value. 
Where evidence is unclear or missing  as it is in this case  I base my decision on the 
balance of probabilities, meaning what I think is most likely to have been the case. 
Based on his circumstances I think its most likely Tenet were referring to Mr Bs share of his 
own construction business. I say that because Ive seen no evidence of Mr B owning shares 
in other companies or investment accounts. 
Publicly available information from Companies House shows Mr B had around 25% of the 
shares in his business. This was 26 of the 100 shares distributed between the four 
shareholders. The shares had a nominal value of £1. Mr B disputes that his share of the 
business would ever have been valued as high as £1,000,000. And the information on 
Companies House seems to support that. The business was a small unlisted, limited 
company. Any valuation of Mr Bs business would be subject to finding a party willing to pay 
for his business and it doesnt seem likely that his business would have been valued at 
£4,000,000 in 2010. So, I dont think its likely that he had the equivalent of £1,000,000 of 
shares in his company. Or in any other companies that Ive seen. 
COBS says its fair for a firm to rely on the information provided to it by their clients unless it 
is aware that the information is manifestly out of date, inaccurate or incomplete. Mr B had 
been Tenets client for a previous pension switch just over a year beforehand. And theres no 
mention of this wealth in the documentation Ive seen from Tenet in the advice they gave 
Mr B in 2008. 
Tenet should have explored Mr Bs assets further and recorded accurate information about 
them. On balance, considering all the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Mr B held 
business shares of £1,000,000 at the time of the advice. I think its likely this figure 
represented Mr Bs share of his own limited company. And while I dont know the value 
Mr Bs business would have had at the time, its Mr Bs testimony that it would have been 
worth much less. 
But even if I were persuaded that Mr Bs share of his business was valued at £1,000,000 or 
somewhere near. That alone didnt mean Mr B had the required knowledge and experience 
of the types of investments Tenet were recommending. They had to take reasonable steps 
to ensure the investments were suitable for Mr B, and I dont think they did.
Tenet recorded that Mr B had a Medium/High (or progressive as it was later described) 
attitude to investment risk. The investments Tenet recommended werent mainstream regulated investments. They were the type of investment which were speculative and high 
risk, subject to counter-party risk, illiquidity and uncertain valuation. The overall investment 
proposition included a high exposure to significant risk factors, including lack of regulation, 
longevity, potential insolvency, liquidity issues and other factors which could prevent 
investors from accessing their funds.
Some of the investments also held a risk of complete capital loss. And those types of 
investments should really be reserved for the highest risk investors or those who truly have 
the required knowledge and understanding of the risks involved. But I dont think Tenet have 
shown Mr B was one of those people.
In applying COBS 9.2 Tenet also needed to ensure Mr B could financially bear the 
investment risks of the products they were recommending. But theres little information 
recorded in the suitability report to demonstrate Tenet considered Mr Bs capacity for loss of 
his pension funds in any real detail. The report states affordability is not an issue in this case 
as the funds already exist within your pension arrangements. But I think that statement is 
misleading. This pension made up the vast majority of Mr Bs pension savings. So, any large 
losses were likely to impact his income and standard of living in retirement. Therefore, in 
acting in Mr Bs best interests, Tenet needed to be sure he had the capacity for loss for their 
recommended investments.  
In July 2010, shortly after this advice was given, the FCA issued guidance following a review 
of such recent practices, about unregulated investments in a Good and Poor Practice 
report. This contained examples of good practice in relation to unregulated investments, for 
example where a firm had robust controls in place and limited client exposure to 3% to 5% of 
their portfolios, where those clients had been assessed as being suitable for unregulated 
investments. An example of bad practice given by the FCA was where up to 100% of a 
clients holdings were invested in a single UCIS.
In the suitability reports for the investments Tenet noted that the £30,000 investment only 
made up 1.88% of Mr Bs pension and investment portfolio. But, as Ive said, in reality I dont 
think Mr Bs readily available assets were anywhere near as high as Tenet had recorded. 
So, I think the four recommended investments made up a much higher percentage of Mr Bs 
pensions and savings than was suitable. And in recommending the investments Tenet 
expose too much of Mr Bs pensions to these high risk, unregulated products which went 
beyond his capacity for loss and attitude to investment risk. Which made Tenets investment 
recommendations unsuitable. 
In summary, I think Tenet should not have recommended the switch to a SIPP to Mr B. In my 
view Tenet were in breach of the Principles and COBS when they recommended the SIPP 
and investments without knowing that Mr B had the required knowledge, experience and 
could financially bear the recommended risk. The advisers role was to really understand 
what Mr B needed and recommend what was in his best interest. They didnt pay due regard 
to Mr Bs interests and did not take reasonable steps to ensure that their personal 
recommendation was suitable for Mr B, as per their regulatory obligations. Therefore, I do 
not consider that Tenets actions in their dealings with Mr B were fair or reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Im satisfied that Mr B already held a suitable pension containing suitable investments that 
Tenet had only moved him into the year before. So I think its likely suitable advice would 
have been for Mr B to remain in the Skandia pension. Ive not seen sufficient evidence that 
Mr B was so strongly motivated to switch his funds into a SIPP that he would have decided 
to press ahead with it against professional expert advice.
Im aware that Tenet claim Mr B made a further investment the following year in one of the Sycamore funds on an execution only basis. 
Tenets scope of duty was to take reasonable steps to give a suitable recommendation. This 
included understanding Mr Bs knowledge and experience, objectives and financial situation. 
Part of this duty was the consideration of the pension switch and the underlying investment 
in the SIPP as explained above. 
Tenet breached their regulatory duties when they recommended the switch to a SIPP. For 
the reasons I have given earlier in the decision, I think Mr B would have likely remained in 
his existing pension but for Tenets failings. So Mr B wouldnt have been in the SIPP or 
Sycamore investments at all if Tenet had met its obligations under COBS and PRIN. And 
consequently, he wouldnt have suffered the investment losses he did. I therefore consider 
the losses Mr R suffered from the subsequent high-risk investments including the further 
investment are related to Tenets unsuitable advice. 
In my view Mr Bs losses flowed from Tenets failures in regard to COBS and PRIN as I have 
described. In all the circumstances, Im satisfied its fair compensation that Tenet 
compensates Mr B for the losses he suffered by transferring his pension into a SIPP and 
from there into high-risk investments.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr B should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr B would have remained with his previous provider, however I cannot 
be certain that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have been 
worth. I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into 
account and given Mr B's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Tenet do?
To compensate Mr B fairly, Tenet must:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Tenet should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Tenet should pay into Mr B's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Tenet is unable to pay the total amount into Mr B's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr B wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr B's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr B would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr B £250 for the distress caused by the loss of some of his investments.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Tenet deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. Tenet should give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio name Status Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
PSG SIPP Some 
liquid/some 
illiquidNotional value 
from previous 
providerDate of switch 
to Brooklands 
SIPPDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 60 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Tenet should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Tenet pays should be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Tenet is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculating the actual value. Tenet may require that Mr B provides an 
undertaking to pay Tenet any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Tenet will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr B's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Tenet should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the notional value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Tenet totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the notional 
value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Tenet will need to determine 
a fair value for Mr B's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation 
of a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
The PSG SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the PSG SIPP to be 
closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those assets need to be 
removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Tenet taking over the illiquid 
assets, or this is something that Mr B can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont 
know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Tenet is 
unable to purchase the illiquid assets, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Mr B an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the PSG SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr B wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr B's circumstances and risk attitude.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to 
pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend the 
business to pay the balance.
TenetConnect Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple 
format.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My decision is that TenetConnect Limited should 
pay Mr B the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 
(including distress or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on the amount 
set out above.Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation 
exceeds £160,000, I recommend that TenetConnect Limited pays Mr B the balance plus 
any interest on the amount as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind 
TenetConnect Limited. It is unlikely that Mr B can accept my decision and go to court to ask 
for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this decision.
If TenetConnect Limited does not pay the recommended amount, then any portfolio 
currently illiquid should be retained by Mr B. This is until any future benefit that he may 
receive from the portfolio together with the compensation paid by TenetConnect Limited 
(excluding any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as set out above.
TenetConnect Limited may request an undertaking from Mr B that either he repays to 
TenetConnect Limited any amount Mr B may receive from the portfolio thereafter or if 
possible, transfers the portfolio to Tenet at that point.
Mr B should be aware that any such amount would be paid into his pension plan so he may 
have to realise other assets in order to meet the undertaking.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. TenetConnect Limited must now pay Mr B compensation as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman