DRN-1895333
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy Vitality Health Limited declined a claim he made on his employers private 
healthcare scheme and subsequently removed him from the policy. 
What happened
In May 2019 Mr M contacted Vitality as hed been referred to a cardiologist following his 
mothers diagnosis with a hereditary heart condition and problems hed experienced when 
he was younger. He told Vitality he wasnt experiencing any symptoms of the condition 
himself. Vitality advised his policy didnt cover preventive treatment and so this wouldnt be 
covered; it said if the tests did identify a problem it could reassess matters. 
Mr M contacted Vitality again two weeks later. He said hed seen a consultant at a private 
hospital and said he did have symptoms of the heart condition. Further tests had been 
recommended. Mr M told the adviser the symptoms of this condition (palpitations) started 
when he was 21 (around seven years ago) and had ramped up over the last six months. 
Vitality sent out a claim form for Mr M to complete and asked him to provide information from 
his GP. That was received in August. However, as the GP said Mr M didnt have any 
symptoms Vitality advised this was still preventive treatment that wasnt covered under the 
policy. Mr M then provided a letter from his consultant which said his symptoms had 
persisted since he was initially investigated seven years ago. 
Vitality said his policy didnt cover conditions hed had symptoms of in the five years before 
taking it out. In response to a request from Vitality for more information Mr Ms consultant 
then said he does not really have any symptoms and the recommended screening was in 
line with national guidelines following his mothers diagnosis. On that basis Vitality said the 
claim would be for preventive treatment and so not covered. 
It also said after Mr M initially became aware his condition might not be covered it thought he 
had attempted to mis-represent his symptom history in order to gain benefit from it. So it said 
it would be removing him from the policy with effect from his join date. Our investigator 
thought the claim had been fairly declined. He also thought Vitality had acted reasonably in 
removing Mr M from the policy. 
Mr M didnt agree. In particular he said it was only once hed seen a consultant he realised 
the palpitations hed experienced throughout his life might be related to the heart condition 
his mum had been diagnosed with. He didnt think there was any issue of non-disclosure on 
his part and said he would have nothing to gain by providing inaccurate information. He also 
expressed concern about how the time taken to deal with the claim and that promised call 
backs hadnt taken place. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim Mr M made
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Vitality has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy. These say Vitality will not pay 
for:
Routine, precautionary or preventive examinations, routine hearing and sight tests,
vaccinations, screenings (including screenings of familial conditions) or preventive
treatment
During his first call with Vitality Mr M said the reason for his referral to a cardiologist was 
because of heart issues he had when he was younger and his mums recent diagnosis. He 
said he hadnt approached his GP with any concerns but had been contacted by them. 
Vitality asked if he had any recent symptoms and Mr M said not particularly, no. 
That suggest the proposed referral followed from the diagnosis of his mums heart condition 
and the need for him to be screened as a result of that; it wasnt to treat a problem hed 
already developed. I think that would reasonably be categorised as preventive treatment and 
as his policy doesnt cover that I dont think Vitality acted unfairly in turning down the claim 
he made. 
Mr M subsequently provided a letter from his consultant which suggested his symptoms had 
persisted since he was first examined seven years previously. But his policy also says it 
doesnt pay for the treatment of any medical condition or related condition which in the five 
years before your cover start date you...had symptoms of. Given what his consultant said 
about the persistence of his symptoms I think Vitality was right to say a claim relating to this 
wouldnt be covered by his policy either. 
It appears the consultant subsequently clarified his position and said Mr M didnt have 
symptoms of concern and the screening which had by then been recommended was in line 
with national guidelines. But, as that would again fall under the definition of preventive 
treatment in the policy, I dont think Vitality acted unfairly in turning down Mr Ms claim. 
The decision to remove Mr M from cover
I appreciate Mr Ms key concern is that as well as declining his claim Vitality also removed 
him from cover with effect from his join date.  In doing so Vitality has relied on a section of 
the policy which says:
We believe our customers are honest, and the contract between us in based on mutual
trust. Representation including statements and information provided by you or any insured
dependants are relied on in assessing the terms of cover. In the event that any of the
information provided by you or any insured dependants is wrong or incomplete we have 
the right to cancel cover with effect from inception and/or to decline claims made under the 
plan.If any claim is in any respect dishonest or fraudulent or if any dishonest or fraudulent means 
or devices are used by you, any member of your household or anyone acting on your or their
behalf to obtain benefit under your plan (including any cashback, discounts or rewards), then 
all benefits under your plan may be lost and you may have to return to us any payments 
already made as a result of any dishonest or fraudulent actions...
It believes this applies here because once Mr M became aware his condition wasnt covered 
under the policy he sought to mis-represent the position in relation to his symptoms in order 
to gain benefit. Mr M says it was only once hed seen a consultant that he realised the 
palpitations hed experienced throughout his life might be related to the heart condition his 
mum had been diagnosed with which is why he didnt mention these initially. 
Ive listened to the calls Mr M had with Vitality. At the start of the first call (so prior to the 
claim being declined) Mr M was asked whether he had any recent symptoms. He said not 
particularly, no. However, later in the call, and after Mr M was told the claim wouldnt be 
covered he queried whether that would be the case if he did have symptoms. When he then 
contacted Vitality again around two weeks later the adviser again queried what symptoms he 
had and what had changed since the previous call. Mr M talked about experiencing 
palpitations. He said hed suffered from these since the age of 21 but they had ramped up 
in the last six months.
 
Mr M argues he only associated the palpitations hed experienced throughout his life with the 
heart condition his mother was diagnosed with after hed seen his consultant. But while I 
appreciate that might have given him a clearer understanding of the position, palpitations in 
themselves are an issue affecting the heart. And I understand the previous investigations 
that took place (when Mr M was 21) were triggered by those palpitations and I can see Mr M 
was investigated for possible heart disease at that point. So I think its unlikely he only 
became aware there might be a possible link between these issues after hed seen his 
consultant.
And there are some clear contradictions in the information Mr M provided to Vitality during 
these calls. In particular its difficult to reconcile his initial response to being asked if he had 
symptoms (not particularly, no) with him saying in the second call the palpitations had 
ramped up in the last six months. 
Mr M says he had nothing to gain by providing inaccurate information. But while I appreciate 
by the time of the second call hed already paid for the consultant appointment further 
investigation had been recommended. So I think he was seeking to obtain a benefit under 
the policy; there would be little point in him calling Vitality unless that was the case. And for 
the reasons Ive explained I dont think it treated him unfairly in concluding that he did 
provide inaccurate information and removing him from cover as a result. 
Other issues
Mr M has also raised concerns about the time taken by Vitality to consider the matter. 
However, his concerns appear to primarily relate to what happened after he made a 
complaint following the decline of his claim. Complaint handling isnt one of the activities our 
rules allow us to consider on its own. The way those rules work mean I could only direct 
Vitality to do something to put things right here if I was also making an award for something 
to do with the handling of his insurance claim. As Im not doing so this isnt an issue I can 
help him with.My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman