DRN-1649903
 
The complaint
Ms M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
Ms M bought the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out an Egg credit card online. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms M's case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen a screen print of the part of the online credit card application process where 
PPI wouldve been offered to Ms M. This shows that she wouldve had to choose 
whether she wanted PPI or not before she could continue with her application. 
Barclays record of the application data shows that Ms M selected the PPI. So I think 
Barclays made her aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it.
Ms M says that she didnt need the PPI because she received generous benefits 
from her employer and had other means of covering her credit card repayments if 
she was off work sick. But Barclays didnt recommend the policy to Ms M so it didnt 
have to check if she needed it or whether it was suitable for her. Even if Barclays had 
recommended the policy to Ms M though, it doesn't look as though it was unsuitable 
for her based on what I've seen of her circumstances at the time. The policy would've 
paid out in addition to Ms M's employer benefits and would do so, it seems, for 
longer. And it would've meant Ms M could use her employer benefits and savings to 
cover other expenses. Ms M has also told me about other forms of insurance cover 
and pension arrangements she had, although she hasn't been able provide details 
about those policies. So I don't think I can safely say that the PPI duplicated the other 
benefits she says she had. Overall, I think the PPI would've provided a useful benefit 
to Ms M, despite her existing arrangements.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Ms M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But its unlikely Ms M wouldve been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover. The policy was also competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms M.
 But Barclays will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms M. because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms M. about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Ms 
M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
 
what the business needs to do
Barclays has to pay back to Ms M any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Barclays should also pay back to Ms M any extra interest she paid 
because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Ms M the difference 
between what Ms M owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should also pay Ms M 8%* simple 
interest if she paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms M can claim back the tax if she 
doesn't pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms M.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Ms M any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman