DRN-3951374
The complaint
Mrs and Mr S complain about the settlement value Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
(Admiral) offered under their motor insurance policy when their vehicle was written off.
What happened
Mrs and Mr S had motor insurance with Admiral. Their vehicle was involved in an incident 
and Admiral decided it couldnt be economically repaired. Admiral paid Mrs and Mr S £3950 
less £350 excess in settlement of their claim.
Mrs and Mr S complained to Admiral as they couldnt find an equivalent vehicle for this 
amount. They also had some other complaints about the way their claim had been handled.
Admiral upheld a number of these other elements of the complaint and paid Mrs and Mr S 
£150. However Admiral said the settlement figure of £3600 was the maximum trade guide 
valuation for the vehicle less the excess and it couldnt agree any increase.
Mrs and Mr S werent happy with this response and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold their complaint. He said hed obtained a bespoke valuation for the 
vehicle of £3850, so his view was that Admirals settlement figure was fair as at the date of 
loss.
Mrs and Mr S werent happy with what the investigator said, so their complaint has been 
passed to me. Mrs and Mr S have confirmed that they only want me look at the part of their 
complaint that relates to the valuation of their vehicle.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold Mrs and Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
On 10 January 2023 I issued a provisional decision. My provisional decision said:
I intend to uphold Mrs and Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs and Mr Ss Car Insurance Guide booklet with Admiral said:
What we will pay
We will decide how to settle your claim and will either pay.
 to repair your vehicle
 a cash sum to replace the damaged vehicle.
If we give you a cash sum, the most we will pay is the market value of the vehicle.
Market value was defined as:
The cost of replacing your vehicle, with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and 
condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of the term 
market' refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on research from 
industry recognised motor trade guides.
In most cases, this service assesses the market value as the price which the consumer 
would have had to pay for a comparable vehicle across the various markets, immediately 
before the time of the damage or loss.
Assessing the value of a used vehicle isnt an exact science. We generally find the 
valuations given in motor-trade guides most persuasive. We dont usually find 
advertisements for similar vehicles on their own very persuasive, but we do consider them if 
they are provided by a consumer, as they could indicate a problem with the guide values. 
However a vehicle may be sold for less than the advertised price, especially with private 
sales. And differences in mileage, year of registration and model type can significantly affect 
the value.
Because Mrs and Mr Ss vehicle wasnt of a standard type covered by the motor trade 
guides, our investigator obtained a specialist bespoke valuation. The bespoke valuation 
given as at the date of loss was £3850 plus VAT. Because Mrs and Mr Ss vehicle was 
classed as a light commercial vehicle, VAT was excluded from the valuation. This is because 
if a commercial vehicle is insured on a commercial policy by a VAT registered policyholder, 
the policyholder can reclaim the VAT from HMRC. However Mrs and Mr S had the vehicle 
insured on a personal policy. This services approach where a commercial vehicle is insured 
on a personal policy is to say that VAT should be paid to the consumer. In these instances, if 
the guides have excluded VAT on the vehicle, this will needed to be added back on to the 
value to assess the settlement outcome.
VAT is assumed by this service to be at 20% of the total vehicle price. So the value of Mrs 
and Mr Ss vehicle at the date of loss was £3850 plus 20% which is £4620. Mrs and Mr S 
had an excess of £350 on the policy, so my provisional view is that a fair and reasonable 
settlement figure would have been £4270. Admiral paid Mrs and Mr S a settlement of £3600, 
a difference of £670.
Mrs and Mr S have had to go to a great deal of inconvenience to pursue their complaint with 
Admiral and with this service. My provisional view is that Admiral should pay them £200 in 
recognition of this.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above I intend to uphold Mrs and Mr Ss complaint. I intend to require 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mrs and Mr S an additional £670 plus interest, 
plus £200 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Admiral didnt respond to my provisional decision except for queries about the amount of the 
payment and the valuation, which our investigator replied to.
Mrs and Mr S responded and said they were happy to accept my provisional decision. They 
asked me to correct my description of what happened to their car, which I have done.So having thought about things again, I see no reason to change my provisional decision.    
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold Mrs and Mr Ss complaint. I require Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mrs and Mr S £670 plus interest at 8% simple from the date it 
made the original payment on the claim to the date this payment is made.
I also require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mrs and Mr S £200 in recognition 
of the distress and inconvenience caused. For the avoidance of any doubt, this is in addition 
to the £150 it has already paid to them. Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay the 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs and Mr S accept my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. 
If Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from the interest, it should tell Mrs and Mr S how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mrs and Mr S a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman