DRN-3064811
The complaint
Mr K complains to Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited about a delay when 
transferring his investment into their custody. He says the poor customer service he received 
caused considerable stress and worry.
 
What happened
Mr K previously held an investment with another investment company who I shall refer to as 
the former provider. Mr K decided to move his fund to Hargreaves, so he sent them his in-
specie transfer request in September 2020. Unfortunately, the transfer took longer than 
usual and didnt complete until around five months later. 
Unhappy about the delays and worried about where his money had gone, Mr K made a 
complaint to Hargreaves. They looked into his concerns and offered him £150 compensation 
for initial delays theyd caused. But at the time of issuing their final response, the stock still 
hadnt settled so they remained in contact with the former provider. Mr K wasnt happy with 
this so he asked for our help. In the meantime, Mr Ks fund settled but he still wanted to 
pursue his complaint given the stress caused by the poor customer service. 
One of our investigators had a look at what had happened. She said shed seen Hargreaves 
had received Mr Ks request to transfer in on 7 September, but while the process ought to 
have taken six weeks and instead took around five months, that wasnt entirely Hargreaves 
fault  she only thought the first month had been Hargreaves fault. Our investigator also 
didnt think thered been any financial loss, so she said the compensation already offered 
was a fair way to settle the complaint.
Mr K didnt agree and remained unhappy with the service that had been provided. He also 
raised concerns about a transfer out request which he thought had also been mishandled by 
Hargreaves  he wanted that considered too, so that our investigator could assess what he 
felt had been cumulative errors. But our investigator explained Hargreaves needed a chance 
to respond to those separate concerns first, so she helped Mr K set up another complaint. 
As an agreement wasnt reached on this complaint, it was referred to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hargreaves have told us that they aim to complete in-specie transfers like Mr Ks within six 
weeks. However, given the very nature of a transfer there often isnt just one business 
involved, there are at least two, and so Hargreaves will be reliant on the other provider and 
fund manager working efficiently with them to transfer stock in a timely manner. 
Its not in dispute that Hargreaves started the process for Mr Ks transfer later than they 
should have done  having received his request on 7 September but not actioning it until 6 
October, they wasted four of the six weeks they would usually aim for. 
But the delays with Mr Ks transfer spanned for more than just four weeks  instead, the 
process took just over five months  so Ive considered the timeline in order to assess 
whether Hargreaves caused further unnecessary delays. 
The starting point is Mr Ks transfer form which he signed on 2 September 2020. On the 
version Ive seen, a received stamp was added on 7 September, so Im satisfied this is the 
commencement date. The four week delay then occurred and thereafter I can see 
Hargreaves contacted the former provider on a number of occasions:
On 8 October, Hargreaves say they raised a query and set the fund up on Mr Ks 
platform
On 21 October, Hargreaves sent their acceptance for the fund to the former provider
On 2 November, Hargreaves resent this acceptance 
On 9 November, Hargreaves chased the former provider 
And again on 19 November 
On 23 November, the former provider incorrectly told Hargreaves the fund had been 
transferred 
Having not located it, on 3 January 2021 Hargreaves asked the fund manager about 
its location  they couldnt see it was on Hargreaves account, so Hargreaves asked 
the former provider to check whether it had been transferred 
On 18 January, Hargreaves chased the former provider again 
On 21 January, the former provider noted the fund had been rejected again and 
again so they requested for it to be resolved as a priority 
On 4 February, Hargreaves chased the former provider again 
On 12 February, the fund was finally received 
The timeline shows that there were a number of occasions where Hargreaves got in touch 
with the former provider in order to initiate and later to get an update on Mr Ks transfer. But 
without responses or cooperation from them, there was little more Hargreaves were able to 
do. The evidence shows that after the initial four weeks, Hargreaves were proactive in trying 
to assist with the transfer. I cannot reasonably say that the transfer didnt go ahead on time 
due to failings on their part, so I dont find Hargreaves at fault for the further four months of 
delays.
Delays to transfers can lead to financial losses in some circumstances, but I can see here 
that the transfer was being made in-specie  this meant that Mr Ks money wasnt out of the 
market whilst the transfer process was taking place and instead remained invested in the 
fund of his choice. I further note that Mr K retained the fund for some time thereafter, so I 
dont think the delay impacted any future trading decisions either. For these reasons, I 
cannot see that Hargreaves caused him any financial loss. 
In summary, I agree Hargreaves could have carried out the transfer more quickly. But I only 
think this extends to the first four weeks of the process  as I said before, Hargreaves were 
reliant on the former provider working with them to complete the transfer  and I think they 
did enough thereafter to try and get Mr Ks transfer completed. 
Hargreaves have already offered Mr K £150 to recognise the inconvenience caused by their 
delay. I think this is a fair offer in all the circumstances. I dont doubt Mr K had a very 
worrying time when wondering where his investment worth in excess of £30,000 was  but 
as Ive explained, I dont think the additional four months wait was Hargreaves fault, so it 
wouldnt be fair for me to ask them to pay additional compensation because of it. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I think the offer made is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  unless it has already done so, I direct Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited to pay £150 for the inconvenience caused.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman