DRN-2626700
The complaint
Miss F complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited gave her incorrect information 
about a required payment.
What happened
Miss F says she called Shop Direct to make a payment and was given an amount to pay. 
She says that wasnt the balance but the minimum payment and so she has been charged 
interest and charges.
Shop Direct says it doesnt have that telephone call recording and doesnt have any 
information about it. It says Miss F made the payment online and received the account 
statement both of which showed the balance and minimum payment. It also says it has 
refunded other charges and interest.
Miss F brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought Miss F ought to have known 
that she was paying the minimum required amount and not the balance. The investigator 
initially recommended Shop Direct refund some of the other charges and interest, as he 
thought Miss F may have intended to direct some of the payments to other balances. But 
Shop Direct confirmed it had done so already.
Miss F doesnt accept that view and says there is still a balance outstanding of about £118.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Shop Direct has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I appreciate Miss F will be disappointed by my decision.
I appreciate there isnt a call recording of what is said by Miss F to have happened. And I 
can see Shop Direct says it has no record of that call and says Miss F made the payment 
online. Im satisfied that Miss F received the account statements, as she has told us that. 
And that it ought to have been clear what the balance was and what the minimum payment 
was. So, I cant fairly hold Shop Direct responsible for any mistake made by Miss F and think 
that to avoid any interest and/or charges, she needed to pay the full balance. So, I dont 
think Shop Direct has made a mistake or acted unfairly by applying charges and interest 
which I think are in line with agreed account terms and conditions.
I appreciate that there may have been some confusion about other payments but Im 
satisfied Shop Direct has refunded the charges and interest as a gesture of goodwill.
Overall, I find its Miss Fs responsibility to make the required payments and I have not seen 
any evidence that the current balance is wrong or that she doesnt owe Shop Direct that 
amount. I hope Miss F will make contact with Shop Direct about the outstanding balance if it 
has not been paid, and I think this brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute 
informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman