DRN-4280694
The complaint
Mr G complains that Moneybarn No.1 Limited (Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted him a 
conditional sale agreement that he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr G acquired a vehicle financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mr G paid a deposit of £2,500 and was required to make 59 monthly 
repayments of £333.31. The total amount repayable under the agreement was £22,165.29. 
Mr G believes Moneybarn failed to complete adequate affordability checks. Mr G says that if 
it had it wouldve been clear the agreement wasnt affordable because of the defaults and 
credit commitments he had at the time.
Moneybarn disagreed. It said it carried out an adequate assessment which included a full 
credit search, credit reference agency income verification and statistical estimation of his 
non-discretionary expenditure. It said these searches showed Mr Gs existing borrowing 
levels were moderate and that whilst he had defaults, the most recent was 12 months prior 
to the application. Moneybarn said the searches showed these accounts were being well 
managed and there was no record of county court judgements on his file. It assessed his net 
disposable income as £1,734.25 a month and felt that the agreement was affordable, 
particularly as         Mr G had signed confirming its affordability.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. They thought 
Moneybarns checks werent proportionate but that had it completed proportionate checks it 
wouldve still found the lending was affordable. 
Mr G didnt agree. He felt that his income at the time of the application was inflated due to 
working overseas and that defaults on his credit file along with repeated borrowing from 
short-term lenders should have meant his application was declined. He asked for an 
Ombudsman to issue a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and wider circumstances.
We explain how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Gs complaint. Moneybarn needed to 
ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly as per the rules set out in the FCAs Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC). In practice, what this means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out 
proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending was affordable for Mr G 
before providing it.
In this case, there are two overarching questions that I need to answer to fairly and 
reasonably decide Mr Gs complaint. These two questions are:
1. Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that     
Mr G would be able to repay his loan without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr G wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Moneybarn complete a reasonable and proportionate affordability check?
Moneybarn was required to ensure it carried out adequate checks on Mr Gs ability to 
sustainably afford the agreement. These checks had to be borrower-focussed and 
proportionate (see CONC 5.2A). What is considered proportionate will vary depending on 
the circumstances, such as (but not limited to): the total amount repayable, the size of the 
monthly repayments, the term of the agreement (CONC 5.2A.20 R), and the consumers 
specific circumstances.
Moneybarn says that Mr Gs application underwent credit and underwriting checks, and 
these didnt raise any concerns. His income was verified against his employment, and 
Moneybarn also used statistical data to estimate the level of expenditure Mr G had at the 
time, combined with an estimate of his ongoing monthly borrowing commitments from his 
credit file. It felt that these searches were reasonable and proportionate in this scenario. 
Im not satisfied that Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount of information from Mr G 
about his expenditure prior to approving the finance. I understand Moneybarn made the 
decision to lend on the basis that his accounts were being managed well and found the risk 
this posed to itself as acceptable. But Im not satisfied enough consideration was given to 
the personal risk posed to Mr G.
Moneybarn hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it completed. So, Ive relied on a copy 
of the credit file supplied by Mr G and I think it gives a relatively good indication of what 
Moneybarn would likely have seen. At the time of the application Mr G had defaulted on a 
loan agreement only 12 months prior to the application. The available credit file also shows a 
history of at least six payday loans in the two years prior to the finance being approved.  I do 
think this all ought to have indicated Mr G may have been struggling financially and so I 
wouldve expected Moneybarn to take further consideration of Mr Gs specific financial 
situation before approving any lending. 
I want to be clear that Ive considered Moneybarns position about the number and type of 
checks that it did complete. And I understand that its searches attempted to approximate        
Mr Gs disposable income. However, considering the possibility of financial difficulties in his 
specific circumstance Im not satisfied that these checks adequately gathered a 
proportionate amount of information as they failed to answer how much he actually had left 
to spend after his existing commitments.
Given the size of the lending, the monthly repayments, the length of agreement, and the 
information in Mr Gs credit file, I think it would have been proportionate for Moneybarn to 
have verified Mr Gs expenditure  including costs such as food, petrol and housing. Without 
knowing what his regular committed expenditure was Moneybarn couldnt have got a 
reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was affordable for his circumstances.As Moneybarn dont appear to have sought a reasonable understanding of Mr Gs total 
committed expenditure, I dont think it carried out reasonable and proportionate affordability 
checks before lending. Moneybarn needed to do more in the circumstances before agreeing 
to lend. Without knowing what his regular committed expenditure was, Moneybarn wouldnt 
have got a reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was affordable for him. 
Im satisfied Moneybarn didnt complete proportionate affordability checks, but this doesnt 
automatically mean it failed to make a fair a lending decision.
Did Moneybarn make a fair lending decision?
Ive considered what Moneybarn would likely have found out if it had completed reasonable 
and proportionate affordability checks. I cant be certain what Mr G would have told 
Moneybarn had it asked about his regular expenditure. I dont think Moneybarn necessarily 
needed to request bank statements, but in the absence of anything else, Ive placed 
significant weight on the information contained in Mr Gs statements from January 2019 to 
March 2019 as an indication of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Mr G has however highlighted that his income during these three months was inflated due to 
overseas work. And Im satisfied from his submissions that Moneybarn would likely have 
found this out had it completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks. I say this 
because any further checks about expenditure during this period would likely have shown an 
irregular amount of food and petrol spend due to him being abroad. And at the point of 
application Mr Gs own declared monthly income to Moneybarn (£2,500) was an attempt at 
averaging between his normal and overseas pay. I think Mr G would have likely been 
forthcoming about these details. Im satisfied proportionate checks would have most likely 
led to a more accurate picture of what his regular income and expenditure was expected to 
be over a longer and more sustainable period.
So, I want to be clear Ive also considered statements from a further three months prior to 
the agreement in order to obtain a more accurate approximation of what hed realistically 
expect to be earning and spending once the overseas work ended and he was primarily 
living in his place of residence. Again, I dont think Moneybarn necessarily needed to request 
these bank statements, but in the absence of anything else, Ive placed significant weight on 
the information contained in them as an indication of what would most likely have been 
disclosed.
After removing his increased overseas pay the statements show Mr G was receiving an 
average of around £1,900 a month in income from his salary. His regular committed monthly 
expenditure at the time was around £1,250. In calculating these amounts Ive included any 
applicable payments for his credit commitments, housing costs, utilities, food, fuel and other 
ongoing costs. Ive also removed Mr Gs previous motor finance agreement that was ended 
upon obtaining this conditional sale agreement.
Taking these figures into account, it appears to show the agreement was affordable for Mr 
G. Altogether his income and expenditure at the time satisfies me that the agreement did not 
appear to be unaffordable. On average Mr G was left with around £320 of disposable income 
after considering the monthly payments for the agreement. For this reason, Im not 
persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly when approving the finance.
Mr G has suggested that the existence of defaults and short-term lending commitments on 
his credit file should have led to the application being declined. I agree that the information 
on his credit file meant Moneybarn shouldve completed further checks to understand if the 
agreement was affordable. But I cant agree that the existence of this data alone should 
have meant his application was automatically rejected.Im satisfied from the information provided that at the time the agreement was taken Mr G 
appeared to have sufficient disposable income to meet his monthly repayments and have 
money left over each month for emergency or unexpected costs. If Moneybarn had 
completed proportionate checks they would have likely revealed Mr G was able to 
sustainably afford the repayments owed under the agreement. So, it follows that I think 
Moneybarn made a fair lending decision.
Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Im not persuaded from the submissions made to date that Moneybarn acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in some other way.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman