DRN-2712093
The complaint
Mr S and Miss B complain that Metro Bank PLC wont refund the money they lost when they 
fell victim to a scam.
Metro says its not liable as Mr S authorised the payments  and it doesnt think it could 
reasonably have done more to prevent or recoup the loss.
  
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this case in February 2021. This explained that I was 
minded to partially uphold this complaint for the following reasons:
1. Its common ground that Mr S and Miss B believed they were purchasing a car 
theyd seen advertised online. They say they were reassured it was genuine as 
the advert linked to an eBay listing, which they thought meant their payments 
would be protected. And they communicated with the seller, who seemed 
professional, for some time before going ahead with the purchase. They were 
told the car was located too far away for them to view in person. On 30 April 
2019, Mr S added a new payee and made three payments of £2,500, £2,500 and 
£595 in quick succession through his mobile banking app to purchase the car. 
They were given a supposed tracking number and told the car would be delivered 
on 3 May 2019. Unfortunately, this was a scam. The car didnt arrive and the 
tracking website stopped working. After trying unsuccessfully to contact the 
seller, Mr S and Miss B visited a Metro branch on 7 May 2019 to report the 
scam. The bank couldnt retrieve their money as no funds remained in the 
recipient account.
2. I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mr S and Miss B were 
the victims of a sophisticated scam. Mr S used his online banking security 
credentials to request the payment. So, although he did not intend the money to 
go to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the 
terms and conditions of their joint account, he and Miss B are presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance.
3. However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time, I consider Metro should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or 
other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud 
(among other things). This is particularly so given the increase in 
sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have 
taken additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a 
payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to 
help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
4. Metro is unhappy with our standard for good industry practice. It says the 
transactions didnt meet its commercial profile for fraud risk, which is in line with 
its regulatory obligations. And it disagrees that weve taken into account the BSI: 
PAS 17271: 2017 Protecting customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or 
financial abuse  Code of practice (BSI Code) published in October 2017. But 
when deciding whats fair and reasonable, we consider factors such as relevant 
laws and regulations, codes of practice, and good industry standards at the time. 
Whilst I appreciate that Metro Bank didnt sign up to the BSI Code, I consider that 
this codified what was already good industry practice. And it was in force at the 
time of the transactions. These are not our standards, but ones set by regulators 
and/or the majority of banks themselves. So Im satisfied the standards Ive 
applied for good industry practice are reasonable and relevant to this case.
5. Having reviewed Mr S and Miss Bs account activity in the months leading up to 
the scam, the payments to the scammer appear uncharacteristic. Whilst I dont 
consider the first payment in itself would reasonably have alerted Metro to the 
fraud risk (it utilised around 30% of the account balance), I consider that the 
second payment should have. By then, there was a quick series of large 
payments, out of line with the usual spending on the account, to a new payee  
utilising around 60% of the account balance. These are common indicators of 
potential fraud or scams  and I believe that most banks, acting fairly and 
reasonably towards their customers in line with good practice, would view this as 
suspicious activity. So I would reasonably have expected Metro to have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks on the second and third payments 
before executing the payment mandates.
6. I accept that a bank does have a duty under the 2017 Regulations not to delay 
payments unduly. But it is not an unfettered duty to execute  and reasonable 
checks and balances are also required as part of the broad regulatory landscape 
to treat customers fairly and to safeguard against the risk of fraud or financial 
harm. I accept theres a limit as to what a bank can reasonably do; and I still 
expect consumers to take responsibility for their own decisions  and possibly 
even bear a reduction in compensation if there is clear evidence of blame on their 
own part (see below). But when plain triggers of unusual or uncharacteristic 
account activity exist, its not unreasonable to expect a banks fraud alerts to 
respond proportionately  and that might simply include, for example, a phone 
call or discreet conversation for transactions in branch to check that things are 
okay.7. Ive considered what would have happened if the bank had intervened in the 
way it might reasonably have done. Metro has told us that, if the payments had 
been flagged, it would have followed its stringent procedures in questioning 
further. Theres nothing to suggest Mr S and Miss B were given a cover story by 
the scammers. So if Metro had asked them discreet but probing questions, I 
think they would probably have explained they were buying a car listed on eBay 
 and it would probably have emerged that they hadnt seen it in person. Metro 
would or should reasonably have been aware that this scenario fits the 
characteristics of a common scam. Banks such as Metro have actual or 
constructive knowledge of all the main scams, such as this (i.e. where a 
supposed eBay seller demands a direct bank transfer rather than using the 
websites recommended protected options, such as PayPal). So it could have 
explained this to its customers, as well as addressing their misunderstanding 
that eBay would guarantee even direct bank payments. At the very least, it could 
have given a broad warning about the risk of scams associated with significant 
online purchases such as this. If that had happened, I consider it likely that the 
spell of the scam would have been broken and that Mr S and Miss B wouldnt 
have proceeded with the two later payments  preventing that loss.
8. As well as considering Metros actions when the transactions occurred, Ive also 
thought about whether it did enough to recover the lost funds. Whilst Im satisfied 
that Mr S and Miss Bs funds were no longer in the recipient account when they 
reported the scam, Ive thought about whether Metro could reasonably have 
recovered more if it intervened at the point of the second transfer  in line with 
my reasoning above.
9. I can see that £1,500 was transferred out of the recipient account within a few 
hours of the transactions being made. Given that Metro couldnt attempt to block 
the funds until it had spoken to Mr S and broken the spell of the scam, I cant 
safely conclude this would have been recovered. But £1,000 of the initial 
transfer remained in the account until the following day. Im persuaded that 
Metro could have blocked, and likely recovered, this if it had intervened with the 
second transaction. Mr S needed all three transfers to go through to complete 
the purchase, so on balance it seems likely he would have contacted Metro 
promptly if the middle payment had been blocked. And Im conscious the funds 
remained in another account with Metro. So I consider it fair that Metro should 
also refund Mr S and Miss B £1,000 from the initial transaction, as I consider it 
likely that appropriate intervention by the bank would have prevented that loss.
10. Metro has expressed concern that our approach doesnt hold consumers 
accountable where appropriate. I have considered whether Mr S and Miss B 
should bear some responsibility for their loss. But up until the missed delivery 
date, they were still totally duped into considering this to be a legitimate sale. 
Theyve mentioned the listing on eBay, an established site; the reassuring 
contact they had with the seller, the fake delivery details; and the explanation 
given for why they couldnt view the car as factors which helped persuade 
them the transaction was genuine. I am satisfied they didnt foresee the risk of 
this sort of harm and were not partly to blame for what happened. Unlike the 
bank, Mr S and Miss B wouldnt have been aware of the warning signs that the 
advert could be a scam. So, on the particular facts of this individual case, I 
dont consider it fair to reduce compensation for some of the loss due to any 
blameworthy acts or omissions by Mr S and Miss B.11. In the circumstances, Im satisfied Metro should fairly and reasonably reimburse 
Mr S and Miss B for the second and third payments they made to the scammer. 
That is the point at which, in my view, the bank ought reasonably to have 
intervened and thereby prevented the loss. And I think it should also refund 
£1,000 from the first payment. There is no persuasive evidence that an earlier 
intervention would have prevented or recovered the whole loss  and I dont 
think it would be reasonable to expect the bank to jump in just because of one 
new payment of £2,500. So part of that loss must be borne by Mr S and Miss B 
as an unrecoverable authorised payment. But I think the £1,000 that remained in 
the recipient account until the following day would have been recovered if the 
bank had intervened when Ive found it reasonably should have.
12. Im also awarding £300 for the distress and inconvenience Mr S and Miss B 
have suffered. Whilst Im mindful that the scammers bear ultimate responsibility 
for tricking them into making the payments, I think Metro could have prevented 
some of this loss and dealt with the matter more sympathetically. This would 
have alleviated the upset and worry they suffered.
I provisionally concluded that Metro Bank PLC should therefore:
a. Refund Mr S and Miss B the second and third transactions, and 
the £1,000 Ive concluded it could have recovered from the first 
transaction, totalling £4,095;
b. Pay 8% simple interest per year on that sum from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement, less any tax properly deductible; 
and
c. Pay Mr S and Miss B £300 for distress and inconvenience.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional findings. Mr S and Miss B accepted my 
decision. But Metro disagreed. Ive summarised the key points it raised:
It questions why Mr S and Miss B didnt use the eBay platform. It says not doing so 
breached eBays terms and conditions.
My decision only comments on Metros actions, not those of Mr S and Miss B or the 
beneficiary bank
It has processes in place to detect fraud, and questions what specific triggers I 
believe its profiling system should have in place
Its unhappy that Ive relied on the BSI Code
It questions why I think it should have intervened with the further payments when I 
accept the first transaction shouldnt have been flagged
It disagrees with the award for 8% interest, as it sent us its file in late 2019 and 
requested a final decision in mid-2020
  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as I did in my provisional 
decision, largely for the reasons Ive explained above. But Ill also address the new points 
Metro has raised. The first two points largely relate to the view I took on Metros actions compared to those of 
Mr S and Miss B. Ultimately, my role is to judge the acts and omissions of the respondent; 
Metro. Ive still considered whether Mr S and Miss B should bear some responsibility for 
what happened. Points six and ten in my provisional decision explain why I dont consider 
them liable for the amount Ive directed Metro to refund. Regarding eBays terms and 
conditions, Id point out that the advert Mr S and Miss B found wasnt on eBay. It was on 
another site, which included a link to the eBay listing. This reassured them about the 
legitimacy of the advert. Whilst they didnt appreciate the significance of completing the 
transactions directly, Im not persuaded this is enough to conclude they ought to have 
realised they were at risk of being scammed. My provisional decision explains the various 
factors which convinced them the sale was legitimate, bearing in mind that customers are 
generally less familiar with what we and the banks see as potential indications of fraud. 
Id also point out that, although Metro says Ive made no reference to the actions of the 
beneficiary bank, the funds were transferred to an account also held with Metro. An even if 
there was a separate beneficiary bank, they wouldnt be party to this case. 
Whilst Metro has asked what specific triggers its systems should have, its not my role to 
dictate how it runs its business. My role is to consider whats fair and reasonable in the 
individual circumstances of this complaint. Ive already explained above what standards Ive 
applied, and why in this instance I think Metro should have done more. In particular, please 
see points three to five from my provisional decision. Point four explains how and why Ive 
considered the BSI Code  amongst other factors  when thinking about what Id reasonably 
expect from Metro.   
Metro has queried why I think it ought to have intervened with the later payments when Ive 
accepted it was reasonable to process the first payment. Point five of my provisional 
decision addresses this. Although I dont think the first transaction itself appears so unusual 
that Metro should have intervened, Ive considered the pattern of the transactions compared 
to the usual account activity. As Metro will be aware, a series of large payments to a new 
payee, utilising a significant proportion of the account balance, is a common indicator of 
fraud or scams. It looks more suspicious than a one-off payment. So, I still think it should 
have intervened with the later payments. And that, for the reasons explained above, this 
would likely have prevented some of Mr S and Miss Bs loss. 
Metro disputes the 8% simple interest per year Ive awarded on the refund, given how long 
the case has been with our service. But Metro will be aware this is the standard rate we 
award for being deprived of money. Even following its failure to intervene with the 
transactions, it could still have minimised this interest by settling the fraud claim directly, or in 
response to our investigators view. So Im still satisfied it should pay 8% interest for loss of 
use of the funds.
Overall, Ive concluded that Metro should settle this complaint in the way I set out in my 
provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. I 
direct Metro Bank PLC to:
a. Refund Mr S and Miss B the second and third transactions, and the 
£1,000 Ive concluded it could have recovered from the first 
transaction, totalling £4,095;
b. Pay 8% simple interest per year on that sum from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement, less any tax properly deductible; andc. Pay Mr S and Miss B £300 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2021. 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman