DRN-1978615
The complaint
Mrs L complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a monthly premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 1999 when she applied for a store card.
What happened
Mrs L complained to this Service. She bought a PPI policy in 1999. It was added to her 
Dorothy Perkins store card account which she applied for in store. She said PPI was 
never mentioned and there was no insurance expert to advise her, so she didnt know it 
was an optional product. She had sick pay and no savings, so she didnt need PPI.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mrs L disagreed with our 
adjudicator's view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. Mrs L added the PPI 
should not have been a standard entry on the store card application form; the sales person 
offered her the card to get a discount on some new items; she was told that if she didnt take 
the PPI, she wouldnt get the store card; the application form was completed and handed to 
her to sign.
AXA France has accepted responsibility for looking at this complaint. So, for ease of 
reference, I will refer to AXA France as the PPI seller.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs L's case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs L's complaint. I know this will be a 
disappointing result, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether AXA France made it clear the policy was an optional product. AXA 
France produced a copy of Mrs L's store card application. I can see there was a tick box 
stating Yes, I would like to protect my account with Account Cover This box is signed 
on Mrs Ls application, but I noted she declined other offers on the form - so I think the 
form was diligently completed with the things she wanted and didnt want either by her or 
on her behalf. 
I note Mrs L said she felt coerced and pressured to buy the PPI. But as she separately 
signed the form and the PPI box, I can reasonably assume she checked the details were 
correct. So I think her separate signature means AXA France probably made it clear that 
Mrs L didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why she may not be able to remember this. So I am not going to uphold her 
complaint on this point.
I noted Mrs L was eligible to buy PPI. The policy wasn't recommended so AXA France 
didnt have to make sure the policy was right for her. But it had to make sure Mrs L 
received enough information which was clear, fair and not misleading so she could make 
a decision about PPI herself.
Its possible the information given to Mrs L about the cost and benefits wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But as I think she chose to take it out, it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong 
because she told us she had no savings and the PPI could have lasted for longer than 
and in addition to her sick pay if she wasnt able to work or had lost her job. So I dont 
think that any clearer information would have put her off from buying the policy.
AXA France should also have pointed out the things the policy did not cover (the 
exclusions). I don't know how they did this, but it does not appear that Mrs L was 
affected by the main exclusions. So - even if she'd been given a full list of the exclusions 
- I don't think it would have put her off from buying the PPI.
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was shown as optional and Mrs L was 
probably given enough information to make a decision about it. So I am not going to 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman