The complaint
Mrs B and Mr L are unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) didn't tell them it 
wouldn't be able to arrange a residential mortgage secured against their property until after 
they'd had a valuation carried out.
What happened
Mrs B and Mr L applied for a mortgage with Halifax.
When they met with the adviser in branch they discussed the nature of the property, which is 
that it's also Mrs B's workplace for her business. They say the adviser told them it would 
have to be referred to an underwriter but despite this the adviser went ahead and booked a 
valuation to be carried out; at a cost of £200 to Mrs B and Mr L.
The valuation was carried out and the surveyor said it wasn't suitable security for the 
residential mortgage due to Mrs B also using it as a commercial premises.
Unhappy with what had happened Mrs B and Mr L complained to Halifax. Halifax upheld the 
complaint and offered £250 compensation. Mrs B and Mr L said that wasn't enough as £200 
of that covered the amount they'd paid out for the valuation, leaving them just £50 
compensation.
Our investigator said the offer was fair and didn't recommend Halifax do anything more. As 
Mrs B and Mr L didn't agree it's been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Although Ive read and considered the 
whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
in order to reach the right outcome. 
Mrs B and Mr L have said that they'd repaid early the previous Halifax mortgage that had 
been secured against the same property, and that Mr L is a Halifax staff member. However, 
neither of those things are relevant here. This was simply a decision made by Halifax about 
whether it was willing to accept that property in 2019 as security for money Mrs B and Mr L 
wanted to borrow. Their previous repayment history and Mr L's status as a staff member had 
no bearing on that decision, nor should they.
DRN-1211560Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes a mistake, mistakes do 
happen. In this case it was simple human error that meant Mrs B and Mr L were led to 
believe  for a period of about two weeks  that Halifax might grant a residential mortgage 
secured on the property. This is a mistaken statement of facts; a misrepresentation. When 
were looking at complaints of this type we consider the appropriate remedy is to place the 
consumer in the position they would be in if the incorrect information hadnt been given. We 
dont put them in the position they would be in if it had been correct. 
If the correct information had been given, Mrs B and Mr L would have been told two weeks 
earlier than they were of the true position. They also wouldn't have paid the £200 valuation 
fee. Mrs B and Mr L could never have been in the position where they could get the 
mortgage they wanted with Halifax. 
The valuation fee has been refunded (as part of the £250 compensation) so I don't need to 
consider that any further. All that's left for me to decide is whether £50 is enough 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Mrs B and Mr L have talked of their time and costs to travel to the mortgage appointment, 
but those were always costs they would have incurred as I wouldn't expect the person who 
booked the appointment over the phone to have known the application wouldn't be 
successful. 
I also consider Mrs B and Mr L would have gone through the full mortgage appointment as 
the mortgage adviser can't immediately know every intricate part of Halifax's lending policy. 
This might be an issue that only comes up once in the adviser's career, and there are so 
many facets to the lending policy (which are updated all the time). It's simply not feasible to 
expect the adviser to have known immediately this would have been a problem, to the extent 
they would have stopped the mortgage interview. 
The adviser is simply that, an advisor. Its not their role to underwrite the application as 
otherwise thered be no need for a separate underwriting team. Instead the adviser would 
continue the interview and then make the referral to the underwriter before the valuation is 
instructed.  And there's where I'm satisfied there was a failing, as at that point the adviser 
should have been told not to instruct the valuation as the application wouldn't be 
successful. So there's no compensation due for the fact Mrs B and Mr L attended a full 
mortgage interview.
Mrs B and Mr L have talked about the calls and time taken to resolve matters (and the delay 
in commencing their building works) but Halifax issued its final response letter on 16 April 
2019 within which it offered the £250. Mrs B and Mr L could have accepted that offer at that 
point (which was just 12 days after the valuation had been carried out). 
The fact Mrs B and Mr L chose not to accept the compensation and pursue matters doesn't 
mean they get more if that was a fair offer. Having considered everything I'm satisfied the 
total of £250 offered by Halifax is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint, in the sense I consider Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) 
made a fair offer in its response to the complaint.  
My final decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which means well 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman