DRN-1764258
 
The complaint
Mr L complains that TSB Bank Plc charged him a fee for a returned direct debit. Hes also 
unhappy with the level of service he received when raising this issue and when making data 
subject access requests (DSAR).
What happened
A direct debit payment, which Mr L says shouldnt have been attempted, was returned on 14 
October 2019 due to insufficient funds. TSB wrote to Mr L informing him a £3 returned item 
fee would be applied to his account. It was deducted on 18 November 2019.
Mr L complained to TSB on 21 November 2019 about the fee. TSB responded on 3 January 
2020 and sent him a £4 cheque - £3 to cover the fee and £1 to cover call costs  to resolve 
the matter.
Mr L got back in touch with TSB as he remained dissatisfied with their review of his 
complaint and he didnt think £4 was enough for the amount of calls hed made dealing with 
the matter. He also said they hadnt enclosed the £4 cheque or the leaflet (their letter 
referred to) about our service.
TSB responded on 6 January 2020 and apologised for the cheque not being sent previously. 
They explained it happened due to human error but confirmed they'd since arranged for the 
cheque to be sent to him and they also enclosed a copy of the leaflet about our service. TSB 
also offered to review the cost of Mr Ls calls upon him providing evidence of those he 
wished for them to consider. And, separate to the matter of his complaint, they explained 
that they dont put up with abusive behaviour or threatening and inappropriate language.
The matter was referred to our service. Our investigator explained that, as TSB had 
refunded the fee, he hadnt looked in to whether they were responsible for the direct debit 
being returned. But he noted the cheque, although initially missed, had since been sent and 
that he didnt think the absence of the leaflet about our service (if it wasnt included in TSBs 
first response to the complaint) had caused significant detriment to Mr L. He also thought 
TSBs offer to review the call costs further, if Mr L evidenced them, was fair. He further 
added that it appeared TSB had also responded within the required timeframes to Mr Ls 
DSARs. So, he didnt think TSB had to do anything further. 
Mr L disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive come to same 
conclusions as the investigator and for largely the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Mr L says the direct debit payment should never have been attempted. But, while its unclear 
why it was or if TSB were responsible, I dont think its relevant given TSB has refunded the fee that was applied. Im therefore satisfied Mr L hasnt suffered a financial loss. I have 
however considered whether any further compensation should be paid for the trouble 
caused to Mr L.
I understand Mr L doesnt think £1 is enough for the number of calls he made to TSB. But, 
while I appreciate his strength of feeling about this, I dont think TSBs recent offer to review 
his telephone costs further  upon evidence being provided  is unreasonable. And so, as
Mr L hasnt provided this to TSB or our service, I dont think I can fairly conclude TSB has to 
do anything further at this time.
Mr L had to contact TSB after receiving their letter of 3 January 2020 to inform them that the 
cheque and our services leaflet werent enclosed. TSB apologised for not sending the 
cheque but they couldnt confirm whether theyd sent our leaflet or not. They did however 
swiftly rectify the situation by sending a copy of the leaflet in their subsequent response of 6 
January 2020 and the cheque on 7 January 2020. So, while I accept Mr L was 
inconvenienced by what happened here, I dont think it significantly impacted him. I also 
consider TSB took reasonable steps to put things right and so, I think an apology is 
appropriate in the circumstances. It also didnt impact on Mr Ls ability to bring his complaint 
to our service as it was still referred to us within the appropriate timescales.
Im also aware that Mr L is unhappy with the service he received from TSB when he called 
them. TSBs records show Mr L has contacted them on number of occasions in respect of 
this and other issues. Their records, in my view, seem to show there has been a breakdown 
in the relationship as a result of some difficult conversation taking place  and which 
ultimately led to Mr L closing his account. But while Mr L has been asked to provide details 
of the particular calls and the service he is unhappy with, this information hasnt been 
forthcoming. And so, from what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that further compensation is 
warranted here. 
I understand Mr L says hes also had difficulties with the DSARs hes made to TSB. From 
the information TSB has provided it seems Mr L has made four requests from September 
2019 onwards. I havent however seen anything to show TSB hasnt complied with these 
requests or did so outside the required timescales. I therefore dont think theyve acted 
unfairly when handling these requests. If however Mr L remains dissatisfied with their 
handling of his DSARs then he can refer the matter to the Information Commissioners 
Office.
I realise this isnt the outcome Mr L is hoping for but, for the reasons Ive set out, Im not 
directing TSB to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman