DRN-2342867
The complaint
Miss F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her account giving her five days 
notice. She was left without funds for a week. She would like to know why the account was 
closed and compensation for the lack of information and the treatment she received from 
Barclays. Miss F is represented by Mr M.
What happened
Miss F decided to open an account with Barclays. The account was opened on 
30 April 2019.
On 28 May 2019 Barclays reviewed Miss Fs account. Following the review on 29 May 2019, 
the bank decided to close the account with immediate effect in line with the terms and 
conditions.
Miss F went into branch to retrieve her benefits money on 4 June 2019.
Miss F was unhappy with the account closure, so she complained to the bank on 
5 June 2019.
The bank said they had closed the account in line with their terms and conditions. 
Miss F was unhappy with Barclays response, so she complained to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint. He said he didnt think Barclays had done anything 
wrong when they reviewed and closed Miss Fs account so he wouldnt be recommending 
they pay compensation. He also said Barclays were not obliged to give Miss F reasons for 
their closure of the account.
Miss F disagreed with the view and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Miss Fs account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Barclays were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Miss Fs account.
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
I appreciate that Barclays decision to no longer offer Miss F its services in the future has 
caused her inconvenience. But Barclays can make commercial decisions about who they 
offer services to. They cannot unfairly discriminate against a customer. But they can say 
they no longer wish to do business with individuals. Thats because theyve got the 
commercial freedom to decide who they want to contract with. And Im satisfied that Barclays 
has exercised its commercial decision legitimately when it decided it no longer wished to do 
business with Miss F. So, I cannot fairly and reasonably say its done anything wrong.
Barclays has relied on the terms of the account to close it. Barclays can close an account 
with immediate effect in certain circumstances. I have reviewed the terms of the account and 
the evidence and I am satisfied that Barclays closed the account in line with the account 
terms. And acted fairly in doing so. 
Whilst Miss F mayve expected to be given the reasons for the closure, Barclays isnt 
required to give her a specific reason for closing the account. So, I cant say Barclays has 
done anything wrong by not giving Miss F this information  as much as shed like to know.
Miss F has said that she was without money for a week and this was inconvenient to her. 
She has said that she had to go into branch, and this didnt help. I am satisfied that Miss F 
had to attend the branch as part of the banks processes to release her funds and that 
Miss Fs money was available to her straight away on closure. I appreciate that Miss F was 
inconvenienced by going into the branch, but Barclays were entitled to take the action they 
did so I wont be asking them to do anything else.
In summary, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Barclays has acted unreasonably 
and treated Miss F unfairly when it reviewed and closed her account. So, I am not going to 
ask them to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman