DRN-3546076
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Vitality Health Limited hasnt fully settled a claim she made on a group 
private medical insurance policy.
Mrs Bs represented by Ms P.
What happened
Mrs B is insured by Vitality under a group private medical insurance policy. Mrs Bs policy 
doesnt include outpatient cover and provides cover for treatment for private hospitals on a 
local list.
On 6 April 2021, Mrs B saw a private consultant. She was diagnosed with a macular hole 
and the consultant concluded that she needed surgery to treat the condition. However, due 
to the impact of Covid-19, the consultant said that the procedure couldnt be carried out at a 
private hospital in a city Ill refer to as S, where it would usually be done. So the consultant 
referred Mrs B to another consultant - who Ill call Mr W  to carry out the surgery. The 
operation would be carried out in a city Ill call L, although Mr W intended to refer Mrs B back 
to the hospital in S for post-operative aftercare. Private hospitals in L were not on Mrs Bs 
local list. 
Ms P made a claim for the costs of off-list surgery on Mrs Bs behalf on 9 April 2021. The 
referral letter to Mr W from the initial consultant was sent to Vitality on 12 April 2021. Whilst 
Vitality assessed the off-list request, Ms P booked the surgery for 19 April 2021. It was due 
to be carried out by Mr W at the hospital in L. 
On 13 April 2021, Vitality let Ms P know that the off-list claim had been declined. It had 
found a consultant (who Ill call Mr C) on Mrs Bs local list of hospitals who could carry out 
the surgery in a city Ill call E. It told Ms P that as the surgery could be carried out at a local 
list hospital, if Mrs B chose to undergo the surgery off-list in L, it would only cover 60% of the 
costs of surgery. This was in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Ms P was very unhappy with Vitalitys position and so the claim was passed-back for a 
further off-list review. But Vitality maintained its stance. During the course of discussions 
between Vitality and Ms P, Vitality told Ms P that Mr C could carry out the surgery on 13 May 
2021. But, if following an initial consultation with Mrs B, Mr C felt the surgery was urgent, it 
could be carried out sooner. Vitality also said that it could look to transferring Mrs Bs 
aftercare from E back to private facilities in S. But Ms P remained unhappy with these 
options  especially because Mrs B would be liable to pay for another consultation with Dr C 
ahead of the surgery and because E was some distance from Mrs Bs home. Ultimately, Mrs 
B underwent surgery as planned on 19 April 2021 under Mr W at the private hospital in L. 
Vitality looked into Ms Ps concerns. It acknowledged that during the claim assessment, Ms 
P had raised questions which hadnt been fully answered by the claims handler. So it offered 
Mrs B £75 compensation to reflect this. But it maintained that its claims decision was fair.
As Mrs B was out of pocket for 40% of the surgical costs, Ms P asked us to look into Mrs Bs 
complaint. She also felt that Vitality should pay £1000 compensation to reflect the distress 
and inconvenience caused by Vitalitys handling of the claim.
Our investigator felt that Vitality had treated Mrs B fairly. She felt Vitality had agreed to settle 
the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. She didnt think there was 
enough evidence to suggest that Mrs B needed the surgery urgently and she thought it was 
reasonable for Vitality to conclude that if Mr C thought the surgery was urgent, it could be 
carried out more promptly. And while she accepted that Vitality hadnt answered all of Ms Ps 
questions ahead of Mrs B undergoing the surgery in L, she thought it was most likely that 
Mrs B wouldve gone ahead with undergoing surgery in L even if Vitality had responded in a  
more timely way. So she felt £75 compensation was reasonable.
Ms P disagreed and Ive summarised her responses to our investigator. She said that the 
initial consultant Mrs B had seen had said that time was of the essence in regard to the 
surgery. The hospital in L was on Vitalitys list of approved facilities. Shed emailed Vitality 
time and again and hadnt received a response to her issues and she hadnt been prepared 
to lose the slot in L. Mrs B wouldve had to pay for a new consultation with Mr C and take 
taxis at her cost for aftercare and she simply couldnt have afforded this.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B, I think Vitality has treated her fairly and 
Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Ms P and Mrs B that while Ive summarised the background to this 
complaint and Ms Ps detailed submissions, Ive read and considered all that Ms P has said 
and sent us. Within this decision though, I havent commented on each point Ms P has made 
and nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mrs Bs policy and the circumstances of her claim, to decide whether Vitality treated 
her fairly.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mrs Bs 
contract with Vitality. Page eight of the policy terms includes a section called The Hospitals 
Eligible Under Your Plan. This states the following:
If you have one of our hospital list options, you should only go to a hospital on your chosen 
list, as youre only covered in full for treatment at those hospitals. If you go to a hospital 
thats not on your list, then youll have to pay 40% of the costs of your treatment
(excluding your consultants fees).
Some consultants can arrange for diagnostic tests and scans to be carried out in a number
of different hospitals. It is important that you check that the hospital your consultant
suggests you attend is eligible on your plan.
Ive looked carefully at Mrs Bs policy schedule. Page two includes a section called Your Cover. This section says: 
If you choose to attend a hospital not on your chosen list, you will need to pay 40% of the 
cost for treatment, diagnostic tests and scans (excluding consultants fees).
Immediately underneath, the schedule sets out Mrs Bs Plan Details. I can see that her 
hospital list is stated as local.
Taking together all of the policy documentation then, I think Vitality has made it clear enough 
that if a policyholder chooses to undergo treatment at a hospital which isnt on their list, the 
policyholder will be responsible for paying 40% of any of the treatment costs they incur. And 
in this case, I think Mrs Bs policy paperwork highlights that she held local list cover, rather 
than countrywide cover.
Ms P says that Vitality initially directed Mrs B to the consultant in S. It seems that this 
consultant and the hospital he worked from fell within Mrs Bs local list. Its unfortunate that 
due to the impact of Covid-19 on that particular facility, the surgery couldnt take place there. 
However, that isnt something I can reasonably hold Vitality responsible for. Instead, the 
consultant referred Mrs B to Mr W in L, with an agreement that Mrs B could undergo 
aftercare in S.
Given the consultant Mrs B saw recommended that Mr W should perform the surgery, I can 
understand why she and Ms P wanted him to carry it out. However, the hospital in L wasnt 
on Mrs Bs local list and so on a strict interpretation of the policy terms, if Mrs B opted to 
undergo surgery in L and performed by Mr W, Vitality was entitled to limit settlement to 60% 
of the surgical costs she incurred.
Ive given careful consideration to the circumstances and the evidence to decide whether 
Vitality acted reasonably when it relied on its policy terms. I appreciate that Ms P said that 
shed been told that time was of the essence and therefore, it was important that the 
surgery be carried out urgently. But Ive looked at the referral letter to Mr W from the initial 
consultant and I dont think it suggests that the surgery was urgent or that it needed to be 
carried out within the shortest possible timeframe. So I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Vitality to conclude, from this medical evidence, that Mrs Bs surgery wasnt urgent in nature, 
when it considered Mrs Bs request for her full claim to be covered, despite being off-list.
It's also clear that Vitality had discussed surgical timeframes with Mr Cs office ahead of 
speaking to Ms P. Whilst a provisional date had been set ahead of time, it seems Vitality had 
been told that if following consultation with Mrs B, Mr C felt the surgery was urgent, it could 
take place more quickly. In my view then, Vitality was seeking to ensure that Mrs B could 
undergo the surgery she needed, in good time.
Ms P was unhappy that Mrs B would need to pay for a consultation with Mr C, despite 
already having paid to see the consultant in S and already having a referral letter. I can 
understand why Ms P and Mrs B may have found this to be unfair. But I think the policy 
schedule makes it sufficiently clear that Mrs B didnt have outpatient cover. And its 
understandable that Mr C might want to assess Ms Ps condition ahead of her undergoing 
surgery. So I think it was reasonable for Vitality to rely on its policy terms on this point. In any 
event, its clear that Mrs B didnt see Mr C or incur an additional consultation charge.
Vitalitys service
Vitality acknowledged that it didnt respond to Ms Ps questions as quickly or fully as it 
couldve done. It also accepted that this had added to Mrs Bs trouble and upset at a time 
when she was already worried about her sight. Ms P feels strongly that Vitalitys failure to respond fully to her questions while she was considering which course of action to take 
impacted on her decision-making.
Ive thought very carefully about this. But like our investigator, I dont think I could fairly say 
that any lack of detail in Vitalitys responses to Ms Ps queries led her to take a course of 
action she wouldnt otherwise have done. I say that because Ive listened to the calls 
between Ms P and Vitality. Its clear that Ms P wanted Mr W to carry out Mrs Bs surgery. 
She stated that she wasnt prepared to go anywhere but to Mr W and that she didnt want 
to go to the one in E. So on balance, I think even if Vitality had responded more fully to Ms 
Ps questions at an earlier stage, Mrs B still would most likely have opted to travel to L for 
the surgery. That means I dont think Vitalitys errors here caused Mrs B to lose out.
Ms P expressed concerns about the cost to Mrs B of travelling between her home and E for 
the aftercare. And Ive thought about this. I appreciate that Mr W had agreed that aftercare 
could be transferred to S, which was closer to Mrs Bs home and would therefore have been 
cheaper for her. But Vitality had offered to check with Mr C if Mrs B could be referred back to 
the hospital in S for aftercare, which would therefore have also potentially limited Mrs Bs 
own costs. As Mrs B chose to have the surgery in L, it doesnt appear that Vitality had the 
opportunity to explore this option further with Mr C and Mrs B. But I think it was entitled to 
assess whether this was a reasonable option for Mrs B and I think it acted fairly in the 
circumstances.
Taking all of the above into account, I think Vitalitys offer to pay Mrs B £75 compensation is 
fair and reasonable. I do appreciate that Mrs B was in a difficult situation, but I think much of 
her worry was likely to be caused by her condition and the impact of Covid-19 on her local 
hospital. I dont think I could fairly direct Vitality to pay any additional compensation on this 
basis. If Vitality hasnt yet paid this compensation to Mrs B, it must now do so.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mrs B, I find Vitality has settled her claim fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I find Vitality has settled Mrs Bs 
claim fairly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman