DRN-2141599
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Post Office (the business) is 
holding her liable for transactions on her debit card account she didnt authorise.
What happened
Mrs S has a Post Office debit card account. In January 2019 her purse was stolen and her 
debit card and PIN was used to withdraw cash from her account at cash machine. Two 
withdrawals were made within minutes of each other equalling £600. Mrs S realised the card 
was missing and reported this to the business the same day but shes said she didnt know 
withdrawals had been made from the account at this time. 
In early February 2019, after shed discovered them, Mrs S contacted the business to report 
the unauthorised withdrawals that had taken place the day the card was stolen. The 
business asked her a series of questions set out in its lost and stolen questionnaire and 
recorded the following information based on her responses:
She had reported the theft to the police and provided a crime reference number
Her whole purse had been stolen
Shed never told anyone her PIN
When asked how she thought the person whod used her card knew her PIN shed 
said because shed noted it in her purse
When asked if shed ever recorded or written her PIN anywhere, shed said she had and it 
was kept in her purse
Based on her responses the business didnt reimburse the money that was withdrawn. It 
said the terms and conditions were clear that her PIN shouldve been kept safe and 
shouldnt have been kept with her card. It told her if she was unhappy with its response she 
had the right to bring the complaint to our service.
Mrs S asked us to consider the complaint and raised the following points:
She didnt keep the PIN in her purse  the information she kept in her purse was 
unrelated to this account 
The business hadnt carried out a proper investigation which is why it had recorded 
incorrectly she kept her PIN in her purse
Other businesses had reimbursed similar transactions related to the same theft
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They felt it was likely Mrs S had kept her PIN in 
her purse with her card and that this was grossly negligent which is why the business was 
acting reasonably in holding her liable for the transactions. Mrs S didnt accept this. Her 
representative said:
The questionnaire and the answers recorded by the business couldnt be relied on 
due to Mrs Ss age and vulnerability and she had no recollection of telling the 
business she kept her PIN in her purse
Her behaviour hadnt met the definition of gross negligence 
A different business had reimbursed withdrawals that were made from another 
account and hadnt found her to have been grossly negligent 
The person carrying out the transactions tried and failed to make withdrawals from a 
different account which proves the numbers she kept in her purse were unrelated to 
her PIN numbers
The investigator hadnt addressed the complaint that the business didnt carry out a 
proper investigation which is why it had incorrect information
As Mrs S didnt accept the investigators findings the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in this case, Im required to take into account 
relevant law and regulations, and the rules and guidance set by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The withdrawals in question were made in February 
2019, so the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs 2017) apply and Ive considered 
the relevant provisions alongside the terms of Mrs Ss account.
Did Mrs S authorise the withdrawals?
The business has shown me evidence the two withdrawals in question were made using 
Mrs Ss card and PIN. But in order to consider them authorised she wouldve also had to 
have given her consent to the withdrawals.
Mrs S reported the theft of her purse to the police and has been able to provide a crime 
reference number, she also cancelled her card and changed her PIN following the 
withdrawals. The business hasnt raised concerns over Mrs Ss version of events which have 
been consistent throughout. Overall I think the transactions were likely unauthorised.
Was Mrs Ss PIN kept in her purse with her card?
As Im satisfied Mrs S didnt authorise the withdrawals, the next step is for me to consider 
whether she should be liable for them. The business has said she should be because it 
believes she kept her PIN with her card, which was a breach of the terms and conditions of 
the account, but Mrs S has said this isnt the case. Before I consider what impact this might 
have on the complaint, Ive considered whether I think its likely Mrs Ss PIN was in her purse 
with her card when it was stolen.
The withdrawals were made using Mrs Ss card and PIN and there were no failed attempts 
to withdraw cash from her Post Office account. I think its unlikely an unknown third party 
would be able to guess Mrs Ss four-digit PIN correctly, first time. So I think its more likely 
than not that the person who took her card also somehow knew her PIN. As set out above, the business notes suggest that when investigating the unauthorised 
withdrawals it asked Mrs S a series of questions about her PIN and it has recorded she said 
she kept it in her purse in response to two different questions. 
I understand Mrs S has said she has no recollection of the call in which she said she kept 
her PIN in her purse and her representative says it cant be relied upon because she was in 
shock and is vulnerable. But Ive had to consider what I think is more likely to have 
happened based on the evidence available. I think its unlikely the business wouldve 
recorded the answers it did if Mrs S hadnt given them. And Im not persuaded by anything 
Ive seen she wasnt capable of answering straightforward questions about how she used 
her card and PIN.
Mrs S hasnt offered any alternative explanations as to how the person who took her purse 
mightve known her PIN. Shes said she didnt tell anyone and I can see from her transaction 
history she hadnt used the card for nearly a week when her purse was stolen. So it doesnt 
seem plausible someone had seen her enter her PIN anywhere before her card was taken.
When considering the answers recorded by the business alongside other possibilities, I think 
the most likely explanation is that the PIN was in Mrs Ss purse.
Mrs S has compared Post Offices actions with the way the other businesses have dealt with 
disputed transactions and that attempts to withdraw cash from her other accounts were 
unsuccessful. Whilst I have considered these points carefully, I dont think the information 
relating to other accounts offers any persuasive evidence in this case.
Overall Im satisfied the business investigated this point adequately and it wasnt acting 
unreasonably in proceeding on the basis that Mrs Ss PIN was written in her purse when it 
was taken.
Should Mrs S be liable for the transactions?
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ss account set out that she must take reasonable steps to 
keep her card and PIN safe and that they should never be kept together. The PSRs 2017 
also set out that she must take all reasonable steps to keep her account and security 
information safe. They also say if she fails to do so, either intentionally or due to gross 
negligence, she should be liable for any loss incurred as a result.
I dont believe Mrs S intentionally failed to keep her information safe. But Ive considered 
carefully whether her actions could be considered grossly negligent. 
In response to the investigators view of the complaint, Mrs S has referred to a legal 
definition of gross negligence set out in a particular court case. Ive taken this into account 
and Ive also considered that gross negligence isnt defined in the PSRs 2017. The FCA 
sets out that gross negligence is a much higher standard than the common law standard of 
negligence and for this standard to be met, a significant degree of carelessness needs to be 
shown.
Having considered the legal definition, other relevant regulation, terms and legislation and 
my obligation to make a decision on what I consider fair and reasonable, I think Mrs S has 
acted with gross negligence in this case.
I think a reasonable person ought to have understood the obvious risk involved in carrying 
around their card and PIN together in their purse. In doing this, Mrs S gave anyone who was 
able to access her purse, while she was in public, all the information they needed to use her card and access the money in her account. So I think its reasonable to say shes acted with 
a significant degree of carelessness in the face of this obvious risk.
Because of this, Im satisfied the business has acted reasonably in holding her liable for the 
unauthorised transactions.
Has the business met its obligations in protecting Mrs Ss account?
Its good practice for a business to identify and prevent any transactions on an account that 
are particularly unusual or out of character. Although Ive considered whether I think the 
business shouldve done more to stop the unauthorised transactions here, I dont think they 
wouldve been so out of the ordinary I wouldve expected the business to prevent them. 
The person who stole Mrs Ss purse made two cash withdrawals of £350 and £250 at two 
different ATMs a few minutes apart. Although Mrs S doesnt appear to use the account 
regularly, statements reflect that when she does use it, its generally to make ATM 
withdrawals of around £300. And whilst in this case the transactions were made a few 
minutes apart, I dont think this is so unusual or out of character it wouldve been enough to 
reasonably trigger the business to question further or prevent the second transaction. 
I say this because it broadly follows Mrs Ss regular pattern of behaviour in that the 
transactions were ATM withdrawals, from an ATM she regularly used for a total amount that 
wasnt significantly more than the amount she usually withdraws. The activity also didnt 
follow the usual pattern a business might be looking for in cases of unauthorised activity 
such as numerous failed attempts or a significant number of transactions in a short period. 
Overall, I dont think the business ought reasonably to have done more to prevent the 
transactions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman