DRN-3976192
The complaint
Mrs S complains about Zurich Insurance PLCs handling of a claim she made after the wall 
outside her house began to collapse.
What happened
Mrs Ss home is covered by an insurance policy underwritten by Zurich.
The background to this complaint is very well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a 
brief summary here. But Id like to assure both Mrs S and Zurich that Ive considered all the 
information and evidence we have on file.
Mrs S made a claim in August 2021 after she discovered large cracks in the boundary wall 
outside her home. The wall appeared unstable and on the point of collapse.
Zurich accepted the claim, carried out a survey and appointed a contractor to carry out the 
necessary repair work (in September 2021).
The work stopped after a very short time, essentially because Mrs S noticed that the 
contractors appeared to be re-building the upper part of the wall on top of the lower section 
which was clearly itself unstable.
The contractor agreed that the work was unacceptable. Whilst in the process of considering 
how to move forward, Zurich decided  on the advice of their loss adjuster - that the issue 
with the wall was due to poor workmanship or design when it was originally built. And 
therefore, was not covered under the policy.
This effectively left Mrs S with a part-demolished wall, a yard full of building debris and 
materials and a remaining section of wall which appeared dangerously close to collapse. 
That part of the wall is around six feet or more high and borders a public pathway.
Mrs S raised the issue with Zurich, but they took no further action, so Mrs S brought her 
complaint to us. Our investigator looked into and thought Zurich should replace the damaged 
sections of the wall and pay Mrs S £1,000 in compensation for her trouble and upset.
After attempts to resolve the case informally with Zurich, we issued a formal view on the 
case in November 2022. Because Zurich didnt respond to that view, the case was referred 
for a final decision by an ombudsman.
Mrs S has expressed her dissatisfaction with the view because of what she says are factual 
inaccuracies in it. She also believes the compensation proposed wasnt sufficient given the 
trouble and upset shes experienced over a prolonged period of time.
Because I wanted to be sure that both parties were fully aware of what was being proposed 
as the outcome to this case, I issued a provisional decision. This allowed both Mrs S and 
Zurich a chance to provide further information or evidence and/or to comment on my thinking 
before I make my final decision on Mrs Ss complaint. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to go into great detail here about all of the circumstances surrounding 
this case. Ill concentrate on what appear to be the key remaining issues.
Zurich accepted the claim  in September 2021  and commenced work on the wall. 
They then decided that they didnt think they should have covered the claim in the 
first place.
Im not going to get into a debate about whether the claim should or should not have 
been accepted. The fact is, Zurich did accept the claim. And its palpably unfair to 
leave Mrs S with a very dangerous wall and a building site in the front of her house  
which has effectively taken away the private outside space that Mrs S and her family 
previously enjoyed.
To be fair to Zurich, they have been in touch with us since the case was referred to 
me for a final decision and it appears they accept that its their responsibility to 
complete the repair work.
They now appear to be saying that theyll pay for repairs to the damaged part of the 
wall, but they dont think they should have to replace the sections of the wall that are 
undamaged.
I wouldnt disagree with that in principle. But I can see from evidence provided by 
Mrs S that the whole of the wall  which curves around the front and side of the 
property  is severely damaged, if not on the point of collapse - and needs replacing. 
That goes for the wall at both sides of the opening where the gate used to sit.
If Zurich have expert advice to suggest that any part of the wall is sound and can be 
left in situ, then they can provide evidence to that effect in response to this 
provisional decision.
Mrs S has quotes from builders to replace the wall. One at around £8,000 and one at 
around £26,000. Leaving aside that rather stark difference, Mrs S has said she is 
happy to go with the lower quote and simply wants her wall back in place and safe. 
The lower quote may be lower because the builder has said that the existing footings 
can be retained and used.
It's entirely possible that Zurich may wish to seek to recover some or all of their costs 
from the original builder or developer of the property, if they believe the issues with 
the wall were in fact due to poor workmanship and/or design. Thats a matter for 
them and should not delay the work to restore Mrs Ss property to a satisfactory 
state.
This claim was made in August 2021. Mrs S is still living with a dangerous wall and a 
building site outside her home almost a year and a half later.
Mrs S has been keen to stress that she has been very much inconvenienced by the 
current state of affairs. Items previously stored in the yard have had to be moved into 
the conservatory, which means the family have in effect lost that space and utility.Mrs S has also had the stress and worry of living with an on-going and prolonged 
situation where it appeared there was no resolution to the problem  and with a 
potentially dangerous wall directly outside her home and bordering a public footpath.
Im satisfied that £1,000 in compensation for Mrs Ss trouble and upset is justified by 
the period of time for which she has suffered significant inconvenience and upset. 
That amount is broadly in line with the awards which we make for trouble and upset, 
as set out on our website.
In summary, for those reasons, I said Zurich should pay for the repair of the wall and pay 
Mrs S £1,000 in compensation for her trouble and upset.
The responses to my provisional decision
Zurich didnt respond to my provisional decision. Ill assume that means they agree with it 
and/or have no further information or evidence to offer. I note they were specifically invited to 
provide evidence if they thought any part of the wall could be left in place, so Ill also assume 
there is no such evidence.
Mrs S responded to say she agreed with my provisional decision. She later contacted us to 
say that the contractor used by Zurich in this case had been in touch and paid her just over 
£14,000 to get the wall replaced by her own builder.
There was a temporary issue about whether an excess should be taken from the cost of the 
repairs, but that has now been resolved, in Mrs Ss favour.
Mrs S tells us the amount paid by the contractor doesnt include VAT and doesnt include the 
£1,000 compensation my provisional decision suggested Zurich should pay her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It appears that Zurich have now, through their contractor, paid for the replacement of the 
wall, with an amount that is acceptable to Mrs S. So, that issue is resolved, although Ill 
comment in the section below on precisely what needs to happen now. 
In the absence of any objection from either Zurich or Mrs S, I have no reason to change my 
mind about the level of compensation I think is appropriate in this case given the trouble and 
upset experienced by Mrs S.
Putting things right
I should be clear that I dont have any breakdown of the amount (over £14,000) paid to 
Mrs S by Zurichs contractor. Mrs S tells me that doesnt include VAT and doesnt include the 
compensation. I cant confirm that, although I have no reason to doubt what she tells me.
In that context, its important for me to absolutely clear about what Im requiring Zurich to do.
Zurich must cover the cost of the replacement of Mrs Ss wall, in full, including VAT. I should 
point out, mainly for Mrs Ss benefit, that its not unusual  or unfair  for an insurer to retain 
the VAT part of any cash settlement until they have an invoice or receipt to confirm that the 
work has actually been carried out.Zurich should also pay Mrs S £1,000 in compensation for her trouble and upset  for the 
reasons I set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, Im upholding Mrs Ss 
complaint.
Zurich Insurance PLC must:
pay for the replacement of Mrs Ss wall; and
pay Mrs S £1,000 in compensation for her trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman