DRN-2642552
The complaint
On behalf of T (a limited company) Mr G complains that Aston Lark Limited (a broker) failed
to highlight a significant policy exclusion when selling it commercial motor fleet insurance.
What happened
In October 2019 one of Ts vans was stolen from its yard. The insurer didnt cover Ts claim,
as the policy had an exclusion for theft if a vehicles keys were left in it. Mr G said Ts vans
were left with keys in them in the yard, for loading purposes, and so its drivers could access
them easily. He said if Aston Lark had highlighted the exclusion, that wouldnt have
happened. Aston Lark said the exclusion was a standard one that wasnt significant or
unusual, so there was no need for it to be highlighted.
One of our investigators reviewed Ts complaint. He said our view is that keys in vehicle
exclusions are significant, so he thought Aston Lark should have highlighted it. He thought
Ts company policy regarding keys would have been different had it done so.
Aston Lark said it was only common sense to assume that leaving keys in vehicles
increased the risk of their theft, so it thought the key was left due to an oversight. And it said
T had been insured previously, so it should have known about common exclusions.
The investigator said we couldnt say that Mr Gs explanation for why the keys were left in
the van wasnt accurate. And he said that even if the keys were left in it due to an oversight,
it was still the case that the exclusion should have been highlighted.
Aston Lark asked for a review of the complaint by an ombudsman, and I issued a provisional 
decision as follows:
The policy exclusion was set out in section one of the policy (under cover for your vehicle)
so it wasnt hard to find. But as the investigator has already said, we think an exclusion that
applies to thefts that occur when keys are left in vehicles is significant. Aston Lark says all
insurance policies have such an exclusion. But the fact that an exclusion may be common
doesnt mean it isnt significant. In my opinion, the exclusion should have been highlighted.
As I think Aston Lark should have highlighted the exclusion, I now have to consider whether
it would have made any difference to the outcome in this case had that happened. Mr G said 
T didnt think the van was at risk. Its drivers were in the yard and were near the van at the 
time of the theft. Given their proximity, he didnt think the exclusion should apply,
even though the keys were in the van and allowed it to be taken easily.
Mr G also says that he was loading the van around the time of the theft - but he says he was
working in the warehouse and the office as well. He was in other parts of the yard too,
dealing with the public. In fact, Mr G says he spoke to the thief (who was posing as a
customer) ten minutes before the van was taken. From Mr Gs account, it seems he was
away from the van for a fair amount of time. So despite staff moving around the yard, I think
its clear the van was unattended and vulnerable to theft, given that the key was left in it.
It appears that there was a very relaxed attitude towards the security of Ts vehicles in
general, despite easy access to the yard via two entrances. In my opinion, it should have
been obvious that a vehicle in an open yard with a key in it is always at risk of theft.
Ive considered why T didnt think its vans were vulnerable. From the photos Ive seen, the
yard is relatively compact. It looks as though most of the vehicles parking spaces are visible
at all times (on CCTV and from the office and the warehouse) and various members of staff
are regularly in the yard. I think its likely that T thought its vans were safe, even with keys in
them, when its staff were on the premises and could see them.
I dont think its possible to say for sure whether T would have had a different policy about
keys being left in its vans had the policy exclusion been highlighted by Aston Lark. I can only
base my opinion on what I think is most likely to have happened  and I think its more likely
than not that T wouldnt have changed its practice.
From what Ive seen so far, I think the way the business operated meant it was convenient to
leave the keys in the vans. It would have been less efficient for T to have a policy of
removing them after every use and requiring drivers to locate the key for each van on each
occasion. Perhaps even more importantly, it seems T was confident that the vans werent at
risk anyway, or the keys would never have been left in them in the first place.
Taking all this into account, I think if the exclusion had been highlighted, Mr G would have
concluded that T was unlikely to fall foul of it. I think the keys would probably still have been
left in Ts vans - especially if they were being loaded. In my opinion, although Aston Lark
should have highlighted the exclusion, its error is unlikely to have made a difference to the
outcome. So Im minded to conclude that it shouldnt have to cover Ts loss.
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Mr G said he was working in the 
office that day and hadnt said he was loading the van, as two operatives and the driver were 
doing that. He said one of them was only feet away from the van when it was taken. 
Mr G also said that T has strict security measures in place. Keys are usually kept in a locked 
safe, vans are stored in the warehouse overnight, and theres extensive CCTV coverage. He 
said the practice of leaving keys in vans when they were being used (to streamline the firms 
operation) would have been changed had the exclusion been highlighted. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aston Larks investigator interviewed Mr G and others. In his report, he said Mr G had told 
him that hed been loading the van using a fork-lift truck, but that he was elsewhere in the 
yard when he spoke to the thief. In Mr Gs signed statement, he confirmed that hed been 
working in the office and in the yard, loading the stolen van, and was in the warehouse when 
the van was taken. He didnt refer to any other employee being involved in the loading or 
being close to the van when it was stolen. This account was given much closer to the date of 
the theft, when Mr Gs recollection is likely to have been more accurate than it is now. 
I referred to some of Ts security measures in my provisional decision. I said I thought it 
might be the case that these measures (such as CCTV - and the presence of employees in 
the yard for much of the time) meant it was thought that Ts vans werent at risk when Ts 
staff were on the premises. I dont doubt that keys were put away safely when the vans 
werent in use and that the vans were secured in the warehouse when no-one was on site. 
But the facts are that a van with keys in it that was being loaded was left unattended, in a parking space right next to an exit from the yard. Mr G has said the keys were left in it for 
convenience. No-one employed by T saw the thief approach the van, or was in a position to 
stop him, as they would have been had they been standing close to it. 
I still think its fair to assume that leaving Ts van in such a vulnerable position can be 
explained by Mr G and others thinking it wasnt at risk, due to the security measures that 
were in place. Otherwise the key would have been removed each time it was left by Mr G or 
by anyone else loading it. The exclusion doesnt warn about the risk of theft if keys are left in 
a vehicle. It just says a claim wont be covered in those circumstances. As I dont think Ts 
policy about leaving keys in vans for short periods for loading purposes would have changed 
had it been highlighted at the time, I dont think Aston Lark should have to cover Ts loss. 
Mr G has pointed out that Aston Lark now highlights the policy exclusion. Id have expected 
it to do that, as I think it should have done so in the first place - and it was made aware of 
our view of the matter by the investigator. But I dont think its relevant to this complaint, as I 
dont think not highlighting it led to the loss in this particular case.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman