DRN-3404089
The complaint
Mr Ss complaint is about the handling of a claim he made on his DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited policy.
Mr S feels that DAS treated him unfairly and that the service he received was poor.
What happened
Mr Ss complaint is about a claim he made on his DAS legal expenses insurance policy for 
cover to help him with a dispute with his neighbour relating to building work.
Mr S has made lengthy submissions about the issues hes unhappy with since he made his 
claim to DAS. I dont intend to recite them all. Instead I have summarised them below. Thats 
not intended as a discourtesy to Mr S, but rather reflects the informal nature of this Service. 
Mr S says:
DAS delayed dealing with his claim and ignored evidence hed submitted.
DAS took an unreasonable stance in relation the appointment of a barrister after the 
panel Solicitor theyd appointed said his claim had no reasonable prospects of success.
Every time Mr S rang DAS he spoke with a different person and had to explain 
everything again, which was frustrating.
DAS considered Mr Ss complaint and concluded that it should be partially upheld. It 
accepted there had been a delay in appointing the panel Solicitor at the outset of the claim 
and apologised for the inconvenience of Mr S having to resend evidence he had previously 
sent and any additional delay this might have caused him. They offered Mr S an apology and 
£150 in compensation. DAS also said that the panel Solicitors opinion could be challenged 
with an opinion from a Solicitor of Mr S choosing so he didnt need to obtain a barristers 
opinion if he didnt want to.
Mr S wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to this Service. In particular he said:
The compensation DAS offered wasnt enough; the delays and poor administration of his 
claim caused him stress and anxiety and impacted his health. 
He wanted guidance about what would amount to reasonable costs for a second opinion 
from a barrister and whether DAS should provide guidance on the maximum theyre 
prepared to pay in respect of this. 
He should be free to obtain an independent legal opinion as and how he wishes.
Our investigator considered Mr S complaint. She concluded that it was reasonable for DAS 
to adopt the position it had in relation to both the appointment of a barrister and in the 
alternative, the opportunity for Mr S to obtain the legal opinion of a Solicitor. She also 
thought DAS offer of £150 for the administrative issues was adequate in the circumstances. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view. He felt the compensation offered by DAS 
wasnt enough and that he remained of the view that the delays and general handling of his 
claim was very poor. Hes also asked for DAS to arrange for his claim to be reassessed and 
to place the onus on his neighbour to prove the position of the boundary. Because of this the 
matter has been passed to me to determine.
I reviewed Mr Ss complaint and asked Mr S for copies of the two legal assessments 
provided by the panel Solicitor. I also asked both parties for information about what 
accounted for the delay in the panel Solicitor providing a second assessment from January 
to March 2021.
Mr S helpfully provided me with the two legal assessments. On the issue of the delay from 
January to March 2021 for the second assessment he commented that he assumed the 
claims handler didnt have enough knowledge of the complex issues involved to respond 
appropriately to his challenges to the first assessment. DAS have also responded. They 
couldnt offer any comment in respect of the delay and said they werent aware that the 
panel firm hadnt replied to Mr S at the end of February 2021. When Mr S told DAS about 
this, they said they chased the panel firm twice- once immediately on Mr S contacting them 
and then again after the person dealing with his claim at the panel firm returned to the office.
I considered both parties responses and asked DAS whether they were prepared to increase 
their offer of compensation- particularly because they couldnt explain why there was a delay 
between the first and second assessment of prospects. DAS remained of the view that 
theyd done what they needed to do by chasing the panel firm when they were contacted by 
Mr S but were prepared to offer him a further £100 if I took the view that they should have 
done more.
The investigator put DAS offer to Mr S who said he wasnt prepared to accept it. He felt the 
offer was unsatisfactory. He also asked for me to issue a provisional decision setting out my 
findings so that he could be given the opportunity to make further submissions on this 
complaint because he considers it to be both messy and complicated. 
I asked the investigator to make clear to Mr S receiving £250 in compensation following my 
decision would be conditional on my finding that DAS did something wrong beyond the 
findings the investigator reached. She duly explained this to Mr S and asked whether he 
wanted to reconsider the offer made by DAS because I might not award quite as much as 
the sum offered by them. Mr S replied. He made various submissions about why he should 
be awarded more. In particular, he thought an award of at least £400 was appropriate for the 
poor service he feels he received from DAS. He also referred me to another case decided by 
this Service and asked me for clarification about the extent of cover available under his 
policy as well as the further steps required to pursue his dispute with his neighbour. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr S complaint. Ill explain why.
I appreciate that Mr S has asked for me to present my findings in a provisional decision in 
order to allow him the opportunity to make further submissions on his complaint. I dont think 
thats necessary and Im satisfied Ive seen enough evidence from both parties to decide it. 
Mr S has said he accepts the investigators view in respect of taking a second opinion from a 
barrister or Solicitor and that he appreciates this Service cant look at the actions of the panel firm. Because of this I dont intend to comment any further on DAS actions in respect 
of the appointment of a barrister after the panel Solicitor said Mr S claim had no reasonable 
prospects of success, save to say that I agree with the investigators findings. 
Instead Ive focussed my findings on the service failings complained of by Mr S and the level 
of compensation offered by DAS. 
DAS have accepted that there were service failings in how they handled Mr S complaint. 
They identified a delay in appointing the panel Solicitor at the outset of the claim and 
apologised for the inconvenience of Mr S having to resend evidence he had previously sent 
and any additional delay this might have caused him. They offered an apology for this as 
well as compensation. Mr S feels there have been further service failings. He says the 
delays are more substantial than those identified by DAS and the investigator. Hes also 
unhappy that a claims handler at DAS didnt specifically reference the exact documents sent 
to the panel firm and that he found their response inappropriate and evasive. And Mr S is 
dissatisfied with not being able to speak to one consistent claims handler at DAS on the 
occasions he telephoned them.
Ive considered everything Mr S has said as well as all the attachments hes sent in. Having 
done so I agree that there were failings by DAS as far as delays and forwarding on 
documents to the panel firm were concerned. Im not however satisfied that Mr S not being 
able to speak to the same consistent claims handler at DAS on each occasion significantly 
prejudiced him or his claim. It might have been frustrating to have to explain the details of his 
claim on each occasion that he called but I dont think the availability of one consistent 
claims handler is something Mr S was entitled to and the absence of receiving such a 
service isnt something that I think has significantly prejudiced him. 
Ive also thought about the delays and failure to pass on information to the panel firm in the 
context of Mr Ss specific claim. Whilst this ultimately would have caused Mr S both stress 
and inconvenience, I havent seen anything to see it prejudiced his claim. The panel firm was 
after all able to carry out two assessments of the claim based on the information given. Their 
opinion was that Mr S claims didnt have reasonable prospects of success. I cant see that 
providing them with the information they received to make this assessment any sooner 
would have changed this assessment. And although Mr S has asked for DAS to arrange for 
his entire claim to be reassessed, I cant see that theres any compelling reason for this. For 
example, Ive seen nothing to suggest that key information was omitted when the panel firm 
concluded their assessment and that this was attributable to something DAS did. And whilst 
the level of service might not have met Mr Ss expectations and caused him stress and 
inconvenience beyond what Id reasonably expect, that doesnt mean that I think DAS need 
to do anything further.
I was however concerned that DAS werent able to explain why there was a delay between 
the first and second assessment produced by the panel firm. Mr S couldnt account for 
anything specific that affected this other than what he thought amounted to the panel firms 
inability to deal with his questions. DAS did correctly point out that any delays at that stage 
werent attributable to anything DAS did and were a matter for the panel firm. And I accept 
that once Mr S got in touch with DAS to ask for assistance, DAS did chase the panel firm 
twice for their assessment. Thats in line with what Id reasonably expect. So, I dont think 
that DAS did do anything wrong here. DAS offered a further £100 in compensation if I 
thought they did something wrong here. That offer was relayed to Mr S who didnt accept it. I 
Although I expected an explanation for the delay which could have been provided by DAS 
contacting the panel firm, this isnt however something I think that DAS needs to offer further 
compensation for. Because of this I remain of the view that the offer of £150 previously 
made to Mr S remains appropriate for DAS overall service failings.  When determining this I 
can assure Mr S Ive taken into account his further submissions about the extent of the poor service he says he received in the round, but Im not persuaded that they warrant a further 
award from me. Ive set out why below. 
Mr S doesnt feel that DAS initial or subsequent offer of compensation goes far enough to 
compensate him for the stress and inconvenience he has suffered. Our role isnt to punish a 
business for the actions they took but rather to properly compensate them, where something 
has gone wrong. For the reasons Ive mentioned above, I dont think the actions DAS took 
have had a detrimental effect on Mr S claim. The outcome, for all intents and purposes, 
would have been the same regardless, so he wouldnt have been any closer to resolving his 
dispute with his neighbour in reliance of DAS providing cover. And although Mr S has said 
DAS actions had a detrimental effect on his health, I dont think I can say that the delays 
hes referring to and failures to pass on information to the panel firm (which Mr S later 
corrected) would reasonably have caused those problems. It seems more likely that Mr S 
was more affected by these issues because of the underlying dispute with his neighbour and 
the fact that he wasnt able to progress matters. That isnt something DAS is responsible for. 
As it stands, DAS arent required to provide cover to Mr S for the problem he has because 
his claim doesnt presently fall within the policy terms. Until and unless hes able to show it 
does with the benefit of a positive legal assessment, I wouldnt expect DAS to do anything 
further in terms of reconsidering whether cover should be provided. 
Ive noted Mr S reference to another case decided by this Service. I cant comment 
specifically on that case as each complaint turns on its own facts. Ive also noted he wants to 
know what further steps he needs to take to pursue his dispute with his neighbour, 
presumably with the benefit of legal expenses insurance cover. The right to cover is not 
absolute. Each claim, like each complaint to this Service, will turn on its own facts. Mr S is 
aware that his claim doesnt currently have reasonable prospects of success. So, he doesnt 
have the benefit of cover. And even if he is able to provide a positive legal assessment in 
respect of his claim, that doesnt mean the claim will continue to fall within cover as it 
progresses. Its not my role to provide a detailed overview of what his policy does and 
doesnt cover -  Mr S would need to review his policy terms for further details of this. My role 
is limited to determining the complaint that has been brought by him to this Service. And for 
the reasons Ive explained above, I wont be upholding that complaint.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to Mr S, but I hope Ive provided a thorough 
explanation of why I dont think his complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask, Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman