DRN-4083227
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that TICORP Limited mis-sold them a travel insurance policy.
Staysure is a trading name of TICORP Limited and Ill refer to Staysure throughout my 
decision.
What happened
On 6 April 2022, Mr and Mrs L took out a UK-only annual travel insurance policy through 
Staysure. The policy was underwritten by an insurer Ill call G. Staysure emailed a link to the 
policy documents to Mr Ls email address on the same day.
In June 2022, Mr and Mrs L were unfortunately taken ill whilst they were on holiday. They cut 
short their trip and returned to their home. They both tested positive for Covid-19. Mr and 
Mrs L made a curtailment claim on their policy, which G turned down. 
Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with the way Staysure had sold their policy. They felt that 
Staysure had provided misleading information about the level of Covid-19 cover provided by 
the policy. And they said theyd specifically requested a hard copy of the policy terms and 
conditions at the time of sale, which hadnt been sent to them until several months later. 
They felt that if theyd been posted a copy of the contract terms at the start, theyd have 
been able to check the policy wording against what had been advertised. They asked us to 
look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
Staysures website had provided misleading or incorrect information about the level of Covid-
19 cover provided by the policy. She was satisfied that Staysure had sent Mr and Mrs L a 
copy of the policy documents online and she felt that the evidence indicated that Mr and Mrs 
L had chosen to receive their documents by email. She considered that Mr and Mrs L had 
had the relevant cooling-off period to check whether the contract was right for them. And she 
added that Staysures records didnt suggest that Mr and Mrs L had called or emailed it to 
request a printed copy of the policy terms, prior to making a claim in June 2022.
Mr and Mrs L disagreed and Ive summarised their responses to our investigator. They 
maintained that theyd requested a postal copy of the policy documents at the time of sale. 
They didnt think Staysures evidence indicated that theyd requested their documents to be 
emailed to them. They said that if a hard copy of the policy terms had been sent to them, 
theyd have had a chance to check the wording and to cancel the policy within the cooling-off 
period. They said theyd made calls to Staysure to request a posted copy of the contract 
terms, which Staysure hadnt acted on. However, they werent in a position to provide an 
itemised log of these calls. Mr and Mrs L considered that but for Staysures actions, they 
wouldnt be in the position in which they have found themselves.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs L, I dont think Staysure mis-sold 
this policy to them and Ill explain why.
First, its important that I make it clear that this decision will only consider whether Staysure 
mis-sold Mr and Mrs Ls policy. I wont be considering whether it was fair for G to decline 
their claim. A complaint about Gs claims decision has been considered separately by this 
service.
Its common ground that Mr and Mrs L took out their policy online and Ive seen no evidence 
that Staysure provided them with any advice or a recommendation. This means it didnt need 
to check whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs L. But it did need to give them 
enough clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy so that they could decide 
whether it was right for them.
Mr and Mrs L consider that Staysure provided them with misleading information about the 
level of Covid-19 cover during the online sales process. They say they were led to believe 
that theyd be fully covered for problems caused by Covid-19. 
Staysure has provided us with a copy of part of the sales process it says Mr and Mrs L would 
have seen. Ive set out what I consider to be the relevant section below:
We can cover* Trip Cancellation, Emergency Medical and Repatriation Expenses, if you are 
affected by COVID-19 (coronavirus).
In my view, this doesnt suggest that the travel insurance policy covers all Covid-19 related 
claims  it refers to specific heads of cover. Ive checked the relevant policy terms and Im 
satisfied that Staysure set out an accurate summary of the Covid-19 cover G offered. This 
means then that I dont think Staysure provided misleading or inaccurate information at the 
point of sale.
Once the online sale had been completed, Staysure was obliged to provide Mr and Mrs L 
with a copy of the policy documentation. Staysure has provided a copy of an email which it 
sent to Mr Ls email address on the date of purchase. This shows that a link to all of Mr and 
Mrs Ls policy documents was attached for Mr and Mrs L to download. So Im satisfied that 
Staysure met its obligation to ensure the policy documentation was sent to Mr and Mrs L.
Mr and Mrs L have maintained that they asked for a hard copy of the policy document to be 
sent to them by post when they took out the policy. Ive thought about this carefully. Staysure 
has provided us with a screenshot which it says shows that, at the time of sale, Mr and Mrs L 
asked for their documentation to be sent by email. The screenshot says:
Documents
Your documents will be sent to you by email. You can also view or download these at any 
time at MyStaysure.
Underneath is the title Fulfilment with a drop-down box immediately adjacent to it. Email 
only has been selected in the drop-down box and Mr Ls email address has been entered 
underneath.I have to decide what I think is most likely to have happened, given the available evidence. 
And, on balance, based on all Ive seen, I find that the evidence indicates Mr and Mrs L did 
most likely opt for their documents to be sent by email, even if they didnt intend to do so. 
This means I think it was fair and appropriate for Staysure to email a link to the policy 
wording to Mr Ls email address. 
It follows that Im satisfied Mr and Mrs L had the chance to look through their policy 
documentation to check whether the policy was right for them. And if theyd considered that 
it wasnt, then they could have cancelled the policy within the 14-day cooling-off period and 
obtained a full premium refund.
Mr and Mrs L also feel strongly that they contacted Staysure to ask for a hard copy of the 
policy terms. They say Staysure failed to act upon these requests. Staysure has provided us 
with a copy of its contact logs. These show that Mr L had a web chat with Staysure on the 
date of policy purchase regarding a medical condition. But there appears to have been no 
further contact between Mr and Mrs L and Staysure until they needed to claim. And given Mr 
L appears to have been aware of how to contact Staysure via the chat function, it seems he 
couldve chased it up within the 14-day cooling-off period if he hadnt received postal 
documents hed expected to. I accept that Mr and Mrs L say theyre unable to provide call 
logs to support that they attempted to call Staysure and Ive considered this carefully. But, on 
balance, I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that Mr and Mrs L did contact 
Staysure to request a hard copy of the policy prior to making their claim in June 2022. 
Staysures contact notes indicate that Mr and Mrs L asked for a postal copy of the policy on 
14 September 2022. This was some time after the claim had been made. I appreciate this 
wasnt received until around three weeks later and I understand the delay must have been 
frustrating for Mr and Mrs L. However, based on all Ive seen, I dont think I could fairly find 
that Staysure caused Mr and Mrs L to lose out in any way. And I dont think a delay of 
around three weeks to receive a posted copy of the policy is likely to have caused them 
material distress or inconvenience for which I could reasonably award compensation. This 
means I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct Staysure to pay 
compensation to the value of the claim, or for Mr and Mrs Ls trouble and upset, in the 
circumstances of this complaint. It follows that Im not directing Staysure to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman