DRN-1884242
 
The complaint
Mr P has complained about a loan he took out through a company called Provident Personal 
Credit Limited, trading at the time as Satsuma. Mr P says he was lent to irresponsibly and 
the loan caused him wider financial problems.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Satsuma throughout this decision.
Background
We now know that Mr P took out 1 loan from Satsuma: 
 
Loan Taken Out Repaid Amount Instalments Highest 
Monthly 
Repayment
1 31/12/2016 Outstanding £1,000 12 £166
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and said they didnt think it should be 
upheld. Ive been asked to make an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr Ps complaint.
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
P could repay the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to have 
taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Satsuma should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Satsuma told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend 
to Mr P and it took account of what he himself said his income and expenditure was. Bearing 
in mind what Ive said above, about the length of the lending relationship, I think the checks 
which Satsuma most likely carried out would have been quite basic ones. However, I also 
think these would have been proportionate to the single loan in question. I think these levels 
of checks, together with the income and expenditure details provided by Mr P, would have 
made the loan appear affordable. 
Looking at Mr Ps declared monthly income, for example, which was £3,200, I think its fair to 
say this was relatively good by most standards and the 12 instalments seem to me to be well 
within his capacity to repay.
Having considered everything that weve been sent, I dont have any evidence to suggest 
Satsuma would or should have thought lending was wrong. Clearly, if there had been a 
longer relationship with the lending then I would be able to take other factors into account. In 
short, I think the checks carried out in this case were proportionate and Im afraid there 
simply isnt enough evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont direct Provident 
Personal Credit Limited to pay Mr P any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman