DRN-4037425
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) wont accept that a Direct Debit 
Indemnity (DDI) was set up fraudulently. 
What happened
Both sides are familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief. 
On 18 June 2022 a DDI was requested via a webchat in relation to monthly payments Mrs W 
made to a finance company. 
The DDI was accepted on 20 June 2022 and Halifax refunded £3,023.48 into one of Mrs Ws 
Halifax accounts. Halifax realised it had miscalculated the refund amount  and so later on 
20 June 2022 it recalled the £3,023.48 payment  and refunded the correct amount of 
£1,677.22 to Mrs W. 
After being chased for missed payments by the finance company of circa £3,000, Mrs W 
contacted Halifax in August 2022. She said she was unable to meet these payments having 
lost the funds to part of a fraud because of the DDI, and she wanted Halifax to confirm that 
to the finance company. 
Halifax said there was no evidence to suggest the DDI had been fraudulently applied for. It 
confirmed the DDI had been set up over webchat  and that the information provided 
matched Mrs Ws personal circumstances. Halifax said there had been some fraudulent 
transactions on Mrs Ws account, but these had all been refunded. And it added that part of 
the refunded funds from the DDI had been spent by Mrs W. 
Mrs W maintained shed been the victim of fraud and that her account had been hacked. 
She said she hadnt participated in any webchat  nor did she own an iPad (that being the 
device Halifax said the chat originated from). Mrs W also said she was away on 20 June 
2022 when the DDI was applied for and had been told by police that her identity had been 
stolen. Mrs W said the DDI refunded money had been spent by fraudsters. And she wanted 
a letter from Halifax to confirm the fraud so she could present that to the finance company to 
explain why payments had been missed. 
Our Investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt 
think there was evidence to prove the DDI was set up fraudulently. And she found Mrs W 
hadnt suffered a loss because of the DDI  as the funds had been transferred to her own 
accounts. 
Mrs W didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
Mrs W maintained her account had been hacked and fraudsters had taken her money. She 
said the scammers were able to get hold of personal information from her bank statements 
and apply for the DDI via the webchat  on a device she didnt own and from a location she 
wasnt at. She also said the fraudsters had added a phone number to her online banking 
which meant she got no notifications of changes to her account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator  and for largely the 
same reasons. I realise this will be very disappointing for Mrs W and I havent taken this 
decision lightly. 
In doing so, Ive very carefully considered all the evidence provided and Id like to assure 
Mrs W that if I dont mention a particular point, its not because I havent considered it, but 
Ive focussed instead on what I believe to be important to the outcome of this complaint. 
Its not in dispute that fraud has occurred on Mrs Ws account. Halifax has investigated this, 
and I can see that several transactions have been refunded to Mrs W. 
With that in mind, Ive carefully considered the circumstances surrounding the DDI 
application. Mrs W is adamant that this was done as part of the fraud on her account, and 
that she didnt partake in the webchat when the DDI was applied for. I can understand the 
relevance of the points shes made about her location at the time of the application, and how 
she doesnt own an iPad. I can also understand her point that information provided in the 
webchat about the finance company and the monthly direct debit amount could be available 
to a fraudster if they had access to her account. But with no clear factual evidence to either 
support or disprove Mrs Ws points, I cant reasonably conclude the DDI was fraudulently 
applied for solely on the basis that there had been some fraudulent activity on Mrs Ws 
account. 
But even if I were to accept the DDI was applied for fraudulently  based on what happened 
to the refunded funds, Im not persuaded that the actions of Halifax have directly resulted in 
Mrs W being unable to pay the finance company. Let me explain. 
When the £3,023.48 was refunded to Mrs W account it was immediately transferred to, and 
moved between (in several instalments), other accounts Mrs W held with Halifax. I 
appreciate her point that she didnt get notifications on her phone about changes to her 
account. But Mrs W doesnt seem to have questioned what the £3,023.48 refund related to 
before transferring it to her other accounts. Doing so couldve mitigated the situation, and 
potentially safeguarded the funds to meet the finance company payments. And transferring 
the funds to her other accounts suggests to me that Mrs W had some control over the 
money at that time.
Its my understanding that some of the DDI refund was then fraudulently accessed  but 
from what I can see, Halifax has refunded those transactions to Mrs Ws account. And 
around £200 of the DDI refund was spent by Mrs W, in what appear to be genuine 
transactions. Halifax also had to take back some of money due to the overpayment Ive 
mentioned above. But that it isnt in dispute here and was done promptly as soon as the 
mistake was noticed. 
So, taking all this into account, I cant see how Mrs W has been financially disadvantaged by 
the DDI  regardless of how, and by whom, it was applied for. Any money lost through fraud 
has been refunded by Halifax  and some proceeds of the DDI refund were spent by Mrs W. 
Because of this, I cant conclude that Halifax is responsible for Mrs W being unable to pay 
the finance company.  This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mrs W to 
receive. I can see that this whole situation has been very upsetting and distressing for her  
not least because she has been the unfortunate victim of fraud. But given the evidence I 
have, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion. 
If Mrs W disputes other transactions on her account  and thinks they relate to the fraud, 
then she should raise that with Halifax. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint in this case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman