DRN-4243697
The complaint
Mr M has complained that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited (trading as Chase Bank) wont refund 
transactions he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In late 2022, Mr M went to a bar abroad. That evening, over £2,000 was spent at the bar 
from his Chase current and savings account, using his phone and his biometric Face ID.
On returning to the UK, Mr M reported the matter to Chase. Hes explained that he made the 
first payment, but his drink was spiked and he was sick. He was thrown out of the bar and 
passed out on a busy street, but had left his phone inside. He suggested that someone  
such as staff from the bar  had taken his phone and waved it in front of his face while he 
was unconscious in order to put the payments through.
Chase held Mr M liable for the payments in dispute. Mr M came to our service.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
pointed out that the Face ID function for Mr Ms device required that he was aware and 
looking into the camera. They noted the spending had been funded by a transfer from 
Mr Ms savings. It had taken place over the course of the evening and there was still a 
significant sum left in his account afterwards, which is not consistent with a pattern of theft.
Mr M appealed, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Broadly speaking, Chase can hold Mr M liable for the payments in dispute if the evidence 
suggests that he authorised them.
Im satisfied from Chases technical evidence that the payments in dispute used Mr Ms 
genuine mobile phone, and his biometric Face ID. Mr M suggested that there must have 
been some sort of failure on Chases end to properly verify the payments, but I can see that 
these transactions were properly authenticated. The question, then, is whether the evidence 
suggests that its most likely Mr M consented to the transactions, or not.
Mr M has explained that he was unconscious, unaware of making any payments, and that 
the transactions were made without his knowledge or consent. But Im afraid that, as our 
investigator explained, his phones Face ID function required as standard that his eyes were 
open and he was looking into the camera, such that it couldnt be used if he was unaware or 
unconscious. And these payments were made using Mr Ms Face ID. So its not very likely or 
plausible that they were made without him being aware of them.
After a payment was declined, a transfer was made from Mr Ms savings account to his 
current account in order to fund the other payments. Again, this was done on Mr Ms genuine 
phone using his biometric Face ID. So its not likely or plausible that this was done without 
him knowing about it either.
I mightve expected a thief to try to take as much as possible, as quickly as possible, before 
they are no longer able to. But here, the disputed payments were made over the course of 
the evening, with significant gaps between payments, and most of the spending taking place 
towards the end. And there was still a significant sum left in Mr Ms account afterwards. Mr M 
also confirmed that he still had his wallet with him, which is how he managed to return to his 
hotel and then later travel back to the UK. Its not very likely or plausible that a thief would 
steal Mr Ms phone, but let him keep all his other valuables, not least if he was unconscious 
anyway. And its unlikely that a thief would spread out the spending like this or leave money 
in Mr Ms account. The pattern of spending is more consistent with what Id expect from a 
genuine spend on a big night out, not least while on holiday and when payments are in a 
foreign currency  so one might not realise as easily just how much one is spending.
Lastly, I understand Mr M feels that Chase shouldve blocked these payments. But it looks 
like they were authorised by their genuine customer. Ive not found a reason why Chase 
needed to block them here.
In summary, Im satisfied that Mr Ms genuine phone and biometrics were used. Based on 
the evidence, its not likely or plausible that these payments were made without Mr Ms 
knowledge and consent. Its most likely that Mr M was aware of the payments and used his 
Face ID to put them through. So I think its fair for Chase to decline a refund in this case. I do 
understand that this will come as a disappointment for Mr M, though it is not my intention to 
disappoint him. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to 
reasonably reach any other conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman