DRN-2365305
The complaint
Miss W complains that Xbridge Limited trading as Simply Business (Xbridge)  renewed an 
insurance policy she held with it without informing her. She wants it to refund the premium 
its charged her.
What happened
Miss W held an insurance policy which was due to expire. She said she didnt receive any 
correspondence from Xbridge about the renewal of the policy. She later became aware that 
direct debit payments for the policy were continuing. She requested a refund of these and 
when this was refused, made a complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Xbridge had done anything wrong. Miss W didnt accept this, 
and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant agree that Xbridge has done anything wrong here. This is for several reasons, which 
Ill outlined below:
Miss W was sent documentation with the original policy by email which indicated that 
the policy would be automatically renewed.
Xbridge has shown that, 21 days before the renewal date, it sent an email to Miss W 
which confirmed that the policy would be automatically renewed.
Xbridge didnt receive any contact from Miss W to say she didnt want the policy to be 
renewed, or anything to suggest the email it sent about automatic renewal wasnt 
delivered.
Although Miss W said she didnt receive the email about renewal, our general 
approach to this sort of situation is that if the sender of a document can show it was 
sent, and didnt receive notification that it wasnt delivered, then it can reasonably 
assume the document was delivered.
So I conclude that Xbridge had informed Miss W that the policy would automatically renew, 
sent (and had no reason to believe it wasnt received) notification that the policy would 
renew, and didnt hear from her that she didnt want the policy to renew. It renewed the 
policy fairly, and so was entitled to take the premium payments.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman