DRN-1830797
The complaint
Mr T and Miss F applied for a mortgage with Newcastle Building Society for a community 
build housing project property and were unhappy with the valuation that was undertaken. 
After changing which plot they wanted to buy, Mr T and Miss F were unhappy that they then 
had to pay for a separate valuation for the second plot, which also came in lower than they 
expected.
Whilst Newcastle was still willing to lend them the amount they wanted, Mr T and Miss F 
have said the potential insurance reinstatement value was reduced, which means they risk 
significant out of pocket expenses should they need to claim on the insurance in the future.
The details of - and timeline leading up to - this complaint are well known to both parties so I 
wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Newcastle doesnt have the expertise to value property, so it employs the services of a 
surveyor. When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified surveyor  a requirement 
that was fulfilled in this case each time by appointing a member of the Royal Institution of 
Chartered Surveyors. Newcastles not accountable for the conduct of the individual surveyor 
or any act (or omission) by the surveyor or the firm they work for. 
Newcastle is in our jurisdiction, but only for things it did (or didnt do); we cant consider 
complaints against it for things a separate business did (or didnt do). All I can consider 
against Newcastle is if it discharged its duty in instructing a suitable firm of surveyors, and 
having considered everything Im satisfied it did.
Newcastle went through the correct appeals procedure by referring the valuation back to the 
surveyor, and then to the area manager. The area manager agreed with the valuation 
provided, saying that they have concerns about the poor location and the high sale prices. 
Newcastle instructed a suitably qualified surveyor, it went through an appeals process, and it 
was entitled to rely on its commercial discretion to not instruct a second valuation.
I understand Mr T and Miss F feel they shouldnt have had to pay the full valuation fee for 
the second plot in the development. Theyve also said that they should have been told the 
outcome of the valuation of the second property would be the same as the first, as the 
properties would be the same, just different plots. Mr R and Miss F say they were told the 
valuation figures were just based on the square footage. But thats not the case; the square 
footage is just one factor thats considered when a valuation figure is reached. 
The firm of surveyors charged Newcastle £340 for each valuation that was carried out, so its 
only right that Newcastle passed those costs onto Mr T and Miss F. Newcastle did nothing 
wrong in either instructing  or relying on  the valuations so theres no reason for it to cover 
part or all of those costs for Mr T and Miss F. Newcastle couldnt advise Mr T and Miss F on 
the likely outcome of the valuation on the second plot as its staff arent qualified surveyors. 
Whenever there is a change in property being purchased  even if its a yet to be built 
property on the same development as it was here  a full valuation will be needed on the 
replacement property as there are many factors that can affect a valuation figure, and 
whether the surveyor even deems it to be suitable security for a mortgage.
Having considered everything I dont think Newcastle did anything wrong here. So, while I 
can appreciate that the process may have been frustrating for Mr T and Miss F, I dont feel I 
can reasonably conclude that this was the fault of Newcastle.
Finally, I understand Mr T and Miss F are unhappy about how Newcastle handled their 
complaint. 
Our rules set out the matters that we can look at as being; regulated activities, payment 
services, lending money, paying money by plastic card, and ancillary banking services. In 
addition, we can consider complaints about ancillary activities carried on in connection with 
the above.
The handling of complaints is not itself a regulated activity. Its something that the regulator - 
the Financial Conduct Authority - requires financial businesses to do. But that isnt enough to 
make it a regulated activity within the meaning of the rules; that is, one from the list of 
activities set out in the legislation from which we derive our powers. 
Were able to consider concerns about complaint handling in some limited circumstances, for 
example, if the complaint handling was ancillary to something we have the power to 
consider. So we can, in theory, consider how Newcastle handled Mr T and Miss Fs 
complaint. But there is another thing that we need to consider and that is that we can only 
uphold and make an award for any poor customer service in handling a complaint if were 
upholding the underlying issue being complained about.
As Ive not upheld the underlying issue being complained about - the valuations  then it 
follows I cant uphold any complaint about how the valuations complaint was dealt with.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Miss F to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman