DRN-4423492
The complaint
Mr B and Miss K are unhappy that AWP P&C SA hasnt accepted a claim made on their 
travel insurance policy (the policy).
What happened
Mr B and Miss K say they booked a holiday abroad before finding out that Miss K was
pregnant. Because of medication Miss K takes for an existing medical condition, she was
advised against long haul air travel (travel time exceeding four hours) by her consultant
obstetrician.
The flight time to the country Mr B and Miss K was due to travel to is significantly more than
four hours.
Mr B and Miss K contacted the airline to cancel their flights. And they were able to get a
partial refund for the cost of their flights from the airline. They made a claim on the policy for
the remainder of their out-of-pocket expenses around £1,000.
AWP concluded that it was unable to consider the claim because the policy excluded claims
for:
Normal pregnancy without any accompanying unexpected bodily injury, illness,
disease or complication. Note: This section provides cover for unforeseen events,
accidents, illnesses and diseases and normal childbirth is not regarded as an
unforeseen event
Ill refer to this as the pregnancy exclusion.
AWP said the circumstances leading to the claim werent covered.
Unhappy, Mr B and Miss K complained to AWP. AWP said it would review the claim upon
receipt of the consultants letter reflecting that Miss K wasnt fit to fly. It then asked for a
medical certificate to be completed.
Miss Ks GP said they were unable to complete the medical certificate for Miss K due to
resourcing issues. However, AWP maintained that without a completed medical certificate, it
was unable to review the claim.
AWP did offer Mr B and Miss K £30 for the length of time it had taken to resolve the claim.
This was rejected by Mr B and Miss K because they said their complaint didnt relate to the
time taken to resolve the claim; it related to the outcome of the claim.
Mr B and Miss K complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold their complaint. Mr B and Miss K disagreed and raised several
points in reply. These didnt change our investigators view, so their complaint was passed to 
me to consider everything afresh and decide.
I issued my provisional decision earlier in October 2023. I set out the reasons why I wasnt 
intending to uphold this complaint. As my reasons for doing so differed to the reason relied 
on by our investigator, I wanted to give the parties an opportunity to reply. An extract of my 
provisional decision is set out below. 

AWP has a regulatory obligation to handle insurance claims fairly and promptly. And it must
not unreasonably decline a claim.
Subject to the remaining terms and conditions, the policy provides cover for a trip being
cancelled due to illness, as certified by a doctor, of you, your travel companion
The cancellation section includes the pregnancy exclusion.
Ive listened to a recording of a call Miss K had with AWPs representative in early October
2022 around the time the claim was declined. Im satisfied that the claim was initially
declined by AWP, relying on the pregnancy exclusion, because the consultants letter hadnt
been uploaded when reviewing the claim. So, there was nothing to support that there were
complications with Miss Ks pregnancy nor that she had been advised not to travel long-haul.
I think that was reasonable based on the information AWP had at the time.
Miss K told AWP that she had the consultants letter and was asked to send this to AWP for
her claim to be reviewed. I think thats reasonable.
The consultants letter reflects that Miss K has significant risk factors for developing a blood
clot in her deep veins (venous thromboembolism). She has therefore been advised against
long-haul air travel (travel time exceeding 4 hours) which is another major risk factor for the
formation of deep vein blood clots in pregnancy.
Upon receipt, Im satisfied that AWP promptly reviewed the letter and notified Miss K that as
part of its review, it would need a medical certificate to be completed. Thats not unusual in
claims involving trip cancellation on medical grounds. And, in principle, Im satisfied AWP is
reasonably able to do this.
So, Ive thought about whether AWP reasonably ought to have reviewed the claim without
the medical certificate in the circumstances of this particular case. And I dont think it should
have.
Although the consultants letter sets out the risks to Miss K if she took a long-haul flight, the
medical certificate asks questions that are relevant to the AWPs overall assessment of the
claim, when being considered against the terms and conditions of the policy. Those
questions havent been answered by the consultant in their letter.
For example, the medical certificate asks:
the doctor to confirm the onset date of symptoms for the medical condition being
claimed for
questions around whether the patient has experienced, been treated for or diagnosed
at any time, with any medical condition directly or indirectly related to the condition
being claimed for
the date the pregnancy was confirmed
whether, on certain dates, the patient was being investigated or awaiting test resultsfor any medical condition.
I know Miss Ks GP subsequently provided a letter dated December 2022 reflecting that Miss
K had been advised against long-haul travel as her complicated medical history puts her at
a high risk of forming deep vein thrombosis in her pregnancy and confirmed that due to staff
shortages they were unable to complete medical forms at that time.
Whilst I accept that its not the fault of Mr B and Miss K that a medical certificate couldnt be
completed at the time, I dont think AWP has acted unreasonably by maintaining that it would
be unable to review the claim further without the completed medical certificate. The
information requested is relevant to the assessment of the claim  including whether theres
an insured event under the cancellation section of the policy and if there are any relevant
exclusions.
So, I dont think AWP has unfairly concluded its unable to review Mr B and Miss Ks claim
until its in receipt of a completed medical certificate. Miss K is free to contact her GP to see
whether theyre now in position to complete the medical certificate. And if so, for the
completed medical certificate to be provided to AWP to review the claim.
Ive also thought about whether Miss K was given unclear or misleading information when
she contacted AWP before cancelling hers and Mr Bs flights. I dont think she was.
Ive listened to a call she had with AWPs representative towards the end of September
2022, during which she says shes been advised against flying by her consultant and why.
The representative does say the policy only covers complications with pregnancy, which is in
line with the policy terms and conditions. Mr B and Miss K are unhappy that Miss K wasnt
told during this call that a medical certificate would need to be completed by her GP.
However, I wouldnt reasonably expect AWPs representative to set this out during the call.
At that stage, the claim form hadnt been received and AWPs claims team wouldnt have
had an opportunity to consider the claim against the policy terms or the consultants letter -
or consider whether it required further medical information as part of its claim assessment.
And in any event, whilst I cant of course be sure, had Miss K been told at that stage that its
likely shed be required to ask her GP to complete a medical certificate for her claim to be
assessed, on the balance of probabilities, I dont think this would have put her off cancelling
her flights (or resulted in her looking to rebook her flights to another, closer, destination).
..
I invited both parties to provide any further information in response to my provisional 
decision. I received no reply. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having received no further information, Im satisfied that theres no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. So, for this reason and for reasons set out in my provisional decision 
(an extract of which is set out above and forms part of my final decision), I dont uphold this 
complaint. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss K to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman