The Complaint
Mr V complain s about the service provided by Coventry Building Society (CBS ) when he 
attempted to transfer funds between his bank accounts. 
Background
Mr V says th at he contacted CBS because h e wanted to transfer funds from his CBS 
accoun
t to accou nts held with two other banks. He says that CBS told hi m that the transfers 
could be made in two separate transactions by linking his CBS to other accounts. Mr V says 
that he was lead to believe that this would be a quick and simple process and so he 
contacted CBS to lin k the accounts.
Although Mr V accepts that the first transaction to Bank A was successful, there were 
problems with the second transaction. The day afte r he made the second transfer to his 
account held with Bank B, Mr V contacted Bank B to che ck that the funds had been received 
and Ban k B told hi m that the monies had been returned becau se they didn't recognise the 
linked account. Mr V the n contacted CBS who confirmed that the monies would b e returned 
to them and that when the fun ds were received the y would issue hi m with a cheque which he 
could credit to his account with Bank B. Howeve r Mr V claims that he di dn't receive the 
cheque until four days later.
Mr V seeks compensation fo r the distress and inconvenience caused.
My Findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have taken into accou nt the law, 
regulations and guidance acceptable at the ti me. Having done so, I have come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
CBS accept that the service they provided was not of an appropriate standard and they 
offered him £100 as a goodwill gesture. This was not accepted by Mr V.
One of our investig ators looked into what had happene d. She agreed that CBS had made 
mistakes and sh e felt the offer of £100 compensation wa s not reasonable which I have 
explained further below. She thought that £200 wa s an appropriate level of compensation. 
CBS are unh
appy with this outcome.
I accept that the rejection of the funds was out with the control of CBS. I also acce pt that the 
funds were received at around 4.1 5 pm the day before a bank holiday weekend and that this 
contributed to the delay in Mr V receiving the cheque. Nonetheless, CBS accept th at the 
service they provided was not of the appropriate standard. I note that our investigato r found 
DRN-1669402that Mr V gave persuasive testimony. The sum of money to be transferred was a large 
amount and it is clear to me that Mr V suffered upset and distress. He was genuinely 
concerned about what might have happened to his funds which were his savings. Mr V spent 
time on the phone to CBS and experienced difficulties when trying to speak to a member of 
staff who could help him. He was told that someone would phone him back but this never 
happened. It appears that a family event was affected by these circumstances. Mr V cites his 
age as another factor which added to the frustration and distress. There would also have 
been some loss of interest. It appears that members of Mr Vs family were also affected. In 
all these circumstances I think that the sum of £200 accurately reflects the impact on Mr V. 
My Final Decision
My final decision is that the sum of £200 is fair and reasonable. I uphold this complaint. 
Coventry Building Society should pay Mr V a total of £200 if they have not already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask CBS to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
Ron Handley
Ombudsman