DRN-4082946
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of repairs carried out by Markerstudy Insurance Company 
Limited (Markerstudy) under a claim on his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ms car was damaged in April 2021 and he made a claim from Markerstudy.
Markerstudys approved repairer, who Ill refer to as P, repaired his car and it was returned 
to him in July 2021.
In July 2022 Mr M took his car to his own choice of repairer, who told him that the quality of 
repairs that had been done on the car were very poor. It told him it would cost £1,754.11 to 
fix. It said the bonnet hadnt been sealed and had possible corrosion, and the paintwork 
didnt match the wings and front bumper. 
Mr M complained to Markerstudy about the quality of repairs. He also said P had caused 
damage to his wheels and suspension arms.
Markerstudy arranged for an independent engineer to carry out an inspection of Mr Ms car 
in November 2022. The engineer said the wheel damage was from a range of dates so 
probably wasnt caused by P. The engineer also said the suspension damage was noted on 
the MOT tests for 2021 and 22 and was probably caused by wear and tear.
The engineer said the bonnet had been repainted in the area of the damage and the paint 
was darker than it should have been. In total, the engineer thought it would cost about £532 
to repair the paint problems.
Markerstudy said it had evidence that the bonnet had been replaced with a new one by P so 
wasnt corroded. 
Mr M brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it and upheld it in 
part. He thought Markerstudy should repair the bonnet, or pay for Mr M to have the repair 
done. He also said Markerstudy should pay Mr M £150 for his distress and inconvenience.
Markerstudy didnt agree with the view. It provided evidence that the bonnet had been 
replaced and said it thought the bonnet could have been damaged in the year between Mr 
Ms original claim and the inspection.
Because Markerstudy didnt agree, this complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the various areas of Mr Ms complaint. There are two parts Ill deal with 
together  those are the damage to the alloy wheels and the suspension components. Its Mr 
Ms contention that those parts were damaged by P during the repair.
In order for me to agree with Mr M on this point, Id have to see some evidence about the 
damage and how it was caused. The only information I have is from the independent 
engineer who inspected the car. They said they thought the wheel damage was from a range 
of periods, and the suspension damage was over a longer period of time because it was 
mentioned on MOT test results. 
Taking these comments into account, and in the absence of further information, I cant agree 
that P were responsible for this damage so Im not going to uphold this part of Mr Ms 
complaint.
Ive also thought carefully about the bonnet. Mr Ms garage has said it thought the bonnet 
hadnt been painted correctly. When Mr M complained to it, Markerstudy used an 
independent engineer to inspect the car. As an expert in this field who has physically 
inspected the car, I must give due weight to the engineers findings.
The engineer said they:
examined the bonnet and would advise that the alignment is perfectly acceptable, 
the colour match is also good against the wings and there is no sign of any 
corrosion.
The report continues:
I did note a slight dark patch to the bonnet paint around the area damaged. This 
patch gives the appearance of a blow in to the area of damage. Therefore, on that 
basis and assuming no other work has been carried out in the last 18 months, the 
bonnet would need to be repainted.
It follows that, because I should give due weight to engineers findings about the alignment, 
wing colour match and corrosion, I also need to give the same weight to the second 
comment about the blow in. 
I have said above that Markerstudy has provided evidence that P replaced the bonnet with a 
new one and it maintains that there may have been more damage caused after the original 
repair. But its not provided any evidence of this new damage.
Given that the expert has reported in depth about this, I think its fair to say that the engineer 
would probably have reported differently if theyd seen evidence of another, fresher, repair.
So, it seems to me that Markerstudy needs to repaint the bonnet accordingly.
Mr M therefore has a choice. He can ask Markerstudy to arrange the repainting of his bonnet 
with one of its approved repairers. Or he can make arrangements himself and Markerstudy 
should pay for it.
If he chooses this second option, I think I should point out that the quote he has provided to 
this service includes other areas such as bumper and wings, which I havent included in my 
decision. Id expect that Mr M obtains quotations for the repainting of the bonnet only, and 
its this amount Id expect Markerstudy to pay.
Taking everything into account, I can see that Mr M has been greatly inconvenienced by Markerstudys actions. And he will continue to be because he needs to take his car for a 
further repair. So I think its fair and reasonable to ask Markerstudy to pay £150 for his 
distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct Markerstudy Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Repaint the car bonnet. At Mr Ms choice this can be done by Markerstudys repairer 
or his own choice of repairer.
Pay Mr M £150 for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman