DRN-2612640
The complaint
Ms M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund a number of transactions which 
she says she didnt make.
What happened
Ms M has disputed a number of transactions with Barclays including account transfers done 
in branch, cash withdrawals done both in branch and at cash machines, card payments and 
a cheque paid out of her account. Shes also said Barclays staff have stolen money from her 
accounts on several occasions.
Barclays investigated Ms Ms complaint but didnt agree to refund any transactions as it 
didnt think there had been fraud on Ms Ms accounts. Ms M wasnt happy with Barclays 
response, so referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint but they didnt think the evidence suggested 
someone other than Ms M had made the transactions. So they didnt ask Barclays to refund 
them. Ms M disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think the evidence suggests there has been fraud on Ms Ms 
accounts. Ill explain why below.
Ms M says she sent Barclays copies of account statements where shed highlighted all the 
transactions she was disputing. Unfortunately, Barclays no longer has copies of these 
highlighted statements. But it has sent us its records of the transactions it says Ms M 
highlighted. Ms M has said Barclays could have given us a completely different list of 
transactions to the ones she highlighted, but I havent seen anything to suggest that it has 
done this. And Ms M hasnt been able to tell us any specific transactions she highlighted that 
Barclays hasnt included. So I think its likely the list of transactions Barclays sent us is the 
same as the ones Ms M highlighted.
Generally, we wouldnt expect a business to refund transactions unless the evidence 
suggested it was more likely than not that someone other than the account holder had made 
them or there was other clear evidence of fraud.
Account transfers, cash withdrawals and card payments
Barclays hasnt been able to send us technical evidence showing how all these transactions 
were made. But, due to the amount of time that has passed since the transactions, I dont 
think this is unreasonable. Barclays has said that the account transfers done in branch, the 
cash withdrawals both in branch and at cash machines and the card payments would likely 
have been made using Ms Ms card and by entering her PIN. And, due to the types of these 
transactions, I think its more likely than not that this is correct and that Ms Ms card and PIN 
were used to make these transactions.
But the relevant regulations say that this, on its own, isnt enough for Barclays to not refund 
the transactions. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests its more likely 
than not that someone other than Ms M made the transactions.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case. But 
where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is most likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
Barclays says Ms M has never reported any of her cards lost or stolen. Ms M has said shes 
never lost a card or given anyone else access to her cards. And there are a number of other 
card transactions made before, during and after the transactions Ms M has disputed. So in 
order for someone else to have made the disputed transactions with Ms Ms card, they 
would have had to steal it from her and then return it to her without her noticing on a number 
of occasions.
Ms M has mentioned a number of people shes had contact with who she thinks could have 
stolen her card, including some of her neighbours. But the transactions were done over a 
number of years, during which Ms M moved house. And I think its unlikely Ms Ms 
neighbours would have been able to steal and replace her card without her noticing either 
before she moved near them or after she moved away.
Due to the amount of time that has passed, I cant see details of where all the account 
transfers out of Ms Ms account went. But the account transfers I can see all went to other 
accounts in Ms Ms name. So I think its likely the account transfers I cant see the full details 
of also went to accounts in Ms Ms name. Ms M therefore wont have lost this money. And I 
think its unlikely someone who stole her card would have made these kinds of transfers, as 
it wouldnt have been of any benefit to them.
One of the transactions was an account transfer that appears to have been made to Ms Ms 
son. And it was for a relatively small amount, compared to the other transactions and the 
balance of her account at the time. So again, I think its unlikely someone who stole Ms Ms 
card would have done this.
The general nature of the cash withdrawals is also not the sort of thing wed expect a thief to 
normally do after stealing a card. Generally, the way fraudsters operate is to get as much 
money as quickly as possible in order to avoid the source of money being cut-off or them 
being detected. But here there are gaps of weeks or even months in between the 
withdrawals. And the withdrawals are for relatively small amounts of money, in comparison 
to the amount of money in Ms Ms account at the time. So I dont think its likely these cash 
withdrawals were done by someone who stole Ms Ms card either.
And the card payments Ms M has disputed appear to have been made to building or garden 
supplies companies on the same days as payments to other building or garden supplies 
companies that Ms M accepts she made. I think its unlikely someone who stole her card 
would be able to do so on the same day Ms M was using it. Or that they would then use the 
card to make similar purchases to ones Ms M was making. The card payments are also for 
relatively small amounts of money in comparison to the amount of money in Ms Ms account 
at the time, and so arent the sort of thing wed expect a thief to do either. So I dont think its 
likely these card payments were done by someone who stole Ms Ms card.So I dont think the evidence suggests that someone other than Ms M made the account 
transfers, cash withdrawals or card payments or that there is clear evidence that these 
transactions were the result of fraud.
The cheque
Barclays has sent us a copy of the cheque paid out of Ms Ms account which she says 
wasnt her, as well as a copy of another cheque paid out of Ms Ms account which she hasnt 
disputed.
The handwriting and the signatures on these two cheques appears to be similar. The 
cheques appear to be from the same chequebook. And Barclays has said Ms M has never 
reported her chequebook as lost or stolen. So I dont think its likely that this disputed cheque 
was written by someone other than Ms M and it doesnt appear to be fraudulent.
Theft by Barclays staff
Ms M has said Barclays staff have stolen money from her accounts on several occasions. 
But Ive looked through her account statements and I cant see anything on them which 
shows money being taken from her accounts in the way she suggests. So it doesnt look as 
though Barclays has stolen from her.
I appreciate how Ms M feels about this case and her concerns that money has been taken 
from her accounts. But based on the evidence I have, I dont think its likely theres been 
fraud on her accounts, that Barclays has stolen from her or that someone other than her has 
been making transactions on her accounts. So I dont think Barclays needs to refund any of 
the transactions.
I understand that the outcome of my decision will be disappointing to Ms M, but I hope that 
Ms M is reassured that someone independent has conducted a full review of the case and 
Ive reached my conclusions based on all the available evidence.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman