DRN-2815922
The complaint
Ms L has complained about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) dealt with a 
claim she made under her motability vehicle insurance policy. She says it caused delay 
when repairing her vehicle. Ms L said the staff were rude to her and didnt provide updates 
on the repairs. Ms L is unhappy with the replacement vehicle provided. 
What happened
In August 2020 Ms L made a claim to her insurer, RSA for repairs to her car following an 
incident. RSA arranged for an approved repairer (AR) to deal with the repairs.
Ms L made a series of complaints to RSA. In summary she said;
The AR caused delay and staff were rude to her when she called for updates.
The AR provided an unsafe courtesy car.
Pre-existing damage to a second courtesy car wasnt documented.
Damage to her car was caused by an exploding canister on the day the AR returned 
it to Ms L. Ms L held the AR responsible for the damage.
In a call an agent at RSA was dismissive and suggested Ms L had caused the 
canister damage to her car. 
RSA acknowledged there was some delay due to the AR going into administration  and this 
led to a delay in obtaining parts for repair works they were to complete. It listened to the call 
with its agent and apologised for the lack of empathy shown in the call. 
RSA didnt uphold Ms Ls remaining complaints. For the poor service Ms L received, it 
waived the excess due, paid compensation of £25 and sent her a bouquet of flowers. 
Ms L remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. 
Our investigator thought RSA had acted reasonably. She explained that some of the issues 
in obtaining parts were outside of RSAs control. Photos before the date Ms L said the 
canister damage occurred showed the boot of Ms Ls car was already damaged. So the 
investigator didnt recommend Ms Ls complaint should be upheld. 
Ms L didnt agree. She said she and her son heard the AR tell them theyd heard an 
explosion (from the canister) on returning her car to her. She said her son was impacted as 
he couldnt travel in the car due to the bad smell left from the canister. 
Ms L wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA explained that calls between Ms L and the AR werent recorded. But it spoke to the AR. 
The AR told RSA that it was delivering bad news to Ms L when they spoke to her as there 
were delays in obtaining parts to repair her car. But the AR didnt agree they had been rude 
to Ms L. 
Overall it took nine weeks to repair Ms Ls car. While I can understand this was frustrating, I 
dont think this was something within RSAs control. And I can see Ms L was provided with a 
courtesy car for the duration.
Ms L was unhappy with the first courtesy car provided. She said she could smell smoke and 
felt it was unsafe. The AR said they couldnt find any evidence of the car being unsafe, but 
arranged for a replacement courtesy car for Ms L. 
Pre-existing damage to the second courtesy car had been recorded before it was delivered 
to Ms L. 
RSA accepted that an agent had lacked empathy when speaking to Ms L. For this it 
apologised. It sent Ms L a bouquet of flowers and paid her £25 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. 
For the delay in repairs, RSA apologised and waived the excess. The excess is the first 
payment of any claim and so I think RSAs approach here was fair.
RSA accepts that the damage to the boot is unexplained  but photos taken before the car 
was returned to Ms L show the damage from the canister was there before. So it wasnt able 
to support Ms Ls account of what the AR had told her - that theyd heard an explosion on 
the day they returned her car. 
Even so, RSA agreed to repair the damage without charging a further excess. Ms L has told 
us she was able to have the repairs carried out by a dealership garage as they were covered 
under her warranty. Due to the photos pre dating the account Ms L gave about her 
discussion with the AR returning her car, there isnt enough for me to safely conclude that 
RSA acted unreasonably here. And in any event, it agreed to carry out the repairs at no cost 
to Ms L. So I think it did enough to put things right. 
When things go wrong, we look at what an insurer did to put things right. In this case, there 
were failings and I can understand why Ms L raised her complaints. And I appreciate that 
there will always be a degree of inconvenience when having to deal with a claim. 
I realise Ms L will be very disappointed with my decision. But in this case I think RSA 
properly considered Ms Ls concerns and dealt with her complaint reasonably. And this 
means Im not asking RSA to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman