DRN-3341233
The complaint
Miss M has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc registered a marker against her at CIFAS, 
the national fraud database.
What happened
In May 2018, Miss Ms HSBC account received the proceeds of fraud. The victims reported 
these payments as fraudulent and HSBC reversed them. But in the meantime, some of the 
money had been withdrawn at a cash machine or spent in a shop.
HSBC tried to get in touch with Miss M but she didnt speak to them at first. In June 2018, 
Miss M attended a branch. She said she hadnt been expecting the credits, the spending 
wasnt her, and she couldnt explain why she hadnt reported anything was wrong.
HSBC closed Miss Ms account and registered a marker against her at CIFAS.
Our investigator looked into things independently. HSBC didnt provide substantial evidence 
to back up the CIFAS marker, so our investigator upheld the complaint. HSBC didnt agree, 
so the complaint was passed to me to decide. I requested further information from both 
sides, which they then provided.
I sent Miss M and HSBC a provisional decision on 11 January 2022, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
In order to register this marker, HSBC were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Miss M had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to 
believe that shed misused her account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and 
which had appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both 
sides have said and provided, I currently think there are sufficient grounds to keep this 
marker in place. Ill explain why.
First, Ive considered the possibility that this was all done by a fraudster who Miss M didnt 
know beforehand.
Im satisfied from HSBCs technical evidence that the cash withdrawals and the spending in 
the shop used Miss Ms genuine card, and the correct PIN. Miss M said she hadnt told 
anyone her PIN or let someone use her account. Her PIN was a random number from the 
bank rather than something that could easily be guessed. And Miss M had not used her PIN 
for any recent transactions, so someone couldnt have learned it by watching her enter it. So 
her PIN could not have been learned any of those ways.
Miss M did tell us that she kept a record of the PIN on her phone. But her phone was secure 
and hadnt gone missing, so a fraudster couldnt have realistically learned it that way. She 
also said she kept a record of her PIN in one of her purses. But she said she kept her card in 
all sorts of places  such as in bags, purses, pockets, a cupboard, around the house and so 
on, depending on where she was. It didnt have a permanent place in the same purse as the 
record of her PIN. So while I accept its possible that a thief could have stolen Miss Ms card 
and the record of the PIN, they would need to have got rather lucky  since it sounds like the 
card and PIN were not consistently in the same place.
Another issue is that Miss M never reported her card as lost or stolen to HSBC, never 
reported her purse being taken, and has not been able to provide any evidence that she 
replaced any of the other items in her purse. And some of those items would have been 
really quite important, such as her drivers licence or travel tickets. So it seems really rather 
odd if she never replaced those. Indeed, it seems odd that she doesnt have any evidence at 
all that any of these things went missing. It makes it difficult for me to support the suggestion 
that her card and PIN were actually stolen.
Most importantly, throughout the period of the fraud Miss Ms online banking was being 
used. And even if a thief did steal Miss Ms card and PIN, they would not have been able to 
access her online banking using just that  they would also have needed her security details. 
But Miss M said she hadnt given out her security details, and the only record of them was in 
a safe place in her home. Further, she accessed her online banking using her mobile phone, 
which did not get stolen, and which was secured by Face ID and a password. So an 
unknown thief would not have plausibly been able to use her online banking.
As such, I dont think its likely or plausible that the fraudulent activity was carried out by a 
party who Miss M did not know.
It is possible that someone known to Miss M could have used her account without her 
permission. For example, she lived with her family, and a family member technically could 
have found the record of her PIN, the separate record of her online banking security details, 
and then stolen her card and her phone. But I dont think thats likely either.
Aside from the general difficulty of finding all of Miss Ms details and stealing her card and 
phone without her noticing, its hard to see how a family member wouldve been able to use 
her online banking so frequently. Miss Ms online banking was being accessed repeatedly 
over the course of about 9 hours, and I think she would have noticed if a family member had 
been misusing her phone for so long or if they were consistently taking it without her 
permission so often. Its also not clear how they would have accessed her phone without her 
consent. And Miss M told us she didnt think anyone she knew wouldve been able to carry 
out the fraud, so understandably she seems to have ruled out this possibility herself.
Lastly, Ive considered the possibility that the fraud was carried out with Miss Ms permission 
 either by herself or by someone shed given access to her account.
Given the layers of security on Miss Ms phone and her online banking facility, and the fact 
that her phone never went missing, the only person who could have likely and plausibly been 
using her online banking was Miss M herself. And her online banking was used throughout 
the time when the fraud was being done. So this suggests Miss M was aware of what was 
going on with her account. But she didnt report that anything was wrong to HSBC. Even 
when they tried calling her, she didnt tell them anything was wrong. That would not make 
sense if someone was misusing her account without her consent.Further, according to the online banking records, while the fraud was going on Miss M even 
tried to increase her account limits so that more money could be spent. So not only does it 
look like she was aware of the fraud and did not report it, it suggests she may have been 
trying to increase the amount that could be fraudulently spent.
Lastly, Ive not seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Miss M 
couldve authorised the fraudulent activity or given someone else permission to do it.
In summary, Im satisfied that the fraudulent activity was done using Miss Ms genuine card 
and PIN, as well as her online banking. Based on the evidence, there isnt a likely way an 
unknown person did this, nor that someone known to Miss M did this without her permission. 
Indeed, Miss M herself seems to have ruled out that possibility. That leaves only one likely 
possibility  that Miss M carried out the fraudulent activity or gave someone else permission 
to do it. And so that would mean its fair that HSBC registered the appropriate marker at 
CIFAS. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for 
Miss M to receive. But given the evidence I have so far, and the balance of probabilities, Im 
currently unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
8 February 2022. HSBC didnt add anything further. Miss M added some further points, 
which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M said she told her station when she lost her ticket, and recalls she either had to prove 
shed bought it or buy a new one. While I am grateful for this new testimony, Im afraid that 
Miss M still hasnt provided anything to substantiate what shes said  such as a theft report, 
or a receipt or copy of the replacement tickets.
In addition, Miss M said she had no need to replace her drivers licence as she wasnt 
driving. But she also said she had, in fact, just applied for a replacement recently as she 
needed it as proof of identity. These two statements seem contradictory  she cant have 
both not needed a replacement but also needed one. So that doesnt really help support 
Miss Ms testimony. And again, she hasnt provided any evidence to substantiate that she 
reported her purse as lost to anyone, nor that she replaced any of its contents. Indeed, I can 
see that she never reported anything was wrong to HSBC even after it would have been 
clear that her card was lost and her account was being misused.
So as before, I cant really support the suggestion that Miss Ms purse was stolen with her 
card and PIN in it. Further, even if it was, there was still no likely or plausible person who 
couldve been using Miss Ms online banking during the fraud  other than Miss M herself.Miss M explained that she didnt report anything wrong to HSBC because she wasnt aware 
of any activity. But as I explained in the provisional decision: given the layers of security on 
Miss Ms phone and online banking, and given her phone never went missing, the only 
person who could have likely and plausibly been using Miss Ms online banking was Miss M 
herself. And her online banking was used throughout the time the fraud was going on. So 
she wouldve seen the activity happening. Further, it looks like Miss M even applied to 
increase her account limits during that time. So it looks like Miss M was aware of the fraud 
and may have even been trying to increase the amount that could be fraudulently spent.
Im afraid that as far as I can see, it remains that theres no likely way an unknown person 
did this, nor that someone known to Miss M did this without her permission. Then the only 
remaining likely possibility is that the fraud was carried out with Miss Ms knowledge and 
consent. So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  
that HSBC dont need to remove the marker in question.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman