DRN-4116377
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd unfairly declined 
her pet insurance claim.
Mrs M has brought her complaint through a family member. For ease, Ill refer only to Mrs M 
in this decision.
What happened
In 2021, Mrs Ms young dog unfortunately became lame. Following investigations, he was 
diagnosed with medial coronoid process disease, which affected his elbows (elbow 
dysplasia). He needed surgery to remove large osteochondral (bone and cartilage) 
fragments from one of his elbows. Mrs M made a claim to Casualty & General for the 
treatment costs.
Casualty & General declined Mrs Ms claim. It referred to her vets clinical notes, which 
indicated the vet wanted the dog to lose weight and maintain a lean body condition to help 
him cope with the disease. Casualty & General said that its policy excluded claims for 
treatment resulting from the dog being medically overweight.
Mrs Ms vet sent Casualty & General his opinion that the dogs weight was not a contributing 
factor. But Casualty & General maintained that obesity might influence whether a dog with 
the genes coding for elbow dysplasia will develop a clinical problem. As Mrs Ms dog was 
overweight when he first became lame Casualty & General maintained that it would not pay 
the claim.
Unhappy with the outcome, Mrs M came to us. She said her vet had told her the dog was not 
overweight and, in any event, the elbow dysplasia was a birth defect. She said that even 
though he had lost weight he still required surgery.
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She did not 
consider Casualty & General had shown that it had fairly applied the policy exclusion. As 
such, she recommended it pay Mrs Ms claim, subject to the policy limit and applicable 
excess together with interest at 8% simple per year from the date shed paid the vets bill 
until the date of settlement.
Casualty & General did not agree with the Investigators conclusions and asked for an 
Ombudsman review. The vets clinical notes showed the dog was overweight and the 
specialist vet had advised that to minimise the long-term effects of the disease Mrs M should 
aim to keep her dog at a lean body weight. Casualty & General also referred to articles 
published on two separate veterinary websites about elbow dysplasia, which it said 
supported its position.
The complaint came to me for review. I asked our Investigator to contact Mrs M for some 
additional information about whether and how she paid her vets bill. In summary, Mrs M 
said:
She and her partner and both self-employed and do not receive a regular income, 
and she has struggled financially to pay the vets bill.
The vet practice has been sympathetic and has allowed interest free weekly 
payments of £100. She has provided a statement showing that she has paid £1,250 
with £3,043.15 still remaining. But making these payments has been a financial 
burden.
By way of background, she has referred to difficult family circumstances about which 
Casualty & General is already aware.
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I intended to uphold the complaint and also to 
award Mrs M compensation for distress and inconvenience. I said:
I dont think Casualty [&] General made a fair decision to decline Mrs Ms claim and so 
I intend to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Casualty & General rejected the claim because its policy exclusion says it wont pay:
Any claims resulting from Your pet being medically overweight or underweight and 
this results in Your pet needing Treatment as a result of not being the recommended 
medical weight for its age, breed type and sex as recommended by a Vet;
The burden is on Casualty & General to show that it can properly apply the exclusion to turn 
down Mrs Ms claim. I dont consider it has shown that the exclusion applies. 
I have read Casualty & Generals comments about the dogs weight and body condition 
score (BCS). It refers to the following entries:
22/12/2020 Weight recorded: 7.500(Kg)
19/01/2021 weight updated from 7.500(Kg) to 11.700(Kg)
18/02/2021 Weight updated from 11.700 (Kg) to 16.000(Kg)
06/05/2021 BCS 7/9, quite overweight already2 Weight recorded 24.700
Ive reviewed the clinical notes. For context, I should say that the dog was born in October 
2020. Its not in dispute that the vet had made the above notes about the dogs weight. But 
I do not consider the evidence about the dogs weight is enough for Casualty & General to 
decline the claim. It must show that the claim resulted from the dog being medically 
overweight and that the dog needed treatment as a result of his being overweight.
Importantly neither Mrs Ms usual vet nor the specialist orthopaedic vet to which her dog was 
referred have suggested that the coronoid disease resulted from her dog being medically 
overweight or that her dog needed treatment for this condition as a result of being 
overweight.
The orthopaedic vet said:
You [Casualty & General] have denied this claim and state that this is due to an 
entry in the patient history stating the patient was overweight. Please be advised that 
current thinking in veterinary science would not support being overweight as an 
aetiologic factor for medial coronoid disease. 
The vet went on to list the aetiologic (causing) factors that have been identified for medial 
coronoid disease as: osteochondrosis, ulnar trochlear notch incongruity or dysplasia, and 
asynchronous growth of the radius and ulna. In support, the vet referred to a peer reviewed 
academic paper and asked Casualty & General to reconsider its stance. So, the orthopaedic vets comments do not support that the disease resulted from the dog being medically 
overweight.
Casualty & General have referred to the orthopaedic vets comment that:
Maintenance of a lean body weight is the most important factor for mitigating the 
long term consequences of OA [osteoarthritis].
I dont consider the above comment shows that the dogs medial coronoid disease resulted 
from its body weight, but rather that the vet suggested maintenance of a lean weight as part 
of the conservative (non-surgical) ongoing management of the disease.
Casualty & General say that Mrs Ms usual vet recorded the dogs weight and the entries 
about the weight were not clarified by the same vet (because it was the orthopaedic vet who 
gave his opinion about the causes of the disease). I have considered this point but I do not 
consider it impacts the evidence given by the orthopaedic vet. He listed the causing factors 
for medial coronoid disease, which did not included weight, and also said that a dogs being 
overweight is not considered to cause the disease.
Casualty & General has referred me to two veterinary website articles. It accepts that the 
first article confirms that elbow dysplasia is primarily of genetic cause. But it says the article 
adds that obesity can influence whether an animal with the gene coding for elbow 
dysplasia will develop a clinic problem.
Casualty & General observe that the second article indicates that points of increased 
pressure can cause damage to the cartilage covering the bones, and fragmentation of 
cartilage and the underlying bone may develop osteochondrosis. Casualty & General adds 
that being overweight increases pressure placed upon the joints, and fat secretes 
inflammatory hormones and create oxidative stress on the bodys tissues. As such, it is 
satisfied that Mrs Ms dogs weight was a causing factor in the development of elbow 
dysplasia.
Ive read and considered the articles to which Casualty & General has referred about elbow 
dysplasia together with its observations about those articles.
But I find the evidence given by the orthopaedic vet who has seen, examined and treated 
Mrs Ms dog to be more persuasive than the website articles to which Casualty & General 
has referred. Those articles do not, in my view, support that Mrs Ms dogs disease resulted 
from his being overweight, from inflammation or that his weight influenced his developing the 
disease due to his genetic coding.
I do not consider Casualty & General has shown that Mrs Ms dogs condition and treatment 
resulted from him being overweight. It follows that Casualty & General did not fairly turn 
down Mrs Ms claim for her dogs medial coronoid disease. It should now pay the claim in 
line with the policy limit and less any applicable excess.
I have also considered the impact on Mrs M of Casualty & Generals decision not to pay her 
claim, which I have concluded was an unfair one. Mrs M does not seek compensation for her 
distressing personal circumstances. But she has explained the financial strain she has been 
placed under in making weekly payments of £100 towards the vets bill, not least as her 
familys income is not a regular one.
I think Casualty & Generals decision not to pay Mrs Ms claim has caused her distress and 
inconvenience at an already difficult time. She reasonably expected her policy to respond to her claim for her dogs treatment. I think Casualty & General should pay her some 
compensation for this and I assess £200 to be fair and reasonable.
I also think that Casualty & General should pay interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on 
the instalment payments that Mrs M has made to her vet until the date Casualty & General 
makes the settlement, to reflect the fact that she has been out of pocket. Ive set this out 
below. Ive noted the vet has offered to provide any additional information she needs, and it 
would be helpful if she could provide a list of payments she has made and the dates she 
made those payments. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs M accepted my provisional decision and explained that my findings had come as a 
considerable relief to her and her family.
Casualty & General also accepted my provisional decision. It said it would need a 
breakdown of the payment amounts and dates so it could calculate the interest correctly. 
Mrs M has sent this to us and our Investigator has passed it on to Casualty & General. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have accepted my provisional decision. As such, I see no reason to depart from 
the findings I reached in my provisional decision. I confirm those findings here for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision. 
I have reflected below that Casualty & General now has the vets list of Mrs Ms payments 
and payment dates so that it can calculate the interest that I have awarded.
Putting things right
Within 28 days of the date on which we send it Mrs Ms acceptance of my final decision, 
I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Pay Mrs Ms claim for her dogs medial coronoid disease in line with the policy limit 
and less any applicable policy excess; and
Add interest to each instalment payment that Mrs M made to her vet for the above 
claim. This should be paid at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date of each 
payment as shown on the vets list of payments to the date of settlement; and
Pay Mrs M £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
If Casualty & General considers it is required to deduct by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from the interest payment, it should let Mrs M know how much its taken 
off. If requested, it should also provide her with a certificate showing the amount deducted, 
so she can reclaim it from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint for the reasons given above and in my 
provisional decision. I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to take 
the steps set out in the Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman