DRN-4204089
The complaint
Mr L complains about Domestic and General Insurance PLC (D&G) who declined his claim 
under his gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr L contacted D&G when his television became damaged. It sent an engineer to assess the 
claim. The engineer wrote a report in which he said that there was damage to the screen of 
the TV, but the damage was cosmetic and didnt prevent the television from correctly 
functioning. The report concluded that the damage was cosmetic. 
The report was sent to D&G to consider, which it did. D&G declined Mr Ls claim on the 
basis of the policy exclusion that cosmetic damage wasnt covered. Mr L complained as he 
said that he was led to believe from the engineer, that the claim would be accepted as the 
engineer told him that a part was needed and made attempts to locate the part, whilst at his 
home.  
In its final response, D&G maintained it position, that under the policy cosmetic damage 
wasnt covered, although it said that accidental damage was covered. Mr L was given his 
referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She said 
that D&G ought to reconsider the claim under the remaining policy terms and conditions.  
She further said that the policy did state that it would not provide services, pay costs, or 
resolve problems for items that had cosmetic damage. And as the policy didnt specifically 
state that it wouldnt pay a claim, she recommended that D&G repair/replace the television. 
Unless there was another term or condition in the policy, that prevented it from doing so.  
Mr L accepted the view, D&G did not. It said that the policy didnt provide cover for damage 
that was deemed to be cosmetic. And as the damaged was cosmetic, it had fairly declined 
the claim. It further said that the policy was clear that there was no cover available for this 
kind of damage. So, it asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint, and I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 25 May 2023 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 22 
June 2023. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded not to uphold this complaint. I understand that this is likely to be 
a disappointment to Mr L, but I hope my provisional findings explain why I think this is fair. 
I have considered all the comments from both parties, as well as the policy terms and 
conditions. I think the main issue of this complaint is whether D&G was fair to decline the 
claim. 
Mr L said that the television was damaged accidentally, and a crack appeared on the screen 
as a result. D&G sent an engineer to assess the damage, on the basis that the policy 
provided accidental cover. 
I have reviewed the policy terms and conditions and Im satisfied that the documents indicate 
that accidental damage is an insured peril. There is a definition included of what amounts to 
accidental damage. As well as D&Gs obligations under the policy, namely that in the event 
of a device suffering from accidental damage, D&G would either repair, replace (including 
paying for the replacement) or adjust the device  were necessary. 
Both parties agree that the policy had accidental damage cover. But the term under which 
D&G declined the claim was regarding the type of damage caused to the television. 
D&G relied upon its expert (the engineer) who wrote a report and concluded that the 
damage that was seen related to cosmetic damage. I have read the report that the engineer 
wrote. And in his opinion, the damage amounted to cosmetic damage: front cabinet cracked, 
cosmetic only, TV works perfectly.
Mr L said that he was led to believe by the engineer that a repair or replacement would be 
carried out. He thought this as he said that the engineer informed him that a part would be 
required and spent time at his home, searching for that part, before leaving, seemingly due 
to not being successful in securing the part. 
I have considered this further. And in particular Ive reviewed the engineers notes. There is 
no mention of attempting to locate a part. The report states that there was an adjustment 
carried out only. So, on balance, I think it was more likely than not that the engineer 
assessed there was cosmetic damage and as the television worked perfectly, Im not 
persuaded that the engineer was attempting to find a part. 
I have next considered the issue of the type of damage caused to the television. D&G said it 
was cosmetic and relied upon its expert. Mr L hasnt provided me with any other expert 
evidence to refute D&Gs expert. Consequently, Im satisfied that the damage was cosmetic. 
Having further reviewed the policy terms and conditions, it gives a definition of cosmetic 
damage, as damage that doesnt affect how the insured device works. The policy further 
goes on to state (under the what is not covered section) the policy will not provide any 
services or pay for any costs to resolve problems which arise from or in the event 
ofcosmetic damage. 
It has been said that this term is unclear as it appears to mean that the policy doesnt 
expressly state that it wouldnt pay a claim in these circumstances. But I dont agree, and Ill 
explain why.
I think that the term clearly excludes any costs that arise from devices that have suffered 
from cosmetic damage. The policy gives a definition of what is cosmetic damage  which is 
damage that doesnt affect the normal working of the device. It further goes on to state that 
no cover is available for devices that have been cosmetically damaged. As mentioned, currently, Mr L hasnt provided any other expert evidence that could refute 
D&Gs expert opinion that the damage was cosmetic. Im happy to consider this if he is able 
to obtain it. 
But presently, I dont think that D&G were unfair or unreasonable to rely on its expert and to 
decline Mr Ls claim under the policy exclusion. I understand that Mr L is likely to be 
disappointed, but I wont be able to reasonably ask D&G to do anything more to resolve this 
complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decision
D&G accepted the provisional decision. 
Mr L responded as follows:
The D&G engineer accepted that the damage caused was accidental and this was 
why he spent a while looking for a part. Accidental damage is covered by the policy.
Our investigator thought that cosmetic damage was covered under the policy and 
agreed with Mr L. So logically if a claim is made it should be paid. 
The complaint was a fairly simple one and Mr L couldnt understand how two different 
people were interpreting the policy differently. Also, the policy referred to dents and 
scratches and as his TV had a crack it couldnt be classed as cosmetic. 
He believed that D&G hadnt been transparent in their policy and had been vague 
and ambiguous.
I have carefully considered Mr Ls comments and they havent changed my findings. In the 
provisional decision, I accepted that the TV became damage as a result of an accident. But, 
whilst there was accidental damage (which is covered under the policy), I think the policy is 
quite clear that cosmetic damage is not covered. 
I invited Mr L to provide me with expert evidence that could refute the evidence given 
by D&Gs expert. But none was provided. As we are not experts, we rely on expert 
evidence. In the evidence that D&G relied upon their expert said; front cabinet 
cracked, cosmetic only, TV works perfectly. 
Having further reviewed the terms and conditions, the full definition of what is considered to 
be cosmetic damage is as follows and appears under the section entitled: the policy will not 
provide any services or pay for any claims or impairment to your covered devices 
functionality caused bycosmetic damage such as dents or scratches to the covered 
devices that does not effect how the covered device works. 
I dont think this term was vague, ambiguous or not transparent. The term means that no 
cover will be provided for any services (which includes claims) for the insured device. It 
further says that the device will not pay out for any claim made. I understand that Mr L 
believes that cosmetic damage is limited to just scratches and dents. But the policy does not 
state this. It does not for example say that it is limited to just scratches and dents. I think it is 
merely giving this as an example. Moreover, it goes on to explain that cosmetic damage is 
damage that does not effect, how the insured device operates. D&G relied upon its expert 
who concluded that the TV works perfectly. So, I cant agree that the damage on the TV 
was more than cosmetic.
Consequently, I dont think that D&G were unfair or unreasonable to rely on its expert and to 
decline Mr Ls claim under the policy exclusion of cosmetic damage. I understand that Mr L is likely to be disappointed, but I cant reasonably ask D&G to do anything more to resolve 
this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman