DRN-4300875
The complaint
Mrs Ns complained that Lifesearch Partners Limited (LPL) didnt accurately record the 
answers given by her late husband on their life insurance application  which led to the claim 
she made on the policy being declined by the underwriter.
What happened
Over the last few years, Mr and Mrs N bought a series of life policies through LPL, replacing 
policies as their circumstances changed or they were told better or more competitive policies 
were available.  The complaint Mrs N has made relates to a joint policy providing decreasing 
life cover which she and Mr N bought in March 2020.  Mr and Mrs N bought individual life 
policies at the same time.  
Mr and Mrs N both completed health and lifestyle questionnaires by providing their answers 
over the telephone, with the LPL adviser filling in the forms.  Mrs N says that her husband 
made full disclosure to the adviser, who found them a policy with an insurer Ill refer to as U.
Mr N very sadly died in early 2022.  Mrs N submitted a claim to U.  U declined the claim, 
because they said Mr N hadnt given accurate answers in the health questionnaire to 
questions about his alcohol intake, mental health and diagnosis of COPD.  U confirmed that, 
if theyd had the information they thought Mr N should have provided, they wouldnt have 
offered cover.  And they classed this as deliberate misrepresentation, so they voided the 
policy and retained the premiums Mr and Mrs N had paid.
Mrs N complained to U.  U didnt change their position.  But they told Mrs N that LPL had 
confirmed theyd advised Mr N on his answers  so they said any remedy relating to its 
accuracy was LPLs responsibility.
Mrs N complained to LPL.  LPL responded, saying they were satisfied that their adviser had 
accurately recorded Mr Ns answers to the questions hed asked.  Mrs N wasnt satisfied this 
with this response and instructed a claims management company to help her bring her 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator reviewed all the evidence and concluded LPL didnt need to do any more 
than they already had to resolve Mrs Ns complaint.  He was satisfied the adviser had 
accurately recorded Mr Ns answers to the questions hed asked.
In response Mrs Ns representatives maintained that the adviser had revisited the questions 
Mr N had answered about his alcohol consumption because his original responses 
generated a decision to decline the application.  And they said they believed Mr and Mrs N 
werent given the best advice about buying the policy and that keeping their previous policies 
would have provided better cover at a lesser cost.  The investigator considered this point 
and obtained further information from LPL, which led him to conclude LPL had acted fairly in 
this respect.  
Mrs N didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive now been asked to make a decision 
about all the complaints made.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mrs Ns complaint.  I know this will be upsetting and Im 
sorry about that.  I hope it will help if I explain the reasons for my decision.
Ill start by saying that Im only looking at what LPL did here  not at Us actions.  It was Us 
decision to decline the claim, on the basis Mr N had made various misrepresentations about 
his health.  I can only say LPL need to do more to resolve the complaint if Im satisfied they 
didnt accurately record Mr Ns answers to the questionnaire  and their failure impacted on 
Mr N, because it led to U making a different underwriting decision.
Weve received recordings of the relevant calls, which Ive considered.  And Ive been 
provided with a copy of Us response to Mrs Ns complaint, which shows U wouldnt have 
offered him a policy based on his mental health and alcohol history.  So Ill focus on those 
two areas, though I note either one would have led to a decision to decline, had the 
questions been answered as U thought they should.  Ive not commented on the questions 
about COPD, as U confirmed they didnt base their decisions on those answers.
Alcohol
Mr N was asked for details of his weekly alcohol consumption.  He was then asked:
Have any of these applied to you?
and was given the options:
I've been advised by a medical professional to cut down or stop drinking alcohol, I've been 
referred for alcohol or drug specialist support such as Alcoholics or Narcotics Anonymous, 
I've used recreational drugs in the last 10 years, no?
In response, Mr N told the adviser he attended Alcoholic Anonymous, having made what he 
described as a lifestyle choice to do so.  The adviser initially selected Ive been referred for 
alcohol or drug specialist support such as Alcoholics or Narcotics Anonymous.  But he 
subsequently changed the answer to no.  Mrs Ns representatives say this doesnt 
accurately reflect Mr Ns answers and that LPL didnt take proper care to provide accurate 
information to U about Mr Ns alcohol intake.
Ive considered this point very carefully.  I accept that the adviser revisited how they 
recorded what Mr N told them.  Mrs Ns representative has suggested that this was because 
the initial answers led to cover being declined, and so the adviser was trying to find an 
answer that would enable them to make a sale.  Theres no evidence to indicate this was 
what drove the adviser to revisit the questions about alcohol. 
But, even if it were, I dont think LPL did anything wrong here.  Mr N clearly responded to the 
question that hed made the choice to attend Alcoholics Anonymous, rather than it being 
suggested by anyone else.  And he reiterated at the end of the call this had been a lifestyle 
choice.  So I do think no is an accurate answer to the question about being referred to any 
form of support.
Mrs Ns representatives have said Alcoholics Anonymous isnt operated on a referral basis, 
so Mr N couldnt have been referred by his doctor.  Ive considered this, but I think its clear 
the focus of the question is to find out what advice Mr N received about his alcohol 
consumption.  I heard on the call recording that selecting the answer about being referred for support generated further questions, all of which referenced being given advice about 
alcohol.  
However, Mr N clearly told the adviser hed attended Alcoholics Anonymous without 
receiving any such advice.  On that basis, Im satisfied that no was an accurate answer to a 
question about having been referred for support and LPL did nothing wrong in providing that 
answer.
Mental health
Mr N declared he suffered from depression, which was controlled by medication and didnt 
have any impact on his day-to-day life.  But he answered no to the question:
Have you ever had any of these?
Options - Multiple sclerosis, epilepsy, Parkinson's or any other disorder of the brain or 
nervous system, Any mental health issue that's required a hospital or psychiatric referral or 
have you attempted or thought about suicide or self harm, A positive test, or are you waiting 
on the results of a test for, HIV, AIDS or hepatitis B or C, No.
When U considered the claim, they noted information on Mr Ns medical history which led 
them to say he should have answered this question differently  and which led to them 
declining the claim.
Again, Ive relied on the call recording in which the adviser took Mr N through the 
questionnaire.  He clearly answered no to this question  which was what the adviser 
recorded.  So Im satisfied LPL didnt do anything wrong here either. 
Advice on sale
In response to the investigators view, Mrs Ns representatives raised an additional 
complaint, namely that LPL didnt give Mr and Mrs N the best advice about the policies they 
were sold.  
Immediately prior to buying these policies, Mr and Mrs N had separate level term life policies 
providing £150,000 for each of them.  Mrs Ns representative says it would have been more 
cost effective, and provided better cover, for them to have retained those policies and bought 
an additional joint policy than to have replaced them with the policies sold by LPL.
LPL said payments for Mrs Ns policies had already been cancelled by the time they spoke 
to her.  But the alternatives she had sourced, when added to Mr Ns policy, cost more than 
the cover they could source.  And LPL noted Mrs N had only bought her own cover, whereas 
they felt joint cover was suitable for their joint mortgage.
As our investigator explained, our role is to decide whether the advice LPL gave was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs N.  That doesnt necessarily mean they found the absolute best 
arrangement it was possible to buy.  
Having listened to the call, Im satisfied Mrs N was looking for the most competitive price and 
that LPL offered her cover which met her stated wishes to pay off the mortgage should she 
or Mr N die, and provide a lump sum to the survivor.  The option of keeping the separate 
policies was discussed but Mrs N clearly indicated she wanted to proceed on the basis 
suggested by the adviser.  I think that option was a suitable one for her and Mr N.  So I dont 
think they need to do any more in relation to this.  And that means I dont think they need to 
do any more to resolve Mrs Ns complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ns complaint about Lifesearch 
Partners Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman