DRN-2384812
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy because QIC Europe Ltd has declined his claim for impact damage by a 
vehicle to his garden wall.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr A was alerted to the fact that there had been some issue at the rear of 
his property involving the police. He told us that when his mother went round to look at it the 
rear garden wall had collapsed. Mr A made a claim to QIC as he believed this was impact 
damage caused by a vehicle colliding with the wall, although he wasnt able to produce any 
evidence that this had happened, apart from the state of the wall. QIC sent out a surveyor to 
inspect the wall. They advised that the wall was in a poor condition. QIC advised the claim 
would be declined as the damage was due to gradual deterioration and not covered under 
the policy. It pointed out there was no evidence of any paint marks as might have been 
expected if a vehicle had collided with it. It told Mr A it would review the claim if he obtained 
a crime reference number.
Mr A thought the damage was clearly due to a vehicle colliding with the wall. He produced 
photos showing the whole wall had been shifted by the impact and was now leaning over. 
He told us the wall was perfectly ok before the vehicle hit it.
On referral to this service our investigator thought that there was insufficient evidence to 
prove Mr As assertion that the damage was due to impact by a vehicle. In particular Mr A 
hadnt reported the matter to the police.
Mr A disagreed and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a consumer makes a claim under an insurance policy it is for them to show that there 
is a viable claim under the policy. I appreciate that Mr A believes he has provided evidence 
to show that his garden wall was hit by a car. This consists of photos which do indeed show 
the wall has been pushed out of alignment and whole courses of bricks have moved. But 
QICs surveyor referred to the wall being in a poor state and I have no way of knowing what 
condition the wall was in before it collapsed.
I accept that there is some doubt about the cause of the walls collapse. And it is possible 
that a vehicle might have crashed into it. But if this had happened its likely that there would 
be some physical evidence e.g. paint marks or tyre marks. I understand that Mr A was 
alerted to it by a neighbour and that there was police activity in the area on the day in 
question. If he had contacted the police they might have been able to find witnesses, CCTV 
evidence and/or inspect the area to see if there was any forensic evidence. Any car would 
have been severely damaged and the occupant(s) injured and possible to trace. QIC did 
agree that it would look at the claim again if Mr A obtained a crime reference number, but he 
chose not to report it.
In order to uphold Mr As complaint I would have to find that it is most likely that the wall was 
damaged by a vehicle colliding with it. As the evidence stands I cant find that. The only 
expert report is that of QICs surveyor. They were unable to say what the primary cause of 
the collapse was but did find that the wall had a high degree of wear and tear to the pointing, 
pre-existing cracking, and was backed with hedging, vegetation and soil mounded to its rear. 
Without any expert evidence to the contrary I think it reasonable to accept that report and 
find that the main cause of the damage was wear and tear and the condition of the wall. 
Lastly I have looked at whether the damage could have been covered under any other part 
of the policy. The only other possibility would be accidental damage but Ive noted that Mr A 
doesnt have extended accidental damage for buildings on his policy. 
 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman