DRN-2093564
The complaint
Mr S complains Aviva Insurance Limited didnt fully repair his wifes car after it was involved 
in an accident.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Aviva arranged for the damage to the car to fixed by their approved repairers. When 
fixing the car, the approved repairers didnt deal with the damage to the rear alloy 
because they didnt consider it was caused by the accident claimed for.
After Mr S complained about the remaining damage, Aviva arranged for an 
independent engineer to inspect the rear alloy. This is what wed expect an insurer to 
do in these circumstances, so Im pleased to see Aviva didnt delay in arranging for 
this to happen.
After inspecting the car, the independent engineer sent Aviva a report saying they 
considered the damage to the rear alloy existed before the accident. This was due to 
the weathering process on the area of damage. They also said they would have 
expected the damage to have been identical to that on the front tyre had it been 
caused by the accident  but they didnt think that was the case. We would expect an 
insurer to base their decision on the opinions of experts. As their repairer and an 
independent engineer agree the damage was pre-existing, I dont consider Aviva 
treated Mr S unfairly when they declined to cover the repairs to the rear alloy.
Mr S has confirmed he doesnt have an independent engineers report that says the 
damage was consistent with the accident claimed for. In the absence of this, I cant 
fairly say Aviva should cover the necessary repairs for the rear alloy.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr S frustration, I do not uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman