DRN-2063170
The complaint
Mrs Hs complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) relates to the loss she sustained as a 
result of an exchange rate change, when funds she initially transferred to a third party 
abroad were returned.
What happened
On the 4 February Mrs H transferred some money to a company abroad for the purpose of 
an investment. The money was transferred from GBP to USD. I shall refer to that company 
as Z. The bank charges for sending the money were £25. The investment didnt proceed so 
Z returned the money to her on the 14 February. This time the money was transferred from 
USD to GBP. When Mrs H checked her account, she noticed there was a significant 
difference between the amount she sent and the amount which came back. 
Mrs H raised this with Lloyds who told her the reason was due to the difference in the 
exchange rates which applied on the day of each transfer. They explained the exchange 
rates they used and provided her with a link to their website. So, they didnt think they had 
done anything wrong and didnt uphold her complaint.
Mrs H was unhappy with Lloydss final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that Lloyds had carried out the 
transfers in accordance with the terms and conditions which governed Mrs Hs account and 
so hadnt done anything.
Mrs H didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The agreed facts are that when the money was transferred on the 4 February the exchange 
rate Lloyds used was 1.2546. The transfer was successful and received by the bank Mrs H 
was transferring it to. Some 10 days later, when the money was transferred back by to Mrs H 
it was initiated by Z and the rate Lloyds used on that day was 1.35. Lloyds have confirmed 
that the rate used was their Standard Exchange Rate (SER). 
Its also agreed that the reason the funds were returned by Z and was because Mrs Hs 
investment wasnt proceeding. It is an important point to note that Mrs H didnt instruct 
Lloyds regarding the transfer of the money back to her account, and she didnt seek any 
advice from them about it. She did however check the charges Lloyds would make before 
she sent the money abroad. 
Mrs H has said that her research showed that the Bank of England exchange rate barely 
changed at all during the period concerned, and therefore it is unfair that she should lose so 
much money. She described the loss she sustained as being due to Lloyds charges, but that 
is not correct. Lloyds have confirmed that her loss arose because of the change in the SER. 
Mrs H says shes not an experienced investor and so hadnt been aware that she could have 
discussed the 14 February transfer with Lloyds and or Z prior to it being returned. I have no 
doubt that is correct, but I cant say that just because she was inexperienced Lloyds ought to 
have intervened. And it does not mean that Mrs H is not still bound by the terms and 
conditions she agreed to.
Those terms and conditions provide that electronic payments into her account would be 
subject to Lloyds SER. And here Lloyds did use their SER and so acted as per the terms 
and conditions. And the difference in the amount she received back into her account as 
opposed to the amount she sent is as a result of the SER changing. 
I also note that there is always a difference between the rates for buying and selling currency 
at any given point in time. That is standard in the banking world. And it is always going to be 
likely that the rates will change between any two days, which can obviously be good or bad 
for a customer depending on which way they go. That introduces the issue of risk into buying 
and selling currency and I think had the rates moved positively for Mrs H she would have 
believed that any surplus would have been hers and not the banks to keep. 
But, whilst the Bank of England exchange rate was very different to Lloyds and would have 
produced a better result for Mrs H, that is not the rate she agreed with Lloyds when 
accepting the terms and conditions. I know Mrs H feels there is no justification for the loss 
she has sustained, but as the transfers were carried out in accordance with the terms and 
conditions I cant say that Lloyds have acted unfairly or done anything wrong. 
And I also know Mrs H feels that banks shouldnt be able to make profits from transactions 
such as this, but this service doesnt have the power to make tell banks how they should 
operate. Any overall concerns about business process would need to be raised with The 
Financial Conduct Authority. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman