DRN-2301503
The complaint 
Miss S is unhappy that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance Limited (BPF), failed to write off a loan and remove reporting from her credit file 
after shed informed it that the application was fraudulent.
What happened
In January 2017, a loan was taken out with BPF in Miss Ss name for the purchase of a 
vehicle. 
In February 2017, Miss S discovered the loan as a result of the fraudster using her genuine 
banking details to set up a direct debit. She contacted BPF and informed it that she hadnt 
made application for the loan and that her identity had been stolen. Miss S was unable to 
pass securityas the application was fraudulentand so she was advised to contact her 
bank and cancel the direct debit.
Following receiving a letter, Miss S contacted BPF again in April 2017 to question why she 
was being chased for the debt; she also provided a police reference number. BPF informed 
her that, as she hadnt returned their fraud pack, the fraud claim had been closed. Miss S 
confirmed shed sent the fraud pack to BPF twice. A further pack was sent to her to fill out.
In August 2018 Miss S called BPF again and complained. She said that shed provided a 
crime reference number and that the matter was being investigated by police; so she didnt 
understand why it had been passed to collections. BPF said that the loan was confirmed as 
fraud and was being written off.
In November 2019 Miss S called BPF again to check if the balance had been written off. 
BPF confirmed it had and that a correction had been sent to the credit reference agencies 
regarding the adverse reporting.
In December 2019, BPF sold the debt to a third-party organisation which began to chase 
Miss S for the debt. Miss S again contacted BPF and asked for the matter to be escalated 
due to the errors made.
BPF investigated Miss Ss complaint and found that it had made an error. It acknowledged 
that the account was confirmed as fraudulent in July 2018, but due to administration errors, a 
balance remained on the account and it was eventually sold on to a third-party. It apologised 
for the distress and inconvenience caused, corrected Miss Ss account and sent her a 
cheque for £300 in compensation.
Miss S was unhappy with the amount of compensation offered, so she approached our 
service to look into things further. She said that shed been fighting the debt for three years 
and had been unable to obtain credit as a result of adverse reporting.
An Investigator looked into Miss Ss complaint and asked BPF for comment. BPF pointed out 
the errors made and said that the £300 offered was fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint to compensate Miss S for the distress and inconvenience caused.
The Investigator also asked Miss S for comment regarding the compensation offered and 
requested that she send any evidence of impact, such as failed applications or her credit 
report. But Miss S was unable to supply any evidence of failed credit applications or a copy 
of her credit report to show the impact caused. She did argue that shed received endless 
amounts of letters and calls regarding the debt, it was incorrectly sold on to debt collectors 
and that BPF had allowed credit to be taken out in her name without sufficient checks being 
carried out. She felt that between £5000-£8000 would be an appropriate level of 
compensation in the circumstances, but later dropped this to anywhere over £1000-£1500.
Our Investigator issued her assessment of the complaint. She pointed out that there were 
lengthy gaps between contact from Miss S and suggested that if she were having trouble 
obtaining credit, she likely would have made more of an effort to chase BPF for the matter to 
be resolved. She also pointed out that Miss S wasnt able to evidence any of the impact 
shed suggested such as declined applications or her credit report. But she did acknowledge 
that Miss S had suffered distress and inconvenience as a result of the errors made and felt 
that the £300 paid was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Miss S was unhappy with this assessment as she still felt the compensation was too low. So, 
the matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Miss S and BPF agree that errors have been made and that BPF are responsible for 
those errors. BPF has also now taken steps to put these errors right and has written off the 
debt and removed reporting from Miss Ss credit file. As such, I dont need to reach a finding 
on these points. But Miss B feels that the level of compensation offered doesnt truly reflect 
the impact these errors had on her. So, I need to make a finding on whether I feel the 
compensation offered is fair and reasonable when taking into consideration how this has 
impacted Miss B.
Firstly, Id like to acknowledge that Miss B has been a victim of identity theft here. And whilst 
I empathise with her situation, and cant imagine the upset this has caused her, I feel that I 
must point out that its the fraudsters actions that has resulted in the application being made 
and the crime being committed against BPF using Miss Bs information. So I must think 
about this when considering an appropriate level of compensation. I dont say this to 
downplay the administration errors caused by BPF, but to acknowledge that it would be 
unfair to impart all blame regarding the overall distress and inconvenience caused onto BPF.
This matter did go on for almost three years. And BPF has admitted to accepting the claim of 
fraud in July 2018. This meant that an outstanding balance and incorrect reporting to 
Miss Ss credit file continued for some time after these should have been removed. Miss S 
has been asked by our service to supply any evidence to support her testimony that this 
impacted credit applications in the period in which the debt should have been written off and 
the information removed from her credit file; this might include emails or letters declining the 
application(s) or evidence of searches on her credit report by credit providers. But Miss S 
has been unable to evidence any of this. Given that, it would be unfair on BPF to reflect this 
in the compensation award when there is nothing to support its justification.
It is clear when reading the contact notes BPF have provided that Miss S was progressively 
becoming more frustrated each time she called to chase BPF in putting things right. And 
these telephone calls no doubt inconvenienced Miss S in having to chase this over such an 
extended period. But these periods of communication did contain large gaps; one being over one year. I think this goes further in evidencing the impact on Miss S, as if she was having 
trouble obtaining credit due to the outstanding balance and adverse reporting, I think her 
contact would have likely been more frequent. Miss S has stated in response to the 
Investigators assessment that she feels this point is making her look like shes done 
something wrong, but that isnt the case. Its important to mention this point to evidence the 
level of impact this had on her, and in turn, the appropriate level of compensation.
Ive also considered the fact that the debt was incorrectly sold on to a third-party and Miss S 
then started to receive correspondence chasing her for the debt. I think this likely caused her 
further distress and inconvenience, but Im pleased to see that once this was brought to the 
attention of BPF it rectified this and took the appropriate steps to compensate Miss B; albeit 
far later then it should have.
I think that this repeated error and chasing over a lengthy periodincluding the debt being 
sold incorrectlyhas been appropriately taken into consideration in the compensation 
award. £300 is in the higher area of out moderate compensation band, and I feel this is fair 
due to some of the features Ive mentioned above. As a result, whilst I know that this may 
disappoint Miss S and that she feels it isnt enough, I wont be asking BPF to pay her more. 
But I hope my explanation as to why this is goes some way to alleviating her concerns.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I find that the £300 paid by Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited, trading as Barclays Financial Service Limited, is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman