DRN-3099756
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy as she feels that Vanquis Bank Limited approved her for credit, and later 
increased the credit limit on her account, at times when such credit wasnt affordable for her.
What happened
In early 2017, Miss M applied for a Vanquis credit account. Her application was approved, 
and Miss M was issued with a credit card with an initial credit limit of £250. In December 
2017, Vanquis increased the credit limit on Miss Ms account to £1,000. A further credit limit 
increase to £2,000 took place on August 2018.
In December 2019, Miss M raised a complaint with Vanquis on the basis that she felt that the 
credit that Vanquis had provided her with, both at the time of the initial account application 
and the later credit limit increases, hadnt been affordable for her. Miss M also felt that this 
should have been apparent to Vanquis, had they undertaken checks into her financial 
position at those times.
Vanquis looked at Miss Ms complaint. They noted that they had undertaken checks into 
Miss Ms financial position before approving her account application and before later 
increasing the credit limit on her account, and that there had been nothing resulting from 
those checks that they felt should have given them any causes to suspect that the credit 
being offered to Miss M wouldnt be affordable for her. So, they didnt uphold Miss Ms 
complaint.
Miss M wasnt satisfied with Vanquis response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators, looked at this complaint. But they also felt that the checks that 
Vanquis had undertaken at the time that the credit was offered shouldnt reasonably have 
given Vanquis cause to consider that the credit might be unaffordable for Miss M at those 
times. Because of this, they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before approving a 
customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of credit available to a 
customer on an existing line of credit, the business would undertake reasonable and 
proportionate borrower focussed checks to ensure that any credit being offered to a 
customer is affordable for that customer at that time.
Vanquis say that they did that here. At the time of account application, they took details from 
Miss M about her annual income to check whether any repayments that might become due 
on the account would most likely be affordable for her. Vanquis also obtained information 
about Miss M from a credit reference agency in order to get a better understanding of 
Miss Ms wider financial position. 
Also, before implementing the credit limit increases on Miss Ms account, Vanquis reviewed 
how Miss M had managed the credit account up to that time. And they also obtained 
updated information from a credit reference agency to refresh their understanding of Miss 
Ms wider financial position. And Vanquis maintain that there was nothing resulting from any 
of these checks that they feel should have given them any cause to suspect that the credit 
being offered to Miss M would be unaffordable for her.
Ive reviewed the information that Vanquis assessed when considering the initial account 
application in early 2017. This included being told by Miss M that she was employed with an 
annual income of £23,000 and that there was additional income from other household 
members of approximately £100,000. 
Additionally, the credit file information that Vanquis obtained at that time showed that Miss M 
didnt have an excessive amount of other credit and didnt have any defaults or County Court 
Judgements recorded on her credit file. It also appeared to demonstrate that Miss M was 
managing her existing credit commitments without incident. 
As such, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Vanquis to conclude that Miss M wasnt 
struggling financially at that time and that Miss M would most likely be able to afford a credit 
account with the relatively low credit limit of £250 for which she was subsequently approved.
Ive also reviewed the information that Vanquis assessed when considering the first credit 
limit increase, from £250 to £1,000, in December 2017. Its evident from the credit account 
statements that Miss M was maintaining the balance of her account below the £250 credit 
limit and hadnt incurred any over-limit fees which might provide an indication that she was 
struggling to manage the account. 
Furthermore, the updated credit file information that Vanquis obtained showed that the total 
amount of Miss Ms other external credit had reduced slightly since the Vanquis account had 
been opened, and again didnt provide any suggestion that Miss M might be struggling 
financially at that time. And in consideration of this, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for 
Vanquis to have concluded that Miss M would most likely be able to afford the credit limit 
increase to £1,000 and to have implemented that credit limit increase accordingly.
Finally, Ive reviewed the information that Vanquis assessed when considering the second 
credit limit increase, from £1,000 to £2,000, in August 2018. Again, its evident from the 
account statements that in the months leading up to the second credit limit increase that 
Miss M was maintaining the balance of the account below the credit limit and hadnt incurred 
any over limit fees which might suggest that she was struggling to manage the account.
And again, the information that Vanquis obtained from a credit reference agency 
demonstrated that Miss Ms total amount of other existing credit continued to gradually 
reduce, and it appeared to show that Miss M was continuing to manage and maintain her 
other credit commitments without incident.
Because of this, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Vanquis to conclude that there was 
nothing resulting from the checks that they conducted into Miss Ms financial position at that 
time that should have given them cause to suspect that Miss M might not be able to afford 
the credit limit increase being offered to her, and to therefore implement that increase.Im also satisfied that in all three instances, the checks into Miss Ms financial position were 
reasonable and proportionate and that it wasnt the case that Vanquis should have 
undertaken any additional checks at those times. 
It would be expected by this service that when a business becomes aware that a customer is 
experiencing financial difficulty that the business would provide that customer with an 
appropriate level of forbearance to help them to recover their financial position, if possible.
But in this instance, given that Im satisfied that there was nothing resulting from any of the 
reasonable and proportionate checks that Vanquis undertook into Miss Ms financial position 
at the times of credit provisions, I dont feel that Vanquis should have been expected to 
provide such forbearance measures until such time that Miss M informed them directly that 
she was experiencing financial difficulty. 
And Im satisfied that it wasnt the case that at the time of any of the credit provisions that 
Miss M advised Vanquis herself that she was struggling financially such that the credit being 
offered to her wouldnt be affordable.
Furthermore, when Vanquis were later told by Miss M that she was experiencing financial 
difficulty, it appears that Vanquis provided reasonable help to her. And I say this because 
when Vanquis were made aware of Miss Ms financial struggles, they offered Miss M a 
three-month payment holiday. Its also notable that Miss M subsequently told Vanquis that 
she could afford to make the minimum payments due on the account once again.
Finally, Miss M has questioned whether the fees and charges incurred on the account are 
fair. It must be noted that fees and charges, such as late payment fees, are common on 
credit accounts and are detailed in the account literature provided to the customer around 
the time that the account is first opened. And, having reviewed the account statements, I 
havent seen any instances of fees or charges being applied to the account that appear in 
any way to have been applied to the account unfairly or unreasonably.   
All of which means that I find it very difficult to conclude that Vanquis have acted unfairly 
here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Vanquis to 
take any further action.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss M was wanting, but I trust that shell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman