DRN-3081039
The complaint
Mr H is represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC). The CMC complains that 
Mr H was provided with unsuitable advice from AIB Group (UK) Plc trading as First Trust 
Bank (AIB).
What happened
In February 1999, Mr H invested £7,000.00 into a Guaranteed Stock Market Bond (GSMB) 
with AIB. The six-year bond matured in February 2005 and Mr H received £7,022.55. 
AIB said that when the bond matured, they wrote to Mr H asking him to get in contact to 
obtain the funds from the bond as he didnt hold any other accounts with them at the time.
In June 2020, The CMC Claims contacted AIB on behalf of Mr H to raise a complaint 
regarding the suitability of the GSMB. AIB investigated the complaint and responded on 6 
July 2020 saying the complaint had been made too late. AIB said that the GSMB was 
opened on a non-advised basis and that it was an execution only product.
Unhappy with AIBs decision, the CMC referred the complaint to the service and an 
ombudsman looked at the time bar issue and said that it was a complaint that the service 
could consider.
One of our investigators reviewed the merits of the case and didnt think that AIB had acted 
unfairly. The investigator said that based on what he had seen, there was insufficient 
evidence to conclude that any advice was given to Mr H. The investigator did not uphold the 
complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, the CMC has asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for 
much of the same reasons and wont be upholding the complaint.
The complaint dates back to 1999 and AIB have said in their submission that few records 
remain due to the time that has elapsed. The CMC do not have any documentation from Mr 
H relating to the sale.
Due to the tack of documentation available its not possible for me to say for certain what 
happened at the time and my decision is based on what records are available and what is 
likely to have happened based on the balance of probability.
In their submission to the service, the CMC has said Mr H was provided with advice and the 
GSMB was recommended. They said that Mr H was taken into a side room and asked 
questions about his personal circumstances. The CMC say that this amount to a fact find 
and an application form was completed by the adviser and Mr H.
AIBs submission to the service says that the GSMB was sold on a non-advised basis and 
no fact find was completed. AIB have supplied system records that they say show that no 
advice was provided to Mr H.
I have looked at these records and can see the following:
Financial Services Database. AIB have provided a screen shot of the results from 
searching their database of clients that were provided with advice. This shows that there 
were no matching records from the database.
Upon maturity of the GSMB, AIB said that they wrote to Mr H asking him to contact the 
relationship banker. AIB say that as the letter says to contact the relationship banker and 
not a financial adviser, this is evidence that no advice was provided.
The fact that no matching record was found when AIB searched the database for clients who 
were provided with advice is persuasive. I think that this does give some evidence that AIB 
did not provide Mr H with advice.
I dont think that the second record provided by AIB can be relied upon to say that Mr H was 
not provided with advice. Its not uncommon for a relationship banker to maintain the day to 
day running of an account even when advice is provided by another part of the business.
AIB has said that GSMBs were branch based accounts and that all customers were eligible 
for them. They have said that no branch-based accounts were available on an advised basis 
and this gives further proof that no advice was given to Mr H.
It is unfortunate that no documentation exists from the time that Mr H took out the GSMB but 
I think that based on what I have seen and on the balance of probability, the bond was sold 
on an non-advised basis and no advice was given to Mr H.
In their submission to the service, the CMC has said that while the product may have been 
designed to be non-advised, they say that it is clear that its design and the sales process 
failed to protect Mr H when the advisor stepped over the line and provided advice.
Ive considered this and understand the point they are making but I havent seen any 
evidence in the submission that backs up this claim. Im not doubting Mr Hs recollection of 
events, but my decision is based on the evidence available to me and if this is not clear, 
what is likely to have happened based on the balance of probability.
 
Im unable to see any evidence that AIB have provided advice to Mr H and the CMC have 
not been able to show that advice was provided or that the documentation or sales process 
was misleading. Based on this, Im not going to ask AIB to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 Brian Gray
Ombudsman