DRN-3448675
The complaint
Mr W complains that Equitrade Markets Ltd gave him unsuitable advice to invest in 
Contracts for Difference (CFDs). He says this advice caused him a loss of over £21,000.
What happened
Around June 2015 Mr W was advised by Equitrade to open a CFD trading account with a 
broker Ill refer to as S, and gave it power of attorney to trade on his behalf. In June 2016 he 
revoked this power of attorney in favour of a different firm. 
In November 2020, with the help of a representative, Mr W complained. In short, he said:
Equitrade had not taken reasonable steps to ascertain whether CFD trading was 
suitable for him. He said Equitrade did not have a clear understanding of his 
circumstances, or else it would have established that he had no investment 
experience and was completely unfamiliar with the practicalities of CFD dealing. He 
said that if Equitrade had ensured that he understood the key features, benefits and 
risks of CFD trading, the account would not have been opened. 
He was advised to invest too much of his portfolio in high risk products. 
Equitrade did not explain the likelihood of him making a return on the investment nor 
the impact commissions would have on his ability to make a return. Equitrade did not 
take into account his capacity for loss. 
He was led to believe that he was taking a medium level of risk with his investment, 
when in fact he was taking a high risk. He said that although he may have been given 
some of the risk warnings, Equitrade failed to make sure he understood them. Mr W 
also said that he did not understand at the time how trading on leverage exposed him 
to potentially significant losses with small movements in price, and had he 
understood, he would not have accepted this level of risk. 
Equitrade executed numerous trades with the sole intent of generating commissions 
for it. Equitrade did not explain to him the impact the commissions would have on his 
investment and, had he known, he would not have gone ahead. 
Mr W therefore claimed the losses he sustained during the period Equitrade were advising 
him, 8% interest on that sum and compensation. 
Equitrade looked into Mr Ws complaint, but didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
In short, it said that its advice to Mr W to invest in CFDs was in line with his investment 
objective of capital growth and in line with his attitude to risk. His financial circumstances at 
the time were such that he was able to financially bear the related risks. 
Mr W didnt agree and so the complaint was referred to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt agree the complaint should be 
upheld. His efforts to investigate the complaint were hampered by Equitrades failure to 
provide this service with any of its documentary evidence. In order to reach a fair and 
reasonable conclusion, in addition to Mr Ws testimony, the investigator also obtained:
A fact find with Mr W from a different complaint about similar trading with a different 
firm that post-dated by around a year the events giving rise to this complaint about 
Equitrade. 
Information obtained by S in the course of it establishing whether CFD trading was 
appropriate and opening an account for him, as well as a statement of trading. 
The final response letter from Equitrade. 
The investigator concluded that the information he had obtained from third party sources 
corroborated the statements which Equitrade made in its final response letter  particularly in 
relation to Mr Ws knowledge of investments and trading, and his financial background. He 
considered this information contradicted the claims Mr W had made in his complaint, for 
example that he had no investment experience. And he concluded that, when taking 
everything into account, investing in CFDs in 2015 was suitable for Mr W. He did not uphold 
the complaint. 
Mr W disagreed. He said:
It wasnt fair that the investigator took into account evidence which had not been 
provided by Equitrade. In any event, he had no recollection of the fact find with the 
other firm and could not be sure he had ever seen it or approved it. He did not accept 
the contents were accurate. He said that as the fact find was completed over a year 
after he was advised by Equitrade, it was taking into account experience which he 
had not yet matured in 2015. He also did not accept that the financial circumstances 
as detailed in that fact find were accurate. 
The only reason he began trading with Equitrade was a result of a cold call and a 
home visit by a representative. At that point he agreed to a trial run on the markets, 
and he was initially provided with advice on daily trades. Whilst these seemed 
profitable at first, losses began to build and became unmanageable  it was at this 
point that he stopped trading. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by explaining to Mr W that the rules which govern this service set out what 
evidence I can take into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable. DISP 3.5.8 
explains that I am able to include evidence that would not be admissible in court and 
evidence from third parties (3.5.12). 
For these reasons Im satisfied it was right for the investigator to have taken into account, 
when deciding how persuasive Equitrades final response letter was, the information which S 
obtained at the time Mr W opened his account with it, as well as the fact find which was 
carried out a year later with a different firm. Equitrade has failed to provide this service with any information in relation to the complaint, 
over and above the final response letter which it sent to Mr W. It has not responded to the 
investigators many requests for information. But this failure doesnt change my overall remit, 
which is to decide based on all the available evidence, whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. This means, in my view, that if Mr W received suitable 
advice in 2015 from Equitrade, then it wouldnt be fair to uphold his complaint and award 
compensation simply because Equitrade has not provided the information this service has 
asked for. 
Instead, Im required to consider all the evidence in order to decide whether Equitrade acted 
fairly and reasonably when advising Mr W to invest in CFDs. For the avoidance of doubt, this 
evidence also includes Mr Ws testimony which he set out in his detailed letter of complaint 
to Equitrade.
My starting point when looking at Equitrade actions is COBS 9.2, Assessing suitability. 
Before deciding to advise Mr W to invest in CFDs, Equitrade was required to satisfy itself 
that this type of investment:
Met Mr Ws objectives; 
Was in line with Mr Ws ability to financially bear any related investment risks, 
consistent with his objectives above; 
Was in line with Mr Ws overall experience and knowledge, to the extent that he 
would be able to understand the risks involved. 
I accept Mr Ws representatives submissions that CFDs are generally considered to carry a 
higher risk of capital loss than other investments and that, as such, they are not usually 
going to be suitable for the majority of retail investors. So in the absence of any evidence 
from Equitrade, Ive had to consider Mr Ws circumstances at the time of the advice by 
relying on his testimony and any other evidence available. In doing so, there are a number of 
areas where I consider the evidence contradicts, or undermines, some of the statements Mr 
W made in his complaint:
Mr W claimed in his complaint to Equitrade that he had no investment experience in 
2015 when he was advised to invest in CFDs, but Im not persuaded. I say this 
because:
oThe account opening documentation from S shows he registered as its client 
in 2011  so Mr W must have had some investment experience. 
oHis financial circumstances as confirmed by S show that he had substantial 
investments. 
oThe appropriateness assessment which was carried out, most likely a second 
time, in 2017 showed that he had at least 5 years trading experience. 
oThe fact find which was completed with a different firm in 2016 showed he 
had experience of investing in CFDs, spreadbetting, high risk investments 
and mainstream investments. 
Mr W said he had no experience in CFDs or spreadbetting. But here too, the 
evidence appears to contradict his testimony. The appropriateness assessment 
indicated he had 5 years trading experience, including leveraged products. And it 
suggested that he traded on average 38 times a year. The fact find from 2016 also indicates that he had significant trading experience, including ten years plus in CFDs 
and spreadbetting which would predate his arrangement with Equitrade. 
Mr W claimed that he could not afford to invest so much of his money in something 
so high risk. He says he invested £100,000. But in looking at his trading statement 
from S, Im not persuaded he ever did invest that much money while he had an 
arrangement with Equitrade. I can see that between June 2015 and June 2016 he 
deposited £17,042.26. And I can then see that there were a number of share sales 
which overall netted just under £40,000 (net of profits and losses). Ive not been 
provided with sufficient evidence or explanations around these shares sales  for 
example, whether these were shares which Mr W already owned and chose to sell in 
order to fund his account, or something else. But overall, Ive seen insufficient 
evidence that he deposited £100,000 with Equitrade. 
Connected to this, Mr W also claimed that Equitrade did not take into consideration 
his capacity for loss nor his overall best interests. But here too, Im not persuaded. 
From the evidence Ive seen, Mr Ws financial circumstances at the time showed that 
he broadly had:
oAs of 2015, over £1,000,000 in savings and investments, with income after 
tax of £4,000 per month and disposable income of around £2,500 (the details 
S had on file). 
oThe fact-find in 2016 said he had £80,000 bank deposit, pension worth 
£400,000 and other investments worth £500,000. 
oThe final response letter from Equitrade says that he had savings and 
investments worth around £750,000. 
To my mind these figures are all broadly consistent. Given that these figures come 
from separate sources and appear to corroborate what Equitrade said in its final 
response as well, Im satisfied on balance that this was broadly Mr Ws financial 
position at the time of his arrangement with Equitrade. Overall, given this 
background, Im satisfied that Mr W could afford to invest a proportion of his liquid 
assets into something high risk, like CFDs. I say this because in my view, the 
evidence shows that Mr W was able to financially bear the invested related risks of 
trading CFDs without materially impacting his lifestyle. 
Mr W has also claimed that he was unhappy that Equitrade misled him as to the amount of 
risk trading CFDs would involve, and had he understood the risks, he wouldnt have gone 
ahead. But Im not persuaded by his evidence. 
Ive taken into account Equitrades failure to provide a business file in this case beyond the 
final response letter. But Ive also taken into account the likelihood that Mr W wouldve seen 
risk warnings both when signing up to Equitrades terms and when opening and accessing 
his account with S. Based on this services experience of these types of cases, I think its 
likely that Mr W would have seen risk warnings around this type of trading that wouldve 
alerted him to the fact that he was being advised to invest in something which carried a high 
risk of capital loss. 
Given that, as Ive said above, Im persuaded Mr W did in fact have existing investments, 
and in my view had been investing for some time, Im satisfied he wouldve appreciated that 
there was a strong likelihood that he would lose some, or possibly all, of his invested capital. The question is whether Mr W wanted to take such a level of risk. In reaching my view on 
this issue, Ive taken into account Mr Ws behaviour in June 2016. In my view this is relevant 
because after a year of trading with Equitrade, Mr W had clearly lost a substantial amount of 
money. At this point not only was he aware of the risks of trading CFDs, but he had 
experienced those risks. And yet Mr W did not cease trading and withdraw his capital 
altogether  he changed firms. In my view this shows that Mr W was happy to take this level 
of risk, despite being disappointed with the performance of Equitrades strategy. And so for 
these reasons, Im persuaded Mr W was willing to expose his money to this level of risk 
when he was advised by Equitrade. 
Finally Mr W also claimed that the commissions and the impact they wouldve had on his 
investment werent fully explained to him. He claims that if hed understood how these 
commissions wouldve impacted his investment, he wouldnt have gone ahead. But Im not 
persuaded. Ultimately, its clear to me that after a year of trading with Equitrade, he 
continued to be happy to invest money in an advisory CFD trading service. And on balance, 
given my experience of these cases, Im persuaded that its likely his arrangement with 
Equitrade wouldve been the same, or very similar, to the subsequent arrangement he 
signed and agreed to with another firm in June 2016. In my view, if the level of commissions 
being generated by Equitrade had been a cause for concern or something which wouldve 
convinced him not to continue, he would not have signed up with another firm. Ive seen 
insufficient evidence, based on the trading statement alone, that Equitrade churned Mr Ws 
account with the only intention of generating commission and not placing suitable trades.
Taking all the information I have into account, Im persuaded that Mr W was able and willing 
to invest in CFDs with a portion of his liquid assets, be that cash and/or the sale of some 
shares. Given the evidence available, Im persuaded that Mr W was both financially able, 
and willing, to take a high risk with his money in order to pursue the potentially higher 
rewards which trading CFDs can bring. Im persuaded that his desire to continue trading, 
with advice, beyond the end of his arrangement with Equitrade, is evidence of this. And Im 
satisfied he had the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the investment 
related risks involved in trading CFDs. 
So for all these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman