DRN-1631371
 
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about the way a transaction was debited from his account.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Here Mr M is unhappy about the way a continuous payment authority (CPA) was 
operated. This allowed a merchant to take payments as and when they become due. 
We arent a regulator and cannot ask a business to change its policies or procedures. 
And we cannot instruct a business to decline these types of CPA transactions or say 
the card holder should be contacted to verify them. We also cannot comment on how 
the merchant obtained the verification information.
Mr M bought an item from the merchant using his card details and a CPA was set up 
at that time with the same verification method. As there was a 30 day free trial period 
no amount was charged at that time. But after this free trial period ended a monthly 
charge was verified and taken by the merchant from the card in the same way as the 
previous transaction.
RBS would only become aware of an issue with the transaction when its flagged by 
the cardholder. Because of this I dont think RBS did anything wrong allowing the 
CPA transaction to debit Mr Ms account under the CPA as it had been verified. And I 
therefore cant fairly or reasonably ask RBS to do anything more or differently.
 
For these reasons, although I recognise Mr Ms frustration, I do not uphold this complaint.
My Final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman