DRN-1764486
 
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Zurich Insurance PLCs handling of his car insurance policy
Reference to Zurich includes their agents.
What happened
Mr S was involved in a multi-car accident in February 2019 and unfortunately he suffered 
injuries. He claimed on his Zurich car insurance policy.
Despite not having taken out an uninsured loss recovery add on to his policy, when Mr S 
reported the claim Zurich wrongly told him that they could help in recovering his policy 
excess and take care of his injury claim. Zurich soon corrected their misinformation but Mr S 
complained. Mr S was also unhappy that Zurichs agent initially gave an incorrect total loss 
valuation for his car that was only increased after Mr S did his own research and objected; 
and that there was a delay in Zurich giving him the total loss valuation. He also said Zurichs 
communication was poor and they failed to tell him that the other driver had admitted liability 
for the accident.
Mr S said he spent in excess of 30 hours trying to research insurance procedures in order 
to understand how best to proceed. He also said Zurichs failure to act with professionalism 
resulted in increased stress, undue suffering, anxiety, disappointment and upset.
Zurich accepted that some of their service could have been better. They initially offered Mr S 
£150 compensation but they later increased that to £200. And although Mr S wasnt entitled 
to a courtesy car under his policy because his car was a total loss, as a gesture of goodwill 
Zurich offered Mr S a car to keep him mobile for seven days, although he rejected that. Mr S 
brought his complaint to our service because he didnt think Zurichs offer of compensation 
went far enough to address the impact of the distress and inconvenience he experienced. 
One of our investigators looked into it. She felt that Zurich should increase the compensation 
by £150 to a total of £350. Mr S agreed with our investigator but Zurich didnt. As a result, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding it as I 
agree with our investigator that £350 compensation is a reasonable amount in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ill explain why.
Zurich have accepted their service could have been better and that their actions caused Mr 
S distress and inconvenience. And while the accident and Mr Ss injuries were not Zurichs 
fault, I think the fact that the accident was serious enough to cause him injuries meant Mr S 
was potentially more vulnerable than had he not suffered injuries. Zurich should have taken 
more care in how they dealt with Mr S so soon after his accident. I note that Zurich have said they corrected the misinformation two days after they told him they could help with his injury 
claim and recovery of excess. But Zurich giving Mr S the expectation that they would help 
with those matters and then changing their position clearly had an adverse impact on Mr S. 
But the misinformation wasnt the only issue that caused Mr S distress and inconvenience. 
The initial total loss valuation of his car was incorrect and it was only as a result of Mr S 
challenging Zurich that it was increased. That shouldnt have happened. And as I understand 
it Mr S doesnt have insurance industry knowledge which is why I understand he spent a 
substantial amount of time doing his own research into how to deal with the problems that 
arose. He estimated that he spent in excess of 30 hours. I think that increased his distress 
and inconvenience at an already difficult time.
I note that Zurich have said before their first offer of £150 compensation they spoke with our 
services technical team who said £150 compensation was reasonable. But I have two 
observations in response to that. First, despite that suggested amount of compensation, 
after Zurich spoke with Mr S they felt it appropriate to increase the compensation to £200 
because of the realisation that Mr S had experienced a certain degree of distress and 
inconvenience, I think more than Zurich had initially appreciated. And second, while our 
technical team may have suggested to Zurich that £150 was reasonable, that would have 
happened at an early stage where the person spoken to wouldnt have seen or assessed the 
full evidence and information that was later provided to our service which was fully reviewed 
and considered by both our investigator and me. And as Zurich will know, the information 
from our technical team is general advice only. It was based solely on what Zurich had told 
us. And as such Zurich should know that we might make a different decision once we've 
considered all the available evidence.
I also note that Zurich did offer Mr S a replacement car for seven days as a gesture of 
goodwill and as part of Zurichs compensation for their service issues. But Mr S didnt take 
that offer up, so it didnt cost Zurich anything because a car wasnt provided. Had Mr S taken 
up that offer I think Zurich would have incurred costs which would have been in addition to 
the £200 cash compensation they offered him.
When considering whether or not to award compensation and if so how much we consider 
each case on its merits. Different people are impacted in different ways. And assessing what 
is reasonable compensation isnt an exact science. And having considered all the 
circumstances in this case carefully I think £350 compensation is reasonable as thats in line 
with awards we make on cases of similar seriousness
Finally, I understand that Mr S found out from his own solicitor that the other driver had 
admitted liability for the accident. Mr S was disappointed that Zurich hadnt told him that. But 
Zurich said they werent aware of that. Given Mr Ss own solicitor had dealings with the other 
drivers insurer, I understand in relation to his uninsured losses claim, I think its possible that 
his own solicitor was told first that the other driver admitted fault. And it may have been the 
case that the other drivers insurer didnt tell Zurich. I therefore dont have any convincing 
evidence to satisfy me that Zurich have done anything wrong in this regard.
Putting things right
I require Zurich Insurance PLC to pay Mr S £350 compensation, in total, for the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint. I require Zurich Insurance PLC 
to pay Mr S £350 compensation, in total, for the distress and inconvenience he experienced. This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mr S has accepted my final 
decision. If they pay later than that they must also pay interest on that amount from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.[i]
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
 
[i] If Zurich consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr S how much theyve taken off. They should also give 
Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if 
appropriate.
 
 
Mehmet Osman
Ombudsman