DRN-1650870
The complaint
Mrs G says Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited didnt keep under regular review a long-term
care policy shed taken out in 2003.
What happened
Mrs G had the benefit of a long-term care policy which she took out in 2003. 
The policy couldve provided Mrs G a regular income to pay fees for a nursing home or 
home care should she have been in the position of no longer being able to do certain tasks 
to look after herself because of old age / disablement.
After Mrs G contacted Aviva in early 2019, it noticed that it had failed to increase the 
maximum benefits under the policy each year between 2008 and early 2019, in line with the 
growth of the retail price index (RPI). Further, Mrs Gs monthly premiums shouldve 
increased in line with the RPI but hadnt. Theyd remained at the same level as 2008.  
Aviva confirmed that it would pay for the increase in premiums which shouldve been due
between April 2009 and January 2019 inclusive. And that Mrs G would be charged an 
increased premium from February 2019 to reflect what the correct amount shouldve been.
Mrs G was unhappy with the service shed received from Aviva and that it had failed to 
manage the policy properly between 2009 and 2019 inclusive. She also said she hadnt 
understood the type of policy she had taken out; she thought it was an investment. Had 
Aviva managed her policy as it shouldve she says she wouldve understood much sooner 
than she didnt have a need for the policy. And she wouldve cancelled it, saving a significant 
amount in monthly premiums. 
Aviva apologised and offered Mrs G £150 to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused her. 
Mrs G didnt think that was fair. She complained to our service and declined to accept 
Avivas offer of £150.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Gs complaint.  She said that the offer of £150 fairly 
reflected the distress and inconvenience Mrs G experienced as a result of what Aviva did 
wrong. And had Aviva been in touch with Mrs G more frequently between 2009 and early 
2019, she didnt think that wouldve prompted Mrs G to cancel the policy. 
Mrs G disagreed. So, her complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh 
and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
So that everyone is clear, I havent looked at whether the policy was mis-sold to Mrs G. That 
forms part of a separate complaint Mrs G has brought to our Service. And an ombudsman 
determined in April 2020 that the policy hadnt been mis-sold in 2003. 
Aviva accepts it made errors when manging Mrs Gs policy; it failed to increase the 
maximum benefits under the policy each year between 2008 and early 2019, in line with RPI. 
And nor had Mrs Gs monthly premiums increased in line with RPI since 2008. 
To make up for that error, Aviva confirmed it would pay the increase in premiums which 
shouldve been due between April 2009 and January 2019 inclusive. Im satisfied that was 
fair and reasonable as this ensured that the benefits that couldve been payable under the 
policy were unaffected by the mistakes that had occurred.
It also apologised to Mrs G and offered £150 compensation to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused her as a result of its errors.
I accept that Mrs G wouldve been upset to learn that Aviva hadnt been managing the policy 
as it shouldve been during 2008 and early 2019; and that the benefits hadnt increased in 
line with RPI. I also accept that she was put to some inconvenience having to correspond 
with Aviva about this issue and responding to Avivas letters which she says, at times, were 
incomprehensible. However, Im satisfied that £150 is a fair reflection of the distress and 
inconvenience Mrs G experienced as a result of what Aviva did wrong. 
Mrs G also says that had Aviva been in touch to review the policy between 2008 and early 
2019, providing annual policy alternation statements, she wouldve realised much sooner 
that the policy shed taken out wasnt an investment but an insurance policy, which she had 
no need for. 
An ombudsman has already considered the documents Mrs G received around the time the 
policy was sold to her in 2003 and concluded: as I consider the paperwork and 
recommendation were both clear about what benefit the policy provided, I cant agree that 
this policy was mis-sold to her. So, on the balance of probabilities, I dont think Aviva being 
more regularly in touch with Mrs G about the policy wouldve prompted her to cancel the 
policy. 
I understand that Mrs G has now cancelled the policy. But Im not persuaded that means she 
wouldve cancelled the policy had Aviva been in touch more often before early 2019. 
Particularly as Aviva provided Mrs G with a copy of her plan certificate in the summer of 
2011 which confirmed the plan type as Future Assured Long-Term Care Plan and sets out 
the benefits. The proposal form was also sent to Mrs G undercover of a letter dated 2 August 
2011 and that refers to it being an insurance policy and sets out the amount of the care 
benefit. As such, had Aviva reviewed the policy and / or sent Mrs G policy alteration 
statements between 2008 and the beginning of 2019, Im not persuaded that she wouldve 
cancelled the policy at some time during that period. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman