DRN-3564879
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund money she lost, which she believes 
was as the result of a scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in great 
detail here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties I understand it to 
be as follows.
Mrs G was looking to purchase a bar and saw one online that interested her. Before going 
ahead with the purchase, Mrs G has said that she checked the company was registered on 
Companies House, read reviews and checked the account name with the receiving bank 
(the bank to which the payment was to be sent).
On 2 May 2021, having carried out her checks and satisfied with what she had seen, Mrs G 
went ahead and made a payment of £249.99, via her online banking, to purchase the bar.  
Mrs G was expecting the item to be delivered within 6-8 weeks. But before it was delivered, 
Mrs G received a communication from the company to say that it had been forced into 
administration and that matters were being dealt with through an insolvency company.
Realising something was wrong, Mrs G contacted Santander. Santander looked into things 
and issued its final response in July 2021, not upholding Mrs Gs complaint. It said it was 
sorry to hear the company had ceased trading, but it was unable to provide a 
reimbursement. Santander has said the merchant had unfortunately gone into liquidation, 
but it didnt consider this to be a fraud.
Mrs G then brought her complaint to our service, as she believes this was a scam. In 
summary, she said other customers have also lost their money and not received their goods, 
but some of them have received refunds from their banks. One of our investigators looked 
into things, but didnt uphold Mrs Gs complaint, in summary this was because she didnt 
think Santander were wrong to say this was a civil dispute.
Our investigator said this because; it appeared the company had fallen into difficulties shortly 
after Mrs G had made her payment, the company was registered with Companies House, 
there were no concerns from the receiving bank, about how the company had been running 
its bank account and it appeared it had made attempts to refund some customers where 
possible.
Mrs G didnt agree with the investigators opinion. As agreement couldnt be reached the 
complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
I appreciate Mrs G has referred to other consumers, who have received refunds of money 
they paid to the same company she had paid. But I would point out that, while on the surface 
complaints may seem quite similar, each complaint is determined by its own individual 
circumstances. Here, as Im required to do, Ive looked solely at the individual circumstances 
of Mrs Gs complaint.
Both the bank and our investigator felt the payment Mrs G made formed part of a civil 
dispute. Mrs G strongly disagrees, she considers this is a scam. However, based on what I 
currently know, Ive not seen anything that I can safely say meets the high legal threshold 
and burden of proof for fraud. Rather, this appears to be a case of a legitimate business 
failing and not being able to honour its customers orders.
Its clear the agreement Mrs G entered into with the company did not go as planned and she 
has not received what she was expecting. And I can understand entirely why she feels so 
strongly about what has happened. But I cant safely say with any certainty, with what I 
know, that the company set out with an intent to defraud her.
The company Mrs G paid was a registered limited company, which had been incorporated in 
2020 and whose principle activity was the manufacturing of furniture. And Im mindful that it 
had reviews, some of which Mrs G has said shed seen before making payment, indicating 
other customers had their orders successfully completed.
Alongside this, Im also mindful that there are some other factors, in the circumstances of 
this case, that dont carry the typical hallmarks of these particular types of scam or a trader 
setting out with an intent to defraud. The seller, at least for a time, was still contactable after 
Mrs G had made the payment  proactively telling Mrs G that the company had gone into 
administration. This is not typically the case with fraudsters, who more often than not are not 
able to be contacted after they have taken a victims money. As well as this, evidence weve 
seen from the receiving bank, indicates that the seller had previously successfully carried out 
similar transactions with other customers, without any concerns being raised and had also 
made attempts to refund other customers.
Im aware Mrs G has said the Insolvency Practitioner, who was initially appointed to deal 
with the companys affairs, had pulled out and this in some way supported that this was a 
scam. But I dont agree with Mrs Gs position on this matter, I say this because there could 
be any number of reasons, why the Insolvency Practitioner decided not to proceed. And Im 
not persuaded that this, in and of itself, is a clear indication that a company had set out to 
defraud its customers. 
Based on what I currently know, while I dont dispute Mrs G has been treated badly by the 
company, Ive not seen anything that I can safely say meets the high legal threshold and 
burden of proof for fraud.
Rather, this appears to be a case of a legitimate company that has fallen onto hard times 
and subsequently been unable to meet its obligations to its customers. So, on balance, 
taking into account everything thats been said and provided, I cant fairly conclude that     
Mrs G has been a victim of a scam or that the company she made her payments to were 
operating fraudulently.I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs G. But overall, for the reasons Ive 
explained I cant fairly or reasonably ask Santander to refund the money that has been paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman