DRN-4348191
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with a processing fee charged by TJM Cars Ltd trading as Discover Car 
Leasing (TJM).
What happened
In February 2022 Mr P paid TJM a £280 processing fee as a broker when he ordered a car. 
It appears Mr P later intended to enter into a Personal Contract Hire (PCP) agreement to 
fund the acquisition.
Due to manufacturing delays, Mr P says the estimated delivery for the car went from around 
16 weeks to over 40 weeks. So, he decided to cancel the order. Mr P requested that TJM 
reimburse him the £280 fee he had paid. But TJM said this wasnt due back.
Mr P was unhappy with this and complained to TJM. It issued a response to Mr Ps 
complaint, that TJM said was sent in July 2022. This said, in summary, that it would like to 
reimburse all of its customers who have experienced a delay, but this would cause it to go 
into debt. TJM said it had made sure it was covered on the order form.
Mr P remained unhappy with this and referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator issued an opinion. She explained, in summary, that the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (CCA) sets out that if a consumer doesnt enter into a finance agreement within 
six months of an introduction to a source of credit or hire, they can recover their money back 
from brokerage fees, save for £5. So, our investigator said TJM should reimburse Mr P 
£275.
Mr P agreed with the outcome.
TJM didnt agree. It said, in summary, that its order form makes it clear the processing fee is 
strictly non-refundable. It said it couldve charged Mr P a cancellation fee of £299, but didnt. 
It said it wasnt reasonable to reimburse all consumers where delivery had been delayed. 
And it pointed to a different case with our service which it said had a different outcome.
Our investigator explained this didnt change her opinion. So, the case was passed to me to 
decide.
I sent Mr P and TJM a provisional decision on 11 August 2023. My findings from this 
decision were as follows:
Mr P complains about fees charged for credit broking services. Assisting an individual by 
undertaking preparatory work with a view to that person entering into a regulated credit 
agreement is a regulated activity as set out in The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(Regulated Activities) Order 2001. Im satisfied this means I can consider Mr Ps complaint 
about TJM.
What I need to consider here is whether it was reasonable for TJM to decline Mr Ps request 
for a refund of the £280 he paid it.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law, regulations 
and guidance. The CCA is relevant to this complaint.
Section 155 of the CCA explains:
Subject to subsection (2A), the excess over £5 of a fee or commission for his services 
charged by a credit-broker to an individual to whom this subsection applies shall cease to be 
payable or, as the case may be, shall be recoverable by the individual if the introduction 
does not result in his entering into a relevant agreement within the six months following the 
introduction
It goes on to explain a relevant agreement would be a regulated agreement.
So, what I need to consider here is, firstly, whether the £280 charged to Mr P by TJM falls 
under the description above. And secondly, whether Mr P entered into a regulated 
agreement within six months.
Ive looked at the Vehicle Order Form and the associated terms Mr P signed. This makes 
several references to the £280, and every time this charge is referred to as a processing 
fee.
The vehicle order form explains:
When using our credit broking services, you may be required to pay a charge in relation to 
those services which constitutes our processing fee
While I believe TJM have implied this fee was for services other than, or in addition to, credit 
broking - I cant see any explanation of this. And no further breakdown of this cost is 
provided to suggest part of it was for credit broking and part for another service, nor is it set 
out what proportion of the fee this may be.
Thinking about this, Im satisfied the order form makes it clear the £280 charged is a fee 
specifically for TJMs credit broking services. It follows that I think its quite clear this meets 
the description of fee or commission for his services as set out in S155 of the CCA.
So, I then need to consider if Mr P entered into a regulated agreement. But, all parties here 
agree this wasnt the case. Mr P cancelled the order for the car before any credit agreement 
was entered into.
TJM has referenced a specific part of its order form that it says means it doesnt have to 
reimburse Mr P. That being:
Any estimated date quoted for delivery of the Goods is approximate only and the Company 
shall not be liable for any loss suffered by the Customer arising from any delay in delivery of 
the Goods, howsoever caused
Ive thought carefully about this. Im not sure that the event of TJM declining to reimburse the 
processing fee could be fairly described as a loss arising from a delay in the context above.
But, either way, even I accepted that this was the case, Im satisfied this term doesnt take 
precedence over what is set out in the CCA.
Thinking about all of this, Im satisfied S155 of the CCA explains that Mr P had a right to recover all but £5 of the fee he paid to TJM for its credit broking services.
I appreciate TJM said it could charge Mr P a cancellation fee of £299, but it chose not to. 
But, I dont think this affects the situation with the £280 fee.
I appreciate TJM has referenced another case with our service that it believes shows the fee 
shouldnt be reimbursed. But I need to consider whats fair and reasonable in the specific 
circumstances of this complaint. So, this doesnt change my opinion.
I gave both parties four weeks to come back with any further comments or evidence. 
Mr P got in touch and said he was satisfied with the decision. 
TJM got in touch and said it understood the decision and didnt wish to provide any further 
information. It said it would give Mr P £297.40.
But, TJM also said it would now charge Mr P a £299.99 cancellation fee.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about all of the information and comments on this case again, I still think it 
should be upheld. This is for the same reasons I explained in my provisional decision and 
set out above.
It isnt my place to check the figures TJM gave us, but I would ask it to make sure any 
payment is in line with the directions given below.
I understand as a response to my provisional decision that TJM now plans to charge Mr P a 
cancellation fee of around £300. To be very clear, I am not making any finding about this fee 
in this decision. If TJM charges Mr P the cancellation fee and he is unhappy, he will need to 
complain to TJM and may ultimately have the right to bring a further complaint to this 
service.
That being said, I would politely remind TJM of its responsibilities as a regulated business. It 
may wish to consider if charging Mr R nearly £300 well over a year after the cancellation, in 
what could potentially be seen as a punitive response to him referring a complaint to our 
service, meets its obligations as set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
In particular, it might be prudent to think about whether this is in line with the guidance the 
FCA sets out in its Principles for Business (PRIN). 
This includes under PRIN 2.1.1 that:
A firm must conduct its business with integrity.
and
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct TJM Cars Ltd trading as Discover Car Leasing to put things right by reimbursing 
Mr P £275 of the £280 fee he paid.
This amount should have 8% simple yearly interest added from the time of payment to the 
time of reimbursement. If TJM considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman