DRN-4142153
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that it was irresponsible for Santander UK PLC to offer her a 
mortgage in 2016 because it was unaffordable.
To settle the complaint Mrs H wants Santander to refund the interest shes paid on the 
mortgage (plus 8% interest) and correct her credit file.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mrs H being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
On 31 October 2016, after taking advice from a mortgage broker, Mrs H applied for a 
mortgage with Santander to enable her to buy a home from a relative. Mrs H wanted to 
borrow just over £290,000 on a capital repayment basis over a term of 20 years, against a 
purchase price of £350,000. The application showed that Mrs H earned £65,000 per annum 
and had no regular credit commitments. Her stated retirement age was stated to be 75. 
The mortgage completed on 22 December 2016. The first two years of the mortgage were at 
a fixed rate of interest. In 2019 Mrs H took out a new two-year fixed rate product, which 
expired in May 2021. Because of arrears on the account, Santander wasnt able to offer 
Mrs H a new interest rate product, so the mortgage is currently on Santanders follow-on 
rate, which is at Bank of England Base Rate plus 3.25%.
In 2022 Mrs H complained to Santander that the mortgage should never have been agreed 
at the point when she took it out in 2016. She said that insufficient checks had been carried 
out to verify her income and other financial commitments. Mrs H said she earned £10,000 
per annum less than the mortgage application stated, and that she had numerous credit 
commitments. Mrs H also questioned why the mortgage term was over a 20-year term, 
taking her up to the age of 74.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. The bank said in its final response letter that the 
application had met its lending criteria at the time and that the mortgage was considered 
affordable. Santander said that Mrs Hs broker had confirmed that her planned retirement 
age was 75. Santander said that any concerns about the advice given would need to be 
taken up with the broker.
Mrs H brought her complaint to our service, where an investigator looked at what had 
happened. However, he wasnt persuaded that the complaint should be upheld. He was 
satisfied that Santander had based its lending decision on the information provided at the 
time of the application. Although certain credit commitments hadnt shown up on the credit 
check Santander carried out, these also hadnt been mentioned on the application form. 
Overall, the investigator didnt think Santander had acted irresponsibly in granting the 
mortgage.
Mrs H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am grateful to Mrs H for answering the additional questions I asked the investigator to 
raise, in order to clarify my understanding of the circumstances at the time of the application 
and since. I also asked the investigator to obtain the brokers file, but the broker has 
confirmed that this has now been destroyed, in line with standard retention policies. It is not 
therefore possible to see what information the broker compiled at the time of the application. 
The crux of this complaint is that Mrs H says that, if Santander had carried out sufficient 
checks, it would have known that her earnings were £10,000 less than declared on the 
application form, her retirement age was not 75 and that she had additional credit 
commitments. Mrs H says that if Santander had carried out due diligence, it would have 
found out about all of this and so would not have agreed the mortgage.
Regulations in place at the time required Santander to carry out an affordability assessment. 
The regulations state that Santander could rely on any evidence of income or information on 
expenditure provided by the customer unless, taking a common sense view, it has reason to 
doubt the evidence or information Santander also had to take reasonable steps to obtain 
details of the customers actual outstanding commitments.
Im satisfied that Santander did verify Mrs Hs income. The payslip Santander was provided 
with (certified as a true copy by the broker) shows that Mrs Hs gross pay for the month of 
October 2016 was £5,492.50 per month, which equates to an annual salary of £65,910, in 
line with the information on the application form. The application stated that Mrs Hs intended 
retirement age was 75, which meant that Santander did not need to obtain verification of 
income into retirement, as this would be after the mortgage term had ended. Santander was 
entitled to treat the information and documentation the broker had provided as being true 
and accurate.
The regulations also state that a credit search should be carried out, which both Santander 
and the broker did. However, none of the additional credit commitments which Mrs H has 
now told us she had at the time showed up on the credit search Santander carried out. They 
werent declared on the application either. 
If Mrs H had provided the broker with details of those commitments but he didnt include 
them on the application, thats something shell need to take up with the broker. The broker 
has confirmed his file has been destroyed, and Mrs H has told us she hasnt kept any 
paperwork from him. Therefore it has not been possible to verify what information the broker 
had in order to advise Mrs H about the mortgage. 
However, I note that the address for one of the credit commitments was different from the 
address on the mortgage application. I also note that the bank statement Mrs H has now 
provided which shows payments going out for other debt commitments bears a different sort 
code and account number from the certified copy current account statement Mrs Hs broker 
provided to Santander. Neither of these showed up on the credit search Santander carried 
out. The mortgage application shows that the broker also carried out a credit check, so it is reasonable to conclude that these commitments didnt show up on his either, otherwise they 
would (or should) have been included on the mortgage application.
After completion of the mortgage in December 2016, all payments were made in full and on 
time, until February 2019. Mrs H has confirmed that she left her employment in 2018. This 
suggests that it is more likely than not that affordability became an issue when Mrs H was no 
longer receiving her regular salary, rather than at the point the mortgage was taken out. I 
note Mrs Hs income also suffered during the pandemic, and that arrears were capitalised in 
2021.
Overall, Im satisfied that, based on the information available to Santander in late 2016, the 
mortgage was not unaffordable at the time it was granted. Consequently, I am satisfied that 
Santander did not act irresponsibly in granting the mortgage.
I am very sorry to note that Mrs H is experiencing financial difficulty, and I have no doubt this 
is an extremely stressful time for her. Santander is required to comply with its regulatory 
obligations to assist customers who are having difficulty making their mortgage repayments 
by offering suitable forbearance, where appropriate. Mrs H should speak to Santander about 
what it can do to help her, particularly as regulations concerning forbearance have recently 
changed and so there might be more Santander can do for her. 
Alternatively Mrs H might find it helpful to speak to one of the free advice agencies, such as 
StepChange, Citizens Advice, Shelter or the Housing Loss Prevention Advice Service. We 
can provide contact details for those agencies if Mrs H would like us to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman