DRN-3746876
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way American International Group UK Limited (AIG) has 
administered a Disabling Injuries Protection Plan.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties. So Ive set out a brief 
summary of what I consider to be the key events.
In 1998, Mr H took out a Disabling Injuries Protection Plan  a personal accident insurance 
policy. Mr H says he was told that the policy was sold to him as providing fixed benefits for a 
fixed price. The original policy was underwritten by New Hampshire Insurance Company  
which is a member company of AIG.
Subsequently, in November 2021, AIG wrote to Mr H to let him know that the price of his 
policy would be increasing by 2.5%. This meant his monthly premium would increase from 
£2.33 to £2.39 with effect from 1 February 2022. The letter gave Mr H 60 days to decide 
whether or not to continue with the policy.
Mr H was unhappy with the increase in his premium and he complained to AIG. He didnt 
think the policy terms entitled it to increase the price of the contract. And Mr H was also 
unhappy because by his calculation, a 2.5% increase in price was 5.825p per month. Over a 
12-month period, a total increase of 2.5% would be 69.9p. But AIG had rounded up the 
monthly amount to increase the price by 6p per month. Over a 12-month period, the total 
increase was therefore 72p  which was more than a 2.5% increase.
AIG didnt think it had done anything wrong. Briefly, it said the monthly premium had been 
increased across its whole book of business. It said Mr H held a monthly-renewable contract 
and that the policy terms allowed it to change premiums if notice was given. 
Mr H remained unhappy with AIGs position and he asked us to look into his complaint. He 
said hed never been provided with a copy of the contract terms AIG was relying on and the 
contract terms hed been given didnt allow AIG to change the monthly premium.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. She felt AIG was entitled to 
decide how much it wanted to charge for its policy, so long as it did so fairly. She considered 
the evidence AIG had provided and she felt it had provided a reasonable explanation for the 
increase in price. She was also satisfied that Mr H had been treated in the same way as any 
other customer in the same scheme. And she felt it had been reasonable for AIG to round-up 
the monthly premium increase to the nearest penny.
The investigator also thought the evidence indicated that AIG had most likely sent Mr H an 
updated copy of the policy terms in November 2009. This copy of the policy booklet included 
a term which allowed AIG to increase the premium, so long as it gave 30 days notice. So 
she concluded that AIG had acted in line with the terms of the contract when it increased Mr 
Hs premium.
Mr H disagreed and Ive summarised his responses to our investigator. He maintained that 
hed been sold a product which wouldnt change over time. He said AIGs policy document 
was not his own policy document. He hadnt received updated contract terms and he wanted 
AIG to honour his original contract.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr H, I dont think AIG has treated him unfairly 
and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr H that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint 
and his submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all thats been said and sent to us. 
Within this decision though, I havent commented on each point thats been made and nor do 
our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues. These are 
whether AIG was contractually entitled to increase Mr Hs premium and, if so, whether it did 
so fairly.
Was AIG contractually entitled to increase Mr Hs policy premium?
Its clear that Mr H feels strongly that he took out a policy around 24 years ago which 
provided fixed benefits for a fixed cost. I can see that the policy was sold to Mr H by an 
appointed representative of New Hampshire Insurance Company, the policy underwriter at 
that time. As Ive set out above, New Hampshire is a member of AIG.
However, while I appreciate Mr H has held the policy for many years, its important that I 
make it clear that AIG isnt obliged to offer cover on exactly the same terms for the entire 
period Mr H chooses to hold the policy. For completeness though, I note though that from 
the copy of the original contract Mr H has provided us, its clear that cover under the policy 
would continue on the same terms unless either the policyholder or insurer gave notice in 
writing of their intention to cancel or amend the policy terms if at least 30 days notice was 
given in writing. In my view then, even under the terms of Mr Hs original policy, it seems the 
insurer was entitled to amend the terms of Mr Hs contract.
AIG has provided us with evidence that in 2009, it carried out a product review of the 
Disabling Injuries Protection Plan and it issued a copy of the revised policy terms and 
conditions to its policyholders. Ive seen a copy of that contract and a sample letter which 
AIG says wouldve accompanied it. The letter is dated August 2009 and set out the key 
changes to the cover, which were due to take effect in November 2009. It also says that new 
policy documents and a schedule were enclosed with the letter, which contain the full policy 
terms and conditions.
Page five of the 2009 policy includes a section called Policy Alteration. This says:
We may change the terms and conditions, including the premium, of the policy as 
considered necessary to reflect any event outside our control that we expect to have an 
impact on future claims which we could not reasonably have foreseen when the assumptions 
were last reviewed, or in the event of any change in the law affecting this policy, for example, 
a change in Insurance Premium Tax. Before we make any changes, we will give the 
policyholder 30 days notice in writing to the policyholders last known address. Alternatively, 
the policyholder can cancel the policy and stop paying premiums altogether. 
In my view, AIGs policy terms make it clear that it is entitled to change the policy premium, if necessary, so long as it provides policyholders with 30 days notice of the change. In this 
case, Mr H has provided evidence to show that AIG wrote to him on 21 November 2021 to 
outline the change in policy price. And I can see from the letter that AIG provided 60 days 
notice of the change in premium, rather than the 30 days set out in the terms of the contract. 
Accordingly, I find that AIG was contractually and reasonably entitled to increase the price of 
Mr Hs policy.
Mr H says he never received the 2009 letter or the revised terms and conditions. And Ive 
considered this carefully. Given over 13 years have passed since the letter was originally 
sent, I wouldnt necessarily expect AIG to still have a copy of the actual letter which was sent 
to Mr H. But it has provided us with a spreadsheet extract, showing policy communications 
with its customers. The extract references Mr Hs policy number, and which shows that the 
2009 update was sent to him. As Mr Hs address doesnt appear to have changed since the 
policy was taken out and now, it seems more likely than not that the update wouldve been 
sent to the address AIG and its administrator held on file. And on balance, I think the 
evidence shows that its most likely that AIG did send the 2009 letter and revised policy 
terms to Mr H. I cant fairly hold AIG responsible if Mr H didnt receive or doesnt remember 
receiving this letter.
Overall, Im satisfied that it was fair for AIG to increase Mr Hs premium.
Did AIG calculate the premium increase fairly?
It might be helpful if I explain how we look at complaints like Mr Hs. We dont generally tell 
insurers how they should calculate risk or what price they can charge to cover that risk.
AIGs entitled to decide whether or not it wants to offer insurance cover for a particular risk 
(in this case, the risk of Mr H suffering an accident). And if it does, what price it needs to 
charge for that. So AIG will have assessed the risk of Mr H needing to make a claim at each 
review or renewal afterwards. If it thinks the risk has gone up (for example, because the risk-
profile has increased), then it may need to put up the premium. 
Accordingly, in complaints like these, what I look at are the factors the insurer has applied to 
calculate the premium and whether its done so fairly. This is so that I can be satisfied that 
Mr H has been treated in the same way as any other customer of AIG in similar 
circumstances and havent been singled out in any way. 
Its clear that after a long period without a premium increase, in November 2021, AIG notified 
Mr H of a 2.5% price rise. So I can understand why hes worried that AIG hasnt treated him 
reasonably. 
AIG explained to us how the premium increase was calculated and the main factors it took 
into account when it calculated the new monthly price. Its also provided us with underwriting 
information which supports its position. Im afraid that I cant share this additional evidence 
with Mr H, as its commercially sensitive and therefore its confidential. But I hope it 
reassures Mr H to know that I have considered this information carefully. 
I can explain though that the main reason for the price increase was the overall performance 
of the Disabling Injuries Healthcare Plan. And Ive seen evidence which shows the same 
price rise of 2.5% was applied to all policyholders who were insured under this scheme. So 
based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied AIGs treated Mr H in the same way it would any other 
policyholder who held the same type of contract. So I cant reasonably say its treated him 
unfairly. 
It's clear Mr H is also unhappy that while an actual 2.5% premium increase on £2.33 per month is calculated at 5.825p, AIG has chosen to round this up to 6p. In my view, this was a 
commercial decision which AIG was entitled to make. Its simply not possible for AIG to 
collect .825 of a penny and I think rounding-up the total amount seems a pragmatic way of 
calculating what premium to charge. As AIG has applied the same percentage increase to all 
policyholders insured under this scheme, I dont find its acted unfairly or irrationally when 
applying the premium increase to the actual policy price.
In summary, whilst I sympathise with Mr Hs position, I dont think AIG has treated him 
unfairly. So I dont find there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman