DRN-3874866
The complaint
Ms W complains Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) refused to accept her attorneys authority to act 
on her account until an Enduring Power of Attorney (EPA) was registered with the Office of 
the Public Guardian (OPG). Ms W is assisted in bringing this case by her Attorney, Mr W.
What happened
Ms W made an EPA on 26 September 2007. It appointed Mr W, her son, as one of three 
attorneys on a joint and several basis. It was registered with OPG on 7 April 2022 with Mr W 
as sole acting attorney. Ms W included a restriction in the EPA that the attorneys shall not 
act on my behalf under this power until they had reason to believe that I have become or am 
becoming mentally incapable.
Mr W told us he approached Lloyds with the EPA to access the account, as attorney, to pay 
Ms Ws bills, most importantly the fees for her care. He did this first in spring 2021 whilst 
preparing the application to the OPG, then in August 2021 when the application was with the 
OPG with an estimated timescale of four to five months to process due to staff shortages. He 
says on both occasions Lloyds refused to talk to him. And it was only in January 2022, after 
he was told by the OPG he was legally entitled to access the account once the application 
for registration had been received by the OPG to process, that Lloyds agreed to submit an 
application to their POA department. Mr W said Lloyds told him they couldnt register it and 
add Mr W to the account due to the restriction in the EPA. 
When Mr W pushed back the application was resubmitted. Lloyds refused again, stating their 
final decision was that they wouldnt allow Mr W to act until the EPA was registered with the 
OPG and returned to him. He complained and Lloyds Final Response, on 30 March 2022 
was that it was unable to accept the EPA which hadnt been signed or stamped by the OPG. 
Lloyds told him this was a requirement for it to be able to allow him to manage Ms Ws 
account.
Lloyds told us it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It has referred the matter to their 
specialist POA team who had confirmed that for the bank to accept the EPA had to be 
signed or stamped by the OPG before Mr W could be allowed to manage Ms Ws accounts. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He though Lloyds hadnt been unreasonable in 
refusing to allow Mr W to access Ms Ws account as they maintained that could only be done 
once the EPA had been registered and stamped by the OPG. And as the request from Mr W 
was made when the EPA hadnt been registered, Lloyds response wasnt unfair or 
unreasonable. So, he didnt think Lloyds need to do anything further. 
Mr W didnt agree. He was concerned about the short amount of time the investigator had 
given to considering his case when coming to the decision. And, that the investigators 
approach to any breach of legislation as he thought looking at the legislation was 
fundamental. I asked Lloyds and Mr W for more information and they both responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have sympathy with the position Ms W and her attorney found themselves in. At a time of 
concern for Ms W, Mr Ws been unable to act under the EPA as he understood he ought to. 
Although I can understand Mr Ws frustration with this situation, from everything Ive seen, 
this isnt a complaint I can uphold.
Firstly, I should make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award redress where appropriate. I do not perform the role of 
the industry regulator and I do not have the power to make rules for financial businesses. 
And its not my role to ask a business to alter its procedures; this is something their regulator 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) can look into if they felt it was necessary.
Its my role to look at individual complaints and in doing so I consider a number of things. Not 
only the testimony and records from both parties but also the relevant law, industry practice 
and guidelines. But, as the investigator has said, its the domain of the courts to make 
findings on any breaches of the law.   
The central issue for Ms W is whether it was right for the bank to insist on waiting for the 
EPA to be registered with the OPG before allowed Mr W, as attorney, to transact on the 
account. Its clear those acting for Ms W feel Lloyds current procedural position is flawed and 
its interpretation of the effects of the statute is wrong.
The relevant law is set out in the Mental Capacity Act 2005.The Act sets out the main 
elements of an EPA and the scope of an attorneys authority. But, as far as I can see, it 
doesnt state as plainly as Mr W puts it, or at all, that a third party is obliged to accept the 
EPA as it is when the donor is becoming or has become mentally incapable.
Its not my function to make findings on any breaches of the law.   What Ive got to look at 
here is whether the bank have done anything wrong in response to that request. 
This service has previously acknowledged that every bank has its own process for 
registering a power of attorney and its up to them how they do this. And for the reasons Ive 
already given, we wouldnt normally interfere with internal policies. From everything Ive 
seen, it seems to me Lloyds consideration of this EPA and refusal to act on it until registered 
is in line with their policies.
Ive looked at industry guidance. The British Bankers Association (now UK Finance) in 
March 2013 published a guide on powers of attorney. It said An enduring power of attorney 
(EPA) is when a person makes a decision, before they become incapacitated, to appoint 
somebody they trust  to look after their finances or property. If the donor has mental 
capacity, you can use the EPA without it having to be registered. However, if you believe the 
donor has lost or is losing their mental capacity, you can only operate the EPA once it has 
been registered with the OPG
More recently The UK Regulators Network and OPG published guidance for business 
covering powers of attorney called Supporting customers who do not make their own 
decisions.  Along with checks to see the EPA is valid it suggests a business then contact 
the donor to confirm whether they want the attorney to act for them and check whether the 
donor has included any restrictions or conditions in Part B of the form. It goes onto say If a 
donor loses mental capacity, their attorneys must register the EPA with OPG to continue 
using it. This is because the donor must consent to attorneys using an unregistered EPA. 
Once the donor can no longer consent, attorneys need legal permission to manage the 
donors finances..  I dont think Lloyds approach to Ms Ws situation contradicts either of 
these.
Theres no doubt when trying to act for Ms W, Mr W was placed in a difficult position. And its temping to take the view Lloyds couldve handled his enquires about Ms Ws account with 
more sensitivity and understanding when it first received them. But Im afraid, as I dont think 
Lloyds have done anything wrong in refusing Mr W access until the EPA was registered, I 
cant ask them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman