DRN-3623283
The complaint
Mr F complains that Arrow Global Limited unfairly declined his request to write off an 
outstanding debt due to his health. 
What happened
In 2019 Arrow acquired a debt in Mr Fs name from a credit card provider Ill call V. Mr F had 
been making payments of £1 a month for some time. The account hadnt been defaulted and 
remained active when bought from V. 
Mr F continued to make payments of £1 a month until April 2020 and began again a few 
months later.
Last year, Mr F contacted agents acting on Arrows behalf and explained he was suffering 
with serious health problems and financial difficulties. Mr F asked Arrow to consider a 
medical write off of the remaining balance. Mr F explained the state of his health meant he 
wouldnt be able to return to work so had no realistic way of repaying the debt at any point in 
the future. Mr F forwarded some medical evidence in support of his request. 
Arrow didnt agree to write off the debt. A short time later, it moved to terminate the loan 
agreement and record a default on Mr Fs credit file. The default was recorded in August 
2021. 
Mr F went on to raise a complaint about Arrows decision to reject his request and terminate 
his loan. Arrow agreed to backdate its default to January 2020 but didnt offer to write off the 
remaining balance. 
An investigator at this service upheld Mr Fs complaint and said the fairest approach, given 
his health and prospects of being able to restart payments in the future, was for Arrow to 
write off the remaining balance. They also said Arrow should remove the default from Mr Fs 
credit file and pay him £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Arrow responded to 
the investigators first set of findings but didnt respond to a follow up. As a result, Mr Fs 
case has been passed to me. 
I recently contacted Arrow and asked it for further comment before making my decision. I 
didnt receive a response. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are several issues at play here. Mr F has asked Arrow to consider writing off the 
remaining balance on the basis hes unfit to return to work and will be unable to repay the 
outstanding debt in the future. Mr F has forwarded evidence from his doctors that shows hes 
suffering with very serious health conditions. 
Mr F has also pointed out hes not worked for some time and is approaching retirement age. 
Added to Mr Fs health concerns, Mr Fs pointed out theres no prospect of him being able to 
go back to work and clear the outstanding balance. 
I appreciate the format of the information provided by Mr F isnt exactly what Arrow asked 
for. But Im satisfied the information Mr Fs sent us along with what hes told us about his 
circumstances and health show theres reasonable grounds to agree a medical write off. I 
recently asked Arrow to consider agreeing this approach but didnt receive a response. 
Based on the information provided, my view is that Mr Fs claim hes unable to work is 
reasonable. 
Im satisfied the investigators view Arrow should write off the outstanding balance is fair in 
the circumstances of this complaint. So Im going to proceed on that basis. 
Our investigator also said Arrow should delete the default entry entirely. I understand Arrow 
purchased an active account. But its case handler has accepted V shouldve defaulted the 
account before the debt was acquired. In the circumstances of Mr Fs case, I think the fairest 
approach would be to backdate the default to the point it shouldve been applied by V. But as 
Arrow cant do that, I agree with the investigator a reasonable approach is to remove the 
default from Mr Fs credit file entirely. 
I think Arrow shouldve taken a wider look at Mr Fs situation and circumstances at an earlier 
point. And I think Mr F makes reasonable points when bringing his complaint and that the 
level of distress caused has been exacerbated by his health. It appears Mr F repeatedly 
went back to Arrow and its agents about the state of his health. But I cant see the same 
level of contact from Arrow or that it fairly considered his requests. 
Given what we know about Mr Fs health and circumstances Im satisfied the issues raised 
caused a significant level of trouble and upset at an already difficult time. So Im also telling 
Arrow to pay Mr F £500 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint and direct Arrow Global Limited to settle as 
follows: 
- Remove the default reported on Mr Fs credit file
- Approve the medical write off as requested by Mr F and cease all collections activity
- Pay Mr F £500 for the distress and inconvenience causedUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman