DRN-3987355
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs F complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (LBG) didnt restore 
their smoke-damaged carpets to their original condition following a fire at their home.
Mr B and Mrs F claimed under their buildings and contents insurance with LBG. They held 
the policy in joint names but, for ease of reading, Ill refer only to Mrs F throughout my 
decision. References to LBG include anyone working on its behalf.
What happened
In summary, Mrs F claimed under her policy after she suffered a fire in one room of her 
home, and smoke damage throughout. LBG accepted the claim and completed repairs. 
However, Mrs F said her carpets had lost the depth of pile after cleaning, so she complained 
to LBG.
LBG inspected the carpets, but it found no evidence of a problem. Mrs F remained unhappy 
and complained again. After inspecting her carpets again, LBG sent Mrs F a final response 
letter saying it had settled the claim in line with the policy and there was no evidence of any 
damage for it to repair. So, Mrs F brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked at the way LBG had handled Mrs Fs claim, but she didnt think LBG 
had done anything wrong. Our investigator said the photos Mrs F provided and LBGs expert 
report didnt indicate any remaining problems with the carpets. She didnt think LBG needed 
to do any more.
Mrs F didnt agree. She said shed provide more photos to show the damaged areas and she 
wanted LBG to replace the carpet in three rooms. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Fs complaint. Ill give my reasons here.
Firstly, Ill clarify that LBG settled the rest of Mrs Fs claim. The only matter in dispute for 
consideration here is the condition of the smoke-damaged carpet. 
Mrs F said her carpet had a much higher pile and softer feel before the fire, but it was 
flattened after LBG cleaned it.
In response to her claim, LBG cleaned Mrs Fs carpet. When she complained, it inspected 
the standard of cleaning and found it to be acceptable. When Mrs F complained again, LBG 
sent two more assessors to inspect the carpet, including the overall feel of it. Again, LBG 
found nothing of concern.
Ive looked at the reports LBG provided, alongside photos taken by its assessor and those 
taken by Mrs F. Having done so, I cant say that theres any clear evidence of a difference in 
the carpet from before cleaning to after cleaning. 
I appreciate that Mrs Fs complaint is more about the feel of the carpet, and this may not 
show up as well in photos. However, Ive also considered the expert report which describes 
the feel and look of the carpet. LBGs assessor said the carpet looked as might be expected 
 flattened pile where Mrs F and her family walk more than other areas, such as through 
doorways. The assessor also said the carpet felt soft underfoot and didnt identify anything to 
suggest the cleaning had altered the carpet.
Mrs Fs before and after photos dont show anything different.
I can only rely on the evidence presented to me and, in the absence of any other expert 
report, I cant fairly say LBG did anything wrong. Im satisfied that LBG treated Mrs F fairly by 
inspecting her carpet after she raised concerns and explaining why it would do no more. I 
havent seen anything to show that LBG failed to restore Mrs Fs carpet to a satisfactory 
condition, so I see no reason to ask it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman