DRN-2902783
Complaint
Mrs E has complained about overdrafts Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) provided 
to her. She says she was provided with overdrafts valued at nearly £6,000.00 without 
checking the affordability and her income.
Background
Mrs E had two current accounts with Halifax. Her first account was opened in April 2018 with 
an overdraft with an initial limit of £150. The limit on this account was gradually increased 
over the course of the next few months until it reached £1,500.00 in November 2018. 
In November 2018, Mrs E also opened a second current account with Halifax. She also 
successfully applied for an overdraft with a limit of £1,500.00 at this time too. By February 
2019, Mrs E had gotten into difficulty on her second account. She contacted Halifax to 
explain this and eventually complained that she shouldnt have been provided with her 
overdrafts in the first place. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mrs E and Halifax had told us. And she thought 
Halifax hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mrs E unfairly. So she didnt recommend that 
Mrs Es complaint be upheld. Mrs E disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Es complaint.
Halifax needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Halifax needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mrs E 
could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Halifax says it agreed to Mrs Es applications after it obtained information on her income and 
expenditure and carried out a credit search. On the other hand, Mrs E says no checks on her 
income or expenditure were carried out. Ive carefully thought about what Mrs E and Halifax 
have said. 
I have to start by saying that I cant see that the combined amount of Mrs Es overdraft limits 
was ever £6,000.00. I know that Mrs E continued making applications for higher limits after 
the last increases on her accounts were agreed. But Halifax declined these applications. So I 
dont think that Halifax ever provided Mrs E with overdrafts of £6,000.00 and Ive considered 
whether Halifax did enough to establish whether Mrs E would be able to repay £3,000.00 
within a reasonable period of time, in this final decision.
From what I can see, Halifax did ask Mrs E about her income as well as some information 
about her expenditure before providing the overdrafts and subsequent limit increases. And 
the information provided did suggest that what was being advanced was affordable. 
However, Im mindful that Mrs E made a few applications within a short period of time. And 
in these circumstances, I think that Halifax should have taken a closer look at her 
circumstances before agreeing to the increases.
That said, having looked through Mrs Es statements, in the lead up to the applications in 
question, I dont think that there was anything concerning during this period of time. I know 
Mrs E says her income wasnt checked. And I dont know if it was. But the amount declared 
was broadly in line with the amount that was going into one of her accounts. Furthermore, 
there wasnt anything in Mrs Es account transactions prior to the applications which 
contradicted what Mrs E had declared about her expenditure either. Equally there wasnt 
anything to indicate Mrs E was experiencing financial difficulty before being provided with the 
overdraft either.
To be clear, Im not saying Mrs E wasnt in financial difficulty at this stage - its possible she 
was. What Im saying is, this isnt immediately obvious from the conduct of her account. As 
this is the case and bearing in mind what Ive already said about the bank statements not 
contradicting Mrs Es income and expenditure declarations, Im satisfied the information 
available suggested Halifax was reasonably entitled to conclude Mrs E could repay what she 
was being lent within a reasonable period of time. 
I know that Mrs Es position did worsen after the overdraft on the second account was 
agreed. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mrs Es 
expenditure, nonetheless her indebtedness grew because significant amounts of non-
committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions account went from the account.  
And it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to use hindsight here or say that Halifax should 
have known this would happen. 
Its also worth me explaining that when Mrs E did get in contact to explain that she was 
struggling Halifax refunded a significant amount of the fees charged and went on to freeze 
the interest on the account. As this is the case, Im satisfied that Halifax did exercise 
forbearance and due consideration when Mrs E explained she was having difficulty repaying 
what she owed.
So overall while I have doubts as to whether Halifaxs checks, for all of the applications, did 
go far enough, bearing in mind what Mrs Es statements in the period leading up to the 
applications showed, I dont think that Halifax treated Mrs E unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing her with her overdrafts or her limit increases. I also think that Halifax didnt treat 
Mrs E unfairly when she explained she was struggling to repay what she owed too. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im not upholding Mrs Es complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mrs E. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman