DRN-2293581
The complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, caused him to lose out on a 
better Junior ISA (JISA) interest rate because of poor communication about changes to 
his JISA.
What happened
Mr F had a personal ISA and Junior ISA (JISA) for his children with Halifax. Because he 
held both types of account, he benefited from a relationship bonus which added 1% 
interest to the standard ISA and JISA rates.  
In 2016 Mr F received a letter from Halifax telling him the JISA interest rate was 
changing from 4% to 3%. This was because the relationship bonus was being removed, 
but this wasnt explained in the letter. The letter also didnt mention this would affect 
Mr Fs ISA interest rate.
In December 2019 Halifax wrote to Mr F to acknowledge the 2016 letter didnt explain 
why the interest rate had reduced. Mr F then complained to Halifax saying hed have 
moved his accounts had he fully understood the reduction in the interest rates. 
Halifax upheld his complaint and said that Mr F could have transferred his ISA 
elsewhere in 2016 and received a better interest rate. So, it reimbursed the difference 
between the rate he received and the rate he could have achieved had he switched his 
ISA at that time. Halifax also paid Mr F £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by its mistake. But Halifax said the letter had been clear about the change in the JISA 
interest rates, so it didnt think Mr F had lost out in relation to the JISA.
Mr F didnt think this was fair, so he brought his complaint to our service. He felt Halifax 
should have compensated him for the interest rate that would have been applicable on 
his childrens JISA had he switched in 2016. 
After reviewing all of the evidence our investigator didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. Mr F 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax has agreed it made a mistake. And it upheld Mr Fs complaint and compensated 
him for the potential loss in interest he could have earned from the ISA and for the 
trouble and upset caused by its mistake. So, I think the only matter left for me to 
consider is whether this mistake also led to Mr F losing out on a better JISA interest rate.
Mr F says he understood, after receiving the 2016 letter, that whilst the interest rate was 
reducing from 4% to 3%, he was still receiving the relationship bonus on top of this. 
He told us he would have moved the JISAs had he known the rate was only 3% in total.
Whilst I havent seen the 2016 letter Halifax has agreed that it wasnt clear and didnt 
explain the relationship bonus was being removed. So, I do think it was reasonable for 
Mr F to assume hed still receive a 1% bonus on top of the 3% interest rate. 
I recognise that Mr F was only ever receiving 4% interest on the JISA with the 
relationship bonus. And had Mr F fully understood the rate he was receiving before the 
reduction, he would have known the standard rate couldnt have been reduced from 4% 
as it was never set that high. But Mr F said he thought hed be receiving interest of 4% in 
total. And I dont think the 2017 JISA statement Mr F received would have suggested 
otherwise, as although it indicated the interest rate had changed, it only listed the higher 
interest rate of 4%. If anything, thats likely to have reinforced the view Mr F had already 
formed.
Whilst Mr Fs JISA statement in 2018 confirmed the interest rate was 3%, Mr F told us 
he didnt pay much attention to the statements, as he relied on the bank to notify him of 
significant changes. And I dont think thats unreasonable.
But Im not persuaded overall that Mr F would have moved his JISA had he known about 
the reduction in interest rates. I say that because having looked at evidence of the JISA 
rates in December 2016, I cant see any national banks that would have offered Mr F a 
better rate. So, whilst I appreciate Mr Fs point, on balance, I think hed probably have 
left things as they were.
And given that I dont think Mr F lost out here, I wont be asking Halifax to do anything 
further to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman