DRN-2956854
The complaint
Mrs T complains about the level of service provided by Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited (LV) under the roadside assistance cover provided by her motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mrs T was going on holiday when her car broke down. She called LV and its recovery agent 
said the problem was with the cars alternator. Mrs T chose to be towed home rather than to 
a garage and she cancelled her holiday. She later found out that the problem was with a belt 
which was quickly repaired. Mrs T thought the roadside diagnostic had caused her to cancel 
her holiday and she wanted LV to reimburse her for this. LV said this wasnt covered by the 
policy and it was Mrs Ts choice to be towed home. It said all roadside diagnostics were 
preliminary. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
policy didnt cover indirect losses and only covered recovery for the first 10 miles. She didnt 
think LVs agent had given Mrs T incorrect information about the fault. She thought Mrs T 
had chosen to be towed home and cancel the holiday. 
Mrs T replied that the recovery agent had given them incorrect information as the belt could 
have been quickly replaced whilst an alternator repair is complex and would have required a 
garage. She said this had influenced their decision to cancel the holiday.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs T feels frustrated. Her car broke down on the motorway and after 
waiting two hours for recovery, she was told that the problem was with the alternator. She 
decided to cancel her holiday, incurring a charge of £116, and to be towed home, at a cost of 
£240. 
She then found that the fault was a broken belt that drove the alternator and water pump. 
This was replaced at a cost of £20. She thought that if this had been correctly diagnosed on 
the day, then it could have been quickly repaired and her holiday could have continued. She 
holds LV responsible for the costs she incurred.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Mrs T thought LVs agent had misdiagnosed the fault with the car. She provided 
photographs of the damaged belt and thought it was readily seen. She told us that this was 
drawn to her attention at home by a neighbour who used to be a recovery agent. But I can 
see that under Section H, General conditions of service, her policy states:
16. Any diagnosis by our breakdown professional is only provisional; you may require a 
follow up diagnosis by your own repairer, at your own cost, to determine the exact nature of 
the breakdown and what work or parts are required for repairs to be completed.
The recovery agent had told Mrs T that the cause of the warning lights coming on was the 
alternator. This is what is recorded on the job sheets. I think the policy terms and conditions 
warn Mrs T that this diagnosis is provisional. I can see from the file notes that LV offered to 
recover Mrs T to a local garage where the fault could have been correctly identified and 
repaired. So I think LV acted within the policy terms and conditions and I cant say that the 
agent should have spotted the problem with the belt at the roadside. 
Mrs T said she then incurred costs because she cancelled her holiday. But I can see that 
indirect costs are excluded by her policys terms and conditions. Under Section I, Service 
limitations and exclusions, the policy states that LV isnt responsible for:
11. Any any direct or indirect losses incurred as a result of the services provided to you 
under this policy or the delay or alleged delay in providing such services.
Mrs T also said she incurred costs for the tow home. The policy only covered her for 10 
miles recovery to a local garage. I think Mrs T chose to be recovered home rather than to a 
garage. I can understand that the breakdown was on a Sunday and she may have thought 
that a garage wouldnt be open then. But I cant reasonably hold LV responsible for this.   
Mrs T made a private arrangement with the recovery agent for the tow. And I cant say that 
LV should reimburse her recovery costs as this wasnt provided by the policy.
So, although I can understand Mrs Ts frustration, I think LV acted within the policy terms 
and conditions and fairly and reasonably. And so I dont require it to reimburse Mrs Ts costs.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman