DRN-2608251
The complaint
Mr B complains about the quality of a car he took possession of under a conditional sale
agreement (finance agreement) with Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (Clydesdale).
  
What happened
In July 2018 Mr B entered into a finance agreement with Clydesdale for a used car costing
approximately £12,500 (approximately £13,000 inclusive of insurance). The car was in the
region of five years old and had travelled approximately 46,500 miles.
Mr B paid the supplying dealership a £200 deposit and financed the balance of £12,800
(inclusive of insurance). Under the terms of the finance agreement Mr B undertook,
everything else being equal, to make 60 monthly payments of £281.01.
Between July 2018 and March 2019 the car was returned to the supplying dealership on a
number of occasions for various works to be undertaken.
In April 2019 the car broke down with Mr B being advised that it needed a new engine and
possibly a new turbo. At this point in time the car had travelled approximately 50,000 miles.
In April 2019 Mr B complained to Clydesdale about the quality of the car and that he wanted
to be fairly and appropriately compensated.
In May 2019 Clydesdale issued Mr B with a final response letter (FRL). In this FRL
Clydesdale said it wasnt upholding Mr Bs complaint.
In June 2019, and unhappy with the content of Clydesdales FRL, Mr B referred his
complaint to our service for investigation.
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded it should be
upheld. In summary he said he was satisfied that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when
Mr B took possession of it and that Clydesdale should:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay
collect the car at no cost to Mr B
refund any deposit paid and pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the
date of settlement
refund monthly payments from April 2019 to present
pay £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused
refund recovery costs and pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment until the
date of settlement, once Mr B had evidenced these costs
After some deliberation both parties accepted the investigators view and the car was sold by
Clydesdale back to the supplying dealership who collected it from Mr B at no cost to him.
However, a little while later Clydesdale wrote to our service to say that the supplying
dealership had informed it that the car was in a very poor condition and required repairs
costing in the region of £2,500 to bring it up to a saleable state. And with this in mind it
seemed unfair that Mr B should be compensated along the lines that had been
recommended.
The investigator considered what Clydesdale had said about the condition of the car when it
was collected, and Mr Bs comments about the same. And having done so he concluded that
Clydesdale should end the agreement with nothing further to pay, that it shouldnt charge for
the collection of the car that had been undertaken and that any adverse information recorded
with credit reference agencies should be removed. However, it need do nothing further.
Clydesdale responded to say that it accepted the investigators revised conclusions.
Although Clydesdale accepted the investigators revised conclusions Mr B didnt. And
because Mr B didnt agree with the investigators revised conclusions the complaint was 
passed to me for review and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2020. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear both parties have very strong feelings about this complaint. They have both
provided detailed submissions in support of their respective views which I can confirm Ive
read and considered in their entirety. However, I trust that both parties will not take the fact
that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are
expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to
address every point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and
reasons for reaching them.
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
First, I would like to say that although I cant say for certain, Im simply not persuaded that on
the balance of probabilities Mr B tried to reject the car within 30 days of taking possession of
it. I say this because had he done so I might have expected to see more by way of
documentary evidence in support, for example evidence that such a request was received
and declined, or evidence that such a request was received, not responded to, and then
followed up quickly by Mr B. However, no such evidence has been provided.
It appears that between July 2018 and March 2019 the car went back to the supplying
dealership on a number of occasions for various works resulting in the car being off the
road for between 2 and 32 days each time (approximately two and half months in total). It
also appears that on each occasion works were carried out costing between just over £150
and just under £3,250 (approximately £5,500 in total).So, with this in mind, the fact that that the car broke down in April 2019 with major works
being required, the age of the car and the miles travelled between July 2018 and April 2019,
Im satisfied that in July 2018 Mr B took possession of a car that was of unsatisfactory
quality.
Given Im satisfied that in July 2018 Mr B took possession of a car that was of unsatisfactory
quality what I now need to decide is what Clydesdale should have to do to fairly compensate
Mr B.
Given that Clydesdale has collected the car from Mr B, I think that the fairest outcome is for
Clydesdale to retain possession of it and to dispose of it as it sees fit. In other words, the
fairest outcome is to treat the car as having been rejected by Mr B and that rejection having
been accepted by Clydesdale. However, and for the avoidance of doubt, I find that
Clydesdale shouldnt charge Mr B anything it incurred in collecting the car from him (for
example towing costs) and that it also ends the agreement with nothing further to pay and
any adverse information recorded with credit reference agencies is removed.
Now normally I might have been minded to award additional compensation to Mr B made up
of one or more of the following:
a refund of any deposit paid (plus interest)
a refund of one or more finance payments made (plus interest)
a payment for distress and inconvenience
a refund of additional costs incurred (plus interest)
And Mr B ultimately said that he would accept £500 in respect of the above and with the
view of bringing his complaint to a close.
However, this complaint is complicated by the fact that Clydesdale says that the car was
returned with over £2,500 of damage that it deemed to be beyond normal wear and tear. 
Now I accept that Mr B disputes the £2,500 damage charge. But based on what both parties
have said about how the car was stored/kept after April 2019, the quote for repairs provided
by Clydesdale and the photographs of the alleged damage, Im persuaded that Mr B can
reasonably be held liable for at least some of this charge.
Taking everything into account, including what the trade body that oversees the car rental
and leasing sector  the British Vehicle Renting and Leasing Renting Association (BVRLA)
 says about what is considered to be fair wear and tear and what is chargeable damage Im
satisfied that the sum that Clydesdale can reasonably hold Mr B liable for is the same as, if
not more than, I would normally award by way of additional compensation to Mr B.
So, with the above in mind I think that rather than Clydesdale, in addition to allowing 
rejection of the car, paying Mr B a sum by way of additional compensation and then having 
to seek recovery of the same (or more) back for damages, that neither payment or recovery 
is made by Clydesdale.Clydesdale responded to my provisional decision to say that it was happy with it and it had 
nothing further to add.
After discussing the content of my provisional decision with the investigator, Mr B responded 
to say that he didnt accept it. In summary he said:
He disputes the itemised damage costs provided by Clydesdale of over £2,500.
Because the car has been collected from him, he cant now have it independently 
inspected.
He would like not to reject the car, but instead have it returned to him fully repaired.
He is concerned that I might have failed to take on board all of his evidence and 
submissions.
Mr B then advised our service that the car had been sold, a position confirmed by 
Clydesdale, meaning it couldnt be returned to Mr B even if I was to find that is what should 
happen.
Following both parties responses to my provisional decision, in particular confirmation that 
the car had been sold on and couldnt now be returned to Mr B, I wrote further to both Mr B 
and Clydesdale.
I said that in my view the fairest outcome in this case would now be for Clydesdale to 
compensate Mr B in line with the investigators view of February 2020 and for any adverse 
information recorded with credit reference agencies in respect of the agreement to be 
removed, a position that was originally acceptable to both parties. 
Mr B and Clydesdale confirmed that they were willing to settle matters on the basis 
proposed.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that both parties have confirmed that they are prepared to settle this complaint on the 
basis of the investigators view of February 2020 and that any adverse information recorded 
with credit reference agencies in respect of the agreement is removed, I can confirm that I 
have nothing further to add except to say that I think this represents a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint in all the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited must:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay
make no charge for the car collection undertaken in 2020
remove any adverse information recorded with credit reference agencies in respect 
of the agreement
refund the £200 deposit paid by Mr B
pay 8% simple annual interest on the above deposit from the date of payment to the
date of settlement*
refund the £230 recovery costs paid by Mr B
pay 8% simple annual interest on the above recovery costs from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement*pay Mr B £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused
*HMRC requires Clydesdale Financial Services Limited to take off tax from this interest. If Mr B 
asks for a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off this should be provided.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman