DRN-4285931
The complaint
Mr J complains Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very have continued to 
charge him interest on a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) purchase he says they said they 
wouldnt.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr J purchased a TV from very on a BNPL arrangement. The amount 
owing was £2,299 and was due to be fully repaid on 11 December 2021 otherwise interest 
would be charged. Mr J paid off £700 during the year and was due to get paid on 
15 December 2021  so asked very if he could make the payment a few days later. But 
when he didnt pay off the balance of the TV by the due date £613.82 interest was added  
when Mr J only expected three days worth of interest to be added because he was late.
 
Mr J says he spoke to very, who told him this was the only interest that would be charged  
and he wouldnt be charged any interest on this interest. Mr J complained to very when they 
began charging him interest on the £613.82 interest payment theyd added to his account.
 
In their response very said the BNPL terms are on their website and explain if the cash price 
hasnt been repaid by the end of the interest free period, then the remaining cash price and 
lump sum interest will be added. The website also explains this lump sum of interest will be 
added to his account and will attract further interest going forward. They added theyd 
listened to a call Mr J made on 17 February 2022 where he was querying interest applied as 
a payment had been missed a few days earlier. They said Mr J was correctly and repeatedly 
told interest would continue to be added to every statement.
But very said in a call on 9 March 2022, Mr J asked again about interest, and was told as 
long as he continued to make minimum payments then no further interest would be applied. 
They said sorry for this and applied a £25 credit to his account.
Unhappy with this, Mr J asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so. They 
didnt think very should refund any of the interest charges but thought compensation of £100 
was a fairer outcome in this case for the misinformation given in the March 2022 call.
very accepted this outcome, but Mr J didnt. In summary, he said the person he spoke to in 
December 2021 told him he wouldnt have to pay interest. Our Investigator asked very if they 
could provide the call recordings, but they said they couldnt without more information from 
Mr J. We asked Mr J for more details, but he said having contacted his phone provider he 
wasnt able to provide anything more. Overall, he didnt think they should be charging him 
interest on the interest. So, as Mr J didnt agree with our Investigator, the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I firstly need to consider whether very have applied the interest in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account Mr J agreed to when he took out this account. If they have, then I 
need to consider whether the misinformation very have accepted happened has led to any 
detriment to Mr J. 
The terms and conditions of the account Mr J signed up to say, in relation to BNPL type of 
purchases:
Interest is calculated from date of order, compounded every 28 days (so you are charged 
interest on interest) and will be applied to your account as a lump sum immediately after the 
delayed payment period ends. This lump sum will attract further interest going forwards, 
meaning you will be charged interest on interest.
With this in mind Im satisfied very have applied interest in line with the terms and conditions 
of the account. So, I cant reasonably say they should be refunding any of the interest 
charged because it appears to have been done correctly. 
Ive listened to the call in February 2022 which very have provided. This does also make it 
clear interest would be charged on the lump sum interest charged.
Ive not been provided with the call from March 2022, but as very have accepted they made 
an error I dont think its necessary for me to get this and listen to it. In this call, very have 
said they made an error in explaining how the interest is applied on Mr Js balance. But, I 
think by this point Mr J should have been aware of how interest is applied from the terms 
and conditions of the account, and his February 2022 phone call.
I have noted his comments about a December 2021 call. But, hes not been able to provide 
any information to help very find the call he says took place, and very have said they have 
no records of a call. In the absence of that evidence, Ill be deciding things based on the 
evidence I have before me.
Here its clear very have made an error in explaining how the interest works, but I do think 
that was mitigated by Mr Js previous conversation in February 2022, and the terms and 
conditions of the account. Bearing this in mind, Im satisfied £100 compensation total is fair.
Putting things right
I understand very have, so far, credited £25 to Mr Js account. If Mr J wants to accept the 
£100 compensation, then Id require very to pay him a further £75 directly  rather than as a 
credit to his account. If Mr J wanted the £25 which has previously been credited to his 
account to be paid to him directly as well (so £100 to be paid directly) then he could discuss 
that with very directly. I say this because the removal of the £25 could have implications for 
any balances he owes, and itd be for very to explain that to him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I partially uphold this complaint and require 
Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very to pay Mr J £100 total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman