DRN-1424129
 
The complaint
Ms L says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about four instalment loans Sunny provided to Ms L between June 2017 
and October 2017. Ms L borrowed amounts ranging between £150 and £250 to be repaid in 
six monthly instalments. The loans overlapped and so Ms Ls highest expected monthly 
repayments increased from around £66 to £255 when she took out loan four. Ms L repaid all 
her loans. 
Our adjudicator upheld Ms Ls complaint in part and thought loans three and four shouldnt 
have been given. Sunny disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms L could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish whether 
Ms L could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means Ms Ls complaint.
Sunny asked Ms L for information about her income and expenditure and it carried out credit 
checks. Ms L said she earned £1,191.67 a month and her monthly outgoings were between 
£866 and £992. From what I can see, there was nothing untoward in the credit checks that 
Sunny carried out that should have prompted further checks. 
For loans one and two, given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Ms Ls 
circumstances at the time and her history with Sunny, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask her for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable.  There wasnt anything in the information Ms L provided or the information 
Sunny shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what Ms L was saying. The loan repayments looked affordable for Ms L. So I cant 
say it was wrong for Sunny to have provided loans one and two. 
But, as our adjudicator explained, Sunnys checks for loan three showed that Ms L couldnt 
afford her repayments. Ms L had £199.67 disposable income to meet her highest expected 
repayment of £205.32. So I think Sunny shouldnt have provided loan three.
I also think Sunny shouldnt have provided loan four. This is because by loan four, Ms L had 
four loans running concurrently. I think this should have alerted Sunny that that Ms L was 
having problems managing her money and she would be unlikely to be able to sustainably 
repay this or any subsequent loans.
Also, for loan four, Ms L had £325.67 disposable income to meet her highest expected 
repayment of £255.72. This would leave her with just £69.95 for anything unexpected, which 
I think isnt enough taking into account the length of the loan agreement. 
So Im upholding the complaint about loans three and four and I think Sunny should put 
things right. 
Putting things right
To put things right for Ms L, I think Sunny should:
refund all interest and charges Ms L paid on loams three and four;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans three and four from Ms Ls credit file; HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Ms L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Ms Ls 
complaint. I require Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) to pay Ms L 
compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman