DRN-3190952
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. In my decision, Ive explained what this means for Mr Bs complaint.      
Summary and background to complaint
Mr B said Santander UK Plc mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI) with a loan 
in November 2006.
Santander didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold - because it 
said Mr B had referred the complaint to us too late.   
But Santander did pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% 
of Mr Bs PPI premium. It did this because it didnt tell Mr B about the high level of 
commission and profit share hed pay  which was unfair.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Mr Bs complaint 
about how this policy was sold. And they thought Santanders payment was a fair way to 
resolve the complaint
Mr Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
My findings
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that, 
where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint made more than six years after 
the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the complainant 
was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. This is Dispute 
Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. And in this case Santander hasnt agreed.  
Mr Bs complaint was made in December 2018. This is more than six years after Santander 
sold the policy to him  in November 2006  which is the event hes complaining about here. 
So, I need to think about whether the complaint was made within three years of when Mr B 
should reasonably have been aware he had cause to complain. 
Santander says it sent Mr B a letter at some time between January and October 2009 which 
alerted him to the possibility something might have gone wrong with the sale of his policy. 
Given what Mr B is complaining about, I think he should reasonably have been aware he 
had reason to complain when he got this letter. I say this because the letter highlighted the 
presence of PPI on Mr Bs account and what should have happened at the time of sale. The 
letter also explained the right to complain about the sale if Mr B thought the PPI hadnt been 
sold to him properly. Taking into account Mr Bs comments about the sale and his complaint 
points I am satisfied that this mailing wouldve made Mr B aware of the steps he needed to 
take if he wanted to complain about the PPI. 
This means Mr B needed to make his complaint about the policy sale by October 2012 the 
latest. As he didnt complain until December 2018 his complaint is out of time under the rules 
I have to apply. 
I can still look into complaints made outside the time limits if Im satisfied the failure to 
comply with them was due to exceptional circumstances.
Mr Bs representative says we should still consider the complaint. It says that as it hasnt 
seen all correspondence it doesnt think the letter from Santander wouldve made Mr B 
aware of all the issues he could complain about. This includes points about unfair exclusions 
and the other substantial flaws in the sale. It says this means the complaint should be looked 
at now. 
Ive considered what Mr Bs representatives have said. While I know this will be 
disappointing for Mr B, I dont think that exceptional circumstances apply here. I believe Mr B 
could have referred their complaint to us in time. I say this because Santanders letter clearly 
highlighted the main aspects of the sale and there was enough information in its letter to 
make Mr B aware of the main points he could complain about.
So, Im sorry that were unable to help Mr B with his complaint about how this policy was 
sold.
Non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Santander should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Santanders offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
Was there an unfair relationship?
Santander didnt tell Mr B about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Santander and Mr B was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Santander didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this 
case 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipI dont think Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr B because it failed 
to disclose the high commission and profit share.
Redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Bs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr B should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Santander failed to tell Mr B about the high commission and profit-share rates 
paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say 
that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr B wouldnt have taken out the 
policy had he known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the 
premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman in this case is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation for Mr B in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Santander not 
disclosing the high level of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Bs representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Mr Bs failure to disclose the level of commission for the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Santander to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mr B paid for his PPI policy - I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness. 
So, I consider that Santanders payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
As Santander has already paid Mr B compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should 
do anything further. 
My decision
Im unable to consider Mr Bs complaint about how his policy was sold, because it was 
referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits was 
because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Santander UK Plc should pay Mr B an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). As 
Santander UK Plc has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that 
Santander UK Plc should do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision about the commission aspect of the complaint before 30 December 2021.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman