DRN-1741560
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Phoenix Life Limited has wrongly proposed to cancel their two 
reviewable whole of life policies in a redress calculation, after they originally complained that 
they were mis-sold.
To resolve their complaint, they want Phoenix to refund the premiums they paid for the 
policies, but to deduct the surrender values so the policies can remain in place.
Mr and Mrs P are represented by a claims management company (CMC) in bringing their 
complaint.
What happened
In 2019, the CMC complained to Phoenix that there was no justification for the sale of either 
policy in 1988 or 1993. It felt that Mr and Mrs P had no need for the life cover provided by 
the policy and the adviser had failed to consider whether they would be able to afford the 
policy premiums in later years.
Phoenix replied to the complaint in June 2019. It said it didnt believe there was no need for 
life cover. But it did agree that there wasnt justification as to why Mr and Mrs P needed 
whole of life policies specifically and agreed that they were mis-sold on that basis.
Phoenix agreed to refund all of the premiums they had paid from the outset. It deducted the 
cost of cover, and added interest at rates of 15% to 1993 and 8% thereafter until July 2019. 
The total redress for both policies was £52,012.25. Phoenix sent Mr and Mrs P a settlement 
form to sign and return.
The CMC referred a complaint to this service. It said Phoenix was unreasonably insisting 
that the policies were surrendered in order to receive the redress. It said that Mr and Mrs P 
both have chronic health conditions and it would be difficult for them to be able to obtain 
replacement cover without paying more for it. It therefore said the premium refund should be 
made for both policies but less the respective surrender values of £26,233.46 and 
£9,363.89. This would mean they should be paid a refund totalling £16,414.90, but without 
the need to cancel the policies.
Our investigator said the complaint should not succeed. He said he thought the offer fairly 
resolved the complaint. It was not possible to return the policy premiums and have the 
policies continue because the premiums had been invested. He thought Phoenix had made 
a reasonable offer in the circumstances and it shouldnt be required to do anything more.
The CMC said it disagreed and that Mr and Mrs P wanted their complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman. It said that an ombudsman in a different complaint said that a policyholder 
does not have to surrender his or her plan to receive a redress sum. Phoenix was attempting 
to have the matter suit it two ways  by cancelling the cover but being allowed to deduct the 
cost of the cover from the redress calculation. Yet in two other complaints the CMC had 
seen, Phoenix allowed the policies to carry on. The CMC said Phoenix was being 
inconsistent and failing to treat its customers fairly.Phoenix said it didnt have anything else to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator and I will not be 
asking Phoenix to propose to keep Mr and Mrs Ps policies in force, if they decide to accept 
the proposed redress calculation.
It was the CMC that told Phoenix Mr and Mrs P neither wanted nor needed the cover. The 
assertion that the policy was mis-sold came from Mr and Mrs P, via the CMC. Phoenix has 
done nothing wrong by considering that assertion and accordingly upholding the complaint. 
Its conclusion was that Mr and Mrs P had a need for personal protection, but it couldnt see 
that the adviser had justified why whole of life policies were a best fit for that requirement.
The redress calculation proposed by Phoenix is in line with the calculations this service uses 
where there has been a finding that a whole-of-life policy has been mis-sold. That is:
refunding the premiums paid to the policy;
less the actual cost of the life cover;
adding 8% (and before March 1993, 15%) simple interest to the refunds, from the 
date each premium was paid until the date of settlement.
I disagree with the CMC that Phoenix benefits twice from the above calculation. Given the 
reasons Phoenix gave for upholding the complaint, the redress calculation is correct.
It does not follow logically to allege a policy has been mis-sold because Mr and Mrs P had 
no requirement for the cover provided by the policy and then to counter-argue that the policy 
should be retained to provide for those benefits, even though they werent wanted in the first 
place.
It might be that what the CMC is trying to say is that Mr and Mrs P did have a need for life 
cover (and hence why they wish to retain the policies now) but that those needs could have 
been better met with a form of term assurance. However, that redress would not only give a 
similar outcome of putting them back in the position that theyd never been sold whole of life 
policies, because the cost of the cover theyd have otherwise taken out has been accounted 
for within the redress.
And, term policies would end after a set period, meaning if they were taken out to cover their 
financial commitments they likely would no longer be in force, given the sales took place in 
1988 and 1993. Even if they were in place, a term assurance policy would not provide the 
same whole of life cover as the policies Mr and Mrs P held. 
It is not possible for Phoenix to maintain its redress offer and allow the policies to continue. 
This is as I have said, because the complaint is that the policies were unsuitable and 
unrequired.
When Mr and Mrs P pay a policy premium, it is split two ways. The first part is used to pay 
for the cost of the life assurance. The remainder is invested into a fund. This investment has 
the aim of growing sufficiently to cover the shortfall when the policy reaches the point that 
the cost of cover becomes greater than the premium being paid. This is because life cover 
costs increase with age, as the likelihood of making a claim increases as the life or lives assured get older.
So, if Phoenix refunds the investment proportion of the premiums but allowed the policies to 
continue, the policies would not have any surrender value. The policies would lapse 
immediately without any value because there would not be any fund built up to account for 
the cost of life cover going forwards. So the calculation the CMC suggests now is not 
accurate or possible.
I note the CMC has referred to a number of other complaints with this service. No two 
complaints are factually identical, and one will not set a precedent for another. Nonetheless, 
I have looked at what the CMC says are comparable circumstances. I dont agree that they 
apply here. All of the matters are materially different. For example, the one complaint where 
an ombudsman concluded that a policy should continue had partial redress (allowing 
Phoenix to deduct the surrender value from the redress calculation) because of the facts in 
that case specifically related to the policy being required from the outset. Nonetheless, that 
calculation left the policy in that complaint with a zero surrender value.
It is for Mr and Mrs P to decide if they want to accept the offer put to them by Phoenix in 
June 2019 and whether to then seek advice about how to address any need they may have 
for life assurance now. I trust that offer by Phoenix will remain open for them to accept, if 
they wish to do so within one month of receipt of this decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. Nor do I make any award, as the matter was reasonably 
upheld by Phoenix Life Limited in its redress calculations offered to Mr and Mrs P before the 
matter was referred to this service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Jo Storey
Ombudsman