DRN-4444010
The complaint
Ms P complains that Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) mis-sold her a stakeholder 
pension plan, failed to provide her with annual statements and with ongoing advice, resulting 
in financial losses. She would like compensation for her losses and the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
What happened
Ms P says she wanted to make a single pension contribution of £3,600 gross before the end 
of the tax year in 2012. She met with a Scottish Widows adviser. She was 53 years old and 
wasnt working due to long term ill-health. She wanted to be able to take pension benefits at 
age 65. She says she was told that five years before the retirement date the pension fund 
would be increased because of her poor health. Ms P paid the contribution. She says she 
subsequently didnt receive annual statements or ongoing advice. And she says instead of 
being increased the value of her pension fund declined in the years before her retirement 
age. And it didnt offer flexi access drawdown as shed been told it would. 
Ms P complained to Scottish Widows. It upheld her complaint in part. It said it hadnt 
undertaken to provide ongoing advice on the plan or charged for it. It said her plan had a life 
styling feature where the investment was progressively switched to lower risk investments in 
the five years before the selected retirement age. These investments hadnt performed as 
well as expected, but there had been no guarantee about future returns. It said flexi access 
drawdown could be provided if requested. However, Scottish Widows said it had made an 
error in not providing annual statements for which it apologised, and it sent Ms P a cheque 
for £50 as compensation.     
Ms P didnt accept this and referred her complaint to our service. She said the £50 offered 
was inadequate. And that Scottish Widows hadnt considered her main complaint point that 
the value of her plan would be increased five years before her retirement date because of 
her health issues. 
Whilst our investigator considered the complaint, Scottish Widows increased its 
compensation offer for failing to send the annual statements to £100. But it didnt agree that 
Ms P had been told the value would be increased because of her ill health. It said the plan 
hadnt been mis-sold and that details of what had been recommended had been set out in a 
suitability letter sent to her and shed had 30-days to cancel the plan if it wasnt what she 
expected.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Scottish Widows original offer of £50 
compensation for not sending annual statement was fair. But she said it had fairly explained 
why the other complaint points shouldnt be upheld. She said only Ms P and the adviser 
were party to the discussions. But from the documents provided and sent to Ms P there was 
no evidence that the plan had been mis-sold. And nothing in the terms and conditions of the 
plan said the value would increase in the five years before her selected retirement age. And, 
as Scottish Widows had said, Ms P did have 30-days to change her mind if the plan wasnt 
what she wanted. She said flexi access drawdown was available but hadnt currently been 
requested. And that it was also clear that Scottish Widows had neither undertaken to 
provide, or charged for, any ongoing advice.
Ms P didnt agree. She said Scottish Widows had now offered her a further £75 for failing to 
investigate her complaint properly. And this showed its argument that its adviser would have 
followed processes correctly was flawed, and that she had been misled when the policy was 
sold. She said our service should tell Scottish Widows to change the way it behaved and 
conducted itself. 
As Ms P doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
I understand Ms Ps frustration, but it isnt the role of our service to regulate firms. So, I cant 
tell Scottish Widows to change its systems and procedures. But I can award compensation if 
I think these have caused unfair outcomes. In the circumstances here I think Scottish 
Widows offer of £50 (since increased to £100) is fair for the error it made in not sending 
annual statements, which was caused by a computer problem. I understand this offer is still 
available if Ms P wants to accept it. And we cant usually consider complaints about how a 
complaint has been handled by a firm, as this isnt a regulated activity. But I note Scottish 
Widows has also offered Ms P £75 compensation for delays in considering her complaint. 
In terms of Ms Ps other complaint points, I dont think Scottish Widows has made any error 
or treated her unfairly. 
There is no evidence she was mis-led. Instead, I think there may have been a 
misunderstanding or mis-recollection over what might have been discussed. I say that 
because Ive never heard of the value of a stakeholder pension plan being increased due to 
ill-health in the way that is sometimes granted on occupational pension scheme benefits, 
which Ms P also had. So, I think it is unlikely that the adviser would have said this was 
available. And it clearly wasnt under the terms of the plan. But an option that can be 
available when benefits are taken from a stakeholder pension plan for someone in poor 
health is an enhanced annuity. This would offer a higher rate of income than a standard 
annuity for the same cost, so this might have been something which was discussed at the 
time.
There might also have been some confusion with the life styling option Ms P selected. 
Where five years from the selected retirement age funds were to be progressively switched 
to fixed interest type investments. The performance of which were expected to be better 
aligned to purchasing an annuity at retirement. Unfortunately, due to poor returns on fixed 
interest investments in recent years, life styling strategies havent performed as expected, 
although that needs to be considered in the context that annuity rates have increased at the 
same time. But it is clear from the documents provided to Ms P when she took the plan out 
that there were no guarantees about investment performance, and it was her responsibility 
to monitor investments.
Likewise, there seems to be some confusion about Ms Ps plan automatically offering flexi 
access drawdown. This wasnt available in 2012 when she took out her plan, so it couldnt 
have been offered then. It was introduced by the 2015 pension freedom legislation. And 
many providers, including Scottish Widows, have chosen to make it available on plans set up before 2015 if required. So, this option is available to Ms P if she wants to use it, which I 
think is fair. 
It is clear from both the illustration and suitability report that Scottish Widows wasnt 
providing Ms P with ongoing advice about her plan. And it wasnt charging her for it. It 
recommended that she did contact it to undertake reviews, but the obligation was on her to 
do this. As Ms P is now aware Scottish Widows chose to withdraw from the advice market 
soon after her plan was taken out, as it was free to do. So, it wouldnt have been able to 
provide advice had she requested it. But she was of course free to speak to another financial 
adviser if she wanted too.  
So, having considered the available evidence I dont think the plan was mis-sold to Ms P, or 
that she was mis-led about what it offered. And apart from the error over the annual 
statements which Scottish Widows has accepted and already offered fair redress for, it 
hasnt done anything wrong and neednt do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman