The complaint
Ms K is unhappy with the amount of compensation AIB Group (UK) trading as First Trust 
Bank (AIB) has offered to settle her complaint about a mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy taken out alongside a credit card.
What happened
Ms K took out a PPI policy alongside a credit card in 2000. Ms K complained to AIB that the 
PPI had been mis-sold. AIB agreed to uphold his complaint and offered £150.86 after tax in 
compensation. 
Ms K had undertaken her own calculations and thought the compensation should be more, 
so she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said what AIB had offered was fair. Ms K remained unhappy and asked for 
an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms K has brought complaints to this service about PPI and also about another insurance 
policy. In this decision I am only dealing with the  complaint about the PPI policy. Any other 
insurance complaints have to be dealt with separately.
AIB has agreed to uphold Ms Ks s complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold. So in this 
decision I am not looking at how the PPI came to be sold, I am only looking at what is fair 
compensation to settle the complaint. 
The purpose of the compensation for mis-sold PPI is to put a consumer as far as possible in 
the position they would have been in if they had never taken out the policy. When calculating 
compensation for mis-sold PPI I expect a business to work out the total costs paid for the 
PPI to refund to the consumer. The business also has to compensate a consumer for times 
they were out of pocket for the PPI costs, so it has to work out some compensatory interest. 
AIB has in this case calculated the total compensation due to Ms K for the mis-sold PPI was 
£150.86 after tax. This figure included £73.41 that was the total amount of the premiums 
added to Ms Ks account and £96.75 for compensatory interest before tax. 
There are a few statements unavailable and for those months AIB has estimated the amount 
of the premiums paid by taking an average charged for the previous months. I think what it 
has done to work out the premiums Ms K paid for the PPI is fair.
DRN-1934241As the PPI premiums are added to the account each month, if Ms K didnt pay off her 
balance, she would have paid interest on the premiums, the same as with any other 
purchases. But in this particular case all the statements indicate that Ms K cleared her 
account balance every month and no interest was ever paid on the account. 
Therefore, no interest was caused by the PPI premiums being charged to the account and 
the total Ms K actually paid for the PPI is just the premiums total which is £73.41. So this is 
the total costs Ms K paid for the PPI and should get back.
AIB has also worked out some compensatory interest on the amount Ms K was out of pocket 
for the costs of the PPI. This is based on an annual interest rate of 8% simpler each year. 
This rate of interest is considered to be fair when calculating compensatory interest. It was 
originally based on the rates awarded by the courts. Interest rates for savings have fallen in 
recent years but the 8% simple interest rate is still considered fair for compensatory interest 
of this sort for mis-sold PPI.
HM Revenue & Customs requires AIB to take off tax from the compensatory interest and AIB 
must give Ms K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if she asks for one.
I know Ms K has provided her own calculations, and she feels the 8% simple rate is too low 
and that the card rate of interest charged on the card should be used. That card rate would 
have been used to work out any interest caused by the PPI whilst part of the card account 
balance, as it would be part of the costs paid by Ms K. But when giving a consumer extra for 
being out of pocket 8% simple per year is a fair rate.
If the compensation has not yet been paid by AIB then it should update the amount of 
compensatory interest to the date of final payment of the compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have indicated, I think the compensation AIB Group (UK) trading as First 
Trust Bank  has calculated for the mis-sold PPI is fair, and I am not upholding this complaint 
that more compensation is due.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman