DRN-4072304
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs T complain about Royal & Sun Alliance Limiteds decision to decline a claim 
made under their pet insurance.
What happened
At the relevant times, Mr K and Mrs T had a lifetime pet insurance policy underwritten by 
RSA, which covered their pet dog.
They made a claim after the dog developed a problem with her eyes which needed 
veterinary treatment.
RSA declined the claim because the condition which needed treatment had become 
apparent within the first 14 days after the policys start date and so was excluded from cover. 
Mr K and Mrs T werent happy with this and complained to RSA. They said they werent 
aware of the 14-day exclusion and hadnt been told about it when they bought the policy and 
agreed the start date.
When RSA maintained their position and said theyd been right to decline the claim, Mr K 
and Mrs T brought their complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it and didnt think RSA 
had done anything wrong.
Mr K and Mrs T disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K and Mrs T had been insured with another company but decided in December 2022 to 
look for an alternative policy due to an increase in the premium.
They paid for the RSA policy on 20 December 2022 but agreed the new policy would have a 
start date of 5 January 2023, when the previous policy came to an end.
They took their dog to the vet on 12 January 2023 because of the problem with her eyes. 
There was a further consultation on 17 January 2023 and an operation in February 2023. 
Costs for the consultations and operation came to around £3,000. I understand there have 
been further treatment costs after that point.
Theres no dispute in this case about what the policys terms and conditions are. The policy 
document says:
We do not pay for illnesses which you or your vet were aware of in the first 14 days 
of your policy first starting. 
Thats set out quite clearly in the introduction to the policy document and in the list of 
exclusions.
Theres also no dispute that Mr K and Mrs T were aware of  and seeking treatment for  the 
dogs eye condition within 14 days of the policy start date. The policy started on 5 January 
2023. The first visit to the vet was seven days later on 12 January 2023.
The question for me in making this decision is whether its fair, in all the circumstances, for 
RSA to strictly apply the policy terms and decline Mr K and Mrs Ts claim. And the answer to 
that question really hinges on how far Mr K and Mrs T might have been expected to know 
about the 14-day exclusion when they bought the policy.
I know this will disappoint Mr K and Mrs T  and they have my sympathy for the health 
issues their dog has suffered  but I cant reasonably uphold this complaint. Thats because I 
think they were  or should have been  aware of the 14-day exclusion when they bought 
the policy. Ill explain why Ive come to that conclusion.
After they agreed to buy the policy, Mr K and Mrs T were sent a new business letter by 
RSA. This is dated 15 December 2022.
That letter very clearly  and right at the outset  asks Mr K and Mrs T to read the attached 
policy documents carefully and make sure the cover theyre about to buy meets their needs. 
It then specifically advises Mr K and Mrs T to read all the exclusions in the policy wording.
The letter also informs Mr K and Mrs T that they have 14 days in which to change their 
minds and cancel the purchase of the policy, if after reading through the policy documents 
they decide its not suitable for their needs after all.
The documents attached to that letter were: an insurance product information document 
(IPID); a key facts document; the policy terms and conditions booklet; and the policy 
schedule.
As Ive mentioned above, the policy booklet clearly sets out the 14-day exclusion  in two 
different places, including in the introductory summary.
The IPID is two pages long. On the first page, theres a list of exclusions. That list includes 
the 14-day exclusion  which is set out using the same wording as is used in the policy 
booklet (see above).
The key facts document, or policy summary, has a list of exclusions on the third page. The 
14-day exclusion is again set out very clearly  using much the same wording again.
The schedule sets out he cover provided and the policy limits and then sets out the factual 
information provided by the customer (on which basis the cover is agreed). 
This section has a sub-section entitled You accept this policy will not insure. The 
following list again includes the 14-day exclusion, using much the same wording as used in 
the other policy documents.
Taking all of that into account, it seems to me reasonable to assume that Mr K and Mrs T 
were aware  or should have been aware  that RSA would not cover any illnesses or issues 
that arose within 14 days of the start date of the policy.
If they hadnt understood that when they first enquired about the policy, Im satisfied RSA did 
everything they could reasonably be expected to do to make them aware of it before they 
paid for the policy and/or committed to buying it (that is, within the 14-day cooling off period in which Mr K and Mrs T could have cancelled the purchase).
Im really sorry that Mr K and Mrs T have experienced these issues with their dogs health  
theyve been very unfortunate both with the illness itself and the timing of it. But I cant 
reasonably conclude that RSA did anything wrong in deciding to decline their claim given the 
terms and conditions of the policy and the extent to which they were made clear at the 
outset. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr K and Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman