DRN-3062141
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) has unfairly requested 
reimbursement of the claim costs it paid following a claim Mr S made under his motor 
insurance held with it.
What happened
On 30 June 2020 Mr S claimed on his motor insurance for an accident that had taken place 
on 28 June 2020. Tesco discussed Mr Ss claim with him and although it had initial 
concerns, agreed that the car would be written off. Tesco offered a valuation of £1,736 for Mr 
Ss car which he accepted.
On 18 March 2021 Tesco contacted Mr S explaining it was no longer offering indemnity for 
the accident and was looking to recover the cost of the claim from him.
Tesco explained the third-party insurer had contacted it to say it was repudiating the third-
party claim as following an investigation it did not believe their insured person was making a 
genuine claim. After carrying out its own investigation Tesco concluded that Mr S and the 
third party were known to each other, and that the accident had not happened as it had been 
described. So, it was repudiating Mr Ss claim.
Mr S started to repay the claim costs on a monthly basis but complained that the decision 
made by Tesco was unfair. 
Our Investigator considered Mr Ss complaint but didnt think Tesco had done enough to 
support its decision to repudiate Mr Ss claim. Tesco disagreed so this complaint has now 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems that Tesco has relied mainly on the investigation carried out by the third-party 
insurer when deciding to repudiate Mr Ss claim. It hasnt provided much in the way of 
evidence that it has gathered itself. Tesco also has limited information from the third-party 
insurer to support what it has relied on.
Tesco has shown us that according to information gathered by the third-party insurer the 
third-party car was parked on the road that Mr S lives on some time before the accident, 
close to where Mr S lives. But the third party explained that his partner who also uses the car 
has a friend that lived on the same street and that his partner was visiting her friend. 
Considering Mr S and the third-party live near each other I find it reasonable that the third-
partys partner had a friend on the same street as Mr S.
The third-party insurer also explained that both drivers had said it was raining on the day of 
the accident, and that images taken at the time of the accident didnt show any evidence of 
rainfall. Tesco hasnt sent us a copy of images to support this. But having checked local 
weather records it appears it did rain on the date of the accident. 
Tesco have further said that based on the third-party insurers engineers assessment of the 
damage to both cars, that the damage was not consistent with the accident the third-party 
had described. The images also show that neither of the cars involved in the accident 
appear to have been parked in a bay before the accident took place. I have thought about 
this but again this information has been provided by the third-party insurer and supporting 
evidence has not been provided for me to consider. As I havent got enough evidence to 
consider this point, I dont think it provides strong enough evidence to repudiate Mr Ss 
claim.
Overall, I can see that Tesco has mainly relied on the investigation carried out by the third-
party insurer, and its decision to decide Mr Ss claim should also be repudiated. It has 
provided limited evidence to support its decision.
Based on the information and evidence available to me I dont think Tesco had enough 
evidence to fairly say the accident hadnt taken place in the way Mr S explained, so it follows 
that I think Tesco has unfairly repudiated Mr Ss claim and attempted to recover the costs of 
the claim from him.
Putting things right
To put things right Tesco should:
refund any amount Mr S has paid back to Tesco in relation to the claim costs plus 8% 
simple interest from the time Mr S made the payments to the time they are returned 
to him
If Mr Ss policy was cancelled/voided Tesco should remove all records of this from all 
internal and external databases it has been recorded on
provide Mr S with a letter explaining that his policy was wrongly cancelled/voided (if it 
had been) and his claim unfairly repudiated, so he can show this to any existing or 
future insurers. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Tesco to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman