DRN-2916263
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was mis-sold a Royalties Account (RA) and a Royalties Gold 
Account (RGA) in 1999 and 2009 respectively, by The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC (RBS), 
and he complains that he couldnt close the RGA when he wanted to.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C says that he had to take out the RA and RGA to get a £500 overdraft on his account.
He also says that he couldnt close the RGA when he wanted to as he couldnt pay off the 
overdraft he had built up.
RBS says that Mr C chose to take out the RA and RGA based on the comprehensive 
information it says it gave him. And it says that Mr C didnt ask to close the RGA until 2020 
despite receiving copious correspondence about it.
Its not possible for me to know what was said during the sale of the RA and RGA as I wasnt 
there. So, I can only look at the evidence available today to decide this case.
RBS has provided evidence that Mr C had a fee free account with an overdraft for many 
years before he took out the RG. He also had a wider relationship with RBS wherein he had 
multiple savings, loans and overdrafts applications before the RG, most of which were 
successful. 
Mr C says he took out the accounts to get a £500 overdraft. But Mr C had successfully 
obtained an overdraft of £400 on his fee free account and didnt apply for an overdraft over 
£500 until many months after opening the RG.
By the time he took out the RGA hed already had an overdraft of over £500 for many years.
So, while I dont doubt Mr Cs honest recollections, I think his memory may be mistaken on 
the sales. And I think its more likely than that Mr C was aware he had a choice whether to 
take out both the RG and the RGA and he chose to take them out. 
I also think its more likely than not that the sales of the RG and the RGA were non-advised, 
by which I mean RBS didnt recommend the products to Mr C. I say this because Ive not 
seen any record of RBS discussing Mr Cs circumstances on either occasion, and this 
service is aware that RBS sales at both times were generally non-advised.
So, RBS was only required to provide Mr C with enough information to make an informed 
decision about the accounts. And I think it did on both occasions. I say this because Mr C 
benefitted from better interest rates on his loans and overdrafts while he had both the RG 
and the RGA, and he registered to use some of the additional benefits of the RGA. 
So, in my view, I think its more likely than not that RBS didnt do anything wrong in these 
sales.
Mr C also complains that he couldnt close the RGA when he wished to, because he couldnt 
pay off his overdraft. While I would expect Mr C to think he had to pay back his overdraft, 
Ive not seen any evidence that the information he was given said that he couldnt 
downgrade his account without paying off his overdraft, and Ive not seen any evidence that 
he contacted RBS to try to do so.
While I understand Mr C may have had financial difficulties, he had a long-standing 
relationship (later including mortgages) with RBS and I think its more likely than not that he 
could have downgraded the RGA and resolved the payment of the overdraft in an affordable 
manner if he had discussed his circumstances with the business.  But, otherwise, the 
business couldnt downgrade the account without his instruction. So again, I think its more 
likely than not that RBS didnt do anything wrong in this matter either.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman