DRN-3257542
The complaint
Mr T complains that NewDay Ltd failed to refund transactions he didnt recognise on his
credit card account.
What happened
Mr T noticed two transactions totalling £7,800 he didnt recognise on his credit card
statement. Mr T said he approached the merchant, an online investment company who Ill
refer to as V about them. Mr T paid the full balance of his credit card statement, including the
two disputed transactions the following month. A few weeks later he then notified NewDay
about the unrecognised transactions. Mr T said he didnt realise he could approach his credit
card supplier, which is why it took so long to notify them about the transactions.
Mr T asked why there was no warning sent to him before the payments went through and
NewDay couldnt explain this to Mr T. They later told our service that their systems monitor
transactions for fraud and scams. If theres enough information for their systems to
analyse and it can determine the payment is authentic, then no warning would be produced.
NewDay used the chargeback system to challenge the transactions with V and asked Mr T
to sign and return a declaration to support it, which they never received. Mr T told us that he
was never sent anything, although NewDay provided copies of the letters sent to Mr Ts
home address. NewDay hadnt received the signed declaration from Mr T, but they
attempted to use the chargeback system to challenge the two transactions on Mr Ts behalf.
Initially, V rejected them because they didnt contain the correct declaration, but they later
sent evidence to NewDay about the account they believed Mr T had opened with them. V
provided documents showing the information they held for Mr T which matched Newsdays,
apart from an email address. The email address held by V was similar to a company that Mr
T had previously been a Director of, although Mr T denied having anything to do with the
email address.
Because V had been able to satisfy the chargeback rules by showing that the details they
held matched Mr T and NewDay were able to show the payment came from Mr Ts credit
card, they held him responsible. NewDay said that Mr T failed to return the declaration and
also failed to send them evidence that hed approached V, as hed earlier said.
During the process, the full amount of the transactions was taken off the account and then
only one was added back in, which made the outstanding balance owed by Mr T as
£6,945.75.
Mr T complained about how hed been dealt with and the lack of additional fraud prevention
steps NewDay had implemented for both the disputed transactions. NewDay didnt accept
that theyd done anything wrong and unhappy with their response, Mr T brought his
complaint to our service for an independent review.
Mr T said that anyone could have obtained his details and opened an account with V. He
went on to say that if NewDay had sent him a message before the payments were made, he
would have been able to deal with the issue at the time. He also said the transactions were 
unusual because he hadnt used the card for a couple of years.
It was looked into by one of our investigators and they thought that it was reasonable for
NewDay to hold Mr T responsible for the transactions. They thought Mr Ts reasons for
delaying notification to NewDay were an unlikely explanation and questioned why someone
would pay the full amount of the disputed transactions without notifying the company. She
thought this would leave the account exposed to further disputed transactions. It was also
concluded that it didnt make sense for someone other than Mr T to have made the
transactions because any profit from trading would only come back to Mr Ts credit card.
Mr T rejected the outcome and wanted further points to be taken into consideration. That V
hadnt carried out proper checks before opening the account and it was possible for an
account holder with V to use crypto currency to take profits, rather than return them to the
account holder.
The complaint has now been passed to me and I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The basic position is that NewDay can hold Mr T liable for
the disputed payments if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made
them or authorised them.
Authorisation is made up of two parts. Authentication and consent. Authentication is usually
referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, NewDay have supplied evidence that
shows the card details were used to make two transactions with V. Im satisfied the evidence
shows the disputed transactions were authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which NewDay and Mr T agreed to operate the account to allow
NewDay to make payments on Mr Ts behalf. For example, NewDays terms and conditions
say, The credit is available by using your card and PIN or signature, or other details
including your card number.
So, because the correct card details were used - Im satisfied that consent was given and
the disputed transaction was authorised. But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be
appropriate for NewDay to hold Mr T responsible, for example if his credit card details were
used without his permission.
Mr T has argued that his details could have been used by anyone to set up the account with
V. Whilst thats true, whoever set up the account would still need specific information about
Mr T in order to satisfy the account opening requirements for an investment business such
as V, which included checking this information with a business specialising in identity
confirmation  which were successful. The payment details from Mr Ts card would also be
needed, including the security code number on the card. At the time of these transactions,
Mr Ts credit limit was £8,000. The two disputed transactions amounted to just over £7,800,
leaving less than £200 available balance. So, it appears that whoever was using the card,
also knew what the available credit was because the two transactions didnt exceed the
credit limit.
V told NewDay that Mr T had opened an account with them and made four deposits, two
from his NewDay card and two from another credit card. These four transactions took place
over the period of a week. Further enquiries were carried out with the credit card companywho confirmed that Mr T had received refunds from V after making a claim. Ive thought
about how V have made a refund to Mr T from transactions from one credit card but have
defended the payments made from the NewDay card and what that means in Mr Ts
complaint against NewDay. Mr T has disputed making these transactions and the complaint
relates to whether its fair and reasonable for Mr T to be held liable for them by NewDay, or if
its more likely than not that he wasnt responsible for making them. So, whilst Ive taken the
actions of V into consideration, my overall role is to decide the complaint against NewDay.
V were asked how they make their payments to account holders and confirmed they would
only make payments back to the source that they came from, so either of Mr Ts credit cards.
I appreciate that Mr T has said its possible to arrange a crypto currency account to receive
the payments, but thats not what V told us happened to any payments. V confirmed that Mr
T made one withdrawal back to the source of the funding. V stated that theyd attempted to
contact Mr T about some of his transactions, but he wasnt cooperative, and the account was
blocked.
V had recorded a different email address for Mr T. Hes said it has nothing to do with him
and NewDay believed it was associated to him because of a previous business interest. Mr
T said hes had nothing to do with this business for some years and has no connection to
this email address. Whilst I cant be certain who owns the email address, there are
similarities in the way the email address has been created to the name of the former
business.
When Ive considered all the evidence related to the transactions and the information
provided by V, it seems unlikely that an unknown third party would be able to acquire all the
information needed about Mr T, including the credit card details from two different accounts.
Ive also thought about why an unknown third party would go to the trouble of stealing Mr Ts
details in order to invest it for him because any profit from the account would go back to the
source.
The risk to someone using Mr Ts funds for this purpose was that Mr T would notice these
payments before any profit could be taken, and if someone had all this information about Mr
T, there are other easier ways to steal the money. The opening of an investment account
isnt a typical way for someone to use stolen card details.
Mr T explained that he hadnt approached NewDay about the unrecognised transactions and
had gone straight to V about them. He said he wasnt aware that he could go to NewDay
about them until he was advised to by a friend, some two months after the disputed
transactions were made. Whilst I understand that Mr T would approach V, Im not sure why
he didnt go to NewDay sooner, as they were the ones who supplied the money and would
be the ones who would be responsible for any issues with the payment. Delaying any
notification to NewDay left his account open to further exploitation and delayed the
investigation of the transactions.
Mr T paid the full outstanding balance on his credit card, which was made up primarily of the
disputed transactions. He did this a few weeks before notifying NewDay about them. I
appreciate Mr T said he was doing this to avoid problems with his credit score, but at that
stage hes claimed he didnt recognise them, so Im unsure why he would repay the full
balance without first raising it with NewDay.
There was then a gap of about two weeks when Mr Ts available balance was back to
£8,000 before he notified NewDay. This gave a further opportunity for any unauthorised third
party to spend the full credit balance again, but theres no record of any further attempts to
use these funds. I think its likely there would have been other attempts if an unauthorised
third party was responsible for the original disputed transactions, because its apparent fromthe amount spent  whoever made them knew what the available balance was.
Mr T has also complained that he didnt get a fraud notification from NewDay when the
transactions were made. NewDay explained that if their systems have enough information to
be satisfied the transaction is legitimate, and theres enough available credit, it will allow the
payment to go through. But, because Ive made a finding that I think Mr T was more likely
than not responsible for the payments, it follows that he would have been aware of the
transactions and any additional information supplied by NewDay wouldnt have changed the
situation.
Taking everything into account, and whilst Im sure Mr T will disagree with me, I think its
more likely than not that Mr T authorised these transactions and its reasonable for NewDay
to hold him liable for them. My current thinking is that Im minded not to uphold this
complaint.
I invited Mr T and NewDay to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. NewDay didnt have anything further they wanted 
to add, and Mr T responded with the following points:
He raised concerns with the account opening procedures of V.
Mr T wanted to know what details were checked by V when they set the account up.
That personal and credit card details can be obtained by anyone from a wallet left on 
a desk in order to use them without his knowledge.
That NewDays procedure for checking payments wasnt appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive already considered the points Mr T referred to about Vs procedures and how NewDay 
dealt with the payments in my provisional decision so see no need to repeat them here.
Mr T has suggested that anyone couldve obtained his details from information he left on a 
desk, including his name, address and credit card details. The checks carried out by V used 
his personal details, including name, date of birth and address   which could of course be 
obtained from this information Mr T says he left on his desk. Whilst I acknowledge this is a 
possible explanation for how the account was created with V, I dont think its the likely 
explanation.
When the account was created by V, Mr Ts correct mobile phone number was entered. I 
dont think this is something an unknown third party would be likely to do. I say that because 
any queries about the account or payments made to V would go to the contact details they 
held, in this case the mobile phone number for Mr T. An unknown third party wouldnt know if 
the account was compromised and it seems an unnecessary risk for someone to take when 
it would be simpler to put their own mobile phone number into the account and be able to 
maintain the illusion that they were impersonating Mr T.
There are other factors which Ive considered in relation to the disputed transactions, 
including:
Mr T fully paid off the balance before reporting it to NewDay and delayed the 
notification of the unrecognised transactions by a couple of weeks. I appreciate Mr T 
says he didnt realise he could go to NewDay, but I dont think someone who saw almost £8,000 charges on their credit card would delay speaking with the company 
who operated the card.
The payments to V that indicated the user knew the available balance and its 
unlikely that an unknown third party could know the current balance. Thats because 
the spending on the card isnt recorded on a statement until the following month and 
theres no indication of unauthorised access to Mr Ts account for a more real time 
understanding of the balance.
The lack of additional attempts to use the card when the balance was fully available. 
Mr T cleared the account which meant the full balance was again available- but no 
further use of the card was reported. If an unauthorised third party had access to the 
card, I would have expected to see it being used until it was blocked  but that didnt 
happen here.
V would only return any profits to the card that was used to fund them. There are 
much easier ways for an unknown third party to exploit the card details than 
investing funds that can only come back to the card they came from. It was highly 
likely that Mr T would notice the payments from his account as soon as he saw his 
statement, which in fact was the case here, so if an unknown third party was 
responsible, the fraud couldnt be expected to last for long and the risk to them far 
outweighs any reward  and they probably wouldnt be able to access any profits. 
So, whilst I appreciate Mr Ts additional comments, Im not intending to change my 
provisional decision. An objective review of the evidence leads me to conclude that it was 
more likely than not that Mr T was responsible for making the payments to V and its 
reasonable for NewDay to hold him liable for them.
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman