DRN-3453991
The complaint
Mr D and Ms H complain that they had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) because 
they were unable to port their mortgage with The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Platform 
within a reasonable time.
What happened
Mr D and Ms H had a mortgage with Platform. In 2020 they took a new five year fixed rate. 
They said that they did so knowing they were likely to move house within the next one to two 
years, but said that they had been assured they would be able to port their mortgage to a 
new property, avoiding an ERC, and that porting was a simple, quick and straightforward 
process.
In 2021, Mr D and Ms H decided to move. They accepted an offer to sell their property. They 
applied to Platform to port their mortgage to a new property.
They arranged a telephone appointment. They say they were surprised to learn that it wasnt 
a straightforward process, and that they would have to complete a full new mortgage 
application, including providing full evidence of their income and expenditure  even though 
they didnt want to borrow any more money.
The telephone appointment went ahead. Mr D and Ms H say they spent almost three hours 
on the phone with an adviser completing an application. The adviser said that porting their 
existing mortgage wouldnt be affordable, but offered a term extension to reduce their 
monthly payments to an acceptable level. Mr D and Ms H agreed to this. The adviser then 
said they would be sent some forms to sign and return.
Mr D and Ms H were surprised to receive not a completed offer to sign and accept, but a 
blank application form. They questioned this with Platform, and Platform told them this was 
correct. They would need to complete an application form, and Platform would then consider 
their application. It said it would take up to 12 weeks to consider the application, and a 
further two weeks to issue an offer if the application was approved.
Mr D and Ms H complained. They said they had already made the application, during the 
phone call, and didnt see why they needed to do so again. And they said the adviser had 
already agreed they would be allowed to port, subject to a short term extension.
Mr D and Ms H said they couldnt wait a further three months for the application to be 
considered. They were concerned that they would lose their buyer if they had to wait three 
months for a new mortgage offer to be issued, as they were part of a chain.
Mr D and Ms H said they felt they had no other option but to go to another lender. They 
redeemed their mortgage and paid an ERC of around £4,500.
Mr D and Ms H complained. They said theyd been misled when they took this rate out, and 
had they known they wouldnt be able to port they wouldnt have taken a five year rate with 
such a high ERC. And they said Platform hadnt treated them fairly in charging the ERC 
when it hadnt been able to complete their application in a reasonable time.
Platform offered them £25 compensation for not contacting them promptly about their 
complaint. But it didnt agree to waive the ERC. It said that porting applications were taking 
much longer at that time because of the impact of coronavirus and the stamp duty holiday.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the complaint. I said:
Porting a mortgage to a new property isnt a straightforward administrative process. Strictly 
speaking, the mortgage isnt ported at all  selling the old property involves repaying the old 
mortgage. A new mortgage application is then needed, and if the new mortgage is granted, 
it's the interest rate that is ported, to avoid it ending early and triggering the ERC.
That said, I dont think Mr D and Ms H were misled about the process when they took out 
their fixed rate. I think it was made clear that porting wasnt automatic and would require an 
application.
So what I need to decide here is whether Platform handled their application fairly in 2021, or 
whether it was handled unfairly  and whether it should refund the ERC Mr D and Ms H paid 
in moving to a new lender.
I find it difficult to understand why it was necessary for Mr D and Ms H to go through an initial 
application in May 2021, a full detailed application call in June 2021  and then still have to 
complete an application form from scratch.
Platform says that around this time its porting applications were taking around twice as long 
as usual, because of the combined impact of reduced staff due to coronavirus and increased 
demand due to the stamp duty holiday window.
And Ive taken that into account. This was a difficult time for many businesses, banks 
included  as it was for the rest of the country. And its reasonable to expect some leeway to 
be given in normal service standards.
However, even taking that into account, Im not persuaded that Platform acted fairly in this 
case.
As I say, its difficult to see why Mr D and Ms H had to both go through a full advised 
telephone application and complete a full paper application. Only one of those seems 
necessary.
As they werent borrowing more money, theres the facility in the rules of mortgage 
regulation to set aside the need for an affordability assessment in this situation. But Platform 
doesnt seem to have given any consideration to whether that would be appropriate in this 
case.
Either or both of those things were steps Platform could have taken to streamline its process 
 rather than simply expecting Mr D and Ms H to wait while things took much longer than its 
normal service standards would expect.
And while it may be understandable that Platforms usual timescales were extended around 
this time, the extent to which they were had a significant impact on Mr D and Ms H. They 
were in a property chain, and at risk of losing their buyer if they werent able to proceed in a timely way. I dont think expecting them to wait over three months for a mortgage offer  and 
imposing an ERC on them if they couldnt wait that long  was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. I think Mr D and Ms H were willing to remain with Platform  but it put them 
in a position where that wasnt possible, leaving them with no choice but to go elsewhere. 
I also bear in mind that this was a portable mortgage. As Ive said, that doesnt give the right 
to port  thats subject to an application and current lending criteria  but it does give the 
right to make an application and have it given fair consideration. In my view, in this case, the 
timescales for completing their application made it impractical for Mr D and Ms H to port their 
mortgage, because it couldnt be completed in a reasonable timescale. In my view, its part 
and parcel of the feature of portability that an application will be considered fairly and in a 
reasonable timescale  otherwise the feature cant be used in practice.
In all the circumstances, Im not persuaded it was fair to charge Mr D and Ms H the ERC. To 
put matters right, I think Platform should refund the ERC. And it should pay them £350 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delay, the worry and the 
stress of having to find the ERC.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr D and Ms H accepted my provisional decision. Platform didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered again what I said in my provisional decision. As no further arguments have 
been made, and no further evidence presented, I see no reason to change my mind.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct The 
Co-operative Bank plc trading as Platform to:
Refund the ERC Mr D and Ms H paid, adding either:
osimple annual interest of 8%* running from date of payment to date of refund, 
if Mr D and Ms H paid the ERC themselves out of their own funds; or 
ointerest at their new mortgage rate, compounded, if they added the ERC to 
the balance of their new mortgage. In this case, interest should run for 14 
days after payment is made to give Mr D and Ms H time to use the refund to 
overpay their new mortgage, if they choose to do so.
Unless Mr D and Ms H provide evidence that they added the ERC to their new mortgage and 
of the interest rate they are paying, such as a new mortgage offer or mortgage statement 
showing an increased balance, Platform may work on the basis that they paid it themselves 
from their own funds.
Finally, The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Platform should pay Mr D and Ms H £350 
compensation.
* If the final award includes the 8% interest element The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Platform 
may deduct income tax from this element of the award, as required by HMRC. But it should give Mr D and Ms H confirmation of the deduction so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if theyre entitled to 
do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman