DRN-3317697
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) hasnt refunded her after 
cash wasnt dispensed from an ATM she used.
Mrs C is represented by Miss A, but Ill refer only to Mrs C throughout, in the interest of 
clarity.
What happened
Mrs C used a cash machine at a supermarket. It was one shed used many times before. 
She put in her card, entered her PIN and requested £250. Mrs C said she waited a long time 
but no cash was dispensed. 
She thought the machine might be out of notes but then saw someone else use the same 
machine to successfully withdraw cash.
Mrs C reported the incident to NatWest and it investigated. It contacted the ATM owner and 
asked for evidence of the transactions. The ATM owner came back with evidence, in the 
form of electronic records, which showed the transaction completed successfully and that 
the machine balanced at the end of the day. There was no record of any errors. 
NatWest declined to refund Mrs Cs £250 in light of the evidence, as the cash appeared to 
have successfully dispensed. Mrs C was unhappy with NatWests answer and asked us to 
investigate.
Once the case was with us NatWest made a proactive offer to settle the complaint and said 
it was willing to refund £125. It also provided the evidence it had been sent by the ATM 
owner.
One of our investigators recommended the offer be accepted as he couldnt see that the 
bank had made an error. He felt the evidence showed the transaction had completed 
successfully, with the cash being dispensed, and so a refund of 50% was fair.
Mrs C didnt accept and so the case was referred to an ombudsman. We notified the bank of 
this and it increased its offer to a full refund of £250 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mrs C didnt wish to accept as she had been put through a lot in chasing for the money and 
felt the bank hadnt acted fairly. She said that she felt the bank ought to be made to change 
its systems and processes so that vulnerable people were better protected. And so the case 
has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I find that NatWests offer to settle this complaint and refund the £250 in dispute is fair and 
reasonable. I wont be telling it do any more.
When considering complaints of this nature our service has to rely on the evidence thats 
available. That includes the customers version of events and the electronic records that 
evidence a transaction. Ive considered each piece of evidence carefully in reaching my 
findings. In doing so, Ive reached my findings based on the balance of probabilities. In other 
words, what I think is more likely than not to have happened.
In cases like this, it is for the bank to show that the cash more likely than not dispensed. It 
isnt for the bank to show what happened to it once presented. If the evidence supports the 
banks position, it will have been right to debit its customers account.
Here, the bank have already agreed to refund the disputed amount. And so I wouldnt 
normally go on to examine the evidence in great detail. But I find its important to do so here, 
as Mrs C strongly feels the bank has treated her unfairly in declining to refund for so long. 
The electronic records do present persuasive evidence that the cash dispensed correctly. 
Theres no record of any errors occurring. And I can see the machine was being used a lot 
the day Mrs C tried to withdraw money. There was a successful withdrawal completed 11 
seconds before Mrs C started her transaction. And there was another successful withdrawal 
nine seconds after she finished. If there had been errors with the machine, Id expect to have 
seen them affecting more people, and with bigger gaps between transactions. 
The evidence also shows that Mrs C completed her transaction within 44 seconds. And, as 
Ive said, the next transaction started nine seconds later. That doesnt suggest a long time 
spent at the machine waiting for cash to appear, or before someone else was able to 
successfully transact.
The short timeframe between transactions before and after Mrs Cs also shows there was no 
real opportunity for someone to have tampered with the machine. 
Like our investigator, I can see the machine did balance at the end of the day. And theres 
no record of the cash being retracted back into the machine (there wasnt enough time that 
passed for that to happen in any case). 
All this evidence points towards it being more likely than not that the transaction completed 
successfully, with the cash being dispensed. 
I cant say exactly what happened to the cash after it was dispensed, aside from being 
persuaded it wasnt drawn back into the machine. Its possible Mrs C was deliberately 
distracted by someone at the cash machine, and they stole the money. Such occurrences 
are more common than many people would believe, and the victims of such thefts are often 
entirely unaware of whats happened. Or the next person to use the machine, who 
approached just nine seconds after Mrs Cs transaction completed, may have 
opportunistically taken the money, having seen it in the dispense slot.
The bank wouldnt be responsible for refunding the money in either case. The bank does 
have persuasive evidence the transaction was completed successfully and so there is no 
requirement to refund. Its not responsible for what happens to the money once its 
dispensed.
Ive gone into detail here because I know Mrs C feels very strongly about her case. So I 
wanted to explain the evidence the bank relied on in declining her claim originally. Theres 
nothing to suggest that decision was wrong. Banks will often make proactive goodwill offers 
to settle complaints, rather than see them drawn out for a long time. Its also important for 
me highlight why I dont believe the bank acted unfairly or unreasonably, given Im making 
no award of compensation.
Mrs C has said that its possible there was a malfunction with the machine and/or errors with 
the evidence. Whilst that cant be entirely ruled out, I consider that to be the least likely 
scenario. Ive already mentioned the successful transactions around the same time as 
Mrs Cs and the fact that the machine balanced at the end of the day. And there dont seem 
to have been multiple reports of problems with he machine. So Im satisfied its more likely 
than not the records are accurate. Finally, the changes Mrs C has suggested NatWest ought to make  to its systems and 
processes  are not something for this service to comment on. We look to resolve the 
complaints of individuals to ensure theyre fairly compensated for loss where a business has 
been at fault. 
I cant say that NatWest has done anything wrong here, so I make no further award against 
it.
Putting things right
NatWest has already agreed to refund the £250. I find that to be a fair and reasonable 
settlement.
My final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc has made an offer to resolve the case that I find to be 
appropriate. I make no further award against it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman