DRN-2406429
The complaint
Miss W complains that Advantage insurance Company Limited declined to cover a claim she 
made on her motor insurance policy and held her responsible for the third-party costs it paid.  
What happened
Miss W says that in the early hours of 31 May 2018 she and her partner were woken by the 
police, who attended their home to say her car had been involved in an accident and had 
then been found burned out. Miss W says it was only at this point that she realised the car 
was missing. The car key shed left next to an open window was also missing. Miss Ws 
partner was arrested and questioned about driving the car when the accident happened.  
 
On 2 July 2018 Advantage told Miss W her claim had been settled - but shortly afterwards 
she was told it was on hold, pending the receipt of a police report. In November 2018 her 
partner was charged with driving the car without insurance, whilst disqualified and also under 
the influence of alcohol, and failing to stop at the scene of an accident. A court hearing was 
set for 20 January 2020, but a witness failed to attend, and the court refused an 
adjournment. The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) then offered no evidence.
Miss W then expected Advantage to settle the claim, as her partner hadnt been convicted of 
any offence. But in June 2020 it advised her that it wouldnt be indemnifying her claim and 
that shed have to pay £440 for the cost of recovering her car and storing it. Miss W said 
Advantage hadnt considered her version of events. She said the evidence the police had 
was unreliable, so her partner may have been acquitted by the court. She said suspicion 
alone wasnt a firm basis on which Advantage could reasonably decline to cover her claim. 
And she objected to it having settled the claims made by the other parties involved in the 
accident without consulting her. 
Advantage told Miss W it didnt think the theft happened in the way she said it did. It pointed 
out that her partner was picked out in an identity parade as the driver of the car seen leaving 
the accident location. It said the police and the CPS believed there was enough evidence to 
prosecute him successfully, and that the burden of proof in a civil case was lower than that in 
a criminal case. It said having reviewed all the evidence, it thought it was more than 
probable that Miss Ws partner was involved in the accident - as did the other drivers 
solicitors, who were looking to issue proceedings. It said to avoid the extra costs involved in 
that, it had to deal with the other parties claims.
Miss W said she couldnt be required to reimburse Advantage unless it could show that she 
caused or permitted the use of the car. She said the costs of the claims on her policy were 
her main concern, and that she had no funds to repay any sum Advantage paid out anyway. 
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Ws complaint. She thought Advantage had looked at 
all the evidence. In her view it was reasonable for it to doubt Miss Ws account of events. 
She thought it was reasonable for it to recover from Miss W any costs it incurred, and said it 
was legally obliged to pay the costs incurred by the other parties to the accident. In her 
opinion, Advantage was right to base its decision on the balance of probabilities. As there 
was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.           
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont intend to comment on every point that has been made by Advantage or by Miss W, 
and Ill concentrate on what I think are the central issues here. 
Declining Miss Ws claim on the policy 
In my opinion, it was reasonable for Advantage to decide not to cover Miss Ws claim. I dont 
think she can show that it didnt consider her version of events. I think its correspondence 
with her shows that it did, but that on the balance of probabilities, it thought her account 
wasnt accurate. Miss Ws version of events  was that after she and her partner went to bed, 
an unknown person must have found the cars keys by the open window, then stole the car 
and was driving it when the accident happened.   
I think it was fair for Advantage to conclude that the evidence provided by the police (and 
relied on by the CPS in deciding to prosecute Miss Ws partner) was persuasive. Her partner 
wasnt insured to drive the car. I dont think Advantage could ignore the fact that a witness 
saw Miss Ws car and its driver as it was driven away from the accident. He told the police at 
the time that hed recognise the driver again. The witness didnt know Miss Ws partner but 
was able to identify him from an identification parade.  
It seems the police and the CPS had problems getting a court hearing date that was suitable 
for the witness and for all the other parties that would have been needed on the day. I can 
see that would have been frustrating for Miss W. But in my opinion, the fact that a criminal 
court hearing didnt take place doesnt mean that Advantage should have to disregard the  
identification witnesss evidence  or that of others, including several police officers. 
The police officers (who would have been witnesses at the hearing) recorded their 
observations of Miss W and her partner when they attended their home shortly after the 
accident. They also noted the physical evidence they saw at that time which they thought 
linked Miss Ws damaged car to her driveway and to the place nearby where the burned-out 
car was found. I think it was reasonable for Advantage to note all that evidence and to 
consider it was more likely than not that Miss W had misled it. In these circumstances, the 
policy says a claim made by the policy holder wont be covered  but Advantage still has to 
meet its obligations to other parties under the provisions of the Road Traffic Act 1988.
Covering the other parties claims / recovering costs 
As Advantage decided not to cover Miss Ws claim, it wasnt liable for any sums already paid 
out on the policy in connection with it. Advantage had paid for her car to be recovered and 
stored. It has given us evidence that the cost of that was £440. Miss W says she was told 
initially that it would be less than that. But even if Advantage made an error initially, its clear 
that the sum it has now asked Miss W to repay is correct.   
Miss W says in order to recover the costs incurred by the other parties to the claim from her, 
Advantage must show that she caused or permitted her car to be driven by her partner. She 
gave us an example of a case in which a court decided that hadnt happened. But the basis 
of that decision was that the policy holder couldnt have given permission to drive her car to 
the person who was driving it. In this case, Miss W could have given permission, although 
she says she didnt. Given the evidence pointing to her partner having been the cars driver - and of the damaged car having been returned to their driveway - I think it was reasonable for 
Advantage to conclude it was more than likely that she did. 
Miss W was concerned about some of the costs set out by Advantage when it told her about 
the other parties claims having been settled. She said she didnt know who the other parties 
were and hadnt seen any evidence of the costs. But Advantage has the right to settle any 
claim as it sees fit. It doesnt have to consult a policy holder before doing so, although it has 
a duty to ensure that costs claimed are reasonable and supported by evidence. I think 
Advantage did that in this case. 
There were three people in the other car, which was hit with such force from the side that it 
was shunted off the road and landed on its roof. Unsurprisingly, the largest cost was for 
personal injury. I wouldnt expect Advantage to provide Miss W with specific details, but it 
has shown us evidence of the injuries that were caused and the costs that were incurred as 
a result of them. It has also shown us what the small loss of earnings claim was for, and it 
has explained the miscellaneous charge (which was made by the NHS for initial medical 
treatment). The second largest cost was solicitors fees. Advantage has provided evidence 
to us of these charges, which include the costs of getting medical reports. 
Given the severity of the accident, and the number of people involved, in my opinion, it was 
fair for Advantage to conclude that the costs claimed werent excessive. Had it not settled 
them, the other parties solicitors intended to issue civil proceedings. The outcome of that 
would have been based on the balance of probabilities. Advantage thought the proceedings 
were likely to be successful - and if so, the overall costs for Miss W would then have 
escalated considerably - so I think it acted reasonably. 
Miss W has told us about her personal and financial situation. She says she wont be able to 
pay any of the costs Advantage is seeking to recover from her. Although I can see that shes 
is in a very difficult position, that issue can only be resolved through further communication 
with Advantage. Its possible that the parties may be able to make suitable arrangements.  
Miss W says Advantage made errors (such as telling her that her claim would be paid, then 
saying it wouldnt - due to misrepresentation) as well as getting dates wrong. Ive taken all 
her comments into account, but I dont think Advantage did anything that was substantially 
wrong and had an impact on Miss W. In particular, I dont think shes been able to show that 
it acted unreasonably in declining her claim - or in settling the other parties claims and 
seeking reimbursement from her - so I cant uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Miss W to accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman