DRN-2910914
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) increased the 
minimum payment on his credit card without his agreement. 
What happened
Mr H had a credit card with AESEL with a debit balance and was paying £198 each month to 
the account. AESEL wrote to him in September 2019 to say that, due to changes to the rules 
for persistent debt by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), they wanted to increase his 
minimum payment. Mr H didnt want this to happen, so he cancelled his credit card. AESEL 
wrote to him confirming the card was cancelled and saying he had to continue paying at 
least the minimum amount due each month. Mr H continued to pay £198 per month. In 
October 2020, AESEL sent Mr H another letter saying that his minimum payment was too 
low and they intended to increase it to £239 per month. 
Mr H complained to AESEL, as he felt he was continuing under his old agreement before his 
card was cancelled and should be able to continue paying £198 per month. AESEL didnt 
uphold his complaint. And they closed Mr Hs account and passed him to their debt recovery 
team. And Mr H is now paying £200 per month via the debt recovery team. 
Mr H wasnt happy with AESELs response to his complaint and complained to us. He said 
he didnt think AESEL were entitled to increase his minimum payment. And he was 
concerned that having his credit card debt passed to their debt recovery department could 
affect his credit rating. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Hs complaint and explained to him why he didnt 
think it should be upheld. He said that AESEL had to suggest an increase to his minimum 
payment because of the rules covering persistent debt, so he didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong. 
Mr H doesnt agree with our investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Hs frustration and his point about the minimum he was making being based 
on the agreement he had with AESEL prior to cancelling his credit card. However, I agree 
with our investigator that because of the FCA rules covering persistent debt (set out in the 
FCA handbook under reference conc 6.7) AESEL were right to suggest Mr H needed to 
increase his minimum payment to £239. And, because he didnt want to do this, I think the 
action they took in closing his account and passing the debt to their recovery team was 
appropriate. 
The FCA rules are designed to protect consumers who are not paying enough to clear the 
debt they have in a reasonable period. And I dont think the fact that Mr H cancelled his 
credit card under an agreement that enabled him to pay £198 per month meant he had a 
right to continue doing so indefinitely. In fact, if hed kept the credit card under this 
agreement, I think AESEL would still have been able to increase his minimum payment. All 
the letter he received from AESEL when he cancelled his credit card said on payments 
moving forward was that Mr H would have to pay at least the minimum payment each month. 
It didnt actually state the minimum payment would stay the same or be the same 
percentage of the balance. And it didnt say that Mr H could continue paying £198 each 
month. 
So, I dont think AESEL did anything wrong by saying Mr Hs monthly payment needed to go 
up to £239. I appreciate as a result of Mr H deciding he did not want to pay this his account 
was closed and hes concerned about the debt being passed to the debt recovery 
department. But - as Ive already said - Im satisfied the action AESEL took was appropriate 
once Mr H had said he would not pay £239 per month. This is because it was clear at this 
point AESEL had to take appropriate action to help him manage the debt.
In summary, because I dont think AESEL have done anything wrong, its not appropriate for 
me to uphold Mr Hs complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I have decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman