DRN-4016420
The complaint
M complains that QIC Europe Ltd unfairly declined its claim on its commercial insurance 
policy. 
Mr B, as a director of M, brings this complaint on its behalf.
What happened
Mr B bought the franchise for M in 2019 and rented the premises for its operation. He took 
out a commercial property insurance policy to cover the contents of the premises. The policy 
was taken out through a broker and underwritten by QIC. In January 2020 there was a fire at 
the premises after a gas chargrill caught fire while it was being used.
Mr B made a claim on Ms policy. QIC sent an expert to inspect the damage and they 
concluded the fire was caused by a build up of food residue in the grill, with the spread of the 
fire being further aided by grease residue on the extraction duct.
QIC subsequently declined Ms claim. It said there were conditions in the policy that required 
the extraction duct to be cleaned by a specialist contractor every 12 months. And that greasy 
waste and cloths should be stored in metal containers. It said Mr B had been unable to show 
that hed met either of these conditions so there would be no policy cover. 
Mr B didnt think this was fair. He said the equipment had been cleaned in line with the policy 
conditions, but he acquired the premises less than 12 months before the fire and didnt have 
receipts to prove this had been done by the previous tenants or owner. He also said the 
expert sent by QIC didnt take the equipment away to inspect it properly, but instead just 
concluded it was caused by grease with little evidence. He brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said QIC had instructed an 
expert report that concluded the fire was caused by the grease build up. And in the absence 
of any evidence to disprove this, it was fair to decline the claim based on the conditions 
because of this.
Mr B didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
QIC has declined Ms claim based on two policy conditions. In the endorsements section of 
the policy, under Deep fat frying equipment the policy states as follows:
It is a condition precedent to Our liability that
e) all extraction ducts are cleaned at least once every twelve months by a specialist 
Contractor;
f) all oil or greasy waste and cloths are kept in metal receptacles with metal lids and 
removed from the building at the end of each working day and from the Premises at least 
once a week;
Therefore its clear that in order for QIC to accept liability for a claim the conditions laid out in 
these endorsements must be met. 
At this service, when an insurer relies on a policy condition to decline a claim, wed expect it 
to demonstrate both that the condition hadnt been met and that the fact it wasnt met was 
material to the reason for claiming. So Ive considered whether QIC has done this here, in 
order to determine if its acted fairly by declining Ms claim.
In order to assess the claim, QIC sent out a forensic engineer to inspect the fire damage and 
report on the cause. In their report they concluded that the fire had started at the chargrill 
and spread to the extraction canopy and ductwork. It stated:
The extraction canopy was fire damaged throughout, but was more burned in the area to the 
left hand side above the chargrill. This canopy had contained three removable filters/baffles 
at the time of the fire, which showed evidence of some greasy residues being present.
The single walled metal extraction duct measured approximately 40cm in diameter. Within 
the duct there were burned deposits up to approximately 2cm deep in places. It was not 
possible to confirm over what time period such deposits had accumulated.
This shows that in the opinion of the expert there was a build up of grease in the extraction 
duct and this caused the fire to spread. 
The condition in the policy requires Mr B to have this part of the fryer cleaned every 12 
months by a specialist contractor. And hes been unable to demonstrate this has been done. 
While I appreciate he took up the premises within 12 months of the incident, under the 
policy, the onus would still be on Mr B, on behalf of M, to ensure this condition was met. So if 
the previous occupant was unable to provide proof that this had been done, then it would be 
for Mr B to ensure the clean was carried out when he acquired the premises. 
As Mr B has been unable to provide evidence that the condition has been met, then its 
reasonable for QIC to rely on it to decline the claim. And as its expert has concluded that the 
build up of grease in the extraction duct was the reason why the fire spread, its shown that 
not meeting the condition was material for Ms need to claim. I am therefore satisfied that 
QIC acted fairly and reasonably by declining Ms claim based on this condition. 
While QIC has stated two conditions when declining Ms claim, it only reasonably needs to 
demonstrate one in order to fairly decline the claim. As Im satisfied it has done this with 
condition e above, I havent considered whether it has done enough to show the other 
condition applied.
Mr B has said that he doesnt think QICs contractors did a thorough enough inspection of 
the equipment to be able to fairly conclude what caused the fire. And hes said that he 
doesnt agree the fire spread to the extraction duct, but instead this was damaged by the fire 
services. 
When assessing a complaint, Ill rely on the opinions and reports of experts that have 
inspected the damage. As these are completed by experts in the subject matter, with ample 
experience in inspecting damage cause by similar incidents. Here, the only expert report has 
been provided by QIC and it concludes that the fire did spread to the extraction duct and that 
this was because of a build up of grease. While I appreciate Mr B doesnt agree with this opinion, Ive not seen any evidence to persuade me it was incorrect. Im therefore satisfied 
QIC has done enough to show the condition relating to the extraction duct was material to 
the fire spreading. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman