DRN-3636075
The complaint
Mr M complains about a lack of support from Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) in relation 
to two credit card accounts he held, resulting in defaults being recorded on his credit file.
What happened
Mr M held two credit card accounts with RBS. 
In or around April 2020, Mr Ms income was adversely impacted by the effects of the global 
pandemic. So, he applied for payment deferrals on both accounts. RBS agreed to provide 
payment deferrals for three months, expiring in July 2020. 
Mr M contacted RBS again in July 2020. He asked them to extend the payment deferrals for 
a further period. But RBS wouldnt agree to his request. Mr M says RBS refused to freeze or 
waive interest on his accounts and the only support they would consider would result in 
adverse information being reported on his credit file.
Mr M first complained to RBS in July 2020. He raised various complaint issues with them 
over the course of the following six months. The complaint issues included:
the amount of interest charged on his accounts; and
refusal of a payment deferral extension; and
the repayment options and plans offered; and
the impact on his credit file; and
failure to adhere to Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance; and
failure to respond to letters; and
transfer of the administration of his accounts to a debt collection agent.
RBS sent various letters responding to the complaint points raised by Mr M. They accepted 
theyd not received or failed to respond to two of Mr Ms letters and paid compensation to 
reflect this. But they didnt agree theyd otherwise acted unreasonably or unfairly. They also 
didnt agree their actions failed to comply with the FCAs guidance.
Unhappy with RBSs responses, Mr M referred his complaint to this service. Having 
considered all the information available, our investigator thought RBS had acted 
sympathetically and appropriately to Mr Ms financial situation and didnt think they needed 
to take any more action.
As Mr M didnt agree with our investigators findings, his complaint has been passed to me to 
consider further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders on 2 April 2020 which 
explained what it expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising out 
of the global pandemic. It provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on the 
consumers credit file because of the payment deferral.  
Mr M first applied for payment deferrals on his credit card accounts in April 2020 using 
RBSs online application form. RBS agreed to provide an initial three-month deferral on both 
his accounts. They also wrote to Mr M just prior to expiry of the deferrals asking him to 
contact them should he require further support. RBSs actions here appear to comply with 
the FCAs guidance.
The FCA said firms would be entitled to charge a reasonable rate of interest where a 
customer requests a temporary payment freeze. In the event that a customer requires full 
forbearance that interest should be waived. RBS continued to charge interest on Mr Ms 
accounts during the deferral period which also appears to comply with the FCAs guidance.
Further guidance issued by the FCA on 1 July 2020 extended these measures, and where 
consumers were still struggling due to the global pandemic, businesses were advised to 
consider freezing or reducing their payments for a further three months, where it was 
appropriate. 
Mr M contacted RBS on 10 July 2020. He wanted them to extend the payment deferrals. 
Before agreeing, RBS wanted to better understand Mr Ms circumstances. It was established 
that his financial challenges were unlikely to be resolved in the short term. And certainly not 
within the three-month deferral extension. The FCAs guidance was clear that it should only 
apply where payment difficulties are considered temporary. In particular because interest 
would continue to be applied, and any deferred payments would need to be repaid. A 
payment deferral wouldnt be appropriate where it was likely to have a detrimental impact on 
Mr Ms situation.
Given Mr Ms financial difficulties were unlikely to improve in the short term, I agree a further 
deferral of payments wasnt appropriate here as this wouldve resulted in additional interest 
costs. I also dont think Mr M wouldve immediately been in a position to pay the deferred 
payments in addition to his contractual payments, once any deferral ended. 
In situations where support under the FCAs special guidance has been exhausted or is not 
appropriate because financial difficulties are not considered temporary, RBS would be 
expected to consider alternative forms of forbearance. The key rules and standards that 
apply are set down in the FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) Section 7. These 
include:
Suspending, waiving or cancelling any further interest or charges
Allowing arrears to be deferred where immediate payment could cause payments to 
be unsustainable or where the term would not be increased excessively
Accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow the 
consumer to recover from an unexpected reduction in income.
The FCA also provided specific Tailored Support Guidance for consumers not receiving or 
not eligible for payment deferrals. This guidance was designed specifically to enable 
businesses to deliver short and long-term support to consumers. The support could include 
further deferrals, where appropriate. But these wouldnt be subject to the previous payment 
deferral guidance and the FCA made it clear they should be reported to credit files in the 
usual way.
RBS outlined alternative options for Mr M to consider. Many of these included interest being 
frozen or waived. RBS explained the impact these might have on Mr Ms credit file with the credit reference agencies. They also offered to place a 30-day hold on his accounts while he 
sought independent advice. But Mr M wasnt happy with any of the options offered as he 
didnt want his credit file to be adversely impacted.
Based on the evidence and information available, the options described by RBS appear to 
meet the FCAs requirements. So, while I appreciate Mr M may disagree, I cant reasonably 
conclude that RBS acted inappropriately here. I also understand RBS later agreed to 
waive/refund interest for three months from July 2020 as a gesture of goodwill.  
In September 2020, the FCA announced that the support scheme would change from the 
end of October 2020. From then, firms could continue to support customers in difficulty. But 
it was down to their discretion and customers circumstances. Reporting to credit reference 
agencies was also reintroduced for people that had already had the maximum payment 
deferrals.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) issue guidance and principles for the reporting 
of arrears, arrangements and defaults (PRAAD) at credit reference agencies. They say that 
as a general guide, a default may be recorded when you are three months in arrears, and 
normally by the time you are six months in arrears. Arrears usually occur where a consumer 
fails to make their contractual payments. The exception can be where a repayment plan is 
agreed which is a formal variation to the original agreement. Where there are no payments, 
or token payments are accepted, arrears may still be recorded.
Following expiry of the original payment deferral, it appears Mr M was only able to make 
token payments as he could afford them. So, RBSs actions here appear to comply with 
these guidelines, And I cant reasonably say they did anything wrong when they recorded 
arrears, placed Mr Ms accounts into default and recorded this on his credit file.
Its clear Mr Ms financial circumstances were impacted due to the effects of the global 
pandemic. And I have no doubt this was a very difficult and worrying time for him. His 
decision to approach RBS for help and support was the right thing to do here. Unfortunately, 
he wasnt happy with the options presented to him. But while I appreciate he will be 
disappointed; I havent found anything that persuades me that RBS acted inappropriately or 
didnt comply with the FCAs guidance. And because of that, I wont be asking them to do 
anything more here.
Following the default of Mr Ms credit card accounts, RBS passed the administration of their 
recovery to a third-party debt collection agency. This is RBSs process and I believe theyre 
entitled to do that here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman