DRN-3291742
The complaint
Mr M complains that Swansea Building Society (SBS) unfairly closed his account without 
prior warning.
What happened
Mr M held a number of accounts with SBS. After an alleged incident in branch, SBS closed 
all Mr Ms accounts without warning.
Mr M complained and didnt think this was fair. SBS said it closed the accounts because it 
found Mr Ms behaviour unacceptable. Mr M said he wasnt rude in branch and doesnt 
agree with the allegations from staff in relation to his behaviour.
SBS didnt change its stance, so Mr M brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought SBS was entitled to close Mr Ms 
accounts.
Mr M doesnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I wasnt present during the alleged incident in branch. So, I cant possibly say for certain 
what happened. I understand Mr M will have his point of view, as will the staff in branch.
But Ive seen statements from a number of staff members - including the ones directly 
involved and ones who witnessed the events in question. Those statements all point to 
behaviour that SBS finds unacceptable.
I understand Mr M says this stems from a dispute between him and a single member of staff 
at the branch - and that he thinks the other staff members are following that persons orders. 
But theres no evidence other than Mr Ms allegation to support that claim.
SBS dont have to accept inappropriate behaviour, no business or person does. Its clear 
that the terms of Mr Ms accounts allow SBS to close the accounts if its staff are subjected to 
behaviour it deems unacceptable. 
As set out above, I didnt see or hear what happened, so its not for me to say whether Mr 
Ms behaviour was unacceptable or not. But Im satisfied that based on the available 
evidence, SBSs decision to close his accounts on the basis it felt his behaviour was 
unacceptable, was a reasonable decision and one it was entitled to make.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman