DRN-4071842
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) didnt address her complaint about the authorisation of the credit intermediary 
used when her BPF credit card agreement was set up to finance the acquisition of a holiday 
product.
Further complaint points were then raised in regard to claims under Sections 75 and 140A of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to a holiday product she acquired with Mr F, 
in 2007.
This complaint is Mrs Fs, because it relates to a credit agreement in her sole name. But as 
the holiday product was in Mr and Mrs Fs name, Ill refer to Mr and Mrs F throughout much 
of this decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F entered into a purchase agreement for a holiday product with a third-party 
supplier (the Supplier) in November 2007 (the Time of Sale). Mrs F financed the 
acquisition through a credit card agreement with BPF. It appears that the credit card 
agreement was settled in May 2008. Mrs F complained to BPF in July 2020 saying that the 
credit agreement was arranged by an unauthorised credit broker.
BPF issued a final response letter in October 2020. It said that the Limitation Act 1980 (LA) 
needed to be considered and that any claim under Section 75 of the CCA needed to be 
made within six years of the Time of Sale. As Mrs F contacted BPF more than six years after 
the Time of Sale it said the claim was out of time.
Mr and Mrs F- acting through a professional representative (PR)  referred their complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service in March 2021, raising issues of misrepresentation and 
lawful authority. The PR raised a number of issues and while I havent repeated these all in 
detail, a summary of the key concerns are noted below:
Unlawful authority
The PR noted that BPFs comments about the credit broker but continued to raise 
concerns about its authority including noting it had breached its authorisation due to 
the misrepresentations made.
Misrepresentation
Mr and Mrs F believed they would be able to stay in luxury accommodation in an 
exclusive members club whenever they wanted. But when they tried to book 
holidays, there wasnt availability.
Unfair Relationship
Mrs F was provided with the credit agreement after a lengthy and pressurised sale 
meeting.
The high interest rate on the credit agreement was indicative of an unfair relationship.
Other issues raised
Adequate affordability checks werent undertaken.
Our investigator issued a view in June 2022. He concluded that:
The Section 75 claim for misrepresentation was made out of time under the 
Limitation Act 1980 (LA).
The Section 140A claim was made out of time under the Limitation Act 1980 (LA).
He hadnt seen persuasive evidence that the lending was unaffordable.
The credit broker had the required authorisation at the time the credit agreement was 
arranged.
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree with our investigators view. PR responded to the view saying the 
following:
Evidence hadnt been provided to show that the credit broker had the required 
authorisation at the time the credit agreement was arranged.
The Section 75 and 140A claims werent made out of time. Mrs F couldnt have 
known her cause for a claim at the Time of Sale. It also said that maintenance fees 
continued to be charged giving rise to new limitation periods.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. My findings were as follows:
Authorisation of the credit intermediary
Mrs F financed the acquisition through a credit card agreement with BPF provided at the 
Time of Sale. The information provided by BPF lists a retailer for the agreement. However, 
as the Supplier named on the purchase agreement was already in the position to arrange 
the credit agreement because it held a Consumer Credit Licence at the Time of Sale, in the 
absence of any persuasive evidence to suggest otherwise, I find it more likely than not that 
the Supplier named on the purchase agreement arranged the credit agreement. As they had 
the required license at the time, I do not find I have evidence to uphold this part of Mrs Fs 
complaint.
Section 75: Misrepresentation
When a consumer has a claim for misrepresentation against a supplier, they can, in certain 
circumstances, make a like claim against their lender under section 75 of the CCA. The 
claim against the lender effectively mirrors the claim the consumer could make against the 
supplier provided its made inside the relevant limitation period.
But a section 75 claim is an action to recover any sum by virtue of any enactment under 
section 9 of the Limitation Act 1980. And the limitation period under that provision is six 
years from the date on which the cause of action accrued.Only a court can decide whether Mrs Fs claim was made out of time under the LA. But the 
Acts still relevant here, as I need to take it into account in deciding whether BPFs response 
to the claim was reasonable.
The date on which the cause of action accrued is the point at which Mr and Mrs F entered 
into the purchase agreement. I say this because they entered into the agreement based on 
the alleged misrepresentation by the Supplier  which they relied on. The credit card 
agreement Mrs F used to pay for the purchase was entered into in November 2007 and so it 
is at this time when she suffered the loss.
It follows therefore that I think the cause of action accrued in 2007, and this means that this 
claim had to be made within six years of that date. As the claim under Section 75 of the CCA 
wasnt raised until 2021, this was more than six years after the credit card agreement was 
entered into and so I think its likely to have fallen outside of the time limit set out in the LA  
such that BPF had and has a complete defence to this claim.
Section 140A: Unfair Relationship
Only a court has the power to decide whether a relationship between the credit and debtor is 
unfair, but it is relevant law, so I have taken it into consideration.
A claim under Section 140A is a claim for a sum recoverable by statue  which is governed 
by section 9 of the LA. So, the time limit for making a claim is six years from the date when 
the cause of action accrued. But in this case the six years applied from when the relationship 
between BPF and Mrs F ended.
Based on the relevant case law, it can be argued that the limitation period started when the 
credit relating to the purchase in question was paid off, rather than when the relevant credit 
agreement is formally brought to an end and the entire debtor-credit relationship ends. That 
said, consideration also needs to be given to whether there are continuing financial 
detriments and/or ongoing contractual obligations that continue to render the debtor-creditor 
relationship unfair.
Having considered the evidence and noting that it appears that Mrs F settled her outstanding 
balance under the credit agreement in 2008, I think its unlikely a court would likely find that 
the relationship between her and BPF was unfair after that date as a result of the 2007 
purchase. Therefore, I find it reasonable to accept that the claim would likely be considered 
as out of time under the LA.
Irresponsible lending
The suggestion that BPF didnt carry out the right checks when it lent to Mrs F can be 
considered as giving rise to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under Section 140A. And 
Ive already explained why the claim under that provision was likely to have been made out 
of time under the LA.
Lending money under a regulated credit agreement of the kind in question by BPF was an 
activity covered by the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction at the Time of Sale. 
Noting when the activity took place, I have considered whether this is something we can 
consider.
The rules about the complaints we can consider are known as the DISP rules and these can 
be found in the FCAs Handbook. DISP 2.8.2(2) provides (unless the failure to comply with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances) that we cant consider a 
complaint if a consumer refers it to us more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of, or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that she had cause for complaint.
Im satisfied the decision to lend here was made at the point of sale in 2007. I cant 
reasonably find that this part of Mrs Fs complaint was brought to us within the six-year 
period set out in the first part of DISP 2.8.2 above so Ive gone on to consider the second 
limb of DISP 2.8.2 - when Mrs F knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that she had 
cause for complaint - to see if this extended the time. If the loan was unaffordable, Id expect 
Mrs F to have realised this much earlier - but I accept thats not the same as Mrs F knowing 
she had cause for complaint against BPF. On the current evidence, I cant be certain that 
Mrs F knew (or ought reasonably to have known) that she had cause for complaint against 
BPF regarding affordability before she took advice in 2021. Im satisfied she brought this 
complaint to us within three years of that and Ive gone on to consider this part of her 
complaint.
When considering a complaint about irresponsible lending, I need to be satisfied that 
adequate checks werent undertaken before the credit was provided and that had these 
happened, BPF would have, or ought reasonably to have, realised the lending was 
unaffordable. In this case I do not find I have sufficient evidence to say this, therefore I 
cannot uphold this part of the complaint.
No new information was provided in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider each case based on its merits. When doing that, Im required to take into account 
the relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; and codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened given 
the available evidence and wider circumstances.
I set out my reasoning for my conclusions in my provisional decision. I concluded that 
Mrs Fs claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA were likely to be found out of time 
under the LA and so I didnt think BPF was required to do anything further in response to 
these. I thought the evidence showed that the credit broker did have the required licence at 
the time of the agreement being arranged and I didnt find evidence to support the case that 
adequate checks would have shown the lending to have been unaffordable. Based on this I 
didnt uphold the complaint.
As no new evidence was provided in response to my provisional decision, my conclusions 
havent changed and I do not find that I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman