DRN-3302885
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited imposed unfair charges 
for damage to a car which she returned at the end of a finance agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
Our investigator has set out at some length the various items of damage and I wont repeat 
that detail here. In summary Mrs M entered into an agreement under which she agreed to 
pay for any damage which went beyond fair wear and tear. MBFS provides a booklet setting 
out what is deemed to be fair wear and tear. This is broadly in line with the British Vehicle 
Rental & Leasing Association (BVRLA) Fair Wear and Tear Guide. This service relies on the 
BVRLA guide regardless of whether the business makes use of it.
The sum charged was £1,646 which include £25 for a missing V5 which was later removed. 
MBFS also removed charges relating to the front bumper alignment and a scratch on the 
right rear door. The reduced sum due was £1,371.
Our investigator examined the report and was satisfied that the revised damage charges 
were fair save for one item. She was concerned that the sum charged for replacing a 
headlight was excessive. MBFS confirmed an average cost had been used and the actual 
cost of replacing it was £287.77 as opposed to £746.
MBFS has agreed that cost should be reduced and I regard that as fair. I am satisfied that 
the other areas of damage are chargeable.
Putting things right
MBFS should reduce the end of agreement charges as set out below.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to reduce the sum chargeable to for the headlight to £287.77.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman