DRN-3369151
The complaint
C, a company, complains Barclays Bank UK PLC decided to close its business account and 
didnt give it enough time to make alternative banking arrangements.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
C had a business account with Barclays. In late 2021 Barclays reviewed its relationship with 
C and decided it didnt want to continue to offer its services as C didnt meet its appetite to 
risk. C accepts Barclays was entitled to make this decision. For completeness, I agree it 
was. And I find Barclays reasons legitimate.
In late November 2021 Barclays issued a letter giving C 60 days notice of its intention to 
close the account, meaning the account would close in late January 2022. This was in line 
with the account terms and conditions. C, however, wanted more time to make alternative 
banking arrangements. This was because Cs controller and his family were out of the UK, 
couldnt return because of the Covid pandemic, and there were age and medical related 
considerations.  
Barclays extended the closure date several times  first to February 2022, then to March 
2022 and then finally to May 2022. It closed the account in May 2022. C considers Barclays 
should have given it more time. While I can understand Cs difficult position, I find Barclays 
acted reasonably here. It didnt have to give more than 60 days notice, but to be helpful 
ultimately gave about six months notice. I cant fairly conclude Barclays should have given a 
further extension when there was no assurance a further extension of a month, or even two 
or three months, wouldnt have then led to another extension request. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman
