DRN-3618096
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund a transaction he says he didnt 
make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In February 2022, a £2,000 transfer was made from Mr Os Monzo account to another UK 
bank account, using Mr Os mobile phone. This reduced Mr Os balance to £7.92, which he 
then transferred away the following morning. He then continued using his account.
The following week, Mr O reported the £2,000 transfer as fraudulent. He said he hadnt 
noticed it earlier either because he thought hed already transferred £2,000 to his other 
account, or because the transaction didnt show up on his account for a few days. He 
confirmed all the surrounding account activity was him, but that he didnt recognise this one 
transfer. He confirmed he still had his phone, no one else had access to it, hed never given 
his security details to anyone or let anyone access his account, he may have written down 
his security details but he never shared this with anyone, and he didnt think anyone he knew 
would have done this.
Monzo held Mr O liable for the payment in dispute. They explained it had been made from 
his mobile phone app, using his security details. They confirmed it showed up instantly on 
his account, and they noted Mr O would have seen it when he transferred the exact 
remaining balance away the following day  but he waited a week to report it. They gave 
Mr O notice they were closing his account.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr O 
didnt agree. He felt that Monzo had treated him poorly, that his mental health hadnt been 
taken into account, and that the payment might have been made by a Monzo staff member. 
He asked for his case to be reviewed afresh, so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, I have also considered everything Mr Os told us about his wider circumstances, 
including the tough time that I understand hes been going through.
Broadly speaking, the key question here is whether this payment was authorised or not. 
Monzo can hold Mr O liable for the transaction in dispute if he authorised it.
Im satisfied from Monzos technical evidence that the payment in dispute was properly 
authenticated using Mr Os genuine mobile phone app. I also need to think about whether 
the evidence suggests that its most likely Mr O consented to the transaction, or not.
First, Ive considered the possibility that the payment was made by someone who Mr O did 
not know.
The payment was made using Mr Os mobile app, on the only device that was actively 
registered to the account at the time. This was the same device Mr O had been using for his 
online banking since 2020. Further, the payment was made from the same IP address that 
Mr O used for his genuine activity both before and after the disputed payment. Im satisfied 
that this was Mr Os genuine mobile phone. 
Mr O didnt lose his mobile phone, no one else had access to it, and it was still in Mr Os 
possession after the disputed payment. Indeed, he used it to make genuine payments the 
very next day  again, from the same IP address used for the disputed payment. Mr O did 
not appear to have downloaded any suspicious software, and the only suspicious links he 
could provide was ostensibly a petition about knife crime, or which alternatively led to an 
investment scheme where Mr O would need to have willingly sent money himself if he 
wanted to take part.
Further, the payment needed either Mr Os biometric fingerprint or his accounts PIN. It 
would not have been possible for anyone else to use Mr Os own fingers to access his 
account without him noticing. And I cant see a likely way that an unknown party would have 
learned his PIN.
So theres not a likely or plausible way that an unknown party could have made this payment 
without Mr Os permission. Mr O suggested that a Monzo staff member could have done 
this, but it was not possible for Monzos staff members to have remotely used Mr Os mobile 
phone and app at his exact IP address. And having investigated this matter, I have not found 
any evidence which otherwise implicates any Monzo staff members in any way.
It is possible that someone known to Mr O may have made the transactions without his 
permission, such as a friend or family member. For example, they might have found the 
written record of his security details. But I dont think this is likely, either. Its still not clear 
how they then would have accessed Mr Os phone without him noticing. And importantly, 
Mr O said there wasnt anyone he knew who would have done this, so it seems he has 
effectively ruled out this possibility himself. 
The last possibility is that Mr O authorised the payment, either by making it himself or by 
giving someone else permission to make it.
This possibility fits well with the fact that the payment was made from Mr Os normal IP 
address, on his genuine app, using his registered mobile phone, which did not go missing 
and which he still had afterwards and which no one else had access to, using his correct 
security details on the first try, which hed also not given to anyone else.
Further, the disputed transfer brought Mr Os account balance from over £2,000 to just 
£7.92. And the following morning, Mr O transferred the remaining £7.92 away, which he 
confirmed was him. So it looks like he was aware that almost all of his balance had gone, 
and exactly how much was remaining. Mr O then continued to use his account regularly, and 
had to wait for further money to be transferred in to make up for the £2,000 that was lost  
so again, he wouldve clearly been aware that his balance had gone. But he didnt tell Monzo 
anything was wrong until a full week later. It is not plausible that Mr O would wait so long to 
report this £2,000 transfer if it was made without his consent.Mr O has said alternately that the £2,000 payment didnt show up or change his balance at 
first so he didnt see it, or that he did see it but thought it was his own transfer to his other 
account. I need to note that this testimony is contradictory, which makes it difficult for me to 
support either version of events. Further, the £2,000 payment would have shown up straight 
away and Mr Os balance was updated live, so Mr O would have seen this as soon as he 
used his account the next morning. It was also clearly displayed where the payment went, so 
he would have seen it hadnt gone to his other account. And Mr O didnt attempt any large 
payments to his other account around that time, so he wouldve known he didnt make any. 
Lastly, Ive not seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Mr O 
couldve authorised this payment or given someone else permission to make it.
In summary, Im satisfied that Mr Os genuine mobile phone app was used, from his IP 
address, using his correct security details on the first try. Based on the evidence, there isnt 
a likely way an unknown person did this, or that someone known to Mr O did this without his 
permission. That leaves only one likely possibility  that Mr O made the transaction or gave 
someone else permission to make it. And this possibility is supported by the evidence at 
hand. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr O 
to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to 
reasonably reach any other conclusion.
I do appreciate that Mr O has been going through a tough time in general. And I appreciate 
that hes been candid with us about his mental health. Ive taken on board everything hes 
said. However, while I have taken into account what Mr Os told us, Im afraid this doesnt 
change the fact that the evidence here is clear, in that there is no likely or plausible way that 
this payment was unauthorised, but that it is both likely and plausible that it was made with 
Mr Os authority. So based on everything Ive seen, I think its fair for Monzo to decline a 
refund in this case. 
I understand that Mr O is also unhappy with Monzos customer service. He feels they took 
too long to investigate and that they were making fun of him. Ive gone through Mr Os 
contact with Monzo, and I can see they investigated things, dealt with his dispute, and 
responded to his complaint within a few days, which is very quick relative to the normal 
timescales. For example, banks normally have up to 8 weeks to deal with complaints. I cant 
see anywhere where they made fun of him or otherwise acted inappropriately  as far as 
I can see, Monzos staff kept things polite and appropriate, and they dealt with the matter 
well. They took Mr Os situation seriously and referred him to suitable organisations in case 
he needed further help. I dont think Monzo got anything wrong there.
I also understand it was frustrating for Mr O to have his account get closed. But in much the 
same way that Mr O can choose who he banks with, Monzo can also choose who banks with 
them. So Monzo can close a customers account, so long as they give them enough notice. 
And I can see that Monzo gave Mr O the right amount of notice here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint in this particular case.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman