DRN-2930721
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander), trading as Volvo Car 
Financial Services, failed to action a change to his finance agreement in a reasonable 
timeframe.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr B, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Its clear Santander made an error here. They failed to action a reduction in monthly 
instalments when Mr B asked them to change his mileage allowance. 
Mr B say that legislation insists repayments are made immediately and he thinks the £50 
compensation Santander paid him is too little. Hes suggested this service would usually 
have ordered more generous compensation.
I dont doubt that Mr B had to make calls and send emails to chase the refund and I can 
understand that was inconvenient for him. The money was refunded 21 days after Santander 
became aware of the issue and 74 days late. I dont think that was an excessive amount of 
time although it was clearly not immediate or acceptable. I would expect the business to 
provide some compensation. In the circumstances I think the £50 paid was sufficient and Im 
not asking Santander to provide any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman