DRN-3888972
The complaint
Mr I complained that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, trading as Novuna Personal Finance 
(Mitsubishi) irresponsibly granted him a personal loan that he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Mr I took out a loan of £15,000 in July 2021, over a term of 60 months. The monthly payment 
was £432.05. The interest on the loan amounted to £10,923, making the total amount 
repayable £25,923.
Mr I said that at the time he took out the loan, he had five credit cards with balances very 
near the credit limits, and that he was missing payments. He also said that the loan process 
was rushed and that he didnt fully understand the terms of the loan, especially the total 
amount payable. 
Since taking out the loan, the account has regularly been in arrears, although Mr I has made 
payments at various points, some of which temporarily brought the account up to date.
Mr I complained that Mitsubishi failed to conduct reasonable and proportionate checks 
before granting the loan. He thought that Mitsubishi ought to refund the interest and charges 
on the loan. Mitsubishi said that it had carried out appropriate checks, and told Mr I that it did 
not uphold the complaint. 
Mr I then brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it but didnt think 
it should be upheld. Mr I didnt agree, and asked for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman. I 
should also say that, at this point, Mr I provided new information to the effect that, when he 
took out the loan, he was getting into debt after losing money on crypto investments and had 
formed a gambling addiction.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website, and Ive taken this into account here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Is complaint. Ill explain why. 
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks required of a lender, but it needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering matters such as the type and amount 
of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and 
the consumers circumstances. So Ive considered whether Mitsubishi completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr I would be able to make the repayments on 
the loan account in a sustainable way.
As I noted above, Mr I said that, at the time of the application, Mr I had five credit cards that 
had balances very near the credit limit, and that he was missing payments. He sent in a copy 
of his credit record as well as his account of the sequence of events. 
Mitsubishi sent in details of the credit checks it carried out, and said that Mr Is application 
score exceeded its minimum lending criteria. It told us that it uses a third-party affordability 
product from a credit reference agency, and this provided it with trends over time in relation 
to Mr Is income and general indebtedness and assisted it with understanding how able Mr I 
would be to afford and service any new credit. It said there were no indications that Mr I 
would struggle to service the new loan agreement.
Mitsubishi further said that Mr I stated that his gross annual income was £100,000 at the 
time of the application, and that he was married with no dependents and a homeowner. Mr I 
agreed that this was the figure hed stated. Mitsubishi told us it validated this income figure 
using credit reference agency data, and that based on this, Mitsubishi estimated a net 
monthly income of just over £5,500.00.
Mitsubishi said that Mr Is credit record showed a joint mortgage, and that it attributed half of 
the monthly payment to Mr I. This figure was £1,054.00. Mr Is credit record further showed 
existing credit commitments with balances totalling £13,900, and monthly payments of 
around £436.75. Taking these commitments together with the monthly payment for the new 
loan, Mitsubishi said that this would have left just over £3,600 for other monthly expenses, 
and based on national averages, this amount is generally sufficient to meet the other 
expenses which are typical of someone with similar circumstances to Mr I. Mitsubishi further 
said there were no recent credit searches registered, and no defaults. It said that on the 
basis of the figures it had, and as there were no indications of financial distress from his 
credit file, there were no concerns about lending Mr I an additional £15,000.
Mitsubishi sent in a copy of its computer record of the lending data, (which shows Mr Is 
income as stated above) and a list of the items covered, including mortgage and other credit 
commitments, the status of payments on those commitments, application searches, 
insolvency and fraud markers, income verification data and other information relating to 
indebtedness, probability of default, and affordability likelihood. It also provided the notes of 
its calls and emails with Mr I. The format of the computer record was a detailed spreadsheet 
rather than a credit file, but Mitsubishi highlighted the key entries. And where the items 
mentioned are also part of the credit file that Mr I sent in (such as commitments and 
payment status) I can see nothing inconsistent. 
Mr I provided a copy of his credit file from one of the major credit reference agencies. He did 
not send in copies of bank statements from the time of the loan application, but Im satisfied I 
have enough evidence on which to base my decision. 
Ive considered what Mr I said about his credit card balances, and I accept that these were 
close to their limits. Mr Is credit file shows three missed payments in the months prior to the 
loan application (although these were not successive, and none was outstanding at the time 
of the loan application). Over time it looks as though Mr I had regularly spent up to the credit 
limits, and on occasion had repaid the monthly balances in full, although other payments 
were much lower. I also note that the credit limits were not particularly high relative to Mr Is 
income  the total of the credit limits was less than 15% of Mr Is gross annual income. 
Mr I had no other loans, and other commitments (the mortgage, his current account, and 
utility accounts) were all in order, with no overdraft and no missed payments. So while Mr I 
was fully utilising the credit on his cards, I cant see a clear indication of increasing 
indebtedness over time. As far as I can see from the credit report, the total balances were 
consistent with the amount reflected in the credit checks that Mitsubishi carried out, so theres nothing to suggest that that borrowing wasnt considered, along with the repayments 
that wouldve been required.
Having looked carefully at all of the evidence, I think Mitsubishis checks were reasonable 
and proportionate in this case. The credit commitments that I noted earlier were reflected in 
the checks, both in terms of the amount outstanding and the monthly repayments required, 
which Mitsubishi said it took from credit reference agency records. Mitsubishi also took 
account of the mortgage payments that Mr I had stated, as well as considering typical figures 
for outgoings. These checks showed a figure for disposable income well in excess of the 
repayments on the loan it was considering. I dont consider there was anything to suggest 
difficulties with repaying the existing credit commitments or a potential difficulty in 
maintaining payments on the new loan. 
Ive also thought about Mr Is later comments about getting into debt after losing money on 
crypto investments and forming a gambling addiction. This has clearly been very difficult for 
Mr I. But I have to consider whether Mitsubishi ought reasonably to have identified signs of 
this, which could have affected its lending decision. 
Mr I said he hadnt made Mitsubishi aware of this (and I can see that the contact notes - the 
record of calls and emails with Mr I  that Mitsubishi sent in contain no mention of it). And 
indeed the loan application seems to have been online so there was no discussion of Mr Is 
circumstances  Mitsubishis lending decision was based entirely on the data it received. As 
I noted above, I cant see anything to suggest difficulties with repaying the existing or new 
credit, and as I also explained, I think Mitsubishis checks were reasonable and 
proportionate, so I dont think it was unreasonable for Mitsubishi to have concluded the loan 
online. I dont think Mitsubishi could reasonably have identified that Mr I was experiencing 
gambling issues from the information available to it.
Finally, Ive looked at Mr Is comments about the terms of the loan being unclear. Mitsubishi 
sent in a copy of the loan agreement, and I can see that the section description of loan 
states the total charge for credit as £10,923.00 and the total amount payable as £25,923.00, 
so I think the cost was clear enough. I can see from the contact notes with Mitsubishi that Mr 
I queried the interest being added to the loan up front rather than as a monthly charge, but it 
was explained that this did not mean that he was paying more interest this way, and that 
should he overpay, or fully repay the loan early, there would be a rebate of interest. This is in 
line with the relevant regulations, and I dont think Mitsubishi has treated Mr I unfairly in this 
respect. 
I appreciate that Mr I feels strongly about this, but taking all this into account, I dont think 
Mitsubishi acted unfairly when approving the loan application in 2021, so I dont think Mr I 
has lost out.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Is complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman