DRN-2254067
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax unfairly registered a marker at 
CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Mr A says he opened an account with Halifax in 2017 and it was closed a couple of months 
later. He didnt know that a CIFAS marker had been registered until he applied for a 
mortgage with his sister with a different financial business in 2019. 
Halifax issued a final response to his complaint in November 2019 saying it hadnt made a 
mistake. It said that this marker related to Mr A making fraudulent dispute claims. It added 
that in February 2019 he had made an application for a savings account which was opened 
initially but then closed following further checks. It said having considered the information on 
its systems and listened to calls it wouldnt be upholding his complaint.
Our investigator said that after Mr A referred his complaint to us Halifax offered to remove 
the marker as it no longer had the evidence to support it. Our investigator said given this he 
had no basis to find that the marker should be recorded, and he recommended that Halifax 
pay Mr A £200 in compensation. Mr A had told him about his applications for other credit 
which had been declined as well as a bank account in he thought 2018. Our investigator said 
that this reasonably ought to have alerted Mr A to the issue. And he didnt think it appropriate 
for Halifax to be required to pay in the region of £1,500 in costs and fees for the 
unsuccessful mortgage application he made. Halifax had agreed to remove the marker while 
the issue of compensation was being looked at.
Mr A didnt agree and said that the marker hadnt shown on any of the credit reference 
reports hed looked at. He referred to him thinking that his credit score might have been the 
issue with his past applications. And he also referred to late payments on a card account he 
had held before. But he believed this marker had affected his ability to obtain employment as 
a contractor and this had caused him stress and financial issues.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A clearly had an account with Halifax and which it seems was closed abruptly in 2017. I 
dont have any detailed information about that or of whether he took any action about that at 
the time. Halifax has now offered to remove the marker. 
In any event I wouldnt have had a basis to find that this CIFAS marker was fairly applied as 
there is now no information to support this. I note that Halifax maintains that it hadnt made a 
mistake in applying this in the first place based on its investigation. It doesnt disagree that it 
should have kept the information about that.
Mr A hasnt given any detailed information about all his subsequent credit applications. I 
dont know why other lenders refused his applications in 2017 and 2018 as he says. But a 
marker on the database shouldnt lead to automatic refusal - lenders must still make their 
own checks and make their own decisions. Mr A refers to him thinking that his own credit 
score might have been an issue. And I cant know whether if the CIFAS marker hadnt been 
in place he would have been approved for any past credit cards or his mortgage. It does 
seem clear though that he applied for a savings account with Halifax (it says early in 2019). 
This was opened and then quickly closed following checks. 
Taking all this into account I think that it was reasonable for Mr A to investigate a bit further 
what had happened even if the CIFAS marker wasnt showing on any credit reports he 
viewed. And as I say there was no guarantee things would have been different say with his 
mortgage application even if the CIFAS marker had been removed.
Putting things right
I appreciate Mr A paid fees it seems with his sister for a mortgage application and he says 
this marker has affected his job prospects. We dont make punitive awards and Im afraid 
here I dont consider I have a reasonable basis to hold Halifax responsible for those fees or 
for a quantifiable financial loss to him. I do though agree he has been caused inconvenience 
and distress by what has happened. 
Having applied my own judgement I dont consider that the compensation recommended for 
this is adequate. This is the sole issue Im now looking at and I am satisfied I have sufficient 
information to make a final decision about it. Having considered all the circumstances I find 
that the appropriate amount is £350.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax to:
1) Remove the fraud marker and related entry from CIFAS and any other external fraud 
database as it has said it has already taken steps to do.
2) Pay Mr A £350 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman