DRN-3221129
The complaint
Mr H has complained that esure Insurance Limited (esure) unfairly declined a claim under 
his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H contacted esure as a retaining wall in his garden collapsed when it rained heavily. 
esure investigated the claim and declined it. It said the damage to the wall wasnt the result 
of a one-off storm. It said the damage was gradually occurring and the wall wasnt fit for 
purpose. 
When Mr H complained to esure, it maintained its decision to decline the claim. So, Mr H 
complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there was 
a wet storm a short time before the wall collapsed, but esures surveyor had concluded there 
had been a natural breakdown of materials in the wall and age-related defects. Mr Hs own 
surveyor had said the dominant cause was the inability of water to escape. So, she said 
there wasnt evidence to show the storm was the dominant cause of the wall collapsing and 
it was reasonable for esure to rely on that information and to decline the claim.
As Mr H didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
For the first question, Ive looked at the esure policy. This defined a storm as:
A violent gale force 10 on the Beaufort scale reaching wind speeds of 55 mph or above 
and/or 25mm or more of rainfall in any 24-hour period, and/or snow to a depth of at least 1 ft 
(300mms) in 24-hours and/or hail of such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or 
breaks glass, according to Our weather data.
Ive looked at weather reports and have seen there was a 44mm of rain in one day in the 
weeks before the wall collapsed. So, I think the answer to the first question is yes.
For the second question, I think a wall should generally be able to withstand heavy rain but, 
in extreme conditions, I think a storm could cause a wall to collapse. So, Ive considered the 
third question of whether storm conditions were the dominant cause.
When esure investigated the claim, it found issues with the wall that were age-related 
defects and issues with its construction, such as it only being one brick thick and a lack of 
mortar. The surveyor thought the damage was a result of a natural breakdown of materials. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think that was reasonable.
Mr H provided esure with a report from a surveyor he appointed, who found:  
We did not note any weep holes to the base of the wall but this is commensurate with the 
age of the wall. This would have helped prevent the build-up of pressure and the subsequent 
collapse of the wall.

The brickwork to the external face of the wall was noted to have efflorescence staining. This 
would imply that there is a build-up of water to the top of the retaining wall. Failure for the 
increased heavy rainfall to percolate either downwards or through the brickwork has caused 
the downward slide of the retaining earth.

It would appear that whilst the wall was noted to be in a fair condition, the volume of rain has 
caused a build-up of sustained pressure on the wall and caused the wall structure to fail and 
therefore collapse. The inability of the water to escape is the dominant cause of the collapse 
of the external wall.
So, Mr Hs surveyor found the dominant cause to be the inability of the water to escape. This 
wasnt covered by the policy. 
Im also aware that the wall was shared with a neighbour and the neighbours storm claim 
seemed to be accepted and paid. However, a different insurer dealt with that claim and 
esure didnt need to accept the claim simply because another insurer did so. esure was 
entitled to investigate Mr Hs claim and to reach its own conclusions.
Having looked at this complaint, I think it was reasonable for esure to decline the claim as 
there wasnt evidence to show the wall collapsed as the result of a storm or another insured 
event. Although the storm might have contributed to the wall collapsing, I think it highlighted 
a pre-existing issue rather than being the dominant cause. I dont uphold this complaint or 
require esure to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman