DRN-2725535
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy that Lowell Financial Ltd wont amend or remove entries from her credit 
file.
What happened
Lowell bought several debts in Miss Ts name from various businesses. This service is 
dealing with a complaint relating to two of the accounts.
Miss T asked Lowell to give her evidence of its right to collect the debts. Lowell sent her 
various documents but wouldnt give her a copy of the deed of assignment, saying it was a 
private document between it and the original owners of the accounts. 
Lowell told Miss T that it had closed the two accounts on its system with a zero balance but 
that it would continue to report the accounts for six years from the dates of default.
The investigator thought that Lowell couldve done a better job of explaining what would 
happen after it closed the accounts, but he didnt recommend that Miss Ts complaint be 
upheld. 
Miss T disagrees with the investigators recommendation. She asks what point there is if 
Lowell closes her accounts with no affect on her credit file. Miss T cant see how Lowell can 
take the business decision to close her accounts with a zero balance, and then report 
incorrect figures on her credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has already explained why he agrees that it was reasonable of Lowell to try 
and collect the debts. And that Lowell wasnt obliged to provide Miss T with the deed of 
assignment in order to prove that it owned the debts. I agree with what he said, so I dont 
intend saying more about this. Instead, I will focus on what I consider to be the crux of    
Miss Ts complaint  that as Lowell closed the accounts with zero balances, this should be 
reflected on her credit file.
Lowells final response does say it has closed the accounts with a balance of £0.00. I can 
see why Miss T would focus on this and think this means that theres no longer any debt to 
report. But I dont agree that this is the case.
Lowell made a business decision to close the accounts and not ask Miss T for repayment. 
This doesnt mean that the debts have been repaid or settled. Lenders have a duty to report 
accurate information to the credit reference agencies. There is enough evidence to show 
that Miss T took out the credit and then defaulted on her payments. And that the debts were 
assigned to Lowell giving it the right to collect the debts. 
Miss T didnt make any payments to Lowell, so the default balances remain the same as 
when the original creditors reported them. Although Lowells internal reporting shows the 
balances at zero, Miss T still owes the money. As such the reporting of the defaults by 
Lowell is correct. 
Miss T says that Lowell has removed other peoples debts from their credit files so is treating 
her unfairly. She hasnt given us further evidence, so I cant consider this aspect of her 
complaint. But even if Lowell does sometimes agree to remove entries from someones 
credit file, I cant say this means it must do the same in Miss Ts complaint. Or that Lowell is 
treating Miss T unfairly because it wont make the changes she wants.
I understand that Miss T has made complaints of irresponsible lending to her original 
creditors. The outcome of these complaints may change things in the future. But in Miss Ts 
current complaint against Lowell, I dont require it to take any further action. Im sorry that 
this is likely to disappoint Miss T.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman