DRN-3304595
The complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax irresponsibly allowed him to take 
out a loan which was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr F says he took out a Halifax loan in June 2013 for £5,000. He says the loan was 
unaffordable and Halifax ought to have known that as he was in significant debt. Mr F says 
he had a student loan debt as well as other loans and payday lending. He says his outgoings 
were about £727 and his income at the time about £878. Mr F says Halifax accepted it 
should not have registered a default but says it should refund interest and charges. He says 
the interest rate at nearly 30% was excessive.
Halifax says the loan was taken out in June 2013, but it no longer has records going that far 
back. It says the loan defaulted in 2017 but it agreed to backdate it to 2014 as there were 
signs of financial difficulties then.
Mr F brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
explained the lack of information due to the passage of time and thought based on Mr Fs 
bank account statements he had disposable income left each month. The investigator 
thought there no evidence of payday lending until after the loan was taken out.
Mr F doesnt accept that view and says there were multiple loans and credit as well as his 
student debt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
lending or credit application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the amount and 
type of lending. For example, I wouldnt have expected Halifaxs checks here for a loan of 
£5,000 to have been as detailed as for a mortgage. But of course, checks must still be 
carried out.
Due to the passage of time Halifax no longer has records of the exact checks it carried out or 
details of the information Mr F provided it with. Equally Mr F doesnt have a full record of his 
details from that time. So, I have to make my decision on the evidence that I do have and 
consider what if any further checks made by Halifax would have revealed about Mr Fs 
financial position at the time. I make clear that I dont know what Mr Fs credit score was like 
at the time or if there was any adverse information on his credit file before the lending.
Mr F has provided us with some bank account statements from 2013 before the loan was 
taken out in June 2013. I make clear that I cant consider the later statements as Halifax had 
made its lending decision in June 2013. Im satisfied that Mr F had a regular income and that 
he had a repayment of £117 a month for what appeared to be a credit or loan agreement. 
Im also satisfied that the account was not overdrawn and on the face of it, Mr F had a 
disposable income after expenditure deducted. I cant see any evidence before the loan was 
taken out of high cost short term lending. So, it follows that Im satisfied that even if Halifax 
had carried out further checks that I dont think there were any signs of financial difficulties 
that would have meant the loan was unaffordable. I dont think having a student debt would 
preclude any lending.
I can see that there were signs in 2014 of financial difficulties as Halifax has told us that, and 
that the account defaulted in 2017. I think that suggests on balance that the loan was 
affordable on the face of it in June 2013 but became unaffordable some time after that. I also 
appreciate Mr F says Halifax accepts that a default should not have been registered. But I 
dont think that is the case and Halifax has simply backdated the default date to the point in 
2014 when it was apparent there were financial difficulties. I dont think Halifax has accepted 
it made a mistake in registering it in the first place and has helped Mr Fs position by doing 
so as the default would now no longer be on his credit file.
I also appreciate Mr F says the interest rate was too high. I make clear to Mr F that he 
agreed to account terms and conditions which would have contained details of the interest 
rate and it is not our role to decide if such a rate is too high.
Overall, Im satisfied that its likely Halifax would have carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks on Mr Fs loan application. Due to the passage of time I cant see what 
those checks were and so I have looked at the information available now to decide if there 
were obvious signs of financial difficulties. Having done so and looked at Mr Fs position 
before June 2013 Im satisfied that there were no obvious signs of financial difficulties 
revealed by the limited credit report from 2016 and the two bank statements from April to 
June 2013. I also think the bank statements suggest that the loan was affordable based on 
the information in it and the general income and expenditure shown. I find this now brings an 
end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman