DRN-3171508
The complaint
Miss E complains that Nationwide Building Society cleared the outstanding balance on her 
mortgage without explanation.
What happened
Miss E had a repayment mortgage with Nationwide. The mortgage term expired in 
March 2020 and there was an outstanding balance.
At this time Miss Es income was impacted because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Nationwide 
agreed to put in place payment deferrals between March 2020 and September 2020 to 
assist Miss E. 
In October 2020, Nationwide reviewed Miss Es situation again. It agreed to a further 
concession of no payments to be made for six months, at which point if the balance still 
hadnt been repaid it would write off the debt and no longer pursue Miss E for the 
outstanding mortgage balance. 
In May 2021, Nationwide spoke with Miss E about her current financial position. Miss E 
requested a further three-month extension to her concession. Nationwide reviewed the 
request and instead decided to clear the remaining mortgage balance as a gesture of 
goodwill. It attempted to call Miss E to inform her but was unable to make contact.
Miss E contacted Nationwide on 18 June 2021 as she had unexpectedly received a letter 
stating her mortgage account had been closed. Nationwide informed Miss E the remaining 
mortgage balance had been cleared but as Miss E had concerns, she raised a complaint. 
Nationwide reviewed the complaint and explained the mortgage had been cleared as a 
gesture of goodwill and her credit file updated to show the mortgage as fully settled. It 
acknowledged that it should have informed Miss E of its intentions sooner and sent her a 
cheque for £25 by way of an apology. Unhappy, Miss E referred the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think Nationwide had acted unfairly. He 
explained that Nationwide had cleared Miss Es outstanding mortgage balance following an 
internal review of her circumstances. He felt the £25 fairly compensated Miss E for not being 
told of the action being taken on her account. 
Miss E disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She questioned why Nationwide 
had decided to clear her outstanding mortgage balance and didnt feel comfortable that it 
had. She also raised questions about whether this had been done for any other customers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Es mortgage term expired in March 2020. At this point the outstanding mortgage 
balance became fully payable to Nationwide. However, when the mortgage term expired 
Miss E wasnt in a position to repay the mortgage, as her financial situation had been 
impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic.
Where a customer experiences difficulty repaying the mortgage at the end of its term, I 
would expect Nationwide to carefully consider a customers individual circumstances, and 
where possible, offer assistance. I think Nationwide did this by initially agreeing payment 
deferrals until September 2020 to allow Miss E time to try and address repaying the 
outstanding mortgage balance. And then again when it extended this concession by a further 
six months in October 2020. 
When Miss Es concession ended, she contacted Nationwide in May 2021 to ask for a three-
month extension to the concession. As Miss Es circumstances hadnt changed, as a gesture 
of goodwill, Nationwide decided to write off the outstanding mortgage balance  with no 
adverse financial impact to Miss E  showing the mortgage as fully settled on her credit file.  
As Miss Es lender, Nationwide can decide whether to clear her outstanding mortgage 
balance as a gesture of goodwill. And when taking into consideration that Miss E had 
struggled to repay the mortgage since March 2020, I dont think that Nationwide acted 
unreasonably in doing so. The outstanding mortgage balance of around £570 was a fairly 
small amount as far as Nationwide was concerned, and in my opinion, this was cleared to 
assist Miss E in an unprecedented time where there was, and still is, financial uncertainty.
Nationwide has also confirmed to our service that by clearing Miss Es outstanding mortgage 
balance she will not be pursued for the debt any further. Im therefore satisfied that Miss E 
hasnt negatively been impacted by Nationwides decision, and has actually benefitted from it 
because she no longer has to pay the outstanding mortgage balance. 
I understand that Miss E has questioned whether she could have refused Nationwides 
gesture of goodwill to clear her outstanding mortgage balance. Whilst this option may have 
been available to her, if she refused to allow Nationwide to clear the outstanding mortgage 
balance it could have led to it taking other steps to recover the debt  and this could have 
been of detriment to her. Therefore, again I dont think Nationwide acted unreasonably by 
clearing Miss Es outstanding mortgage balance when it did.
I do think that Nationwide could have communicated its decision better to Miss E before it 
cleared her outstanding mortgage balance. However, I think it has recognised any distress 
and inconvenience this caused Miss E by sending her a cheque for £25 compensation  
which I understand Miss E has since voided. 
I appreciate that Miss E may feel uncomfortable with Nationwides decision to clear her 
outstanding mortgage balance, but I wont be asking it to reverse this decision because I 
dont think Nationwide has acted unreasonably by clearing the debt. However, if Miss E still 
wants to repay the cleared debt, she can contact Nationwide directly to arrange this. 
I understand Miss E has also questioned whether this has been done for any other of 
Nationwides customers and is unhappy that it refuses to answer this question. Whilst I can 
appreciate this must be frustrating for Miss E, by Nationwide not answering doesnt mean 
that Miss E was the only customer it did this for. In any case, I dont think whether Nationwide has cleared other customers outstanding 
mortgage balances is relevant to my consideration of this complaint. I say this because it 
doesnt affect whether Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably when considering Miss Es 
individual circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that the £25 payment offered to Miss E by Nationwide Building Society is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. This should be paid to Miss E if she 
wants to accept it, unless evidenced it has already been processed.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman