DRN-2466532
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) unfairly declined a 
claim they made on their ten-year building warranty policy.
  
What happened
In year five of the policy, Mr and Mrs R reported concerns with their garages flat roof. They 
said the ply decking was lifting and its loose from the joists. They noted this is causing the 
membrane to pull tight, which in time will be penetrated. They were also concerned about 
the ponding of water on the roof. They also highlighted there were hairline cracks in the 
mortar between the garages brickwork.
During years 3-10, section 3 of the policy applies. Section 3 covers physical damage, subject 
to various conditions being satisfied.
NHBC completed a desktop review, based on photos, and it declined the claim. NHBCs 
claim investigator made the following findings:
- Whilst the timber board decking may not be fully secured, theres no damage to the 
membrane and no water ingress, and the decking hasnt failed to support normal 
loads. Theres no physical damage to the home, so the issue isnt covered.
- Mr and Mrs R should monitor the situation and tell NHBC if damage occurs. Unless 
the decking actually fails to support normal loads, or damages the membrane and 
allows water ingress, then the roof is performing.
- The hairline cracking is consistent with thermal shrinkage and settlement, which is 
excluded by the policy.
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy with the findings. They said there were structural elements that 
needed to be resolved before the roof leaks, and someone could have a serious accident 
should the roof fail during general maintenance (such as cleaning windows, the roof and 
guttering).
Mr and Mrs R went on to provide a report from a roofing contractor. The report noted the ply 
decking was lifting and coming away from the rafters due to being unfixed in a few places, 
and this all needed to be replaced. However, NHBC maintained its claim decision.  
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She thought NHBC 
had fairly declined the claim. Mr and Mrs R remained unhappy, so their complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
Ive already explained to both parties that I was intending to uphold the complaint about the 
garage roof. I thought NHBC should have investigated further, because Mr and Mrs Rs 
report pointed towards there being physical damage by way of warped structural ply. 
In my correspondence with NHBC, I acknowledged there wasnt a lot of detail on the report 
about how the ply had warped or why it needs replacing. However, I said given the delays 
and the relatively low value of the claim, I wasnt persuaded it would be reasonable for 
NHBC to now inspect, or to ask for more information.
NHBC agreed to settle the garage roof based on Mr and Mrs Rs quote, and to compensate 
them £150 for not exploring the warped ply commentary earlier. The fixed price period for 
Mr and Mrs Rs quote ended in May 2021, so NHBC accepted it would need to allow for 
reasonable price changes.
I also explained to both parties that I wasnt intending to uphold the complaint about the 
hairline cracking in the mortar. Mr and Mrs R havent submitted anything to dispute the 
damage has been caused by thermal shrinkage and settlement, and such damage is 
excluded by the policy.
Mr and Mrs R accepted the outcome for the roof and didnt comment further about the 
hairline cracking. However, they believed the £150 compensation was too low for the 
inconvenience caused. They thought a minimum of £500 should be awarded. They 
highlighted their safety concerns in respect of ongoing maintenance.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The only matter still in dispute is the level of compensation. However, Ive not seen or been 
told anything that would lead me to increase the £150 award. 
As explained, in view of Mr and Mrs Rs report, I consider NHBC ought to have done more to 
investigate the roof claim. I accept Mr and Mrs R were frustrated by NHBCs response, and 
they have been unable to carry out some routine cleaning and maintenance whilst the roof 
remains unrepaired. However, Im not persuaded such matters caused them so much 
distress or inconvenience, they should be compensated £500.  
Im satisfied that by NHBC covering the roof repairs, and by compensating Mr and Mrs R 
£150 for the delay, a fair and reasonable outcome has been reached.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint in part. My final decision is 
National House-Building Council should:
- settle the claim for the garage roof based on Mr and Mrs Rs existing quote and 
reasonable price increases (should the updated quote be disputed a further 
complaint can be raised about that matter); and
 
- pay Mr and Mrs R £150 compensation 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman