DRN-3196378
The complaint
Mr and  Mrs W complain that Santander UK Plc didnt do enough to protect them when they 
were the victim of a scam and lost 2,040 Euros. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
On 13 August 2020 Mr W made a payment of 2,040 Euros from his Santander account, that 
he held jointly with his wife, to pay for a holiday villa. He contacted Santander later that 
evening as he realised theyd been victims of a scam, and asked for the transfer be stopped. 
He also later complained that, when making the online transfer, Santanders system hadnt 
picked up that the destination country theyd selected (Italy) didnt match the IBAN and 
SWIFT number hed entered (Spain). He said had this been flagged to him he wouldnt have 
made the payment.  
Santander considered the complaint, and while it was sympathetic that Mr and Mrs W had 
been victims of a scam, it didnt consider it was responsible for the loss. It noted the payment 
had been authorised through Mr Ws online banking with the use of a One-Time Passcode. It 
acknowledged Mr Ws comments about the destination country but explained that the 
payment instruction was completed using the IBAN and SWIFT codes only. It agreed to pass 
on feedback about cross-referencing the destination information with the other payment 
details to senior management for consideration. 
Mr W remained unhappy and referred the complaint to our service. He said he believed it 
took between 24 hours and 5 days for a payment to go through international clearing. So, he 
questioned why his payment wasnt stopped when hed identified it as a scam within 
24 hours. He also complained that Santanders system didnt identify the mismatch between 
the destination country and the IBAN and SWIFT codes. He felt this was a software design 
error and considered Santander should therefore be held responsible for his loss. He pointed 
to the fact that more thorough checks appeared to be completed in branch when completing 
international transfers. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She agreed Santander had 
acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances.  She explained that the international 
clearing process Mr W had referred to only related to cheque payments. She noted online 
payments made before 11:30am would be processed the same day, as Mr W had made the 
payment at 10:06am she accepted that Santander couldnt stop the payment once it was 
notified of the scam (00:02 on 14 August 2020). She also explained that there was no 
requirement for Santander to cross-reference the destination country with the IBAN and 
SWIFT code, so she couldnt say it acted unreasonably by failing to do so. 
Mr W disagreed and asked for the case to be referred to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold this complaint for largely the same reasons as 
our investigator. I know this is not the answer Mr and Mrs W were hoping for and so this will 
come as a disappointment. Im sorry to hear they were victims of a scam and lost a 
considerable sum of money as a result. I can understand why theyd want to do all they can 
to recover the money theyve lost. But I need to decide whether Santander can fairly and 
reasonably be held responsible for the loss. Overall, Ive decided that it cant be. Ill explain 
why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
consider relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time.
In general terms, a bank is expected to process payments that a customer authorises it to 
make. This is set out both within the account terms and conditions as well as the Payment 
Services Regulations.
But the law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer(s) if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds for believing the payment instruction was an 
attempt to misappropriate the customers funds.
As a matter of good industry practice, I consider banks should also take proactive steps to 
identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions 
 that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. This is particularly so considering the 
rise in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years  which banks are generally more 
familiar with than the average customer.
So, taking all of this into account, I need to decide if Santander acted fairly and reasonably
in its dealings with Mr and Mrs W when they made a payment of 2,040 Euros, and whether it 
shouldve done more than it did before processing the payment. I also need to decide if 
Santander ought to have done more than it has already done to recover the funds after it 
was notified of the scam. 
Ive carefully reviewed Mr and Mrs Ws bank statements to see whether I think their 
instruction to pay 2,040 Euros to another account, ought fairly and reasonably to have 
appeared unusual or uncharacteristic to Santander at the time  and therefore required it to 
make contact with them before the transaction was processed. But I dont think it should.
The bank statements show that Mr and Mrs W had made a similar sized international 
payment transaction a few days before the transaction in dispute. And as it was a one-off 
payment there was no pattern of suspicious behaviour for Santander to identify. So, while 
the payment was larger than the majority of other payments leaving the account, Im not 
persuaded it was sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic to say Santander should reasonably 
have contacted Mr or Mrs W before carrying out the payment instruction.
When Mr W notified Santander hed been the victim of a scam, it contacted the receiving 
bank the same day to see if any funds remained. Unfortunately, the receiving bank
confirmed that no funds remained in the account so nothing could be returned to Mr and 
Mrs W. Im satisfied Santander made reasonable efforts to recover the funds lost through the 
scam, and I dont think it needed to do anything else.I can appreciate Mr Ws frustration that Santanders system didnt flag the mismatch 
between the destination country and the IBAN and SWIFT codes. Santander has since 
confirmed that the destination country has no bearing on the payment instruction, which has 
led Mr W to question why it was included on the form. But as our Investigator has explained, 
there is no legal or regulatory requirement on Santander to check the destination country as 
part of its payment instruction process. And as such, I cant fairly say they ought to have 
stopped the transaction on this basis. 
I realise Mr W has become aware of Santander following a different process in branch. He 
said a family member was prevented from making an international transfer because the 
destination country and IBAN provided didnt match. While I dont know the full 
circumstances of this other transfer, and there may have been other reasons why a more in-
depth check was completed, I can understand why Mr W feels let down that Santander didnt 
have the same checks in place when he made his transfer online. But its also true that when 
transactions are completed in branch or over the telephone theres a natural opportunity for 
conversation and for questions to be asked. If during this interaction something comes to 
light which appears unusual or suspicious the bank is in a better position to intervene in the 
transaction. But when a transaction happens online its automated and as such theres less 
opportunity for the bank to intervene unless something is patently unusual or suspicious. In 
this case I dont think there was anything apparently unusual about Mr Ws transaction that 
should have led Santander to intervene. 
Ultimately Santanders processes are a matter of its own commercial judgement. Unless its 
processes fall short of its legal or regulatory requirements, or if it is significantly out of step 
with good industry practice, I cant say it acted unreasonably by not having certain processes 
in place. While I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr W I cant say Santander 
acted unreasonably by having different processes in place for online and in branch 
transactions.  
Overall, while Im sympathetic to Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances, I dont think it would be fair 
or reasonable to hold Santander responsible for their loss in this particular case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint and I make no award against 
Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman