DRN-1697701
 
The complaint 
Mrs B complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (trading as Argos Card 
Services) (Argos Card Services) wrongly:
charged her late payment fees and interest on a purchase she made using her Argos 
credit card issued by Argos Card Services;
registered a default against her credit file; and
tried to contact her via her sons mobile phone number.
 
What happened
In December 2017, Mrs Bs husband, Mr B, went online to the website of a retailer, Argos 
Limited, which was an associated company of Argos Card Services, and bought a vacuum 
cleaner. An email from Argos Limited shows he gave their current residential address as the 
billing address for the purchase.
The purchase was paid for using Mrs Bs Argos credit card issued by Argos Card Services, 
using the 6 month buy now pay later arrangement (BNPL) available on the card. This meant 
that no interest would be payable if the balance was cleared by June 2018. 
Unfortunately, it seems Mr and Mrs B forgot about the purchase and failed to clear the 
balance on the card account. Mr and Mrs B had moved to their current address from a 
previous address in August 2016. While Mrs B believes she notified Argos Card Services of 
the change of address, it had no trace of this on its records.
So Argos Card Services sent statements for the account, and debt reminders and default 
notices, to the old address. When it didnt hear from Mrs B, it employed debt collectors to 
trace her, which they finally did in July 2019 using her sons mobile phone number. This 
seems to have been held as a secondary contact number on her card account file.
By this time, the balance on the account had grown from £149.99 to some £229 with the 
addition of late payment fees and interest, and a default had been registered against Mrs B 
on her credit file.
Mrs B complained to Argos Card Services. She said:
she was sure she had notified her change of address to Argos Card Services;
her landline number remained unchanged;
her husband had put their current address on the order for the vacuum cleaner;
the present occupants of her previous address had told her they would have returned 
any official looking mail addressed to Mrs B;
she had previously always had an unblemished credit record; and
it was against data protection legislation for Argos Card Services to have contacted 
her son about the debt. 
She wanted Argos Card Services to cancel the late payment fees and interest, remove the 
default record, and pay her compensation.
Argos Card Services didnt accept her complaint. It said the only address it had on its 
records was Mrs Bs previous address. Although Mr B had given their current address to 
Argos Limited when ordering the goods, this retail business was a different company, and 
such information wasnt linked to the card account, or cross-checked, when a purchase was 
made.   
The only other contact details it had were an out of date mobile phone number for Mrs B, 
and her sons mobile phone number. The sons number had been added to the file in 2014, 
but it couldnt now say why. The debt collectors hadnt disclosed any personal data for Mrs B 
when contacting this number. So there hadnt been any breach of data protection legislation.
Mrs Bs credit agreement required her to notify it of any change of address or contact details. 
It had no record of her doing this. So it had acted properly in writing to her at the last address 
it had, and wasnt willing to remove the interest and charges, or the default record.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said the onus 
under the card terms and conditions was on Mrs B to update her contact details with Argos 
Card Services, and there was nothing in its records to show she had done so.
Address information wasnt passed between the retail business (Argos Limited) and the card 
business (Argos Card Services), and we couldnt tell businesses to change their processes  
only their regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) could do this.
The interest and charges were properly charged under the terms of the credit agreement 
when Mrs B failed to pay the debt, and these and the default were correctly noted on Mrs Bs 
credit file. So we couldnt reasonably ask Argos Card Services to cancel these and remove 
them from Mrs Bs credit file.
Finally, the investigator didnt think any data protection breach had occurred for the reasons 
Argos Card Services had stated.
Mrs B responded to say, in summary, that:
their current address was shown as billing address on the order for the goods;
Argos Card Services hadnt tried to contact her sons mobile phone number earlier;
as far as she was concerned, she had notified Argos Card Services of her change of 
address. She didnt think Argos Card Services should be given the benefit of the 
doubt on this; and
she was concerned about her credit record which previously had been completely 
unblemished. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Argos Limited, the retail business from which Mr B bought the goods, and Argos Card 
Services, are two separate companies and businesses, although both are part of the Home 
Retail Group of companies. So information given by customers to one business isnt automatically passed to the other. As the investigator said, this isnt something this service 
can say is wrong.
Argos Limited recorded a billing address for the purchase. This was the address it would 
contact if it needed to seek payment for the purchase. However when Mr B used the Argos 
credit card to pay for the goods, Argos Limited received payment direct from Argos Card 
Services. So it didnt need to use the billing address further.
The Argos credit card terms and conditions contain the following provision:
8 Correspondence (including notices) and change of details
8.1 Unless you ask us not to, or we are not permitted to do so by law, we will send you any 
correspondence about your account, including your monthly statements and any notices we 
are required to give you, by email to the email address you give us. Unless you ask us not 
to, we may also send alerts and other communications by text message to the mobile phone 
number you give us. If you ask us to send any communications by paper, or we are required 
to do so, we will send such communications to the most recent address you have provided 
to us.
8.2 You must tell us at once if you or any additional cardholder change your or their name, or 
you change your address or contact details (including your email address and telephone 
number), or if you make your payments to us by Direct Debit and you change the bank or 
building society from which you make your payments.
8.3 Any notice you give us must be in writing and sent to Home Retail Group Card Services 
Limited, Thynne Street, Bolton BL11 1AS. A notice will only be treated as being given when 
we actually receive it.
Argos Card Services had a legal obligation to send statements and communications such as 
default notices in writing to Mrs B at her address, or email address, last known to it. Mrs B 
didnt supply an email address. So it wrote to the last address it had for her.
Mrs B says she is sure she told Argos Card Services about her change of address. But she 
cant supply any evidence to support this. Argos Card Services has supplied us with a record 
of all the contacts it says Mrs B had with it. But there is no record of any contact made by 
Mrs B before 2019.
On balance, I dont think theres enough evidence to persuade me that Mrs B told Argos 
Card Services that she had changed her address. I also note that Mrs B didnt tell Argos 
Card Services when she changed her mobile phone number as required by the above terms 
and conditions, and she didnt give it an email address.
In these circumstances, Argos Card Services was entitled to correspond with Mrs B by 
writing to her at the last address it had. When the account went into default, it was required 
to send her default notices to this address, and was entitled to register a default against her 
credit account when it received no response from Mrs B.
Throughout this, there was no obligation on Argos Card Services to try to contact her by 
alternative means, such as the mobile phone numbers it had on its records. The debt 
collectors Argos Card Services instructed did use them to try to make contact, which was 
successful in the case of her sons mobile phone number. Like the investigator, I dont think 
Argos Card Services did anything wrong by using this number as theres no evidence any 
personal data was disclosed.I conclude that Argos Card Services didnt do anything wrong in the way it operated the 
credit card account after it was used to purchase the goods. So I cant reasonably require it 
to refund the interest and charges on the account, or to remove the default it has registered 
on Mrs Bs credit file.
I understand that Mrs B is upset that this default will remain on her credit file for six years, 
especially as she says she previously had an unblemished credit record. I would point out 
that it is possible for her to ask the credit reference agencies to place a notice of correction 
on her credit file. 
This is a short statement which can be added to explain why an entry appears on her credit 
report, and why it isnt reflective of her general approach to meeting repayments. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Home Retail 
Group Card Services Limited (trading as Argos Card Services).  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman