DRN-4253552
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Personal Touch Financial Services Ltd trading as PRIMIS 
Mortgage Network mis-sold them a joint life and critical illness policy. Specifically, they 
wanted to keep sole policies in place and asked to reinstate their original policies within the 
cancellation period but say PRIMIS failed to do so.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties so Ill only summarise:
- Mr and Mrs M were remortgaging and getting additional borrowing
- They asked to extend their sole term assurance policies to cover the additional 
borrowing but were sold a joint decreasing term policy with critical illness cover.
- When they found out they had a joint policy rather than two single policies they asked 
PRIMIS to reinstate their old policies and PRIMIS agreed
- PRIMIS later said it failed to do this in time.
- Mr and Mrs M want the difference between what it now costs to have two sole 
policies in place as before and what it originally cost
- PRIMIS offered £1,500 compensation and originally agreed a lump sum payment for 
the difference but later retracted the offer stating the advice wasnt unsuitable and so 
there was no financial loss.
Our Investigator sent calculations to both parties to cover Mr and Mrs Ms loss. She 
explained that it wouldnt be reasonable for Mr and Mrs M to keep their joint cover and for 
PRIMIS to pay for Mr Ms sole cover entirely  this is because hed be doubly covered. After 
many developments Mr M has now been removed from the joint cover and has a sole policy 
reflecting his original policy. Mrs M has a sole policy that was originally set up as the joint 
policy  this is because due to medical conditions, any new cover would contain exclusions 
that she wouldnt have been subject to had her original policy been reinstated.
After our Investigator sent her final view outlining the calculations PRIMIS should pay to Mr 
and Mrs M by way of a lump sum which covered the difference now being paid for Mr Ms 
new policy and Mrs Ms policy (which was the joint policy but with Mr M removed), PRIMIS 
asked for an Ombudsman to issue a decision on the matter.
Mr and Mrs M and PRIMIS have provided additional information. PRIMIS has made the 
following points:
- The advice given to Mr and Mrs M wasnt unsuitable  retaining two single policies 
rather than a joint policy to protect the mortgage couldve meant they were over-
insured.
- Mrs M had additional medical information to provide when taking out their joint policy, 
and when Mr and Mrs M asked to revert back to their original policies the 30 day 
reinstatement period had passed.
- Has Mr M provided proof he set up another policy and proof hes been removed from 
the joint policy? 
- The two previous policies were for a shorter term and a lesser amount to what Mr 
and Mrs M have now got and need.
- Mr and Mrs M were given an opportunity to put in place two single policies and 
declined  so why are they saying theyd have done this now?
PRIMIS provided a chain of communication and timeline. Mr and Mrs M also provided 
additional information which included email chains, evidence from their policy provider and 
information about Mrs Ms medical condition.
I sent out my provisional decision on 20 June 2023. In this I explained I was minded to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and I set out what I intended to award as redress. The 
relevant part of the decision is as follows, which forms part of this decision:
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so carefully, Im upholding this case and recommending redress in line with 
what has already been communicated to both parties. However, as both parties have 
submitted additional evidence to consider this is a provisional decision to allow for any final 
comments.
I first want to explain that the error here is the adviser not reinstating Mr and Mrs Ms policies 
as theyd requested. Our Investigator set out that the actual advice to take out a joint policy 
for Mr and Mrs Ms new mortgage wasnt unsuitable and I agree. So, this policy wasnt mis-
sold. It covered Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage should either of them pass away or have a 
specified critical illness which is the purpose of the policy. However, its clear Mr and Mrs M 
liked having separate policies  where both would pay out. As soon as they realised they 
had a joint policy they asked to reinstate their old policies.
PRIMIS agreed to do what was needed to reinstate Mr and Mrs Ms policies  but the 
adviser later confirmed hed missed the deadline to do this. PRIMIS has said recently that 
the 30 days had expired when Mr and Mrs M wanted their policies reinstated. I looked into 
this. I can see that it was in November 2020 that Mr and Mrs M found out they no longer had 
single policies  and the new one was a joint policy  when talking to the provider. It was at 
this point that they asked for their old policies back. I can see on 25 November 2020 PRIMIS 
confirmed that the policies could be reinstated. The 30 days had not expired.
On 14 December 2020 PRIMIS told Mr and Mrs M that the adviser had missed the deadline 
to reinstate the policies. At this point, PRIMIS was liaising with the policy provider to find out 
what could be done. Mrs M was undergoing medical investigation and evidence Ive seen 
shows that PRIMIS confirmed on 6 January 2021 that Mrs M couldnt be insured at that point 
 essentially she was told any application should wait until the results had arrived and the 
investigations had been completed. PRIMIS has said that Mr and Mrs M were told they could 
set up two individual policies but declined  this offer was on 24 February 2021 and Im 
satisfied that any policy taken out for Mrs M on this date would either be declined or contain 
significant exclusions which would differ largely from her original policy. So, Im satisfied that 
Mr and Mrs M didnt have their original policies reinstated due to an error from PRIMIS and 
that had this error not occurred, theyd have their old single policies back in place.
Unfortunately, due to medical complications, Mrs M hasnt been able to get like for like cover 
 any new cover she takes contains significant exclusions. So she has had to retain the joint 
policy that was taken out  I think this is reasonable  but since Mr M has been removed, 
shes paying more for this than she would be under her original policy taken out in 2018. So 
PRIMIS needs to compensate Mr and Mrs M for this  Ive set out the most pragmatic way to 
do this below.To address PRIMIS remaining questions  Ive seen proof that Mr M has now been removed 
from the joint policy and has taken out a single policy for the same term and amount as his 
original policy. This now puts Mr and Mrs M in as close to a position as theyd be in had 
PRIMIS not made an error. This has, however, cost them more. The redress Ive set out 
below does ensure that any payment for financial loss only runs to the point at which Mr and 
Mrs Ms original policies wouldve ended.
Ive also noted that PRIMIS offered Mr and Mrs M £1,500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. I do think this amount is fair and reasonable. Its clear that this error 
caused Mr and Mrs M significant inconvenience as well as some distress. They had to go to 
great efforts to try and get the cover they originally had, and that ought to have been 
reinstated but for PRIMIS error. 
Putting things right
Had PRIMIS not made an error, Mr and Mrs M would have single policies covering the 
remainder of their mortgage for the cost they were paying from 2018 onwards. Due to 
PRIMIS not carrying out the reinstatement instructions as promised, Mr M had taken the 
same sole policy for a higher amount and has been removed from the joint policy that 
PRIMIS set up as replacement. As Mrs M wasnt able to get the new cover, she continues 
with the cover PRIMIS set up but now on a sole basis. This cover is more expensive than Mr 
and Mrs M would be paying.
I can see this cover was taken out in January 2023  and to round up the term of the policy 
to match their original cover it would have 26 years remaining and would cover around 
£320,000. Its also clear that Mr and Mrs Ms original cover ought to have been reinstated in 
November 2020  and since then theyve been paying an additional premium until new cover 
was taken out.
I do appreciate that Mrs M has had to keep the original cover, and only when Mr M was 
removed from the cover did this reduce in cost  however I think its important to note that 
this redress covers 26 years of difference in payments  so it wouldnt be fair to fully overlap 
the additional payments.
The following is the most pragmatic way to put things right  and in principle was originally 
agreed by PRIMIS.
-Pay Mr and Mrs M the difference in premiums that they are now paying to what they 
would have been paying had their original policies been reinstated
oMr Ms new premium of £74.64 less his old premium of £63.46 = £11.18
oMrs Ms new premium of £81.36 less her old premium of £66.95 = £14.41
oTotal difference = £25.59 x 312 months (26 years) = £7,984.08
-Pay Mr and Mrs M the difference between what they have paid towards the joint 
policy and what they wouldve paid towards their old policies from November 2020 to 
January 2023 when Mr Ms new policy went live.
oJoint policy cost of £138.72 less original policies cost of £130.41 = £8.31
oTotal difference over 27 months (November 2020 to January 2023) = £224.37
-Pay Mr and Mrs M £1,500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the failure of the adviser to reinstate their original policies as requested.
Its clear to me that Mr and Mrs M are unlikely to repay their mortgage earlier than the 
remaining term on these policies. So I think its very likely these policies will remain in force. 
As such, to resolve the situation, Im directing Personal Touch Financial Services Ltd trading 
as PRIMIS to pay the compensation in a lump sum.
Responses to the provisional decisionPRIMIS did not respond to the provisional decision. Mr and Mrs M said they accepted the 
provisional decision. They reiterated the reasons they believed PRIMIS had mis-sold them 
the policies, but accepted the redress outlined.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no additional comments or evidence has been provided, Ive come to the same decision 
as set out in my provisional decision, which I now confirm as final, for the same reasons (set 
out above). I uphold this complaint  Mr and Mrs M have lost out due to an error made by 
PRIMIS.
Putting things right
Had PRIMIS not made an error, Mr and Mrs M would have single policies covering the 
remainder of their original mortgage for the cost they were paying from 2018 onwards. Due 
to PRIMIS not carrying out the reinstatement instructions as promised, Mr M had taken the 
same sole policy for a higher amount and has been removed from the joint policy that 
PRIMIS set up as replacement. As Mrs M wasnt able to get the new cover, she continues 
with the cover PRIMIS set up but now on a sole basis. This cover is more expensive than Mr 
and Mrs M would be paying.
I can see this cover was taken out in January 2023  and to round up the term of the policy 
to match their original cover it would have 26 years remaining and would cover around 
£320,000. Its also clear that Mr and Mrs Ms original cover ought to have been reinstated in 
November 2020  and since then theyve been paying an additional premium until new cover 
was taken out.
I do appreciate that Mrs M has had to keep the joint cover (now only covering her), and only 
when Mr M was removed from the cover did this reduce in cost  however I think its 
important to note that this redress covers 26 years of difference in payments  so it wouldnt 
be fair to fully overlap the additional payments.
The following is the most pragmatic way to put things right  and in principle was originally 
agreed by PRIMIS.
- Pay Mr and Mrs M the difference in premiums that they are now paying to what they 
would have been paying had their original policies been reinstated
oMr Ms new premium of £74.64 less his old premium of £63.46 = £11.18
oMrs Ms new premium of £81.36 less her old premium of £66.95 = £14.41
oTotal difference = £25.59 x 312 months (26 years) = £7,984.08
- Pay Mr and Mrs M the difference between what they have paid towards the joint 
policy and what they wouldve paid towards their old policies from November 2020 to 
January 2023 when Mr Ms new policy went live.
oJoint policy cost of £138.72 less original policies cost of £130.41 = £8.31
oTotal difference over 27 months (November 2020 to January 2023) = £224.37
- Pay Mr and Mrs M £1,500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the failure of the adviser to reinstate their original policies as requested.
Its clear to me that Mr and Mrs M are unlikely to repay their mortgage earlier than the 
remaining term on these policies. So I think its very likely these policies will remain in force. 
As such, to resolve the situation, Im directing Personal Touch Financial Services Ltd trading 
as PRIMIS to pay the compensation in a lump sum.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. I direct Personal Touch Financial 
Services Ltd trading as PRIMIS Mortgage Network to put things right in line with the 
instructions Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman