DRN-2784728
The complaint
Miss J complained because Santander UK Plc refused to refund her for a £200 withdrawal 
which she said she didnt make. Miss J also complained about the customer service she 
received when she reported the disputed transaction.
What happened
The last undisputed transaction on Miss Js account was a £22 contactless payment at 19:37 
on 22 December 2019, when she was out with her friends. Then there was a cash machine 
withdrawal at 22:55 for £200, which Miss J says she didnt authorise.
Miss Js maximum daily cash withdrawal limit was £300. So when a second £200, and £50, 
were requested from the same location a minute later, Santander sent Miss J a text saying:
Your card was used on 22-12-2019   22:56:25 at [location] for £200, 22-12-2019 at [same 
location] for £50. Reply Y if these transactions are yours of N if you dont recognise some or 
all of them.   
Miss J entered N and received a reply saying it had recorded her response but the office 
was closed.
Miss J said she realised someone had stolen her card, and tried to ring Santander but had a 
number of problems getting through. She also said she tried to block the card on the 
Santander app and online, but said there was no option for this. 
Meanwhile Santander rejected the £200 and £50 transactions to which Miss J had texted 
N. There was also another attempted transaction at 23:15. This was a contactless 
transaction for £24 but Santander reversed this too. 
When Miss J did speak to Santander, she said she hadnt authorised the first £200 
withdrawal. In its final response, Santander didnt accept that. In its final response, it said 
that the transaction had been made using chip and PIN, so it was declining Miss Js claim. 
Santander apologised that Miss J had experienced a delay, but said Santander cant control 
the volume or calls at any given time. It also said it had reviewed the calls about which Miss 
J had complained, but didnt agree there were any service issues. It paid Miss J £30 as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Miss J wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She said that being a victim of crime 
was traumatising and being accused of fraud by Santander made it a lot more stressful. She 
said Santanders advisors had insisted she must have given someone her PIN on purpose . 
Miss J said she had been worried about the safety of the rest of her savings, because of 
Santanders lack of service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Js complaint. Miss J told the investigator that when she 
was at the station going home that night, shed been carrying a frame. An unknown man 
helped her pick it up. She said this was about ten minutes before the disputed transaction. It 
was after that she realised her card was missing. Miss J told the investigator that she then 
used a card with another bank to pay her fare. But the investigator obtained records from 
that other bank. These showed that Miss J had last used that card at lunchtime, just before 
1pm, not at night.
The investigator also considered how the man who helped Miss J pick up her frame, might 
have known her PIN if hed stolen the card. Miss J had said she didnt have her PIN written 
down. The last transaction where shed used her PIN, and someone might have seen her, 
had been the day before. So there was no explanation of how the man could have known 
her PIN.
In the call recordings with Santander, Miss J said she had shielded her PIN when making the 
£22 transaction with her friends. But that had been a contactless payment  so she wouldnt 
have had to enter the PIN at all. So the investigator couldnt establish a point of compromise.
The investigator also considered customer service when Miss J spoke to Santander.  She 
noted that a call recording showed that the advisor didnt get a reply after giving Miss J the 
outcome, and hed said hello is anyone there? before ending the call. The recording didnt 
show how long Miss J had waited to get through to anyone initially, but the investigator 
thought Santanders £30 compensation was fair.
Miss J wasnt satisfied. She said it was unreasonable to be expected to recall details after 
such a long time, but she questioned the lunchtime time which was when the other bank told 
us shed used her card. Miss J also said that being a victim of crime that night had been 
embarrassing and traumatic, and she didnt know how anyone could have accessed her PIN. 
She said she was sure there were many elaborate scams taking place, and online research 
would show many people who had been victims of such crimes. Miss J said it shouldnt be 
her responsibility to prove how a criminal had gone about committing such an act. 
Miss J said that it was obvious that someone had tried their luck withdrawing £200 and when 
that worked, had simply tried again. She said that wouldnt be the action of an account 
holder, to block their own account by exceeding the daily limit. Miss J also said the 
difficulties getting through to Santander had meant her phone had stopped working, and 
shed had to ask strangers to borrow their phone to carry on trying to ring, in a city centre on 
her own. So Miss J didnt think £30 was enough compensation. She said Santander should 
have been able to confirm immediately that it had blocked her card, and should have given 
the right phone number for that time of night.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that there have been multiple points discussed in relation to Miss Js complaint, 
such as the detail of how she paid her fare home that night. Ive read and understood these. 
But Ive commented on what I think is vital to my conclusions. 
 
Regulations about disputed transactions
There are regulations about disputed transactions, and the relevant regulations for disputed 
transactions taking place on 22 December 2019 are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, Santander) must show the 
transaction was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Ive seen evidence to 
show that Miss Js genuine card with its chip, and the correct PIN, were used for the 
disputed transaction. So the disputed payment was authenticated.The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence.
Authorisation of the transaction
The regulations mean I need to assess who authorised the transaction. I cant know for 
certain because I wasnt present, but when evidence isnt clear, I make my decision on what 
I consider is more likely to have happened, taking into account all the circumstances of the 
case.
There are only three possibilities for who carried out the disputed transaction: a thief 
unknown to Miss J who stole her card; someone known to Miss J who knew her PIN; or Miss 
J herself.
If the man who helped Miss J pick up her frame stole her card, hed have needed to know 
the correct PIN in order to make the disputed £200 withdrawal. The same would apply if 
anyone else stole it. So its necessary to work out how a thief could have done this. 
- There are around 10,000 possible options for a four digit code. So its not possible to 
guess it, and the electronic records show that there were no incorrect PIN attempts 
around this time; 
- Miss J said she didnt write down her PIN, so the thief couldnt have stolen that with 
the card;
- Sometimes a thief will shoulder surf  in other words, look over someones 
shoulder when they are putting in a PIN. But Miss J hadnt used her card with a PIN 
since the day before. So anyone stealing the card late on 22 December couldnt have 
known the PIN from seeing Miss J enter it herself. Anyone who stole Miss Js card, 
whether it was the man who helped with the frame or someone else, couldnt have 
stolen the card the previous day. Thats because the records show Miss J used it 
herself at 19:37 on 22 December. 
- Often a fraudster will carry out a balance enquiry before making a withdrawal. But 
that didnt happen here. There was a balance enquiry, but only after the disputed 
£200 withdrawal. So whoever carried out the first transaction knew there was at least 
£200 in Miss Js account. Its also possible that whoever tried to take the second 
£200 knew there was a £300 limit but hoped it might be £300 per transaction.
As Ive set out above, Miss J said that there are many elaborate scams which one can read 
about online. But when a cash withdrawal is authenticated using the genuine card and 
correct PIN, the situation is simpler  whoever had the genuine card must have known the 
PIN. And I cant see any way that a thief could have obtained Miss Js PIN. 
This leaves two options: that Miss J carried out the transaction herself, or someone known to 
her who knew her PIN took the card and used it with the correct PIN. I cant tell which of 
these is correct. But the outcome is the same for either. If Miss J made the transaction 
herself, Santander doesnt have to refund her because she authorised it. And if someone 
known to Miss J took her card, again Miss J would be liable, because she had a 
responsibility to keep her security details, including her PIN, safe.So I dont require Santander to refund Miss J.
Customer service 
Ive looked at the events around Miss Js reporting to Santander, and listened to the calls 
which Santander has provided. I dont have information about how long Miss J had to wait. I 
do appreciate that waiting to report a possible fraud is stressful, and its likely there would 
have been a lot of calls just a few days before Christmas.
Miss J has explained that the impact on her was significant because her phone wouldnt 
work because shed waited so long to get through to Santander. And this meant she had to 
ask strangers to use their phones. I realise this would have been distressing. But by then 
she had already replied N to Santanders question about the later £200 and £50 
transactions, so that provided her with some protection. I recognise that Miss J has also said 
that other banks offer a blocking facility on the app. This service doesnt tell banks what 
procedures to follow, because thats the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA).  
Having listened to the calls, I dont find that Santanders advisors were rude. Taking 
everything into account, I consider that £30 which Santander paid Miss J was fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman