DRN-4509801
The complaint
Mr A complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds (Admiral) valuation of his car 
following a claim under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr As car was written-off by Admiral following an accident. Mr A says the settlement Admiral 
offered him for his car wasnt reasonable, so he complained. Admiral responded and 
explained the market valuation for Mr As car was £14,810. They said deductions were 
applied for the excess, outstanding premium, salvage value, and the outstanding finance on 
the car  and the remainder was payable to Mr A. Admiral explained theyd used two motor 
trade guides to value Mr As car and, having reviewed the valuation and the deductions, they 
maintained the settlement payable to Mr A was fair. Admiral accepted theyd delayed in 
sending Mr A the settlement, so they sent £50 compensation and also added 8% simple 
interest to the settlement amount due to Mr A.  
 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr A. She thought Admiral hadnt offered a fair 
settlement and recommended they increase the valuation to £15,097 and pay the difference 
to Mr A together with 8% simple interest on the additional settlement amount. Mr A 
disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. Ill explain why I have made this 
decision. 
My starting point is Mr As car insurance policy document. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and says, if Admiral decide to pay a cash sum to replace a car, the most theyll 
pay is the market value of the car. The policy defines market value as, The cost of replacing 
your vehicle, with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and condition based on 
market prices immediately before the loss happenedThis value is based on research from 
industry recognised motor trade guides. The dispute here relates to the valuation, so the 
next point Ive considered is whether Admiral acted fairly when carrying out their valuation.  
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research of 
likely selling prices. The guides refer to advertised and auction prices to work out what the 
likely selling price for the same vehicle would be. This takes into account all the 
specifications of the vehicle as well as any extras and the mileage.  
Mr A is unhappy with Admirals valuation of his car as he thinks its worth more  particularly 
as he says he has found similar cars being advertised for £20,000. Ive seen that Admiral 
reached their figure by using two industry recognised tools to find out the market value of the 
car. I can see they used CAPs to arrive at a valuation of £14,800 and Glasss which gave a 
valuation of £14,820. Admiral used the average to settle the claim at £14,810. I can see an 
Audatex report was also obtained and this provides a pre-accident valuation of £15,097.  
I can see our investigator considered two further motor trade guides - Percayso which 
provided a valuation of £15,018 and AutoTrader which provided a valuation of £15,542. So, 
taking into account all four motor trade guides, the average is £15,045. I can see our 
investigator has recommended Admiral increase their settlement offer to £15,097  which is 
in line with the Audatex report.   
 
Given that the difference between the average valuation based on the two guides used by 
Admiral and the four guides is £235, I dont believe, in the circumstances of this case, Mr A 
received a fair settlement. I say this because Admiral only used two motor trade guides  
and in this case they produced the two lowest valuations when compared with the other two 
guides. Its not the role of this service to put an exact value on a car. When looking into 
these types of complaints we check the relevant trade guides and consider whether the 
insurer has made a reasonable offer in line with them. Its our role to make sure Admiral is 
giving Mr A a fair price using a fair and recognised approach. 
In this case, I cant say that has happened here as Admirals valuation relied on only two 
guides  and theyre the guides which, based on the valuations obtained by our investigator, 
produced the two lowest valuations. Admiral havent provided any information to explain why 
the other two trade guides werent used so I dont think theyve followed a fair approach 
here. And given this has then led to a lower settlement amount being paid to Mr A, I dont 
think Mr A has received a fair price. Based on the information provided about Mr As car and 
using the trade guides, I dont think Admiral have carried out a fair valuation. 
So, Ive thought about what a fair valuation would be in the circumstances of this case. I can 
see the range of guide valuations is narrow in this case  around 5%. So I think any 
settlement in this case should be at least within the range of the four guides. Given that a 
valuation of £15,097 sits towards the higher end of the four valuations, I think this represents 
a fair and reasonable settlement in the circumstances of this case. I can see Admiral have 
already paid a settlement to Mr A. So, Admiral should pay the additional amount to Mr A, 
based on a settlement of £15,097, together with 8% simple interest per year. 
I acknowledge Mr A believes his car should be valued higher, but Ive seen no evidence to 
persuade me a settlement of £15,097 is unfair in the circumstances of this case.  
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Admiral havent carried out a fair valuation of Mr As car. So, Admiral 
should pay Mr A the difference between their valuation of £14,810 and a valuation of 
£15,097. Admiral should also add 8% simple interest per year on the additional settlement 
amount from the date they paid their settlement amount to the date of settlement. Admiral 
should provide Mr A with a certificate showing any taxation deducted.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must 
take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above, if they 
havent done so already.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman