DRN-3597548
The complaint
P, a limited company, complains Barclays Bank UK PLC closed its business current account 
when they shouldnt have.
P is represented by two of its directors Mr F and Ms A. Ill primarily refer to Mr F, as hes the 
one who raised the complaint and brought it to our service.
What happened
P had a business current account with Barclays which was closed on 17 December 2020. 
Mr F says he wasnt aware this was going to happen. And that he didnt want the account 
closed  so he complained to Barclays.
Barclays said it transpired an address hadnt been updated on Ps account at the same time 
as an address change on another account and said sorry for this. They explained as the 
account hadnt been used for 18 months before a dormancy letter was issued the account 
had been closed correctly. The dormancy letter was issued on 16 September 2020. They 
said theyd stated the process for the account funds to be repaid, and to say sorry they 
offered Mr F £50 directly  which he didnt accept, as he didnt feel it took into account 
everything thatd happened.
Unhappy with this Mr F asked us to look into things, saying in his complaint form to our 
service Barclays forgot to act on the address change hed asked them to do. This meant 
some post for P arrived late, and some post didnt arrive at all. 
Barclays gave us further information, saying while they werent questioning Mr Fs 
recollection of events, they couldnt find any evidence of a request to update the address for 
P  and the address was changed on the other account, but two months after Mr F said hed 
done it.
One of our Investigators looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. He felt Barclays 
had followed their dormant procedures properly, and that Mr F had told us post for P was 
arriving late  which suggested Mr F was still getting post for P addressed to the wrong 
address, but hed then not spoken to Barclays to get this sorted.
Mr F didnt agree with the outcome, in summary he said:
Barclays havent followed their own procedures, so it shouldnt be on them as 
Directors to arrange for the account to be reopened
He did receive some post from his old address, but never anything for P  and in any 
event postal mail isnt reliable, so Barclays should have communicated this by email
There should be compensation for all Directors.
As Mr F didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide. Our Investigator made it 
clear our service couldnt look into whether the account should be reopened or not  as 
thatd have to be a separate complaint. So, I also wont comment on that further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain that our service considers things on a fair and reasonable 
basis. So, although wed look at what actions a business has taken, wed also consider 
whether a consumer has taken actions to mitigate that loss.
And, where I dont have clear evidence to prove matters one way or the other, I need to 
decide what I think is more likely than not to have happened.
Mr F had two accounts he says he phoned Barclays to update the addresses on. Barclays 
have told me theyve no evidence of those calls  but, the address was updated on the other 
account.
So, I think its more likely than not Mr F was looking for both addresses to be updated. That 
means, like Barclays, Im accepting Barclays have likely made an error.
But, as Ive set out above, wed also expect Mr F to have taken action to mitigate any losses 
P might experience. 
In Mr Fs complaint form completed when he brought the complaint to us in February 2021, 
he said in relation to the address change:
They forgot to act on and failed carry out the same for P, however, resulting in the 
correspondence for this company being sent to an old address and not being received in a 
timely manner, and some not being received at all.
Ive noted Mr Fs comments in response to our Investigators view about not receiving 
anything for P  but that is different to what he told us when he first brought his complaint.
Thinking about what Mr F first told our service, which seems more likely given how close it 
was to the event, it sounds like he was receiving post for P that had been incorrectly 
addressed. There hasnt been any suggestion from Mr F he contacted Barclays in order to 
update this. So, I think Mr F had the opportunity to fix the issue before it became something 
that impacted P, and seemingly didnt do so.
Our Investigator when looking into this complaint did ask Mr F for specific evidence to claim 
for his losses. Mr F replied to this, and explained it was mainly the stress of the account 
being closed  but he didnt provide a lot of detail in response.I do understand Mr Fs frustration, but it seems from the information Ive got he didnt go 
back to Barclays, which has then caused him to not see letters from Barclays about the 
account being made dormant.
Looking at the terms and conditions of the account, these say if you stop using the account 
Barclays may close it by giving two months notice. Barclays did send their dormancy letter 
on 16 September 2020  and ended up closing the account over three months later on 
17 December 2020. Ive seen the account statements  and these show Ps account didnt 
have any transactions on it, apart from a regularly debiting £6 fee. So, overall, I do think 
Barclays followed their dormancy procedures correctly  and sent their letter to the address 
Mr F knew was still on the Barclays account.
Taking everything into account, although I understand Mr F, and Ps other Directors will be 
disappointed, I wont be asking Barclays to take any further action.
Barclays did offer Mr F £50 personally. If he still wanted to accept that, he should get in 
touch with Barclays to ask them to send this money to him. But, as they offered this money 
to Mr F directly, it wouldnt be something we could get involved in.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman