DRN-2509383
The complaint
 Mr W complains about the way Topaz Finance Limited trading as Rosinca Mortgages
(Topaz) administered his mortgage account after he changed bank accounts.
 
What happened
Mr W has two buy-to-let mortgages with Topaz. At the start of last year, Mr W changed bank
accounts and believed the direct debits he had set up were automatically transferred to his
new account.
In February of last year, Topaz received notification that Mr Ws direct debits for his
mortgage accounts had been cancelled. So, they wrote to him and asked him to complete a
new direct debit mandate. Mr W says he completed two direct debit mandates and sent them
back to Topaz. Following this, Topaz set up a new direct debit for one of Mr Ws mortgage
accounts and took payments as expected. However, a new direct debit wasnt set up for the
second mortgage account, and as such no payments were taken in March and April 2020.
In May 2020, Topaz says it sent Mr W a letter explaining his mortgage account was in
arrears. They also say they sent him three text messages asking him to call them. Mr W
confirms he received the text messages but didnt call Topaz immediately as he was
concerned the messages were part of a scam. Mr W said he felt this was the case because
he didnt recognise the name Rosinca in the messages. However, he did later call them
and reluctantly provided his personal and account details. And it was during this call he
became aware one of his mortgage accounts was two months in arrears. Topaz also told
Mr W that hed been charged two £40 late payment fees, and that credit reference agencies
had been notified of the missed payments. Mr W cleared his arrears, but as he was
unhappy, he raised a complaint.
Topaz investigated Mr Ws concerns and issued their final response two weeks later. In this
they explained they had mistakenly not sent Mr W a direct debit mandate for his second
mortgage account, and thats why a new direct debit hadnt been set up. They also
acknowledged they should have contacted Mr W after his March payment was missed.
Because of this they agreed to waive the two late payment charges. Topaz also said they
would amend Mr Ws credit file so that it no longer showed the missed payments.
Mr W didnt think Topazs offer went far enough to put things right, so he brought his
complaint to our service. When he did so, Mr W explained he wanted to be compensated for
the distress Topaz had caused. He felt they caused him to worry by contacting him in the
name of Rosinca, and this was a trading name he wasnt aware of. He also said covid made
him more concerned about his finances, and he was left with mortgage arrears he hadnt
budgeted for. Mr W was also unhappy he now had the inconvenience of having to check his
credit file had been updated. This involved him signing up with credit reference agencies and
he was concerned about their security. Mr W said he felt he should be awarded £500
compensation in recognition of the trouble and upset Topaz caused.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ws concerns and felt Topaz needed to do more to put things
right. Given the trouble and upset Mr W had experienced, she felt Topaz should pay him
£300. Mr W accepted our investigators findings, but Topaz didnt. While Topaz agreed they
could have done more to put things right, they felt £300 was too high an award in the
circumstances. They felt £100 was fair in the circumstances and made this offer.
Mr W didnt accept the £100 offered as he didnt think it went far enough to recognise what
he went through. Our investigator also wasnt persuaded to change her opinion. Because of 
this, Topaz asked for this case to be considered by an ombudsman.
I issued my provisional decision on 14 December 2020. In this I explained I didnt think the 
resolution offered in Topazs final response went far enough to put things right, but I felt their 
revised offer of £100 was appropriate in the circumstances. 
Topaz and Mr W had until 13 January 2020 to provide any additional points and/or 
information for me to consider. Topaz agreed with my provisional decision, but we havent 
received anything further from Mr W. In light of this, my decision remains the same, and Ill 
explain my reasoning below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint, albeit not in the way he hoped. Ill
explain my reasoning below.
Topaz has already acknowledged their mistakes, and the impact they had on Mr W. This
means I dont need to make a finding on what went wrong. So, my decision has focused on
the impact Topazs mistake had on Mr W, and what they need to do to put things right.
Topaz has sent us screenshots of their systems that show they only sent Mr W one direct
debit mandate in February 2020. Ive also seen the completed mandate Mr W returned to
them, and this was for the mortgage account that didnt experience any problems. So, I can
see where the problems began with Mr Ws second mortgage account. Ive also seen
information that shows Topaz didnt write to Mr W about missed payments until 1 May 2020.
While customers are expected to ensure they make payments on time, Id also expect a
financial business to tell their customer, as soon as possible, if there has been a problem
receiving payments. And Topaz didnt do this as quickly as Id expect.
Given that Mr W had completed a new direct debit mandate, I understand why he would
have felt confident his mortgage payments were being taken as normal. Thats why
I appreciate it would have been stressful for him to find out his mortgage account was two
months in arrears. And given the pandemic, I understand how this would have made things
more worrying for him. Mr W says he was worried because he had to clear arrears he hadnt
budgeted for. And I agree he hadnt budgeted for arrears, so paying this lump sum would
have been daunting. However, I expect he had budgeted for his monthly mortgage
repayments in March and April. And while he didnt expect to be in arrears, he always would
have expected those sums of money to be taken from his account. The problem here is that
they were taken later than anticipated. So, I do view this slightly differently to the way I would
a scenario in which a customer had to budget for an additional payment  which isnt the
case here.
Mr W has also said he was left worried when he received text messages from Rosinca. He 
was also concerned when he called them and was asked for his personal and account 
details.Topaz has sent us a copy of the letter Mr W was sent in February 2018. This explained the
legal ownership of his mortgages had been transferred to Topaz, trading as
Rosinca Mortgages. Ive also seen the mortgage statements Mr W was sent in April 2019
and April 2020, and they both mention Rosinca Mortgages. So, Im satisfied Mr W was made
aware of the trading name Rosinca before he had problems with his direct debits.
I dont think there was anything further Topaz could or should have done to ensure Mr W
remembered who he held mortgage accounts with. So, I cant agree Topaz did anything
wrong by using their trading name when they contacted Mr W about his missed payments.
Ive also taken on board what Mr W has said about having to check his credit file and the
concerns he has about the security of credit referencing agencies. Again, I agree having to
check his credit file would have been inconvenient. And had Topaz not made the mistakes
they did, Mr W wouldnt have had to do this as his testimony suggests he doesnt use these
agencies. Ive not seen clear testimony or evidence from Mr W on where his concerns about
the security of credit referencing agencies stems from  however, its his personal choice
whether he opts to use them. Having said that, if he didnt feel comfortable using credit
referencing agencies, he could have asked Topaz to send him confirmation once his credit
file had been updated. I cant see this is something Mr W did, so its something Ive
considered when determining a fair resolution to his complaint.
  
Putting things right
Topazs mistakes would cause most reasonable customers to be worried and
inconvenienced. And I agree simply updating Mr Ws credit file and waiving the late payment
fees didnt go far enough to put things right. However, Ive also had to consider
that Mr W didnt become aware of the missed payments until mid-May when he called
Topaz. And Topaz took steps to put things right within two weeks of this. So, that is the
timeframe I consider Mr W needs to be compensated for. And given my reasoning above,
I consider £300 is too high in the circumstances.
Im satisfied Mr W ought to have known Rosinca was contacting him about his mortgage
accounts. And after Mr W became aware of the problem with his direct debit, Topaz took
steps to put things right within two weeks. And its for this reason I consider Topazs offer of
£100 is fair in the circumstances. As such, this is the amount I consider Mr W should be
awarded for the trouble and upset he experienced.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint about Topaz Finance
Limited trading as Rosinca Mortgages.
To put things right, Topaz Finance Limited trading as Rosinca Mortgages should pay Mr W 
£100 in recognition of the distress their mistakes caused him.
Topaz Finance Limited trading as Rosinca Mortgages should pay the compensation within 
28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr W accepts my final decision. If they pay later 
than this, they must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision 
to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. If Topaz Finance Limited trading as Rosinca Mortgages consider theyre required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr W how 
much theyve taken off. They should also give Mr W a tax deduction certificate if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman