DRN-3758483
The complaint
Mr T and Ms T have complained about the premiums Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited (Lloyds) charged them over a number of years for their home insurance policies.
What happened
Mr T and Ms T took out a contents insurance policy and a buildings insurance policy. In 
2010, Lloyds offered a renewal premium totalling £276.24 for both policies. The policy 
continued to renew each year and the premium increased at each renewal. In 2020, the 
combined renewal premium was £564.98, which was a lower premium than in 2019.
When Mr T and Ms T received the 2021 renewal invite, this totalled about £600. They went 
online to see if they could find a more competitive quote. They found cheaper quotes with 
other insurers, including one for £113. Mr T and Ms T contacted Lloyds to complain that it 
was overcharging them. They said Lloyds was taking advantage of them.
When Lloyds replied to the complaint, it said the policy cost had been calculated according 
to the level of cover provided and changes to its general rate, plus insurance premium tax. It 
said the way it calculated premiums was confidential, but included factors such as its view of 
insurance risk and administrative costs. It said when it sent an invite to renew, policyholders 
needed to decide if the premium reflected the cover and service required. It said it might be 
able to offer a better price by discussing renewals.
So, Mr T and Ms T complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She said 
Lloyds had explained how it calculated the premium and there wasnt evidence to show it 
had treated Mr T and Ms T unfairly in how it priced the policies.
As Mr T and Ms T didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I should start by explaining that Im only looking at what happened from 2015 onwards. The 
rules for our service say that we cant normally look at a complaint raised about an issue 
more than six years after the event complained about or, if later, more than three years after 
the complainant knew, or should have known, they had reason to complain. Lloyds also 
hasnt agreed to this service considering events before 2015. So, I am unable to look at 
complaints about issues before that date.
Mr T and Ms T dont think Lloyds has treated them fairly. They have said Lloyds has used 
their loyalty to increase the price when the policy renewed. I dont have the power to tell a 
business what it should charge for insurance. Businesses are able to determine what they 
charge, so long as they treat customers fairly. So, Ive looked at whether Lloyds treated Mr T 
and Ms T differently to customers in similar circumstances.
By 2015, Mr T and Ms Ts policy had renewed several times. Lloyds introduced a target 
pricing model in 2018 and is able to show how this would have applied back to 2014. Target 
pricing is, in effect, a cap on the amount it charges for a policy. This took into account a 
variety of factors including risk and administrative costs. So, Ive looked at whether the 
premiums charged from 2015 onwards were within the target pricing range. This information 
is commercially sensitive, so Im unable to provide this information to Mr T and Ms T. But 
based on the information provided to this service by Lloyds, Im satisfied that it was within 
the target pricing. So, on that basis I think Lloyds treated Mr T and Ms T fairly.
Mr T and Ms T have also said they were able to get a much cheaper policy elsewhere. I can 
understand they think they were therefore being overcharged by Lloyds. But different 
insurers are able to set their own premiums and dont have to charge the same or similar 
prices as each other. Each insurer is able to set its own prices, which is what Lloyds has 
done here.
Ive also looked at whether there were any particular barriers or vulnerabilities that made it 
more difficult for Mr T and Ms T to engage with Lloyds. Mr T and Ms T said that in the first 
years of their policy, they werent encouraged to shop around and they didnt have a home 
computer at the time. They also said they both worked full time and were bringing up a 
family, so this didnt leave them with time to shop around. They felt that Lloyds should have 
supported them because of their loyalty. They said it was only when their son told them how 
much he was paying for home insurance that they realised there was an issue. Ive 
considered this, but havent seen evidence that persuades me there was a clear barrier or 
vulnerability that prevented Mr T and Ms T from contacting Lloyds. Im also aware that in 
2019, Mr T and Ms T contacted Lloyds to make changes to their policy, including adding a 
specified item. So, I think they engaged with Lloyds at that time and were able to discuss 
their policy requirements.
Mr T and Ms T have said Lloyds told them they might have been able to get a cheaper 
premium if they had phoned to discuss the renewal. They said this showed the premium was 
unfair. Lloyds told this service that Mr T and Ms T were on their cheapest policy. I havent 
seen evidence that persuades me there was a cheaper comparable policy available that 
Lloyds should have offered to Mr T and Ms T. Lloyds provided Mr T and Ms T with the policy 
details and renewal premiums to enable them to decide if they wanted to renew. Mr T and 
Ms T continued to do so until they looked around for other policies in 2021, when they found 
another policy elsewhere that met their needs for a cheaper premium.
So, thinking about all of the above, I havent identified anything that shows Lloyds was unfair 
in the premiums it charged Mr T and Ms T. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or 
require Lloyds to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman