DRN-3023277
The complaint
Mrs F says Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited lent to her irresponsibly. She says 
she had other debts that made making the loan repayments problematic. She thinks Mutual 
shouldve seen this and not lent to her.   
  
What happened
This complaint is about eight home collected loans Mutual provided to Mrs F between 
March 2011 and August 2019.
loan 
numberdate startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)date ended
1 12/03/2011 £750 102 25/04/2012
2 01/10/2011 £275 51 11/04/2012
3 02/11/2013 £1,000 102 31/08/2015
4 12/09/2015 £1,000 102 02/08/2017
5 10/12/2016 £200 51 01/11/2017
6 22/07/2017 £1,000 102 12/06/2019
7 21/10/2017 £200 51 11/04/2018
8 10/08/2019 £1,000 102 24/03/2021
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. Mutual had said that loans 1 to 3 shouldnt be 
within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service, and the adjudicator agreed with 
this. 
He also said that Mutual hadnt done anything wrong before approving loans 4 and 5. But he 
said that Mutual shouldnt have approved any lending from loan 6 onwards as the lending 
pattern itself was harmful. 
Mutual disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. Ive read in total what Mutual has said, 
and its own summary of this is below:
Mutuals loans are a mid-cost product not a high-cost one, the lending should not be 
assessed as high-cost
Mutuals lending was for durations of 1 - 2 years, a short term lending approach is 
not suitable for the assessment of the loans issued
The pattern of lending shows no signs of unsustainable borrowing. The loans were 
spread over many years
Mutual assess the affordability, creditworthiness and sustainability of the lending 
robustly in a manual underwriting assessment. Rules do not prescribe how this 
assessment should be made.
The customer has displayed good a payment history over a prolonged period which 
is evidence the loans were affordable and sustainable.
There is no evidence the customer was reliant on the loans
There is no requirement for the customer to have a break in lending in any rule or 
guidance we are aware of. In any event, there were breaks in the lending in this 
case.
The customer had a good credit report showing no signs of financial difficulties.
It is not aware of any rule or guidance which states that the length of time a borrower 
is indebted is an indicator of financial problems.
Taking 8 loans over 8 years is not the same as taking 8 loans in 1 year
Mrs F didnt disagree with the adjudicators opinion.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to issue a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs F could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.Ive decided to uphold Mrs Fs complaint in part and Ive explained why below.
Mutuals response concerns how it defines the cost of the credit and the risk of it to Mrs F. It 
also concerns our approach to repeat lending. This Service has responded to Mutual on 
these issues in detail through other final decisions it has received, and the published 
decisions on our website. So, Im not going deal with these points at length here.
I will say briefly that I consider it reasonable to describe this lending as high cost credit, as 
does the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit within its 
identified high cost credit cohort. And while I note it has a longer term than, for example, a 
payday loan, that does not make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And, as 
such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not said 
anything to the contrary on this point. I have considered these issues alongside everything 
else in making my decision.
Mrs F didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 5. Because of this I 
dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. And, for the avoidance of 
doubt, given the evidence I have, I dont disagree with what the adjudicator said about this 
lending. But they are part of the borrowing relationship Mrs F had with Mutual. So, they are 
something I will take into account when considering the other loans she took.
Given this, I havent looked in detail at the information from the point of sale as I dont think I 
need to. But essentially Mutual has said that a detailed consideration of Mrs Fs 
circumstances took place before each loan was approved, and this included a consideration 
of repeat lending.  
But the evidence Mutual has provided suggests that information looked at was very brief and 
it doesnt really get to the bottom of Mrs Fs financial circumstances or why she was taking 
these loans. I cant see any reference to repeat lending at all. And some of the information 
Mutual gathered raises concerns, for example in one of the later loans she is recorded as 
being retired and on benefits only. So, she would have no means of making up any shortfall 
in her income if the loan repayments were too much. 
And, overall, Im not clear how outlining the policies its agent is supposed to have followed, 
but may not have, are helpful here. Im not able to place any weight on descriptions of what 
ought to have happened.
Notwithstanding my concerns about the sales process itself, Ive looked at the overall pattern 
of Mutuals lending history with Mrs F, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which 
Mutual should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Mutual should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further 
loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Fs case, I think that this point was reached 
by loan 6. I say this because:
Mrs F had been indebted to Mutual for just under four years in this chain of lending 
(there was a significant break after loan 2, so this is loan chain 3 to 8). The loans 
were intended to run for around two years, so Mutual could have perhaps expected 
this would be the case but this is still long time to be using high cost credit. 
And, rather than a picture of decreasing indebtedness which would happen when a 
loan is taken and repaid, there was a pattern of continuing borrowing which showed 
no signs of ending. I think taking out four longer term high cost loans, over this 
period, is a strong indicator that Mrs F was starting to struggle financially.Loan 3 (the first loan in this chain) was for £1,000 and loan 6 was for the same 
amount. So, loan 6 was the latest in a line of borrowing of relatively high yearly 
amounts. At this point Mutual ought to have known that Mrs F was not likely 
borrowing to meet a shorter-term shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing 
need.
So, because of the above factors, Mutual ought to have realised it was more likely 
than not that Mrs Fs indebtedness was now unsustainable. 
And this is reflected in the information Mutual recorded about why Mrs F started 
these loans. The majority of these loans were used to fund yearly expenditures such 
as holidays and Christmas. And it isnt necessarily or automatically unreasonable to 
use this type of credit to do this. But using a high cost form of borrowing over a 
prolonged period is still likely to have caused financial problems, and in this case the 
evidence suggests it left Mrs F with little alternative but to borrow again in the future, 
when these yearly expenditures were likely to be incurred again, as she did.
Right from the start Mrs F was provided with a new loan within a short time of settling 
an earlier one, or when she hadnt repaid her existing loan. So, there wasnt an 
appreciable time when Mrs F wasnt in debt to Mutual in this lending chain. 
Mrs F didnt make any real inroads to the amount she owed Mutual. Loan 8 was 
taken just under six years after loan 3. So, the harmful pattern I think was established 
from loan 6 continued. Mrs F had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service 
a debt to Mutual over a very long time.
I think that Mrs F lost out because Mutual continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Fs indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Mrs F borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mrs Fs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 6 to 8 and Mutual should put things 
right.
Mutual has referred to the 2020 High Court judgement in the case of Kerrigan vs Elevate 
Credit International Limited. It has essentially said that the judge in this case said that the 
relationship could be fair if there are a lower number of loans per year. For example, under 
four loans a year. It said, as it lent a lower amount than this, then this would indicate, on the 
same basis as the court case, that it hadnt lent unsustainably.
Firstly, looking at the courts findings at this point in the judgement, the judge was talking 
about whether an unfair relationship had developed. This is a different question, with some 
different considerations, than whether a loan or series of loans, has been lent irresponsibly.
I accept that there can be some overlap between whether a pattern of lending itself shows 
that the lending is unsustainable, and a relationship is unfair. But the court in this judgement 
was considering issues related to short term high cost credit rather than home collected 
credit. I can see Mutual has acknowledged they are different products with different 
considerations. And indeed has repeatedly been keen to distance its products from those of 
short term high cost credit providers. So, this means that the judges conclusions about a 
differently structured product shouldnt and cant be directly applied here.And in any event the number of loans is just one aspect of decided whether a lending pattern 
is harmful. The loan size, duration of loans, the repayments and other factors need to be 
also looked at, as Ive done above.
So, whilst I have noted Mutuals submissions on this point, it hasnt introduced any 
arguments which persuade me to change my opinion about this complaint.
Putting things right
Mutual shouldnt have given Mrs F loans 6 to 8.
A) Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs F towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs F 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs F originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mutual should pay Mrs F the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Mrs Fs borrowing for loans 6 to 8 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mrs Fs credit file. If 
Mutual has sold any of the loans Mutual should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mutual to deduct tax from this interest. Mutual should 
give Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax Mutual has deducted, if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said 
above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman