DRN-2432432
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the way Unum Ltd has dealt with his claim. 
What happened
Mr C has a group income protection insurance policy through his employer, with Unum.
Mr C was employed as a relationship manager but unfortunately became unwell and had to 
submit an income protection claim. This was accepted by Unum due to his gout  but the 
policy had a two-year limited payment period. After this, a lump sum was payable equivalent 
to 8% of the insured earnings for each complete year to terminal age. However, a lump sum 
of 20% of the insured earnings for each compete year to terminal age would be payable if Mr 
C has a qualifying condition.
Mr C says Unum should have paid him the 20% lump sum as he has a qualifying condition. 
And he says Unum simply stopped paying the claim and didnt obtain any additional medical 
evidence or complete an assessment. Mr C provided a further supportive letter from his GP 
which was considered by Unum but it maintained its decision to pay the 8% lump sum. 
Mr C referred his complaint to this service and our investigator looked into the complaint. 
She didnt think Unum had made the correct decision and recommended that Unum obtain 
an independent medical report. 
Unum responded to the investigators opinion and said it couldnt agree to obtaining an 
independent report and said:
If an independent examination is required, then it follows that the existing medical 
evidence doesnt support payment of the lump sum at 20% 
Obtaining an independent report will only give information about how Mr C is now, 
and not how he was at the end of the limited payment period on 28 February 2019
An independent assessment wouldnt involve scans or x-rays  Unum need to see 
clinical evidence of joint destruction and deformity
Mr C responded and provided photographs showing redness and swelling and also provided 
a report from his consultant rheumatologist who said:
Mr Cs primary diagnosis was gout
Mr C had inflammation of his left wrist
An ultrasound of his feet did show typical features of gout with some synovial 
thickening
X-rays of his feet have shown cystic erosive change
She hadnt seen Mr C since 2018 and to get an up to date picture, it would be 
reasonable to have an independent medical review
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 4 November 2020. Ill repeat my provisional findings here:
The relevant rules and industry guidance say an insurer should deal with claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Mr C was suffering from gout and so the only qualifying condition which would be 
applicable is arthritis. 
Unums definition of a qualifying condition of arthritis is: Active and progressive 
forms of inflammatory polyarthritis including widespread joint destruction with major 
clinical deformity of three or more joint areas.
Unum decided to pay the 8% lump sum as the evidence it had obtained showed that 
Mr C had been discharged by his rheumatologist consultant as they had exhausted 
all available treatments. So it didnt think the situation would change any further and 
so it would pay the 8%.  
Mr C says Unum stopped paying his benefit, but this is correct as it was limited to two 
years, after which a lump sum payment was payable 
Mr C disagreed with Unums decision as he thought he had a qualifying condition and 
he provided Unum with a letter from his GP which said he was suffering from gout 
and made the following points:
His gout was an active progressive inflammatory polyarthritis
He had marked swelling and pain in his knee, hands and feet
A bone scan in 2017 showed abnormal tracer accumulation 
An x-ray of his right foot in 2016 showed cystic erosive change
Unum referred this to its company medical officer who considered the GPs letter and 
the medical evidence and explained why he didnt think the evidence demonstrated 
that Mr C had a qualifying condition. He said he had reviewed the evidence as a 
whole and there was no evidence that Mr C had widespread joint destruction with 
major clinical deformity of three or more joints. He made the following points during 
his review:
Findings on a bone scan can have different underlying causes
The only indication of joint destruction by the GP is an x-ray of Mr Cs right 
foot in 2016 showing cystic erosive change  the GP doesnt describe major 
clinical deformity in any joint
In contrast to the bone scan findings in 2017, the consultant rheumatologist 
documented ultrasound scans had shown no joint inflammation in Mr Cs 
hands or feet in 2018  and the consultant noted the changes in the middle 
joints of Mr Cs feet were related to osteoarthritis
Gout is a form of inflammatory arthritis, but it is not a progressive form of 
polyarthritis 
Im persuaded by the chief medical officers review and reasoning as hes considered 
the evidence as a whole and has explained why he doesnt think Mr C has a 
qualifying condition to award the 20%.  Mr C clearly is suffering from pain and a 
severe form of gout, but the criteria and definition for a higher lump sum payment is 
clear and specific. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest that he qualifies for 
the higher lump sum. Ive considered the consultant rheumatologists recent letter dated 2020 which 
explains Mr Cs diagnosis but neither the letter nor the evidence confirms that Mr C 
has widespread joint destruction with major clinical deformity of three or more joints. 
There is no doubt that Mr C is suffering from gout and the pictures he has provided 
evidence swelling and inflammation. But at the time of making the lump sum 
payment, the evidence wasnt supportive of a higher payment. I also dont think an 
independent examination would be beneficial as this wouldnt involve scans or x-rays 
to demonstrate widespread joint destruction. 
And so Im satisfied that Unum has reached the decision fairly and reasonably. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both sides have responded to my provisional findings, which I adopt as part of this final 
decision. Unum has accepted my provisional decision but Mr C has not. 
Mr C has made the following points, in summary:
He refers to his email dated 6 May 2020 to this service 
When Unum made the decision to award an 8% lump sum, this wasnt based on up 
to date medical evidence  it didnt obtain up to date information 
His doctor said his primary diagnosis was of Gout and that this was a form of 
polyarthritis  the Ombudsman contradicts this 
Unum never kept him up to date with final arrangements
He hasnt been treated fairly and would like Unums service to be considered 
Ive considered all of Mr Cs comments very carefully and will address those which I consider 
to be key to my decision. Ive reviewed all of the evidence and information on file, including 
the email dated 6 May 2020. My provisional decision sets out the evidence Ive considered. 
Unum made the decision not to obtain further medical evidence when making a decision 
about the lump sum as Mr C had been discharged by his consultant as all available 
treatments had been exhausted. It didnt think the situation would change. I think this was a 
reasonable position to take. Mr C did provide further evidence from his GP which Unum 
considered  but it then explained why this didnt change its decision. So although Unum 
didnt request up to date information at the time of making its decision, it did review and take 
Mr Cs further medical evidence into account.
Mr C says Ive contradicted what his GP says but Ive set out what his GP has said and what 
the chief medical officer found  and have explained why I was persuaded, overall, by the 
chief medical officers review. 
Ive considered Unums service overall and Im satisfied that it treated Mr C fairly by 
considering the additional evidence he provided and referring it for further review. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont think Unum Ltd need to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman