DRN-1818523
 
The complaint
Mr I complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund him £30 after a cash machine failed to 
dispense to him.  
What happened
On the 17 June 2019 Mr I tried to withdraw funds from his Santander account, using a cash 
machine owned by another bank, which Ill refer to as Bank A. The first two transactions 
didnt process then Mr I attempted to withdraw £30 on two occasions and finally £40. Mr I 
explained that his card was returned but none of the funds dispensed. And on checking his 
balance the next day he realised his account had been debited by £100, so he contacted 
Santander to complain.
Santander contacted Bank A who explained that two of the three transactions failed to 
dispense. So Santander decided to refund Mr A £70 but thought the other £30 likely 
dispensed. 
Mr I wasnt happy with Santanders response so complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Is complaint and thought that Santander needed to 
do more. He was satisfied that there was sufficient evidence to show that on balance it was 
likely none of the three ATM withdrawals Mr I attempted on the 17 June 2019 dispensed. 
Our investigator thought this because hed seen evidence from Bank A that £90 surplus 
funds remained in the Purge Bin when it was next balanced on the 21 June 2019. And as 
there hadnt been any other fraud claims, its plausible another member of the public 
accidentally received an additional £10  which led to there only being £90 surplus funds 
rather than £100. Our investigator also thought Santander should pay Mr I 8% interest on the 
£30 from the date of the failed ATM withdrawal to the date of settlement and £50 for distress 
and inconvenience. 
Both Santander and Mr I initially accepted our investigators view. But on receiving the 
redress, Mr I queried the 8% hed been paid. 
As Mr I didnt accept our investigators outcome its been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And in doing so Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly similar 
reasons. 
As Santander have accepted Mr Is funds didnt dispense  and paid him the additional £30 
 I wont be addressing this in my decision. Or the amount of compensation accepted by Mr I namely the £50 distress and inconvenience payment. Instead Ill be focusing on Mr Is query 
about the 8% interest paid on the £30 returned to him.
Ive firstly looked at how Santander calculated the 8% interest. In our investigators view he 
requested that Santander pay Mr I 8% interest from the 17 June 2019 to the date of 
settlement. I can see that Santander refunded Mr I the £30 on the 28 January 2020, and 
they paid £1.20 in interest  following a reduction of £0.30 for HM Revenue and Customs 
(HMRC). Im satisfied that 8% simple interest on £30, between these dates, amounts to 
£1.50 in gross interest. 
Mr I has also queried how much tax was removed from the interest payment. Ive seen a 
letter which Santander sent to Mr I on the 28 January 2020 which explains how much tax 
was removed and why. In the letter Santander have explained that they are required by law 
to deduct income tax at the basic rate (20%) and to pay this to HMRC  theyve also 
explained to Mr I the process if hes a non-taxpayer how he can reclaim these funds. Im 
satisfied that Santander have acted fairly here. 
I realise that Mr Is disappointed in the amount of interest he received on the £30 refund from 
Santander. But Id like to explain the purpose of the 8% interest. 
The purpose of the 8% interest is to put Mr I back in the position he was before the £30 was 
debited from his account  so effectively to repay him for the cost of being deprived of 
money. This might include how much money its cost for him to borrow money, the lack of 
opportunity to make choices about how to use the money including investments or going 
without things he would benefit from.  
I think its important for me to say that the 8% isnt payment for any additional distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr I. Our investigator considered this separately and awarded Mr I 
£50 for the stress and anxiety caused to him  which Mr I accepted. 
Putting things right
In conclusion Im satisfied that Santander correctly calculated the 8% interest awarded to 
Mr I  and I dont think they need to do anything further here.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Is complaint  but as Santander UK Plc have already paid Mr I £30, plus 8% 
interest from the 17 June 2019 to the date of settlement and £50 trouble and upset I wont be 
directing them to do anything further here. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman