DRN-3413786
The complaint
Mrs D complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco Bank) has failed to honour a claim 
she made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). She is represented in 
her complaint by her daughter, Ms E. When I refer to things said by Mrs D then this should 
be taken to include things said by Ms E while representing her in the complaint, unless 
otherwise specified.
What happened
Mrs Ds daughter, Ms E, entered an agreement with a company (PF) in January 2019 to 
build a website. The price was £8,570 plus VAT, to be paid in stages as the project 
progressed. There were also to be monthly fees of £55 plus VAT for website hosting and 
related services.
Mrs D paid the initial deposit of £2,122.80 to get the project started on her Tesco Bank credit 
card. This payment was made to PF via a well-known payment services company I will call 
P. All later payments to PF were made by Ms E herself via bank transfer  notably a 
milestone payment of £4,113.60 and a monthly payment of £66.
Ms E says PF failed to meet project deadlines and she became concerned when the website 
had not been built by 15 March 2019 as agreed. She said PF began making excuses, and 
she started to explore ways of recouping the money shed paid to PF. She says this ended 
up with her paying significant further sums of money to solicitors and a debt recovery agent 
but to no avail. She didnt get her money back and didnt get the website, and PF ended up 
being wound up by the court.
In or around August 2021, Mrs D raised the matter with Tesco Bank, seeking to make a 
claim under section 75 of the CCA. Tesco Bank said it wouldnt honour Mrs Ds claim 
because there was not a valid debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement in place which 
would allow her to make a claim. Mrs D complained but Tesco Bank stood by its decision. 
Dissatisfied with this response Mrs D referred the matter to this service for an independent 
assessment, where it was looked into by one of our investigators.
Our investigator came to much the same conclusions as Tesco Bank. He noted that Mrs D 
was not a party to the contract with PF and the necessary DCS agreement therefore didnt 
exist. He observed that the fact the deposit payment had been made via P was also a 
potential issue, but that ultimately it didnt matter as Mrs D didnt have a valid claim anyway. 
Our investigator considered whether there was any way Tesco Bank could have reclaimed 
the money Mrs D had paid via the process known as a chargeback, and concluded that they 
could not have. This was because by the time Tesco Bank had been made aware of the 
dispute it was already too late to attempt a chargeback.
Mrs D asked for an ombudsman to decide her case, so the complaint has now been passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a person pays for goods or services using a credit card, their credit card provider may 
be able to help if something goes wrong with the purchase, either through the dispute 
resolution scheme administered by the card schemes (chargeback) or because they have a 
legal obligation under section 75 of the CCA.
Chargeback
When faced with a customer disputing a card transaction, I would expect a financial 
business to attempt a chargeback where this would have a reasonable prospect of being 
successful, and to conduct the chargeback process in a competent way, free of mistakes. 
The chargeback process can be used to claim a refund of card transactions only, and cant 
be used to claim out of pocket expenses or payments which were not made by card.
Our investigator considered that, by the time Mrs D made Tesco Bank aware of the 
problems her daughter had experienced with PF, it was too late for the bank to attempt a 
chargeback. I think our investigator came to the correct conclusion. The card schemes (in 
this case, the relevant scheme was Mastercard) set out various rules for chargebacks, 
including rules relating to the window of time in which a chargeback must be attempted.
In this case the underlying complaint is that PF didnt provide the services it had been paid 
for. The card scheme rules say a chargeback for a problem of this type needs to be raised 
within 120 days of the date the service was supposed to have been completed by. This was 
15 March 2019, which was the date the Ms Es contract with PF said the website would be 
launched. 
By the time Mrs D brought the issue to Tesco Banks attention, more than two years had 
passed so it was clearly too late for the bank to attempt a chargeback. It did not therefore act 
unreasonably in not taking a chargeback forward. Had it tried to do so, I cannot see how it 
would have been successful.
Section 75 of the CCA
Section 75 of the CCA allows a consumer who has paid for goods or services using a credit 
card to make a claim against their credit card provider in respect of any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of those goods or services, so long as certain conditions 
have been met.
In this case both Tesco Bank and our investigator concluded that one of the key conditions 
has not been met  the need for there to be a valid DCS agreement. As a result, theyve 
both concluded Mrs D doesnt have a valid claim against the bank under section 75. I realise 
this will disappoint Mrs D and Ms E, but I have reached essentially the same conclusion. 
Section 75 says the following:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
Section 12(b), which is referred to above, explains that in order for there to be a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement there also need to be pre-existing arrangements between the 
creditor and the supplier.
What this means is that in order for a person (the debtor) to be able to bring a successful 
claim against their credit card provider under section 75 of the CCA, the credit card needs to 
have financed a transaction between them and a supplier. The creditor needs to have pre-
existing arrangements with the supplier. Finally, the person also needs to have a claim 
against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or a breach of contract.
So how does this all fit in with Mrs Ds complaint? Mrs D used her credit card to pay PF (the 
supplier), via P. Tesco Bank has suggested that because the payment was made via P, 
there may not be pre-existing arrangements between it and PF. Im not convinced this is 
correct, but I dont think I need to make a finding on this point because in any event Mrs D 
doesnt have a claim against PF for misrepresentation or breach of contract. Ill explain 
further.
Ms E is the person who wanted a website. Shes the person who dealt with PF and made a 
contract with them to build the website. She was the person responsible under the contract 
for making the payments to PF, and in turn PF were responsible to her for providing the 
various services outlined in the contract, which included building and completing the website. 
PF, it seems, broke its agreement with her by failing to build the website. So it is Ms E who 
has a claim against PF for breach of contract.
The evidence available indicates that the extent of Mrs Ds involvement in the transaction 
with the supplier was making the deposit payment by credit card. Shes not mentioned on 
the contract. In my view Ms E had no contract with PF in respect of which she could have a 
claim for breach of contract. She simply made a financial contribution which lowered the 
amount Ms E needed to pay.
Because Mrs D doesnt appear to have any claim for breach of contract (or 
misrepresentation) against PF, this means she doesnt have a claim against Tesco Bank 
either under section 75 of the CCA. When responding to our investigators assessment of 
the complaint, Mrs D suggested shed not been aware of how her section 75 rights worked 
and that the bank hadnt explained these to her. Section 75 of the CCA is a complex legal 
area and it isnt something I would expect a bank to explain in detail to consumers. So I dont 
find that Tesco Bank behaved wrongly in not providing this information.
I dont lack in sympathy for Mrs D and Ms E. Ms E paid a significant sum for services which it 
seems were not performed by PF, and then more money has been lost attempting to recoup 
the initial losses. But the bank did not act unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mrs Ds claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I do not uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman