DRN-1611502
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Santander UK Plc mis-sold Miss A payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy which covered Miss As mortgage. 
The mortgage started in 2005 and the PPI started in 2008. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Miss A disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Miss A has said the PPI was added without her agreement. However it wouldnt be fair for 
me to say this happened unless there was reasonable supporting evidence of it. Where 
someone has said another person or organisation has done something wrong, fairness 
requires that the person making the allegation should present evidence that this probably did 
happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone prove they didnt do something wrong, 
especially when it was such a long time ago. 
Also, I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened about 12 years 
ago.
Santander says this PPI was sold by phone. Theres no recording of that sale, and I dont 
know what exactly was said in the call (assuming it happened at all). But if it was a phone 
sale, there is evidence that Santander at least trained its staff to offer the PPI as a choice 
and to check the customer wanted it. But, as I say, I dont know for certain that the phone 
call took place, or what was said. 
But other evidence does suggest that Miss A agreed to the PPI, or at the very least was 
made aware it was being set up. 
First, the PPI covered only unemployment, even though it would be much more normal for 
PPI to also cover absence from work for accident and sickness. If Santander had been adding the PPI secretly, without Miss As agreement, it would have made sense for it to add 
the full PPI, which probably would have cost more. The fact that the PPI only covered 
unemployment suggests that there was some discussion with Miss A, and that she told 
Santander she wanted only unemployment cover and not the full cover. 
Secondly, Santander has given us a copy of a letter it sent out to Miss A in 2008. This said 
that the PPI had been set up, and said how much it would be charging her each month. So, 
if Miss A hadnt actually agreed to the PPI, she would probably have contacted Santander to 
complain about it in 2008. 
So, overall, I dont have good evidence from Miss A that Santander added the PPI without 
her agreement. And the evidence I do have, even though not complete, does back up 
Santanders claim that it got Miss As agreement to the PPI. 
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply. 
I think Santander recommended the PPI to Miss A, and this means it had a higher standard 
to reach during the sales process  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Miss As 
particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to 
significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a recommendation would have been a 
suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Miss As situation at the time: 
Its likely Miss A was eligible for the policy. 
The PPI would have paid benefits if she was made redundant, and would have paid 
out on top of any redundancy pay. Miss A has said she didnt have savings to fall 
back on, so a PPI payment could have been especially helpful in stopping her falling 
into arrears on her mortgage. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Miss A couldnt afford the PPI when she took it 
out. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Miss A 
would have been affected by any of these
 
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. 
Its hard to know how well Santander explained the costs and benefits of the policy during 
the actual sales call. But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about 
this would have affected whether Miss A took the PPI. I say this because, in her 
circumstances, its unlikely better information would have made the PPI seem less useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman