DRN-2416588
The complaint
Ms A complains that Newline Insurance Company Limited (Newline) declined a claim under 
a pet insurance policy she held with them. 
References to Newline include its agents.
What happened
Ms A had a pet insurance policy underwritten by Newline which was due for renewal in 
February 2019. She had held this insurance with Newline since early 2018. 
In February 2019, Ms A called Newline to discuss her renewal quote as shed found a 
cheaper policy online that was still underwritten by Newline. Newline explained that this was 
due to a new customer discount, which Ms herself wouldve received in her first policy year 
and so they were unable to match the online quote.
The call handler explained Ms A was free to cancel her current policy and take out the new 
one online. However, if she did, the new policy wouldnt provide any cover for:
- the first 15 days; 
- anything that has been claimed for previously on this existing policy; or 
- any conditions that exist but hadnt been claimed for before. 
Ms A acknowledged this and cancelled her existing policy. The next day she took out the 
new policy online.
In May 2020, Ms A submitted a claim for treatment following her dog being diagnosed with 
epilepsy after suffering with seizures for .
This claim was declined as Newline said the dog had shown symptoms of epilepsy prior to 
the policy start date of February 2020 and pre-existing conditions werent covered. This is 
because, in August 2018, Ms A submitted a claim for her dog after it had suffered a seizure. 
Although nothing was diagnosed at this point by the vet, the claim was paid by Newline. 
Ms A complained to Newline. She said it was not a pre-existing condition as the seizures in 
2018 were never diagnosed as epilepsy. Ms A says that she has never tried to hide anything 
from Newline and wasnt to know that the seizures in 2018 would be deemed as a pre-
existing condition.
An investigator at this service looked into Ms As complaint and didnt uphold it. He explained 
that, although the condition wasnt diagnosed as epilepsy in 2018, it was still present before 
the new policy started in February 2020. And this means itd be classed as pre-existing.
Ms A didnt agree with the investigators opinion. She says the call handler didnt explain to 
her on the cancellation call in February 2019 that the 2018 seizure would be classed as a 
pre-existing condition. And, if theyd told her this, she wouldve continued with the original 
policy and not cancelled it.
The matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely in light of the evidence. 
Having done so, I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome here. Ill explain why 
below.
My role is to decide whether Newline acted within the terms and conditions of its policy when 
it declined Ms As claim for her dogs treatment in 2020 and, if so, whether it did this fairly 
and reasonably. Ive also thought about what Ms A says more recently about not being told 
about the implications of cancelling her original policy with Newline and that, if shed been 
made aware, she wouldnt have cancelled it. Ive set out my findings on these issues below.
The declined claim
After taking out the new policy online, Ms A was sent a welcome pack including the terms 
and conditions of the policy. These explain that all conditions which pre-dated the policy 
commencement date are excluded from cover. It states: 
Section 4 Your contract of insurance, What isnt covered:
1. any pre-existing conditions including but not limited to any form of illness or injury 
that your pet has had, or has shown clinical signs of when you took out this policy. 
But please telephone us as we may be able to offer restricted cover where we 
exclude costs relating to the existing illness or injury.
The terms and conditions define a pre-existing condition as:
Any condition or complication directly resulting from a condition that has been 
identied or investigated by a vet, is known to you or is otherwise reasonable for you 
to have known about prior to the start of the insurance.
Ms A says the epilepsy was not diagnosed until May 2020. However, the policy definition of 
a pre-existing condition confirms this includes any condition or complication directly resulting 
from a condition that has been identified or, importantly in this case, investigated by a vet. 
The policy also says it doesnt cover any illness or injury that a pet has had or shown clinical 
signs of when it was taken out.
Ms As dog was seen by a vet in 2018 following the initial seizures and again in 2020. The 
veterinary notes from the May 2020 appointment say OR [assumed to be owner reports] for 
last 2 years had seizureshad 7 in last 9 months.
Newline say the 2018 and 2020 episodes are linked and have declined Ms As claim 
explaining that it falls under the pre-existing exclusion. As well as the above, Newline rely on 
guidance obtained from an independent vet in support of this decision. The vet concludes 
the following. There is strong evidence to suggest that idiopathic epilepsy has an underlying 
genetic cause. Given this fact, together with the variable nature of this condition's 
progression, and the absence of any other causes being identified, it remains at least 
a strong possibility that these episodes are related.
Taking the above into account, and in the absence of any contradictory evidence provided 
by Ms A, I think Newline reasonably concluded the problems which led to the claim in May 
2020 fall within the definition of a pre-existing condition under the policy terms. As such, Im 
persuaded Newline declined the claim in line with the terms of the policy and did so fairly 
and reasonably. And I dont uphold Ms As complaint about Newlines decision to decline her 
May 2020 claim.
The implications of cancelling the 2018 policy
When Ms A first came to our service, she said shed had continuous cover with Newline 
since 2018 and amended the policy in 2019. But that isnt quite right. Whilst she has 
continuously held insurance products underwritten by Newline, she hasnt had the same 
continuous cover the entire time. This is because the new policy she took out in February 
2019 is different to her old policy which started in 2018.
Ive listened to the cancellation call in February 2019 and the call handler explains:
it wont cover anything youve claimed on this policy or any conditions that you 
didnt claim for before
Ms A responds saying Right, thats fine.
As Ms A chose to take out a brand-new policy in 2019, which was cheaper than her old 
policy from 2018, she opted out of the cover given under her old policy. This is the position 
even though both policies were underwritten by the same business.
Having thought about the cancellation call and the terms and conditions sent to Ms A after 
taking out the new policy, I think Newline made clear to Ms A the impact of this decision. The 
call handler explained that any condition that exists before the start date of the new policy 
would not be covered. And I think Newline did this both before and after the beginning of the 
new policy. Ms A acknowledges this on the cancellation call. Whilst I appreciate she feels 
the call handler did not specifically explain the seizure would be classed as pre-existing, he 
does say anything youve claimed on this policy so I think this was sufficiently clear. 
I understand this will be disappointing for Ms A, particularly as she was only trying to secure 
the best insurance deal to cover her dog. But the reason the new policy was cheaper was 
because it didnt give the same level of cover as the old policy. This information was made 
clear in the phone call and policy documents. So, I dont think Newline did anything wrong 
here. 
summary
Taking everything into account, I think Newline declined the claim in 2020 in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and did so fairly and reasonably. I also think Ms A was 
given sufficiently clear information to understand the new policy wouldnt cover her dog for 
any issues which started before the policy start date. 
I know Ms A will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to resolve her dispute with Newline  can do for her.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman