DRN-3220460
The complaint
Ms L has complained about the amount by which the premium for the insurance of her dog 
has increased. The policy was sold to her by Brought By Many Ltd (BBM).
What happened
The background to Ms Ls complaint is well known to both parties so I wont repeat it at 
length. 
Briefly stated, Ms L took out a lifetime insurance policy for her dog (J) with BBM on 10 July 
2020 when J was four years old. When Js policy fell due for renewal in July 2021, the 
monthly premium increased from £39.23 to £53.91. The annual premium therefore increased 
from £470.76 to £646.83. This is an increase of approximately 37%.
Ms L has said that she was aware that annual increases in premium are to be expected as a 
dog gets older but she didnt expect a premium increase of this magnitude, nor could she 
have reasonably expected such a large premium increase. She says that at no time was she 
warned that the premium increase could rise dramatically year to year, or that there might be 
a huge jump in price after the first year. She says that if shed known this, shed have chosen 
another company who may have quoted more initially, but increased their prices fairly, 
reasonably and predictably.
Ms L says she wasnt given sufficient information by BBM when purchasing the policy. She 
says she feels she is now locked into BBMs cover because J has now got some health 
issues that might be excluded if she were to transfer to another insurer.  
BBM offered to reduce her premiums if she agreed a higher excess which is normally only 
applied when a dog reaches nine years of age. J is now six years old. BBM also offered to 
reduce the cover provided for a lower premium. It wouldnt agree to reduce the existing 
premium.
Ms L wants a reduction in her premium and a refund of any premium overpayment for the 
current policy year. She also wants an apology for not investigating her complaint properly.
In its final response letter to Ms L, BBM explained that the premium that she was charged on 
renewal of her policy was the same amount that a new customer would pay on that date. It 
says that risk factors such as a pets breed, age, and geographical area, are applied equally 
to new customers and existing customers when they renew. It says it calculates its 
premiums by reference to certain rating factors and that the premium for Js cover was 
correct based upon these rating factors. 
Ms L says she accepts that changes in the risk factors justify a reasonable annual increase 
in premium, but her details and those of J havent changed and dont justify the extent of the 
premium increase which she wasnt warned about.
As Ms L was dissatisfied with BBMs response and the handling of her complaint she 
brought it to this service. Our investigators view was that BBM hadnt provided Ms L with 
sufficiently clear information about the long-term cost implications of a lifetime policy as J got 
older. The position that Ms L now found herself in has caused her trouble and upset for 
which BBM should compensate her. He recommended that BBM pay Ms L £150.
Ms L doesnt accept our investigators view and has asked that an ombudsman review her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by saying that its not for us to tell an insurer how to price their policies but we 
need to make sure theyre treating all their customers consistently and fairly. But as BBM 
isnt the insurer of the policy, it doesnt set the premiums. As the seller of the policy though, 
its responsible for the information provided at the point of sale.
The information provided by BBM to Ms L when she took out her policy shouldve been 
clear, fair, and not misleading so she could make an informed choice about the insurance 
she was buying. This is particularly the case for insurance policies that are marketed as 
providing lifetime cover, where its reasonable to anticipate that a customer will keep 
renewing annually so as to maintain cover for all health conditions which a new insurer might 
exclude. Information about the long-term costs of such a policy would therefore be important 
to a customer and should be highlighted.
Ive looked at Js policy to see what it says about increases to the cost of the policy. I cant 
see any references either in the policy document or in the Key Features document to 
premium increases during the life of a policy.
BBM has said that Ms L bought her policy for J over the phone and that there were two calls 
relating to this sale. Ms L didnt ask about renewal pricing specifically in either of these calls 
but she was told that shed receive a renewal notice by email 28 days before any renewal 
taking place and shed be made aware of any changes that were being made. It also 
referred to another conversation Ms L had with it about another dog, R, a month before. In 
this conversation Ms L was told that all policies are subject to price changes and she was 
told about some of the rating factors that influence renewal price calculations.
But Ms L isnt complaining that her premium has simply increased. She was aware that it 
was likely to as J gets older and the risk of claims increases. Shed also made a number of 
claims for treatment for J during the 2020/21 policy year and BBM had paid out a total of 
£3,205.09 in respect of these. Although BBM says that individual claims arent factored into 
its renewal pricing, Ms L may not have been aware of this as its not mentioned in her policy 
document. She should therefore have expected her premium to increase. 
But Ms Ls argument is that the 37% by which her premium has increased after only one 
year is excessive and came as a considerable shock. It must have been very upsetting for 
her to realise that the cost of insuring J was going to increase by such significant 
percentages, even when J was quite young, potentially making insurance unaffordable, and 
that if she changed insurer any ongoing conditions wouldnt be covered, or would only be 
covered at significant extra cost.
Although we cant tell an insurer what price to charge, or to give a refund, we can consider 
whether compensation for the distress and inconvenience of an unexpected increase in 
premium would be fair. When deciding how much to award, there isnt any formula, and we 
take into account the individual circumstances of each case. In Ms Ls case, it doesnt appear that she was given any information about the potential for 
increases in her premium, for example, that the premium will almost certainly increase year 
on year, and as J gets older these increases can be significant, or that the increases arent 
capped so theres no limit on how much the policy might increase by. Typically, if these 
things arent highlighted, were likely to think the customer entered into a contract without all 
the information they needed to fully understand it. Had they been highlighted, Ms L may well 
have shopped around for alternative cover for J. If she still chose to insure J though BBM
the increase in premium would have come as less of a shock to her.
In these circumstances I consider that compensation of £150 as recommended by our 
investigator is fair and reasonable. 
In coming to this view Ive taken account of the fact that Ms L has said that J now has some 
health issues that are likely to be excluded by another insurer. So she has the upset of 
having to decide whether to stay with BBM and face escalating premiums, or to switch to 
another insurer who may be cheaper, but who wont cover Js existing conditions until 
possibly shes been treatment- free for them for a few years. But Ive also taken into account 
that because Ms L had made a number of claims during the first policy year, she shouldve 
anticipated an increase in her premium, so the shock of the increase should not have been 
as great as if no claims had been made.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Ms Ls complaint and require Bought By 
Many Ltd to pay her compensation of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman