DRN-4440952
The complaint
Miss R complains about the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled a claim she 
made for subsidence damage under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2021 Miss R noted damage on her property, she made a claim to the insurer. Admiral 
attended her property and said there was an issue with the drains which had caused 
subsidence damage to the rear elevation of her property. It repaired the drains but didnt 
carry out the repairs to the building, instead it offered a cash settlement of around £2,500. It 
did so because it said there was non-claim related damage in the property as well as claim 
related damage. For example there was cracking to other parts of the property, and damage 
to electrics in the kitchen, which Admiral didnt think had been caused by subsidence.
Miss R didnt think the cash settlement amount was enough to repair the damage. She 
provided her own quote for over £100,000. Admiral said this included non-claim related 
repairs. But it agreed to appoint an independent surveyor to provide a further assessment of 
the damage. The report gave similar findings to the repair schedule Admiral had provided. 
So Admiral didnt agree to pay any more. 
Miss R remained unhappy and complained about the offer, but she also complained about 
the overall time taken to deal with the claim. She also said when repairing the drains, a 
contractor broke some of her patio paving. And that Admiral hadnt given her alternative 
accommodation. 
In June 2023 Admiral sent a final response to the complaint. Admiral accepted it had 
damaged some of the paving and acknowledged there were some avoidable delays. It 
offered £150 compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused by this. It 
didnt agree to any further payments for claim-related damage. Miss R then brought her 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought Admirals settlement offer for repairs was fair. He didnt think 
Admiral needed to provide alternative accommodation because her home was habitable 
under the policy terms. And he thought £150 was enough compensation to recognise the 
delays Admiral caused. 
Miss R didnt accept that. She said Admiral told her it would settle her claim for around 
£70,000, and this was in a phone call with them. She also said neighbouring properties on 
her street had received higher settlement offers for subsidence claims. She said because 
her electrics in the kitchen were affected, she hasnt had cooking facilities, or been able to 
use her washing machine for around 18 months. She also said Admiral had now cancelled 
her policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of this complaint, Miss R has raised a number of different points. As this is an 
informal service, Ive not responded to each one individually. Instead, Ive focussed on those 
I consider to be key to the outcome here. However I want to reassure Miss R that Ive 
considered everything shes said carefully when reaching my decision.
In order to assess whether Admirals settlement offer is fair, Ive first considered the reports 
on what damage is covered under Miss Rs policy. The damage will only be covered by her 
insurance if its related to an insured event. So in this case, the subsidence. Both Admirals 
loss adjuster and the independent surveyor agree that drains at the rear of the property were 
the cause of the subsidence damage. Their opinion is that this has caused some damage to 
the rear elevation of the property, a rear bedroom and bathroom. Miss R has said there are 
also cracks at the front of the property, and there are issues with the electrics, and her 
kitchen. It was the view of both the loss adjuster and surveyor that these were not related to 
the subsidence claim. They thought the other cracks were historic damage, and the issues 
with her kitchen and electrics were more likely as a result of wear and tear.
Miss R disputes this and says the damage is related to subsidence but hasnt provided any 
evidence in support of what shes said, such as a report from her own expert. She has 
provided a quote from her own builder for extensive repair works to the property, but it isnt 
an assessment on the cause of the damage, just a quote for the works needed on the 
property. So Im not persuaded, based on this quote, that there has been more damage to 
Miss Rs property relating to the claim. 
Miss R says shes been without cooking facilities and a washing machine for around two 
years because of issues with the drains and electrics, so she says she should have been 
provided with alternative accommodation as shes entitled to under her policy. But the policy 
only provides for alternative accommodation if the property isnt fit to be lived in as a result 
of an insured event, such as the subsidence in this case. The policy doesnt define when it 
considers a home not fit to be lived in. As a service wed generally consider a home to be 
uninhabitable when there is no access to cooking or washing facilities. Miss R may have had 
issues with cooking, and she says her washing machine has been affected. However, 
Admiral informed Miss R early on in the claim that these issues with her kitchen werent 
caused by subsidence. And I havent seen any evidence from her which disputes this. So as 
it isnt claim related, it follows that Admiral doesnt need to pay for any alternative 
accommodation.
Miss R says Admirals offer of around £2,500 isnt enough, as her quote is for over 
£100,000. Ive reviewed her quote alongside the one prepared by Admiral. Her quote 
contains work that isnt covered under the claim, including stripping out and refitted a 
bathroom, a new boiler and a new kitchen, as well as extensive repairs to the roof. Admiral 
says the only repair work is for a crack repair to the rear elevation, and support with a 
helibar, and some internal replastering and redecorating works. The independent report also 
supports that these are the only repairs covered by the policy. Admiral has provided a 
schedule of works and says these repairs would cost the money it paid to Miss R. 
As Admiral has decided to cash settle, it needs to pay what it will cost Miss R to have the 
work done, rather than applying any discount it might receive if it was paying for the work 
directly. I havent seen anything which suggests Admiral hasnt paid Miss R a fair amount. 
And Miss R hasnt provided anything which shows these works would cost her more money 
to carry out, so Im not going to ask Admiral to pay anymore. 
Admiral did accept it would make good some paving stones that were cracked whilst drain 
repairs were carried out. From its file it looks like a date was offered in August 2023 for a 
repair. I dont know this is now resolved, but as this happened after Admirals final response 
letter in June 2023, I havent considered this further. If there are further issues with this, it 
would need to be raised as a new complaint with Admiral.  
Miss R says she was told by Admiral on the phone that it would settle for £70,000, and this 
service should listen to the calls. I accept Admiral might have told her this, but I dont need to 
listen to the calls to reach an outcome on this complaint. Even if I accept Admiral told her it would settle for £70,000, theres no evidence that the claim-related damage would cost this 
much to repair. So it wouldnt be reasonable to ask Admiral to pay a higher amount because 
it may have said this [most likely by mistake if it did] on a phone call. Miss R has also said 
neighbours have received larger pay outs, but I can only consider her property, and the 
evidence provided on this case. I cant comment on why her neighbours may have received 
higher pay outs for similar claims. 
Turning to the issue of delays, Ive reviewed the timeline of the claim. I accept it took some 
time for drain repairs to be carried out. However I dont consider Admiral responsible for 
some of this. When the claim was raised there seems to have still been some restrictions as 
a result of the covid-19 pandemic. And Miss R didnt sign the mandate for drain repairs to 
commence for a number of weeks which caused some delay. There was also a delay in Miss 
R providing a quote from her own builder for the repairs. However, Admiral has accepted it 
could have moved things along quicker at points and offered £150 for that. I think thats a 
reasonable amount for the delay is caused. 
After our investigator reached his outcome, Miss R said Admiral has now cancelled her 
policy. I havent considered this as part of this complaint. If Miss R is unhappy with the 
cancellation, she needs to first raise that with Admiral. Only after its had a chance to 
respond would we be able to get involved.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do 
anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman