DRN-3325755
The complaint
Mrs S complains Nationwide Building Society unfairly blocked her current account. She says 
she suffered financial loss and distress as a result.
What happened
Mrs S received a loan instalment to her Nationwide account in early October 2020. She then 
attempted to make three payments, comprising payments to two different credit card 
providers and a larger payment to her husbands account. The next day she tried to make a 
withdrawal from an ATM, but her card was retained. Nationwide had blocked her account. 
They asked her for proof of her entitlement to the loan, which she quickly provided. 
Mrs S asked Nationwide several times why they blocked the account and what was taking so 
long to unblock it. Nationwide didnt provide their reasons, but they unblocked her account 
on 8 December 2020. Mrs S rang them after they sent her a text to contact them. She 
ordered a new card and says it was agreed a message would be sent to her local branch to 
allow her to withdraw cash using her passport. She says no message was sent and she had 
difficulty withdrawing cash in branch on two occasions. She says she had to wait a long time 
in branch and was treated unreasonably.
Nationwide say they didnt unblock Mrs S account sooner because of a backlog. And, since 
the complaint has been with our service, they offered her £100. 
Mrs S rejected the offer. She wants £270 (what she calculates her loss to be as a result of  
the block) and for Nationwide to send a letter of correction to credit reference agencies in 
relation to a default recorded by another credit card provider. She says she would have been 
able to prevent the default if she had been able to access her Nationwide account.
Our investigator upheld Mrs S complaint. They found:
- Nationwide were able to review Mrs S account and refuse her payment instructions. 
They were acting in line with their legal and regulatory responsibilities.
- Nationwide took too long to review the information Mrs S sent them and they ought to 
have completed the review sooner. If they had, Mrs S would not have accrued 
additional interest on two of her credit cards as she would have been able to make 
payments towards those accounts earlier.
- The credit card account that defaulted was in arrears before the Nationwide account 
was blocked. And the evidence available indicated Mrs S could have avoided the 
default irrespective of the block on her Nationwide account.
- Nationwide should refund Mrs S the interest on the two credit cards that resulted 
from her not being able to make payments towards those accounts. Interest should 
be calculated from 1 November 2020 (two weeks after she tried to make the 
payments to the two credit card accounts) until 8 December 2020 when her 
Nationwide account was unblocked. Two weeks represented a reasonable time for 
Nationwide to have reviewed the information Mrs S provided.
- Nationwide should pay Mrs S £150 for the trouble she was caused.
Nationwide accepted our investigators findings, but Mrs S did not. She says she would have 
used the funds in the Nationwide account to prevent her credit card account being defaulted. 
She also repeated her financial loss was £270.
Mrs S asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so her complaint is now with me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided to uphold Mrs S complaint, but I am not awarding any further redress than 
what our investigator recommended. I am also not directing Nationwide to take any action in 
relation to the default recorded by a credit card provider.
Nationwide, like most banks, has broad legal and regulatory responsibilities. Their 
responsibilities are ongoing and dont only apply to when an account is opened. They can 
broadly be summarized as a responsibility to protect persons from financial harm, and to 
prevent and detect financial crime.
Nationwide will monitor accounts for activity which appears unusual or out of place to comply 
with their responsibilities. And, its not uncommon for banks to restrict access to an account 
to conduct a review on a customer and/or the activity on an account. Nationwide were under 
no obligation to reveal the reason(s) behind their actions. But I have considered why they 
carried out a review, and I find their initial decision to block the account was understandable. 
Nationwide should conduct a review and reach a decision without undue delay. After all, the 
longer a customer doesnt have access to funds, the greater the financial harm they may 
suffer. Nationwide say they had a significant backlog which meant they only reviewed the 
information Mrs S gave them in early December 2020. But this isnt a satisfactory reason to 
conclude the delay was reasonable. I find the delay was plainly excessive and Nationwide 
should instead have concluded their review within two weeks of Mrs S submitting her 
information. I find this is a reasonable amount of time in the circumstances. 
Mrs S tried to make payments to two different credit cards for which she held balances. And, 
I find that had Nationwide unblocked her account earlier, she would have likely gone on to 
make those same payments again. As a result, the balances on those credit cards would 
have been less, as would the interest that accrued on those balances. So, I find Mrs S did 
suffer a financial loss. I also find she was caused unnecessary concern by Nationwides 
lengthy delay, and she appears to have experienced avoidable customer service problems 
when she went into branch to withdraw cash.  
Mrs S says Nationwide should refund £270, which is what she calculates she lost out on 
because her account was blocked. But I find the more appropriate redress is for Nationwide 
to refund the interest that wouldnt have accrued on her two credit card accounts if her 
account was unblocked earlier. I find this more accurately puts her back in the position she 
would have been in but for the undue delay Nationwide caused.
I find Mrs S other credit card account would have likely defaulted even if Nationwide had unblocked her account after two weeks. The letter from the credit card provider who 
recorded the default said she needed to repay a set sum to avoid a default. She knew about 
this before trying to make payments out of her Nationwide account to her two other credit 
card accounts and to her husband, but none of those payments were to repay her arrears. 
Mrs S also went on to make a payment of £2000 in November 2020 to reduce her balance 
on one of her other credit card accounts. That payment was well in excess of the minimum 
required payment on that account, and also the sum needed to repay her arrears to prevent 
the default. So, it was still in her hands to avoid the default even when her Nationwide 
account was blocked. As a result, I am not holding Nationwide responsible for the default.
Putting things right
Subject to Mrs S accepting my final decision, I direct Nationwide Building Society to:
- Refund the interest that accrued on the two credit card balances Mrs S tried to make 
payments towards. Nationwide should refund the interest from 1 November 2020 to 8 
December 2020. Nationwide have already been provided the statements for the two 
credit cards in order to calculate what they need to refund.
- Pay Mrs S £150 to make up for the impact their undue delay and unsatisfactory 
customer service had on her.
My final decision
I have decided to uphold this complaint. I direct Nationwide Building Society to put things 
right according to my directions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman