DRN-2933369
The complaint
Miss S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) didnt remove adverse information 
from her credit file, which meant she couldnt buy a house she wanted. Miss S wants more 
compensation than Barclays offered to make up for her costs and the distress this has 
caused.
What happened
Miss S applied for a mortgage in early October 2020 through a financial intermediary (a 
broker). The lender approached wouldnt issue an agreement in principle so the application 
went no further. Miss S then discovered that Barclays hadnt removed negative information 
from her credit file, although it had agreed to do that in 2015. She believes this is the reason 
why she couldnt get a mortgage offer. 
Miss S complained to Barclays and it removed the negative entry on her file. Miss S re-
applied to the same lender in November  and this time got an agreement in principle.
Barclays acknowledged it had made a mistake and offered £250 compensation to make up 
for the trouble Miss S had suffered.
Miss S didnt think that was enough so asked us to review her complaint.
Our investigator agreed and thought the adverse information left on Miss Ss file by Barclays 
was the reason she couldnt get an agreement in principle in October. However, as no full 
application had ever been submitted there was no certainty that shed have been offered a 
mortgage, as there were many other factors that could impact on this. So she thought Miss S 
had missed an opportunity rather than been financially disadvantaged. She recommended 
Barclays pay £350 compensation  an extra £100 to make up for this. 
Miss S doesnt agree. She said that because of Barclays actions she cant now buy a 
property as prices have increased and shes missed the exemption from stamp duty 
timeframe in place when she first applied. She says she also spent money on a survey 
unnecessarily. In addition, Miss S says Barclays mistake meant that when she applied for a 
credit card in May 2020 her application was declined  in fact she believes Barclays error 
has negatively affected her for six years.
Our investigator explained that there was other negative information on her file which could 
have impacted on her application for credit. She thought that information was too old to 
influence the mortgage lender, but that wasnt the case at the time Miss S applied for the 
credit card. So she couldnt say Barclays error was the only reason that application was 
declined. She said also that although the negative information had been on Miss Ss file for 
years, she couldnt conclude this had affected Miss S  as there werent any other examples 
of how Miss S had been affected. 
Miss S doesnt think the compensation is high enough so Ive been asked to decide this 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I agree the 
compensation should be increased to £350  but not more.
I realise this will be disappointing for Miss S, so Ill explain how I reached this decision.
Theres no doubt Barclays made a mistake when it didnt remove adverse information about 
Miss S from her credit file in 2015. So my considerations here are around the impact this had 
on Miss S and if the increased compensation is fair.
Ive looked at the credit file and I agree that when Miss S applied for a credit card in May 
2020 the adverse information that should have been removed by Barclays was still there. 
But there is additional adverse information on the file which could also have influenced the 
decision made by the credit card supplier. Miss S hasnt told us she challenged this at the 
time, so it seems she accepted the decision.
It was only in October, after she couldnt get an agreement in principle, that Miss S checked 
her credit file and complained to Barclays about the incorrect information. It seems to me 
that this was the first time she was seriously affected by Barclays mistake. Its unfortunate 
that this was at the point when she wanted to get a mortgage as putting things right did delay 
her getting an agreement in principle for a mortgage.
Miss S thinks this means Barclays prevented her from buying the property she wanted. But I 
cant agree with this. The issue of an agreement in principle for a mortgage is only one step 
in the process. And although its an important step theres no guarantee at this point that a 
full mortgage offer would be made, as that depends on many other factors. We dont know if 
any of the other factors would have prevented Miss S from getting a mortgage because, 
even though the lender issued an agreement in principle some weeks later, no full 
application was ever submitted.
That means I cant conclude that, but for Barclays error alone, Miss S would have been able 
to buy the house she wanted. This also means I wont be asking Barclays to compensate 
Miss S by paying her estimate of how much more it might cost her now to buy a house. Nor 
will I ask it to refund the amounts of money she paid out  for a valuation, for example  as it 
was her choice to spend that money before shed made a full mortgage application.
Putting things right
I do think Barclays error meant Miss S lost an opportunity to apply for a mortgage for about 
six weeks. That did cause Miss S some distress and inconvenience, but I think £350 is a fair 
amount for Barclays to pay for this.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay   
Miss S £350 compensation in total. It can deduct from this the £250 it originally offered, if its 
already paid this.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman