DRN-1728278
The complaint
Mr Z complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Drummonds, Child & Co 
(RBS), unfairly closed his current account without proper notice.  
What happened
On 30 May 2019 RBS wrote to Mr Z to say it would be closing his current account (and 
others) after a 60 day notice period. But RBS closed the account less than a week later, 
causing Mr Z to miss a credit card payment and incur a charge. RBS has said the account 
was also passed to a debt collection agency in error.
RBS then re-opened the account on 12 July 2019, and says it told Mr Z to ensure any direct 
debits were in place. It then extended the closure date until 19 August 2019. Mr Z says this 
situation caused him inconvenience and embarrassment. He feels that more ought to have 
been done by RBS to support him following its mistake.
RBS acknowledged it had made errors when closing Mr Zs accounts, and it offered him 
£400 in compensation as a result. It also offered to pay for any charges or fees incurred by 
missed direct debit payments between 5 June  22 July 2019, as well as consider any other 
out of pocket expenses he may have incurred.
Our investigator considered the complaint and felt that RBS offer was reasonable. Mr Z 
disagreed, saying an increased sum should be awarded. So the complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint, and Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mr Zs account say it can close the type of account he held by 
giving him at least 60 days notice. Mr Z has requested RBS give him reasons why it made 
this decision. However this is ultimately a commercial decision for RBS, meaning it doesn't 
have to give any reasons. So Im satisfied RBS has acted fairly by deciding to close Mr Zs 
current account in line with the relevant terms and conditions.
However, its clear there were mistakes made on RBSs part, which it hasnt disputed. Its 
agreed it shouldnt have closed the account early or passed this to a debt recovery agent as 
it did. Mr Z has also said a letter related to debt recovery was opened by someone else in 
his household which was very embarrassing. And hes said during this time he had little to 
no support from his relationship manager which made the situation more frustrating. 
Having considered everything thats happened, Im satisfied RBS mistakes have led to 
unnecessary inconvenience, distress and embarrassment for Mr Z. And Im sympathetic to 
his situation.But having considered everything, Im satisfied RBS offer of £400 fairly reflects the impact of 
its errors. Mr Z has asked RBS to compensate him based on his own hourly rate for the time 
spent dealing with this complaint. But this isnt in line with our services approach to 
compensation. And in any case, I havent seen anything to demonstrate Mr Z has been 
stopped from working by RBSs actions during this time. 
RBS has also said it would consider costs from any missed direct debit payments or other 
expenses hes incurred. So, if there are any other financial losses Mr Z has incurred, he can 
still raise these with RBS. Overall Im satisfied RBS has fairly compensated Mr Z for the 
distress and inconvenience its caused him, and Im not directing it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman