DRN-3652404
The complaint
Ms S complains that Paratus AMC Limited (Paratus) sold her property at undervalue after 
she entered into a voluntary repossession.
What happened
Following protracted financial struggles, in March 2021 Ms S decided to hand her home back 
to her mortgage lender, Paratus, via what is known as voluntary repossession.
In March 2021 Paratus instructed valuations of the property, which both recommended an 
asking price of £110,000. Shortly thereafter Paratus completed a sale of the property for 
£119,950. This left a significant outstanding amount owed by Ms S to Paratus. Ms S says 
that the valuations were flawed and that her property was worth far more than that sale 
price.
Having reviewed the evidence, the investigator didnt think Paratus had done anything 
wrong, so didnt uphold the complaint. Ms S doesnt accept that and asked an Ombudsman 
to look at her case. For clarity, I am only considering Paratus actions in 2021 when 
disposing of Ms Ss property. Previous valuations, actions or lending decisions are not within 
the scope of this decision, and some issues are being looked into separately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it, and Ill explain why.
Ms S has a long relationship history with Paratus, and has borrowed varying amounts over 
the years. She bought her property in 2004 for more than Paratus sold it for in 2021, and 
valuations in the interim determined it was worth more than twice that ultimate sale price. 
So it is not surprising that has led her to have real concerns and so to complain.
However, whilst I have huge sympathy for the position in which Ms S finds herself, I cant 
hold Paratus responsible for that, which Ill go on to explain.
There are rules around how mortgage lenders must act when taking possession of a 
property. Section 13.6.1R(2) of the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (MCOB) sets out that lenders should:
(2) obtain the best price that might reasonably be paid
for a property. Clearly a mortgage lender is in no position to arbitrarily decide what that 
best price may be. In this case, Paratus instructed two valuations from two different 
companies in order to help it decide at what price it should market and sell Ms Ss 
property. One was accredited by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS), and 
one was from a more locally based company. Both returned asking price valuations of 
£110,000, which consistency is also relevant.
Therefore I cannot say it was either unfair or unreasonable of Paratus to act on that basis. 
It is required to rely on expert advice in making its decisions in this arena, and all the 
evidence I have seen shows that it did just that.
As previously mentioned, I understand that Ms S has concerns about the content and 
basis of the valuations, taken in the context of the relevant history. She has provided 
evidence which certainly raises questions about the negative aspects of the property on 
which the 2021 valuations appear to have been focused. However, that does not form part 
of this complaint and can be looked into separately should Ms S wish to do so. In any 
event I cannot hold Paratus at fault for the content of the valuations. Ms S believes that 
Paratus has manipulated the valuations, but I have been given no evidence of that. It 
instructed appropriately qualified and regulated professionals to provide it with valuations, 
and acted reasonably upon them. Therefore, I cannot identify any fault or mistake on its 
part.
It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Paratus doesnt need to do 
anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman