DRN-3415264
The complaint
Miss S, who is represented by a claims management company (CMC), complains that 
NewDay Ltd trading as Argos Classic Credit Card were irresponsible in agreeing to a credit 
card account and later increasing her limit.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
As our investigator has stated there was an obligation on NewDay to ensure the lending was 
such that Miss S would have been able to sustainably repay any credit provided. And being 
able to sustainably repay credit means being able to do so without undue difficulty, while 
being able to meet other commitments and without having to borrow further.
NewDay made two lending decisions, the first being in April 2020 when it offered her a credit 
card with a limit of £500 and the second occurred in September 2020 when it offered her an 
increase in her limit to £1,500. Miss S accepted both offers.
I have reviewed the checks carried out by NewDay in April and I consider them to have been 
reasonable and proportionate. While I note Miss S had some credit issues in the past her 
more recent history was sufficient to allow the business to reach the conclusion that a credit 
card with a £500 limit was reasonable. It did rely to some extent on information provided by 
Miss S, but the additional checks were suitable for the level of lending it granted.
However, I share the concerns expressed by our investigator about the increase in the card 
limit in September. At that point it had additional first-hand information on Miss Ss ability to 
manage her credit. Her external level of debt had increased from £6,500 in April to £10,178 
in September. That is a 56% increase in debt in a few months. I am not aware that her 
income had increased and so her financial position was worse in September than it was in 
April, but NewDay offered to triple her credit limit.
Furthermore, she had exceeded her £500 limit in August which was indicative that she was 
facing financial challenges. I appreciate that NewDay take the view that sufficient checks 
were carried out and Miss S was nothing to indicate Miss S was struggling. I have to 
disagree. As I have pointed out her increasing reliance on credit and her exceeding her limit 
were both indicators of a possible problem.
For these reasons I consider the complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right
NewDay should refund interest as set out below.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct NewDay Ltd trading as Argos 
Classic Credit Card to:
1. Refund all the interest and charges on amounts over £500 Miss S has paid to date.
2. If the borrowing is still in place, it you should reduce the outstanding capital balance by the 
amount calculated at Step 1.
3. If, after Step 2, there remains an outstanding capital balance, it should ensure that it isnt 
subject to any historic or future interest and/or charges. But if Step 2 leads to a positive 
balance, the amount in question should be given back to Miss S and 8% simple interest* 
should be added to the surplus.
4. Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss S credit file as a result of the credit 
limit increase from September 2020.
HM Revenue & Customs may require the business to take off tax from this interest. If it does, 
the business must give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they 
ask for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman