DRN-2329108
The complaint
Mr L runs a limited company, who Ill call P. Mr L applied to open a business account in Ps 
name with National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest). Mr L complains Nat West told him it 
was a legal requirement for them to contact other banks as part of their account opening 
checks. 
What happened
Mr L applied to open a business account for P at Royal Bank of Scotland, who are now part 
of the National Westminster Bank Plc group of businesses. Nat West requested 
authorisation from Mr L to issue an Account Operations Notification (AON) letter to three 
lenders identified as having an interest in the business assets of P. When Mr L initially 
complained about this Nat West told him it was a legal requirement. In the first written 
response to this complaint, Nat West explained this was part of their account opening 
process and if Mr L chose not to provide authority, they would cancel the account opening. 
Mr L provided Nat West with an authority to issue the AONs in late November 2019.
Mr L later complained that Nat West hadnt clarified why the AONs were a legal 
requirement. Nat West provided a final response and said any interest over the business 
assets of P would provide the holder with a legal ranking over these assets. And that a 
failure to inform the holders could adversely affect NatWest, the lenders, or P, if there was a 
default or court proceedings involving the parties in future. Nat West said their internal 
processes minimised this risk and the AONs formed part of their account opening 
procedures. Nat West said they couldve handled the matter better and offered Mr L £100 to 
reflect the amount of time he spent dealing with this.
Mr L wasnt happy with the final response from Nat West and brought his complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought Nat West hadnt acted unfairly when 
applying their internal policies. The investigator thought Nat West couldve explained their 
internal processes for account opening more clearly but didnt think they had done anything 
wrong. 
Mr L didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to decide his case. In a 
telephone call with the investigator on 30 October 2020, Mr L said Nat West had illegally 
applied for data from the financial companies. He said this information wasnt needed as P 
had no debts with Nat West. Mr L also said that Nat West had no rights to contact the lender 
that held his personal mortgage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nat West identified three lenders who held interests over some of Ps business assets. Mr L 
may consider Nat West sent an AON letter to his personal mortgage provider, but I am 
satisfied that the three AON letters were sent to lenders that held an interest in the business 
assets of P.
Nat West has previously explained to Mr L that where another lender has registered a legal 
charge or debenture against the business assets of P, they would require an AON letter to 
be sent. Nat Wests account opening procedures confirm that in such circumstances an AON 
letter would inform the other lenders they may have priority rights over sums held within Ps 
new account. Nat West explained to Mr L that the failure to inform the other lenders could 
adversely affect Nat West if there was a dispute or proceedings in the future. 
I have noted Mr Ls concerns that Nat West acted illegally in communicating with the three 
lenders. I cant comment on Nat Wests procedures or tell them to change their procedures  
were only here to look at complaints about individual situations. Its the regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who regulates financial businesses and their processes. 
However, I can look at whether Nat West applied their internal processes fairly.
In this case Nat West applied their account opening procedures to mitigate the risk of any 
potential future dispute over funds in Ps account. I dont think this is unreasonable and I 
think they applied their internal processes fairly in this case. 
Mr L authorised Nat West to send the AON letters in accordance with their internal 
procedures. Therefore, I also dont think Nat West has done anything significantly wrong 
here as they sought Mr Ls authority and received it.
I have read the two response letters Nat West sent to Mr L and several email exchanges 
between Mr L and Nat West around this time. I understand Mr Ls concerns that Nat West 
had initially said they were required to send these letters by law.  Even in their final response 
Nat West say its a legal requirement to send out AON letters when they identify a lenders 
interest over business assets. Mr L did ask Nat West to explain what law they were referring 
to. However, both the initial complaint response and the final response did explain this was 
primarily an account opening requirement in the circumstances of this case. 
Nat West offered Mr L £100 compensation for the time he spent trying to obtain clarification 
on this matter, but I dont think they have done anything significantly wrong here. Mr L may 
wish to contact Nat West to ask whether this offer is still open, but I think Nat Wests 
responses provided a reasonable explanation why it needed to send the AON letters.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I wont be asking National 
Westminster Bank Plc to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman