DRN-3114156
The complaint
Mr P complains MBNA Limited hasnt treated him fairly in relation to a disputed transaction 
to an airline he made on his credit card.
What happened
Mr P bought three tickets on 8 January 2020 for return flights from Edinburgh to Birmingham 
with an airline Ill call F. The outbound flight was due to take place on 13 March 2020 and 
the inbound flight on 15 March 2020. The tickets cost £85.50 each and were charged to 
Mr Ps MBNA credit card as a single transaction of £256.50.
F went into administration early in March 2020 and the flights were cancelled without a 
refund. Mr P and his travelling companions were unable to make use of train tickets theyd 
purchased to reach their onward destination, or tickets theyd purchased for an event on 13 
March 2020. Shortly afterwards, Mr P approached MBNA for help getting his money back. 
MBNA first of all carried out whats known as a chargeback on the payment for the flights. 
This was successful and resulted in a full refund being credited back to Mr Ps card. MBNA 
then considered whether it was also responsible for reimbursing the other losses Mr P 
sought to claim for the event and train tickets. MBNA concluded it was not responsible to 
Mr P for this because he didnt have a valid claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (CCA). MBNA said, in essence, that the flight tickets had been too cheap for 
section 75 protection to apply, because they were all priced under £100. 
Mr P said he was dismayed by this decision. He noted the transaction on his card had been 
more than £100 and said he thought this was the amount which mattered. He gave some 
examples of other scenarios involving purchases of multiple low value items where he 
considered section 75 protection should apply. MBNA didnt change its position and said 
Mr P could refer the matter to this service, which he did.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She came to the same conclusions as 
MBNA, as did a second investigator who reviewed the case after the first investigator left. No 
agreement could be reached and the case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has already had a refund of the money he paid for the flights themselves through the 
chargeback process, so Ill say no more about that other than that MBNA acted as Id have 
expected it to in charging back the credit card transaction for the flights and obtaining a 
refund via this route.
Moving on to the matter of the section 75 claim, section 75 of the CCA allows consumers 
who have paid for goods or services on a credit card to claim against their credit card 
provider for any breach of contract or misrepresentation on the part of the supplier of the 
goods or services, so long as certain technical conditions have been met.
MBNA declined Mr Ps claim because, in its view, the claim did not meet one of the technical 
conditions due to the prices of the individual flight tickets being under £100. I think its helpful 
to consider exactly what section 75 of the CCA says about this. Subsection (3)(b) of section 
75 contains the relevant exception:
[Section 75 protection] does not apply to a claim

(b) so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a cash 
price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000
This means section 75 protection will not apply to any single item to which the supplier has 
attached a cash price of £100 or under, or more than £30,000.
Fundamentally, the dispute between the parties here is about how to define single item. 
Mr P contends that it is the amount of the transaction charged to his MBNA card. MBNA 
says it is the price of each ticket.
Identifying the single item is often straightforward and it will sometimes happen to be the 
amount which was charged to the credit card. For purchases of things which could be 
individually-priced, but have been bought in a larger quantity at an inclusive price (potentially 
at a bulk discount), the single item will often be the purchase as a whole. But it depends on 
the nature of the thing being purchased, and how it is presented for sale.
To take the subject of one of Mr Ps examples, if a shop advertised a box of 100 easter eggs 
which would cost £2 individually, for a price of £125, then the single item is a box of 100 
easter eggs, not each individual easter egg within the box. Conversely, if a person were to 
go to a shop, fill a trolley with 21 easter eggs each costing £5, and buy them at the till for 
£105, then the single items will be each easter egg. 
As another example of how the presentation of items for purchase is important, if a person 
went to a department store and bought a jacket for £90, a pair of trousers for £60 and a 
waistcoat for £50, then each individually-priced article of clothing would be a single item. 
However, if the same items were advertised and sold as a suit at an inclusive price of £180, 
then the single item would be the suit.
Applying this reasoning to Mr Ps case, he bought three return tickets from F, costing £86.50 
each. The booking reference was the same for each ticket, but the ticket number was 
different and each ticket was individually-priced. Theres no indication on the ticket receipts 
that an inclusive price or bundle deal was offered for booking the three tickets together. The 
logical conclusion to draw here is that each individual flight ticket was a single item, and 
that section 75 protection would therefore not have applied to any of the tickets. It follows 
that MBNA was not wrong to decline Mr Ps section 75 claim.
I think its worth me observing here that there could have been further difficulties for Mr P in 
claiming consequential losses, even if the tickets had cost more than £100 each. This is 
because he would probably only be able to claim for his own consequential losses (not those 
of his travelling companions) or even be able to claim for no consequential losses at all, if Fs 
booking conditions or conditions of carriage validly excluded liability for these. However this 
is academic as, unfortunately for Mr P, the claim fell down at an earlier hurdle.
Section 75 claims are not always straightforward, and I do have some sympathy for Mr P here. Its not his fault his airline went bust and he couldnt use the other services he 
purchased. But its not MBNAs fault either, and because Mr P didnt have a valid claim 
against it under section 75, its under no obligation to reimburse him further.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman