DRN-3443974
The complaint
Mr O complains as director of A (a limited company) that Metro Bank Plc (Metro Bank) 
hasnt reimbursed all of the money he transferred to a scammer.
What happened
Mr O answered a phone call in September 2020 to an automated message which said he 
was being called by HMRC and there was a warrant out for his arrest in relation to tax owed 
by A. The automated message asked him to say yes to confirm his identity which he did, and 
he was connected to a person.
This person informed him due to the outstanding tax he owed they were talking to the police 
and planned to come to his family home to start taking possession of his things. They 
threatened to publicly announce hed failed to pay tax and spoke about the damage this 
would do to his business. The scammer knew some of his personal details such as who he 
banked with, his national insurance number and that hed applied for a specific type of 
government loan.
Mr O knew A owed around £1,200 to HMRC so had expected to make some payment to it. 
And during the call he checked the number he was being called from using an internet 
search engine and saw it was a genuine HMRC number. 
The scammer asked him to clear an initial outstanding balance of around £2,000 which was 
the tax owed. They then said A had additional amounts to pay to cover the court fees and 
other fines that were due because of the non-payment of this tax. They started to send 
documentation to him on WhatsApp which they claimed showed court documents outlining 
the money that was due and demonstrating the urgency and seriousness of the situation. 
Each payment Mr O made from As account was sent to a different account because the 
scammer had said they were in relation to separate debts. He was also told he needed to 
make some of the payments initially but would receive reimbursement of these amounts via 
cheque which would be hand delivered to his home address. 
After Mr O had made 17 payments to the scammers, each of around £1,000, he ran out of 
money. The called ended and Mr O agreed he would speak to scammers the following day 
after hed gotten more funds, which hed borrowed from family.
On the second day, after several payments were made the scammer said they were passing 
Mr O through to a local police station. He spoke to a different scammer who said they were a 
police officer at the station and they asked him to pay a further £3,000 approximately. At this 
point Mr O grew suspicious and said he was going to contact the police station himself 
separately. The scammer told him not to do this, but he did and the genuine police officer he 
spoke to confirmed hed been the victim of a scam. Over two days, Mr O, on behalf of A, 
sent over £21,000 to the scammers in 22 separate transactions of slightly under £1,000.
Metro Bank held Mr O partially responsible for the loss as it feels he reasonably couldve 
identified the call was a scammer. It thinks this because it believes some of the details the 
scammer provided, such as payments needing to be made to 21 different beneficiaries and 
the fact that payments far exceeded what Mr O expected A to owe HMRC, shouldve alerted 
him to a problem.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this year upholding the complaint in part. In summary I 
said that:
Metro Bank has signed up to, and agreed to adhere to, the provisions of the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires 
firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push 
Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. It is for 
Metro Bank to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under 
one or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. Those exceptions are;
othe customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being 
made, and;
oThe customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing 
that: the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the 
payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business 
with whom they transacted was legitimate.
Metro Bank has confirmed it didnt provide any effective warnings in this case and it 
feels it ought to have. So it accepted it didnt meet its obligations to A in relation to 
this point and so I didnt consider it any further. But, I did consider whether I felt Mr O 
had a reasonable basis for believing the scammers.
When Mr O was initially contacted by the scammers, I think he did have a reasonable 
basis for believing what hed been told. He was aware he owed money to HMRC so it 
wasnt entirely unexpected, they knew his name, who A banked with, his national 
insurance number and that hed received a specific government loan. I also thought it 
was an important factor he was placed under considerable pressure with threats to 
his livelihood and family home.
However, I also felt that as the call progressed and the scammers kept asking for 
more and more payments, Mr O ought to have recognised something unusual was 
going on. I dont think they provided a plausible explanation as to why he would owe 
more than £21,000 in relation to a £2,000 tax bill. I also didnt think hed been able to 
plausibly explain why the payments needed to be made in separate installments of 
around £1,000, despite some of the invoices he was provided being for greater 
amounts. I also thought it ought to have seemed odd that despite the apparent 
severity of his situation he hadnt heard anything from HMRC until his debt had 
reached these levels. 
I felt that at the point the fifth payment was made Mr O ought to have checked the 
payments were genuine before continuing. At this point he was being asked to pay 
more in alleged fees than the outstanding tax bill itself, all in installments of around 
£1,000, all to different accounts. So I think Mr O no longer had a reasonable basis for 
believing what hed been told by the scammers after the fifth payment was made.
I also thought under its general obligations to be on the look out for unusual activity 
that might be indicative of fraud and scams, Metro Bank ought to have recognised 
that so many payments of a similar amount to so many new payees was a possible 
indication of fraud. I felt when the fifth payment was made Metro Bank ought to have contacted Mr O to carry out further checks. Had it done so I thought it reasonably 
ought to have uncovered the scam at that point. It carried all the hallmarks of this 
type of impersonation scam and Metro Bank ought to have recognised it had it 
sufficiently question Mr O about what was going on. 
I felt Metro Bank had acted as I wouldve expected when the scam was reported to it 
in trying to recall the funds A had lost from the beneficiarys banks. Unfortunately as 
no funds remained nothing could be returned.
Neither Metro Bank or Mr O responded to my provisional decision or provided any further 
comments for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr O or Metro Bank responded or provided any further evidence or information, I 
see no reason to depart from the findings in my provisional decision, outlined above. For the 
reasons given, I think Metro Bank needs to do the following:
In the case of the first five payments, under the CRM code, I am not persuaded any 
of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in the circumstances. Metro 
Bank should refund the remaining 50% of these five payments (£2,495).
The money was taken from As business account. Its not clear how the money 
wouldve been used if Metro Bank had refunded it when it shouldve done, so it 
should also pay interest at a simple rate of 8%. Interest on this amount (£2,495) 
should be paid from the date of Metro Banks refund until the date of settlement to 
reflect that it shouldve refunded 100% of the first five payments when it initially 
considered the case.
In the case of the final 17 payments, 8% simple interest should be paid from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement to reflect that Metro Bank likely couldve stopped 
them being made and failed to do so.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. I require Metro Bank Plc to pay A the redress outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Faye BrownhillOmbudsman