DRN-1637509
 
The complaint
Miss W has complained about Assurant General Insurance Limited. She isnt happy about 
the way it dealt with her mobile phone insurance claim.
What happened
Miss W made a claim under her mobile phone insurance policy and she received a 
replacement phone. Unfortunately, Miss W had problems with the replacement phone - it 
wouldnt hold charge. As Miss W needed her phone Assurant agreed to allow her to get the 
phone repaired herself.
When she took it to the manufacturer's repairer it explained that the replacement refurbished 
phone had been charged over 500 times which was why it wouldnt hold charge. But the 
phone had suffered a cracked screen by then. So Assurant advised that Miss W would have 
to make a further claim (and pay a further excess) if she wanted this fixed or if the screen 
was broken further during the battery repair. 
Miss W said she was happy to pay the excess, but that Assurant should reduce the excess 
by the amount it wouldve cost to repair her battery. Assurant maintained its position that it 
was happy to pay for the battery repair, but it would only look at the cracked screen as part 
of a further claim. So Miss W complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for Miss W and upheld her complaint. She was of the 
view Miss W had clearly been inconvenienced by being provided with a poor standard 
replacement phone. So she thought that Assurant should just provide a replacement phone 
and waive the excess on the second claim. And pay Miss W £100 compensation.
As Assurant didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
While the matter was with me for consideration, I asked further questions of both sides and 
provided some clarity on what I think should happen in this case. And both sides provided 
their comments.
I can understand why the investigator thought that Assurant should just deal with Miss Ws 
second claim without paying a second excess. But I dont think that would be fair on 
Assurant. I say this as Miss W clearly damaged her phone and cracked her screen a while 
after she was provided with the refurbished phone. And so there would have to be a second 
claim, as this was new damage, and Miss W would have to pay a second excess. She could 
have chosen to keep the refurbished phone and take a chance that the cracked screen wouldnt have got worse when it was repaired. 
But I can understand why she chose not to do that, and Miss W has now made a second 
claim and paid the additional excess. Hopefully this means Miss W has a fully functioning 
phone now. But I cant ask Assurant to refund that excess as this was a separate second 
claim. I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss W, but it isnt disputed that this was 
a second claim and new damage.
So, the only issue I can consider is the stress and hassle that all this has caused Miss W 
and I can see that it has inconvenienced her. Miss W had to endure a phone that didnt hold 
charge for quite a period of time, and it was clear that her phone was important to her. Our 
investigator thought that £100 compensation was fair, but I intend to increase this to £150. 
I say this because the refurbished phone was clearly of poor quality and the battery was 
charged excessively before Miss W got the phone. And although the replacement phone can 
be a refurbished phone under the policy it needs to be fit for purpose and it clearly wasnt. 
Miss W has highlighted the importance of the phone and explained why she couldnt be 
without it for a prolonged period while it was repaired. The charge of the phone and being 
contactable was clearly important to her given her personal circumstances. And I wouldve 
expected Assurant to have shown Miss W better customer service once it realised the 
quality of the refurbished phone it provided was so poor. So I think £150 compensation feels 
fair.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I partly uphold this complaint. And I require 
Assurant General Insurance Limited to pay Miss W £150 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman