DRN-3426203
The complaint
Mr A complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Hitachi Capital Consumer 
Finance (Hitachi) lent to him irresponsibly and didnt carry out sufficient checks when they 
offered him a personal loan. 
What happened
Mr A says, in April 2018 he took out a £10,000 loan with Hitachi over six years with a 
repayment amount of £241.70 per month. Mr A says, at this point, hed taken out a number 
of loans and his credit card and overdraft were also at their limit for most of this period. Mr A 
says it was this loan in particular that caused him financial difficulties. Mr A says when he 
applied for this loan, it was originally declined by Hitachi on the basis of an automated credit 
assessment, following which he was automatically referred to another service offered by 
Hitachi  where his application was accepted. Mr A settled the loan in 2021 but complained it 
wasnt affordable and led him to a position where he couldnt make repayments sustainably. 
Hitachi responded and explained they used Mr As credit score along with other information 
provided on his application to calculate an overall score. They said Mr As application score 
exceeded their minimum lending criteria. They said they also utilise a third party affordability 
product from a Credit Reference Agency (CRA) which provides them with trends over time 
in relation to a customers income and general indebtedness and assists them in 
understanding a customers ability to afford and service any new credit. Hitachi said there 
were no indications Mr A would struggle to service the loan so they didnt uphold the 
complaint.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr A. He thought Hitachi had made a fair lending 
decision. Mr A disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr A will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Hitachi needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that they didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that they shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr A could repay the credit in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
The first point Ive addressed is whether I think Hitachi carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. Section 5 of the Consumer Credit (CONC) sourcebook, in place at the 
time, outline that the assessment that Hitachi needed to complete shouldve been dependent 
on, and proportionate to, a number of factors  including the amount and cost of the credit 
and the consumers borrowing history. CONC also provides guidance on the sources of 
information Hitachi may have wanted to consider as part of making a proportionate 
assessment. It then gives examples of factors a firm must consider and refers to whether the 
information the firm has is sufficient and whether to obtain additional information from the 
customer and any other sources of information to use.  
  
Hitachi is free to decide how to set their lending criteria but they should complete 
proportionate checks to ensure borrowing is sustainable. In this case, I can see that Hitachi 
considered information provided by Mr A on his application form and information from CRAs 
which includes Mr As external debt, how he was managing his account with other lenders, 
how often he applies for credit, whether he makes repayments on time, and whether he had 
any defaults, County Court Judgments or insolvencies. This information was then used to 
calculate an application score. Hitachi have also provided information which shows they 
considered an over-indebtedness score which is a value provided by a CRA and measures 
Mr As likelihood of becoming over-indebted.  
I think the checks carried out by Hitachi are reasonable and proportionate as they take into 
account a number of factors. And, the checks carried out are the type I would reasonably 
expect because they would help Hitachi to not only build a picture of Mr As financial 
situation, but also to assist in determining whether he could repay the credit in a sustainable 
way.   
The next point Ive considered is whether Hitachi made a fair lending decision bearing in 
mind the information gathered and what they knew about Mr As circumstances. Mr A 
entered his income as £71,200 and Hitachi validated this using data received from the 
CRAs. Hitachi have provided the results of their checks and this shows Mr As net monthly 
income as £4,152.65. The results of further searches show Mr A had external debt of 
£52,500 with his monthly payments totalling £1,069.21 a month. The searches show Mr A 
had a mortgage with a balance of £513,000 with his monthly payment being £1,220. Hitachi 
say the monthly mortgage payments were showing as £2,440, of which they attributed 
£1,220 to Mr A given his married status. 
The repayment for this loan was £241.70 per month which, when added to Mr As other 
monthly payments, arrives at a total of £2,530.91 which Hitachi say represents Mr As total 
monthly payment for all borrowing. The information provided by Hitachi shows they deducted 
this from Mr As net monthly income leaving a disposable income of £1,621.74 per month for 
other monthly expenses. Hitachi say, based on national averages, this amount is generally 
sufficient to meet other expenses, so they didnt have any concerns about lending Mr A 
£10,000. The disposable income represents 39% of Mr As net monthly income, so I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Hitachi to take the view this was sufficient to meet other 
general expenses.  
Ive also looked at other information obtained by Hitachi and what this showed. Hitachi say 
they use a third-party affordability product from a CRA which provides them with trends over 
time in relation to a customers income and general indebtedness and assists them in 
understanding a customers ability to afford and service any new credit. They say the 
application score value represents their internal bespoke application score designed to 
measure the probability of default of the customer. Hitachi say, if a customer scores below 
their cut-off they will be declined. Hitachi say, low scores that are accepted are below 500, and the strongest applications generally score over 900. I can see from the application data 
provided by Hitachi that Mr As application score was 541. While this isnt at the level to be 
declined by Hitachi, its significantly less than the 900 scored by the strongest applications. 
So, Ive looked further into the information Hitachi had to hand to determine whether their 
decision to lend was fair. 
The application data shows an over-indebtedness score. Hitachi say the over-indebtedness 
index is a value provided by a CRA and is a score which measures a customers likelihood 
of becoming over-indebted. Hitachi say the score ranges from 300 to 640 and low indebted 
individuals tend to score above 500. The application data for Mr A shows a score of 496. 
While this is lower than the above 500 score which Hitachi say is generally attributed to low 
indebtedness, its not significantly short of this figure. I think its also important to note that 
the mid-point of the range is 470 and Mr As over-indebtedness score is higher than this. So, 
I think its fair to say Mr A would be considered more low-indebted than high-indebted. 
The application data also shows a separate consumer indebtedness index which is provided 
by a different CRA with values between 1 and 100.  Hitachi say low scores indicate low 
indebtedness. The application data for Mr A shows a score of 42. This again isnt too far 
from the mid-point, and is on the side which indicates Mr A as low-indebted more than high-
indebted. 
While its clear some of the information received had indicators suggesting some financial 
issues, I dont think it was to a point where I would reasonably have expected Hitachi to 
decline Mr As application or to have sought additional information on Mr As financial 
position. I say this for two reasons. Firstly, while the indebtedness scores were around the 
mid-range, as mentioned above, the scores were on the side suggesting low-indebtedness 
than high-indebtedness. And, secondly, when taking into account Mr As disposable income, 
I think it was reasonable for Hitachi to take the view that Mr A would be able to make 
repayments in a sustainable manner. Taking this all into account, I havent seen any 
information here which I believe shouldve led Hitachi to identify that Mr A wouldnt be able to 
make repayments without undue difficulty and wouldnt be able to meet other commitments 
without having to borrow further. So, I think their decision to offer Mr A the loan was fair.   
Mr A says Hitachi calculated his disposable income as being 39% of his net monthly income 
after his expenses had been deducted. Mr A says Hitachi based this on him being married 
and that his wife would be paying half of the mortgage. Mr A says hes not married and his 
partner was working part-time, so he was paying the full mortgage. Mr A says, this means 
his monthly disposable income was around £400. The loan agreement sets out Mr As 
marital status as partner. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Hitachi to take the view 
that Mr As contribution to the mortgage was 50% as its not showing him as single. I cant 
see Mr A at any point in the application made it clear that he was responsible for the full 
mortgage payments. 
Mr A says Hitachi only appear to have assessed whether his incomings and outgoings would 
allow him to meet the loan repayments. He says Hitachi dont appear to have taken into 
consideration whether other costs, such as transport and utility bills, would be affordable 
after the loan repayments. 
I acknowledge Mr As point but I think Hitachi have taken this into consideration. One of the 
factors we look at is whether the borrowing is sustainable. This includes looking at whether a 
customer can make repayments and meet other commitments without having to borrow 
further. Ive explained why I believe it was reasonable for Hitachi to take the view that Mr A 
had a monthly disposable income of £1,621.74. And, Hitachi say based on national 
averages, this amount is generally sufficient to meet other expenses, so they didnt have any 
concerns about lending to Mr A. So, I think Hitachi have taken other expenses into account 
and this decision was fair. I can see Mr A says, when he applied for the loan, it was declined on the basis of an 
automated credit assessment, following which he was automatically referred to another 
service offered by Hitachi  where his application was accepted. Hitachi have provided 
details of all accepted and declined applications made by Mr A. This only shows one 
application being made in April 2018, which was accepted. Hitachi say Mr A applied through 
an online comparison website where a soft search was conducted first and this has 
produced a panel of businesses who would be likely to accept Mr A for a loan. Hitachi say 
they have a product which will appear if a customer has a stronger credit history but the 
product which appeared for Mr A, while still a Hitachi product, is one that will come up for 
customers with a fair credit history. Hitachi say, once a customer has chosen their 
preference of provider, a hard search is then conducted to give a full decision on an 
application. Hitachi say they would never auto-divert once a hard search has been 
conducted. So, I cant say Mr A was declined an application and then accepted during the 
same application process. 
Mr A says he doesnt understand how he couldve been accepted given that he had a debt of 
£53,946 being made up of four other loans. Mr A says this was against a headline income of 
£71,200 for a self-employed person in a business which Mr A says was failing, Mr A says 
this income wasnt regular and his bank statements at the time will show this. Mr A says, in 
the 12 months leading up to his application for the loan, his credit card was at, or close to, its 
£7,000 limit the entire time. Mr A says his overdraft limit was £5,000 and he was at 70%-
100% of its limit for most of the previous 12 months leading up to his application.
Hitachi say, when carrying out a credit check they receive raw data from the CRAs through a 
software interface which is used by their internal systems to calculate an application score. 
They say the raw data is comparable to the information visible on a credit report however 
they dont receive the data in a written report. Ive seen the information which has been 
pulled through to Hitachis internal system and, as explained above, I think the information 
gathered was reasonable and proportionate. So, while the data received, might not have 
specifically showed the months Mr A was at his credit card and overdraft limit, the searches 
did take account of Mr As borrowing history. The points made by Mr A and the indebtedness 
scores might explain why Mr A was assessed as having a fair credit history  but Ive 
explained above why I think the decision to lend was fair. 
I note Mr A says Hitachi didnt ask to see copies of his bank statements  and he feels this 
was necessary to enable them to get a complete picture of his financial circumstances and 
wouldve highlighted he wasnt receiving a regular income. I acknowledge this, but nothing 
Ive seen suggests Hitachi needed to make any checks beyond those they carried out  and 
those I think they shouldve carried out. The checks carried out by a lender need to be 
reasonable and proportionate. And, what constitutes reasonable and proportionate in one 
case might not necessarily satisfy the test in another case. So, in some cases, if there is 
evidence to suggest a lender shouldve had wider concerns, then we might say they needed 
to carry out further checks and perhaps have looked at a customers bank statements. 
In this case, I havent seen any information which I think shouldve led Hitachi to look at Mr 
As bank statements or even request any further information beyond the checks they carried 
out. I think this was reasonable and proportionate to show Mr A would be able to repay any 
credit in a sustainable manner.  
I am sorry to disappoint Mr A as I understand hes concerned adverse information on his 
credit file might impact his ability to get a mortgage in the future. But, I can only ask Hitachi 
to take steps to remove any adverse information if I think their decision to lend was unfair. In summary, I dont uphold Mr As complaint in this matter as I feel Hitachi made a fair decision 
to lend in respect of the loan.   
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman