DRN-3922329
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt do enough to prevent him losing 
money to a scam.
While Mr M brings this complaint with the help of a representative, for ease of reading, I will 
refer only to Mr M throughout. I do this even where it was his representative, rather than 
Mr M, who said or did something.
What happened
The detailed circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not 
repeat them all again here. But I will provide an overview of the relevant events below.
Mr M says in May 2016 he saw a horse box advertised on the website of a reputable 
publication. He decided to make some enquiries and emailed the seller (contact details were 
obtained from the advert). The horse box was listed for sale at £3,200, which was in line with 
the market value of similar models. After exchanging several emails, Mr M agreed to the 
purchase. He says he was told by the seller that the payment was being made to a 
well-known payment processors escrow service  where the money would be held until hed 
received, inspected and agreed to keep the horse box. And that once payment had been 
made, he could expect to receive the horse box within two or three working days. 
Mr M went into branch and instructed a payment of £3,200 from his Nationwide account to 
the account details provided by the seller. Three days passed and the horse box had still not 
arrived. Mr M tried to contact the seller but received no response. Mr M realised hed likely 
fallen victim to a scam and reported the matter to Nationwide, who he says, directed him to 
the recipient bank  L. 
Mr M complains that he doesnt think Nationwide did enough to protect him from falling 
victim to a scam and should therefore refund his loss. 
Nationwide issued a response to Mr Ms complaint after it had been referred to our service. It 
didnt uphold his complaint. It explained that it had not made any errors at the time of 
processing the payment and that the voluntary reimbursement code known as the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) was only applicable for payments 
made after 28 May 2019. And because his payments were made before this date, it didnt 
apply. Mr M asked our service to investigate his complaint. One of our Investigators looked 
into things, and she didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr M disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint.   
On reviewing the file, I agreed with our Investigators outcome. I wrote to Mr M explaining 
certain points in more detail. Mr M didnt respond with any new comments in response to 
what Id said, he just asked for a written final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I cant uphold this complaint. I know this will be disappointing for Mr M, so 
Ill explain why. 
I accept that Mr M has been the victim of a cruel scam, and I dont think he was negligent in 
instructing the payment as he did. But I also dont think there is anything more Nationwide 
reasonably could have done that would have prevented his loss and I dont think anything it 
did when the scam was reported unreasonably hindered the recovery of the funds hed sent. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr M himself instructed the payment. Nationwides first obligation is to 
follow the instructions Mr M provides. This is in line with the relevant regulations and the 
terms of the account. But it is also understood that financial businesses, such as Nationwide, 
must also be alert to instances of fraud and scams and act in their customers best interests.  
With that in mind Ive considered whether Nationwide reasonably ought to have done more 
before processing the payment. Our Investigator said that she thought the activity was 
unusual for the account and believes Nationwide ought to have intervened. But as I 
explained when I wrote to Mr M it could also be argued that it's not uncommon for individuals 
to make one-off larger payments towards purchases every so often. So, a payment of 
£3,200 to a new payee isn't remarkably unusual enough to warrant an intervention. But 
either way, since the payment was made in branch, I accept this presented a natural 
opportunity for branch staff to discuss the nature of the payment Mr M was making. 
Mr Ms initial submissions suggest that when he visited his local Nationwide branch to 
instruct the payment, he was asked basic, methodical questions  which he honestly 
answered, confirming he was purchasing a horse box. But when our Investigator spoke to 
Mr M and asked about his recollection of what happened in branch and if hed been asked 
any questions at the time, he told her  it was a straightforward transaction really and that 
Nationwide had asked him  nothing. Nationwide have said due to the passage of time it 
has been unable to obtain a recollection of events from the branch, nor any system notes to 
evidence what, and if any, discussion took place when processing the payment. However, at 
the time, it says its branch staff were trained to ask questions if they had concerns about a 
transaction. So, in a situation like this, where the evidence is incomplete, unavailable and 
inconsistent  I have to reach a decision based on the evidence that is available to me and 
what I think, on balance, is most likely to have happened. 
With the above in mind, I dont doubt that Mr M is honest in his belief about what happened, 
and the inconsistency is likely just down to the passage of time since the event  which was 
over six years ago. And taking into consideration that the payment was made in 2016 when 
what was expected of financial businesses around questioning of transactions was not as 
robust as it is today; there being no evidence of a conversation having taken place; and 
where it could be argued that the payment was not remarkably unusual enough for branch 
staff to have had concerns. I think, on balance, its most likely that Mr M wasnt asked any 
questions when he gave Nationwide the instruction to make the payment. In his submissions Mr M makes suggestions of the questions hed have expected 
Nationwide to have asked and the warnings it should have given. He argues had it done so, 
his loss wouldve been prevented. But checks need to be proportionate to the risk which a 
transaction(s) presents. And after taking everything into careful consideration, in these 
circumstances, I wouldn't have expected the conversation between Nationwide branch staff 
and Mr M to have amounted to anything more than a general enquiry about what the 
payment was for, and at best a warning that the payment couldn't be recalled, and to only go 
ahead if he was satisfied with the legitimacy of the seller. I think Mr M would've confidently 
explained it was for the purchase of a second-hand horsebox that hed seen advertised on a 
reputable publication, and from his submissions it would appear that at the time he was 
comfortable and reassured that he was dealing with a genuine seller. Based on this I think, 
on balance, Mr M would've gone ahead with the payment. And in these circumstances, I 
don't see a basis upon which Nationwide could've refused an instruction given to it by Mr M.
I accept that Nationwide ought to have done more than just direct Mr M to L when he (along 
with his mother) visited the branch to report the scam. I think it reasonably ought to have 
sent notification of fraud to L. But its failure to do so isnt a basis upon which I can direct 
Nationwide to refund Mr Ms loss. I must also be satisfied that its omission hindered the 
recovery of the funds Mr M had sent to the recipient bank account. Having considered the 
information available to me, on balance, Im persuaded it didnt. I say this because Mr M has 
explained that he and his mother left the Nationwide branch and went straight to Ls branch 
to report what had happened. He says L informed him that the money hed sent had already 
been spent and that the account was dodgy. So it follows that even if Nationwide had 
reported the fraud to L when Mr M informed it, this wouldnt have resulted in a recovery of 
any of Mr Ms funds. 
Much of Mr Ms submissions focus on todays standards and industry guidance and best 
practices which were not in force at the time the payment was made. And whether 
Nationwides actions were appropriate needs to be assessed in line with its regulatory 
obligations and the industry practice in place at the time. It would not be fair to assess this 
complaint by todays standards. This includes the application of the CRM Code. To explain, 
the CRM code is a voluntary code that requires businesses who are a signatory of it to 
reimburse customers whove been the victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams, in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. One of those is that the disputed payments (not 
when the victim became aware or reported the matter) needs to have been made on or after 
28 May 2019  this being the date the CRM Code came into effect. This is set out at section 
DS2(2), where it says: This Code does not apply to  (c) any payments completed before 
the coming into force of this Code. As the disputed payment here was made in 2016, it is 
not covered. So, I cant say that Nationwides response that the CRM code does not apply in 
these circumstances is unreasonable or unfair. 
Im sorry Mr M lost money to a scam. But as I dont think Nationwide are responsible for this 
loss or hindered its recovery, there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I can tell them to do 
more to resolve this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman