DRN-2241799
The complaint
Mr Hs representative, a claims management company (CMC), complains on his behalf that 
he was mis-sold an investment by The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as Britannia).
What happened
Mr H took out a Mini Balanced Guaranteed Equity Bond (MGEB) Cash ISA in 2000. The ISA 
had two parts  one part provided a fixed rate of interest for one year on up to half of the 
investment and the other part provided a return linked to the performance of the stock 
market after five years.
Mr H invested £6,000 into the ISA, £3,000 into the fixed interest part and £3,000 into the 
other part. The fixed interest part of the ISA matured in June 2001 with a return of 8.5%. The 
other part was surrendered in 2006 for around £3,075. 
The CMC complained to the Co-op in 2020 and said, in summary:
Mr H was given advice to invest £6,000 in the ISA. In the absence of any evidence to 
justify the advice, they thought the advice he received was inappropriate.
In 2000, Mr H was 21 and had recently received the money as a birthday present. He 
had absolutely no investment experience and was a student. The £6,000 investment 
represented the majority of his free assets and was at a time when it was likely he 
would need access to his capital in the near future.
Mr H recalled meeting with advisers in an office within the branch who explained the 
advantages of comparable products and advised him to invest in the ISA. 
They thought it was notable that the adviser had marked with an x the location that 
Mr H should sign. They thought this was evidence of a process which wasnt 
independent, but collaborative and guided.
The MGEB Cash ISA was a complex product and was more like a structured 
guaranteed bond than a savings account. Any growth on the five year part of the 
investment was linked to indices such as the FTSE 100, Eurostoxx 50 and Nikkei 
225.
Therefore, the account wasnt like a typical savings account and required advice 
especially for inexperienced investors.
The Co-op didnt uphold the complaint as they thought it had been made too late. The CMC 
didnt agree and brought the complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. 
The investigator thought the complaint had been made in time but didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. He thought that based on what hed seen, the sale of the MGEB Cash ISA 
was non-advised, and the information given to Mr H at the time would have been enough for 
him to have made an informed decision himself on it was suitable for him.
The CMC disagreed with his opinion and said, in summary:
They appreciated there was limited evidence but that was to be expected given that 
the firm had designed this product to be sold as execution only. However, that didnt 
mean that it was sold in that way, nor that it was sold compliantly.
Mr Hs clear recollections of the sale and the compelling evidence that he wouldnt 
have taken out the investment without having been advised to do so shouldnt be 
ignored.
The reference in the application form to choosing this  as being best suited to their 
needs had unsurprisingly been completed. Mr H believed that he had just been told 
by an adviser that this was the best product for his needs and had been given 
information about the product from this advisor.
Mr H went through numerous questions about his circumstances as would be 
expected in a formal advice process. This product was then recommended he was 
told where to sign. An experienced investor may have raised concerns with the lack 
of a signed fact find document or reasons why letter, but it must be recognised that 
he was an inexperienced investor and shouldnt be penalised for failing to understand 
the process when he was being guided by an expert who was employed by the bank.
The investigator wasnt minded to change his opinion so the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold this complaint. I will now explain why. 
I note the points the CMC has made regarding the sale. I accept that despite a business 
saying that advice hasnt been provided, that isnt always the case  there are many 
occasions that this service has decided on the balance of probabilities that advice has been 
provided despite arguments to the contrary.
But I must take into account that the sale took place around 20 years ago and recollections 
can fade over time. And, crucially, there is no documentary evidence that supports any 
advice having been given to Mr H. If advice had been given, I would expect to see some 
evidence of the advice process such as a completed fact find and a formal 'reasons why' 
letter giving the reasons why the adviser felt the investment was suitable for Mr H.
The only documentary evidence is the application form Mr H filled out which says I have 
chosen this account as being best suited to my needs and confirm that I have received a 
copy of and have read, understood and agree to be bound by the Terms and Conditions of 
the Mini Cash ISA Balanced Guaranteed Equity Bond High Growth Option into which my 
funds are being invested.
I appreciate what the CMC has said about Mr H being told that the MGEB Cash ISA was the 
best product for his needs and being given advice about the product, but Ive not been 
presented with anything that suggests this is the case. I appreciate there is likely to have 
been some discussion over the investment, but I dont think this means we can assume 
formal advice was given. In order to be satisfied that was the case, I would generally expect 
to see some evidence of a personal recommendation.
I also appreciate what the CMC has said about Mr H being told where to sign and how this 
shows that the process wasnt independent, but Im not persuaded that marking an x where 
Mr H needed to sign is evidence that advice was given. I think it possibly just showed Mr H 
where to sign if he wished to proceed.While Im not questioning that Mr H genuinely recalled being given advice, I dont think this 
evidence alone is sufficient for me to safely conclude this was an advised sale, particularly 
given the application form which clearly stated he chose the product without advice. So 
because I haven't seen anything to suggest that any formal advice was given, and also
taking into account the application form, I think it's more likely than not that this was a non-
advised sale. Therefore, the Co-op can't be held accountable for the suitability of the advice.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman