DRN-2906638
The complaint
Mr K complains about his insurer, Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red 
Sands), under his tyre insurance policy. The policy was designed to cover the cost of having 
to repair or replace a tyre that has suffered accidental or malicious damage. Mr K is unhappy 
that Red Sands only paid for replacement of one tyre under his policy, when Mr K thought 
they should have paid for replacement of three.
Red Sands uses agents to administer and provide services under the policy, as well as to 
deal with claims and complaints. Any reference to Red Sands in this decision includes those 
agents. 
What happened
Mr K called Red Sands to report that one of the tyres on his vehicle was losing pressure. 
Red Sands advised Mr K of the claims procedure and asked that Mr K arrange for the tyre 
repairer to call them when they had assessed the situation. A garage subsequently called 
Red Sands and advised a puncture in one tyre and provided pictures of the damaged tyre. 
Red Sands assessed the position and authorised a claim for replacement of the tyre to the 
value of £250 (the limit of liability for a claim under the policy).
Mr K then contacted Red Sands to state that two further tyres were replaced at the same 
time as the first. Red Sands declined his claim for replacement of the two additional tyres, 
saying that the issues with those tyres were of a nature that wasnt accidental damage or 
malicious damage, and therefore wouldnt be covered under the policy.
 
Mr K paid for replacement of the two additional tyres, having been in contact with the 
manufacturer and told that there could be a manufacturing defect, and that he should 
request the garage send the two tyres to them for inspection. This wasnt done, before Mr 
Ks vehicle was stolen shortly afterwards.
 
Mr K was unhappy at the rejection of his claim for replacement of the two additional tyres 
and complained to Red Sands. They considered his complaint but confirmed the original 
decision to decline his claim. 
Mr K then complained to this service, unhappy at his claim being declined. He asked to be 
reimbursed for the replacement of the two additional tyres.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She concluded that Red Sands had 
acted fairly, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, to decline to cover the 
replacement of the two additional tyres.  
Mr K disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Red Sands has acted fairly towards Mr K, the key issue 
being their declining to pay for the replacement of the two additional tyres. There isnt a 
dispute about the replacement of one tyre that had deflated, in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. Ive also noted that the deflation of one tyre led to the recovery 
of Mr Ks vehicle to the garage, where it was replaced. £250 is also clearly stated in the 
policy to be the limit for any one claim.
Looking at the two additional tyres, the evidence indicates that bulges had occurred, but that 
they had not punctured or otherwise deflated. Looking at the terms and conditions of the 
policy the full definition of damage is:
the sudden or unforeseen deflation of a tyre arising from accidental damage 
to the tyre itself, or malicious damage to the tyre or valve from a third party, 
necessitating immediate repair or replacement
Ive concluded that while the two additional tyres had bulges, as they were not deflated then 
this definition means that they werent covered under the policy. From the evidence provided 
by Red Sands, it seems possible (if not likely) that  being aware of the policy terms and 
conditions - the garage only told Red Sands about the one replacement tyre that had 
deflated as it would be covered. But not the other two tyres, as they hadnt deflated (or 
punctured) and therefore wouldnt be covered. 
There was a potential issue of the two tyres having a manufacturing defect (even though 
examination by the garage concluded that the bulges werent a manufacturing defect, but as 
a result of impact damage). But even had there been, the policy terms and conditions also 
state that manufacturing defects or faults including manufacturers recall arent covered. 
Taking all these considerations together, Ive concluded that Red Sands acted fairly and 
reasonably, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy, in declining Mr Ks 
claim for reimbursement of the cost of replacing the two additional tyres.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman