DRN-3038833
The complaint
Miss S complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited incorrectly recorded a missed 
payment on her credit file. 
What happened
Miss S has a Littlewoods account, which is provided and administered by Shop Direct. It is a 
running credit account  that is, Miss S has a credit limit and is required to make a minimum 
payment each month, based on the account balance. 
Miss Ss account statement issued on 2 May 2020 showed she needed to make a minimum 
payment of £169.44 on or before 22 May 2020. She did not make any payment before that 
date. A new statement was issued on 30 May 2020. It showed a minimum payment of 
£370.82  including £169.44 from the previous statement  was due on or before 19 June 
2020. Miss S made a payment of £370.82 on 2 June 2020, bringing the account up to date.
Shop Direct reported a missed payment on Miss Ss credit file. That entry related to the 
payment of £196.44 which had been due by 22 May 2020. Miss S said it was unfair to report 
that payment as having been missed, since it was made just over a week later. She referred 
the matter to this service. 
Our investigator did not think however that Shop Direct had acted unfairly. The payment had, 
he said, been missed, even if Miss S had made it shortly after it was due. Miss S did not 
accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I have come to broadly the same conclusions as the investigator 
did, and for similar reasons. 
The account terms required Miss S to make the minimum monthly payment (if any) on or 
before the date shown on each account statement. In May 2020 she did not do that. That is, 
she missed that payment. 
Miss S did of course make a payment to cover the missing amount quite soon after it was 
due. That did not, however, rectify in full her failure to make the payment by the due date. It 
was still missed, in the sense that it was not made when due. 
Miss S has said too that Shop Direct  in common with other lenders at the time  granted 
concessions to customers as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. The primary reason for 
doing so, however, was to assist those customers who were having difficulty paying  for 
example, because they were unable to work or because their earnings were reduced. Miss S 
has not suggested however that she had any difficulty paying, and indeed she did make the 
payment quite soon after it was due. She says too that Shop Direct has not previously 
marked a payment as missing when it has been made late. I note however that the account 
terms say that, if Shop Direct relaxes any terms (for example, by allowing a customer time to 
pay), it can enforce those terms again at any time. In any event, I do not believe it would be 
fair to allow Miss S to rely on previous late payments as a reason for Shop Direct not to 
report this one.  
For these reasons, I agree with the investigator that Miss S has not been treated unfairly.      
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Shop Direct Finance Company Limited to do 
anything further to resolve Miss Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman