DRN-2430435
The complaint
Mr M complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited wont pay a claim he made on his 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M lost the keys to his car and made a claim for their replacement, £275. But Admiral 
declined the claim as it said Mr M hadnt replaced the cars locks. Mr M said Admiral had told 
him he could claim for up to £300 for replacement keys.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
policy terms and conditions covered the replacement of the cars locks, not keys. And he 
thought Admiral had clearly told Mr M this in a phone call. 
Mr M replied that he thought Admiral had treated him unfairly as he hadnt fully understood 
what it had told him in the call. He wanted his outlay for the replacement keys reimbursed. 
Mr M asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M said he spent £275 replacing his cars keys. I can understand that hes disappointed 
that Admiral said this isnt covered by his policy. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Ive looked at Mr Ms policy and I can see that it states:
In the event of your car keys being lost or stolen from somewhere other than your
car, we will pay up to £300 towards the cost of replacing the locks.
And,
Locks: If you lose your vehicle keys or if theyre stolen from somewhere other than
your vehicle, well pay you up to £300 to replace the locks.
So I think the policy makes it clear that it covers the replacement of locks and not just the 
keys. 
Mr M called Admiral to check whether hed be covered by his policy for the lost keys. I can 
see that Mr M has been provided with a copy of this call. Ive also listened to it. I think 
Admiral made it very clear to Mr M that he could claim up to £300 for the replacement of his 
cars locks. I also think it told Mr M that replacing just the keys wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr M told us that he was stressed at the time and didnt fully understand what Admiral told 
him. But I think if Mr M didnt understand what he was being told he could have asked further 
questions at the time. The agent asked him if he had anything further to ask. 
So I think Admiral acted according to the policy terms and conditions when it declined to pay 
for the replacement keys. And I think this was fair and reasonable as Admiral had made it 
clear to Mr M that this wasnt covered by his policy. So I dont require Admiral to pay Mr Ms 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman