DRN-4336207
The complaint
V, a limited company complains that The Co-operative Bank Plcs systems are not fit for 
purpose.
Vs complaint is brought by Mr S, a director of V. 
What happened
V holds a business current account with the Co-operative Bank. Mr S was unhappy that:
the payment summary page wasnt useful as it doesnt include enough information to 
confirm Vs payment transfer for its clients
the online banking page kept coming up with corrupt letters and numbers
he couldnt edit a payee entry for a particular business and found that the edit payee 
page displayed incorrect information
the Co-operative Bank sent its response to his Digital Subject Access Request 
(DSAR) via CD disc
Mr S was unhappy with the work arounds which the Co-operative Bank had suggested.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the Co-operative Bank should do more than it 
already had to put things right. In summary our investigator said:
the Co-operative Banks payment summary page isnt designed for a customer to 
download as proof of payment. Since the Co-operative Bank carried out a system 
upgrade, it no longer includes the same payment summary feature as it did 
previously.
the problem with corrupt web pages was probably due to an issue local to Vs device 
rather than a system wide problem. Our investigator noted that the Co-operative 
Bank had offered to look into this again should the problem arise in the future.
It was possible that when Mr S tried to edit an existing payee, he couldnt do so 
because there was a scheduled payment in the future. Our investigator didnt 
consider this to be a banking error and he was satisfied that the Co-operative Bank 
had provided instructions on how to resolve the problem.
he appreciated Mr Ss confusion over the way that the Co-operative Banks system 
displayed exiting payees information when Mr S tried to amend a standing order. 
However, the Co-operative Bank had provided a possible fix, which he thought was 
reasonable.
the Co-operative Bank agreed that it didnt handle the DSAR as well as it could have 
but overall, our investigator thought the Co-operative Banks offer to pay a total of 
£130 compensation was a fair way to recognise any inconvenience and distress.
Mr S doesnt want compensation and remains concerned about the security of Vs data and 
money. Mr S says the payment summary isnt just to prove a payment to customers and 
suppliers but it is also proof of payment for Mr S. Mr S says that the reference number he 
referred to is not a payee list ID.
He would like the Co-operative Bank to:
put something in writing to reassure him that if he sees corrupt web page data in the 
future, he can ignore this
provide reassurance that Mr S can ignore any random number created where the 
account number should be when he tries to edit a payee and that he can simply 
delete and reinstate payees in the future if he has issues 
reassure him that the payment summary isnt supposed to be a summary of a 
payment  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Some of the concerns that Mr S has about the Co-operative Banks systems seem to arise 
from changes it has made to the way it displays certain pieces of information such as the 
payment summary page. The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt the regulator - that is the 
role of the Financial Conduct Authority  so I cant tell the Co-operative Bank how to run its 
business. Instead, my role is to look at whether the Co-operative Bank has treated V fairly 
and reasonably. If I think that V has been let down, I can then tell the Co-operative Bank how 
to put things right.
I appreciate the Co-operative Banks payment summary page has changed since the 
example Mr S provided from 2015. For the reasons outlined above, I cant require the Co-
operative Bank to change the format back to the version which Mr S prefers. Im satisfied 
that the Co-operative Bank has given some work arounds which our investigator has already 
provided to Mr S. This should mean that Mr S can find details of completed transactions 
which will allow him to see the information he needs for himself and clients. I think this is 
reasonable.
The Co-operative Bank has also explained that the reference number Mr S can see when 
setting up payee details is the ID for the payee together with an ID for the recurring payment 
instruction. Again, I think the Co-operative Bank has provided a reasonable explanation why 
Mr S is seeing what he sees. The Co-operative Bank has also suggested that as it has 
carried out some major upgrades to its system, it may be helpful for Mr S to delete and reset payees. Hopefully this will help resolve some of Mr Ss concerns going forward. 
The Co-operative Bank has told Mr S that if he sees corrupt data in the future he should let it 
know. The Co-operative Bank has also suggested that Mr S should clear the cookies and 
cache on whatever device he is using to access online banking. As I dont have enough 
evidence to conclude that the corrupt data was due to a problem at the Co-operative Banks 
end, it makes it difficult for me to uphold this aspect of Vs complaint. Particularly as Mr S 
says he hasnt experienced the problem for a while. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but overall I think the Co-operative Bank has already done and 
offered enough to resolve Vs complaint. I appreciate that Mr S has spent time dealing with 
his various concerns but I consider the Co-operative Banks offer to pay an extra £100 
compensation on top of the £30 already offered, adequately reflects the inconvenience 
caused to V when Mr S, as director, has had his time diverted from running the business of 
V. 
I understand that the Co-operative Bank has already credited Vs account with £30. If this is 
the case and V accepts my decision, the Co-operative will need to pay a further £100. 
My final decision
The Co-operative Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay a total of £130 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my final decision is that, if it 
hasnt already done so, The Co-operative Bank Plc should pay V £130. For the avoidance of 
doubt, this includes the £30 the Co-operative Bank may have already credited to Vs account 
leaving £100 to pay.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman