DRN-4360543
The complaint
Mr K and Ms K are unhappy with what DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited did 
after they made a claim on their Landlords Legal Protection insurance policy. 
What happened
In January 2022 Mr K contacted DAS as his tenant was in rent arrears and he wanted 
assistance with the repossession of his property. DAS asked for further information including 
what references had been obtained prior to the start of the tenancy. Having considered that 
information it turned down the claim on the tenant default section of the policy. It said that 
was because the references Mr K obtained didnt meet the policy requirements. And the rent 
arrears should have been reported to it within 90 days of them occurring which hadnt 
happened in this case. 
It referred the repossession claim to panel solicitors for assessment and followed up on 
progress in May 2022. The panel solicitors told it theyd tried to contact Mr K but hadnt 
received any meaningful response and theyd make a further attempt. DAS subsequently 
advised Mr K he should speak to the panel firm to discuss his claim and provide any 
information they needed. 
Our investigator thought the claim should have been reported to DAS earlier and in line with 
the reporting requirements in the policy. And in any event the policy required a reference 
from an employer or other financial source which Mr K hadnt provided. So she thought DAS 
had correctly turned down his rent guarantee claim. Any concerns he had about the actions 
of the panel firm in relation to his repossession claim would need to be raised with them. 
Mr K didnt agree. He thought the requirement to report rent arrears within 90 days was an 
essential term of the policy which should have been clearly highlighted to him. And in this 
case the arrears had arisen during the Covid-19 pandemic so he was lenient over non- 
payment of rent in line with Government guidance. He didnt think an insured incident had 
occurred until it was clear the tenant would cease paying rent entirely. At that point he 
contacted DAS to make his claim. 
And hed obtained references which were in line with the standards of the time when his 
tenant first moved into his property in 2008.  He remained unhappy with the service provided 
by the panel firm who dealt with his repossession claim., 
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr K has found this matter extremely stressful and I know some of these issues 
coincided with a period of significant ill health for him. I was sorry to hear about this and 
hope hes now recovered from that. 
But the question I need to consider is whether DAS did anything wrong when dealing with 
the claim he made. And the relevant rules and industry guidelines say DAS has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr Ks policy. This says we will negotiate for 
the followingyour legal rights in trying to get possession of your property that you have let 
under an assured shorthold tenancy. And where a claim has been accepted under that 
section it also provides cover for rent arrears while your tenant or ex-tenant still occupies 
your property for a maximum of 12 months.
However, thats provided you haveobtained a satisfactory reference for each tenant and 
each guarantor from a licensed referencing service before the tenancy started. And the 
policy says that reference must include written references from a previous managing agent 
or landlord; an employer (or any other financial source); and a credit history check (including 
the Enforcement of Judgements Office, County Court Judgments and bankruptcy). The 
policy doesnt cover any claim reported to us more than 90 days after the date you should 
have known about the insured incident.
Ive thought first about whether Mr K met the referencing requirements of his policy. I can 
see the information he provided to DAS is from when the tenant first moved into the property 
in 2008. It includes a reference from a previous landlord and a check carried out by a tenant 
referencing service. But I dont think its in dispute Mr K didnt provide an employers 
reference. 
Mr K believes he met the standards in place at the time but I dont think thats the issue here. 
The policy requires that references are obtained before the tenancy started. In this case 
Mr Ks tenant took out an Assured Shorthold Tenancy (AST) for a 12 month period in 2008. 
Im not clear what happened at the end of that tenancy but Mr K told us the tenant signed a 
new 12 month AST in September 2020. So at the point (at the latest) the previous tenancy 
had ended and a new one had begun. Based on the policy wording the referencing 
requirement would therefore need to have been satisfied at that point. 
I appreciate Mr K didnt feel the need to obtain new referencing information because the 
tenant had been in the property for many years and there had been no previous issues. I 
understand why he thought that. But that doesnt change the fact he hadnt met the terms 
and conditions of his policy. And Mr K believes the reason the tenant got into arrears was 
because she lost her job. So I think the absence of (in particular) an employers reference 
from before the start of the new tenancy is relevant to the loss that subsequently occurred. 
As a result I dont think it was unfair of DAS to turn down the claim because the referencing 
conditions hadnt been met. 
DAS also said the rent arrears hadnt been reported to it within 90 days of them occurring. 
Mr K says that condition wasnt brought to his attention. But the Insurance Product 
Information Document (IPID) says the policy doesnt cover claims reported more than 90 
days after the date you should have known about the insured incident. So I think DAS did 
make him aware of this. 
Mr K says he didnt tell DAS about the rent arrears earlier because he was taking a lenient 
approach to his tenant in line with official guidance. And I understand due to Government 
Covid-19 rules, between November 2020 and 31 May 2021 it wasnt possible to deliver a notice of eviction. But I understand those temporary rules were lifted from the start of June 
2021. 
And by September 2021 the tenant was in reasonably significant arrears amounting to 
around £2,000. However, Mr K didnt tell DAS about this until 2022 which was a year after 
the arrears first arose and more than 90 days after those arrears reached the level they had 
in September 2021. And the definition of rent arrears which applies to the Insured Incident 
of Tenant default includes unpaid rent thatis owed to you under a tenancy agreement.
I think that would cover the arrears in this case and I think Mr K would reasonably have 
known an insured incident had taken place by September 2021 which is more than 90 days 
before he contacted DAS. In any case, as Im satisfied the refencing conditions of the policy 
havent been met, I think that in itself provides grounds for DAS to fairly turn down the claim 
under the tenant default section of the policy.  
I appreciate Mr K is also unhappy with how his repossession claim was handled by the panel 
firm DAS appointed to consider it. But the actions of a panel firm when carrying out their 
legal role arent something we can consider.  Thats because we can only consider the 
covered activities set out in our rules (the Dispute Resolution Rules or DISP). Those 
activities include regulated activities. And carrying out a contract of insurance is a regulated 
activity. Thats why we can consider what DAS did here.
 
However, the actions of the solicitors acting in their legal capacity arent a regulated activity 
and dont fall within any of the other covered activities contained in our rules. So that isnt 
something we can look at; the solicitors are independent professionals with their own 
regulator and complaints procedures.
I can consider whether DAS took reasonable steps from a claims handling perspective and I 
think it did. It followed matters up with the panel firm at the start of May 2022 and was told it 
was awaiting a response from Mr K to attempts it had made to get in touch with him. If, as 
appears to be the case, Mr K is unhappy with what the panel firm subsequently did on his 
case thats something he can pursue through that firms complaints process and potentially 
escalate to the Legal Ombudsman if he remains unhappy. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Ms K to accept or reject my decision before 
17 November 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman