DRN-2973835
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the offer that Great Lakes Insurance SE has provided to 
them for unused cover, after they cancelled their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
On 16 February 2020 Mr and Mrs M purchased a single trip travel insurance policy, which 
provided them with cancellation cover from this date. The policy also provided cover for 
Mr and Mrs Ms trip, including post-departure cover, with them due to go on holiday from 
25 April 2020 to 8 May 2020. And included cover for five medical conditions Mr and Mrs M 
declared.
At the same time as purchasing the above, Mr and Mrs M bought an additional cover option 
under their policy  this being travel disruption cover  at a cost of £19.98.
In total, the premium Mr and Mrs M paid for their policy was £900.33, after a discount of 
£30.15 was applied to the purchase.
On 28 March 2020, Mr and Mrs M explained to Great Lakes that their planned holiday wasnt 
going ahead given the coronavirus pandemic. And they asked what they could do about their 
insurance policy now they were no longer going away. 
Mr and Mrs M have said that at this point Great Lakes told them they could;
Move their original holiday dates, to a date no longer than 12 months from the 
policys original purchase date. If they did this, they would still be covered for their trip 
under the policy. 
Or, they could cancel their insurance policy and be provided with a credit voucher for 
£428.56 to use towards a new policy. 
Its my understanding that at this point Mr and Mrs M accepted the credit voucher offered to 
them. But Mr and Mrs M didnt feel the above offers were fair. So, they raised their concerns 
with Great Lakes. 
Great Lakes responded in June 2020. It explained that the terms and conditions of 
Mr and Mrs Ms policy said that no refund would be provided if a policy was cancelled after 
the 14-day cooling-off period. So, under the policy no refund of premium was actually due to 
Mr and Mrs M.
It also said that Mr and Mrs M had benefitted from cover under their policy from 
16 February 2020. 
But Great Lakes went on to say it did understand these are uncertain times and that it had 
been working to go above and beyond the terms and conditions of this policy. With this in 
mind, it said it would be willing to offer Mr and Mrs M the following options;
The opportunity to move their single trip dates to within 18 months of the policys 
original purchase date, compared to the usual 13, which is free to its customers to 
provide reassurance of cover. It said this was providing the duration and destination 
for the holiday remained the dame, and the original policy dates hadnt already 
expired. It said that if a different duration or destination was chosen, an additional 
premium may be charged.
A pro-rata credit voucher, for the unused part of their travel insurance policy  which 
equated to £428.56. This voucher would need to be used to purchase a new policy 
and would be valid for 36 months. 
Mr and Mrs M still didnt feel the above options were fair. They already knew of the voucher 
option. And they said theyd originally accepted the pro-rata credit voucher detailed above  
because they werent told they could move the date of their trip to a point within 18 months 
of the policys purchase. 
Mr and Mrs M said if they had known there would be an option to move their trip dates to 
within 18 months of the policys purchase, they would have chosen this instead. Because 
they could have moved their holiday to the same time of year as they had originally planned 
(just a year later), for no extra cost.
But now their original policy dates had already expired. And they would have to accept the 
voucher and pay for a new policy. Meaning they would need to pay more money to Great 
Lakes to make up the difference between the credit voucher and the cost of a new policy.
Because Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy with Great Lakes position on the matter, they 
referred their complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigators opinion
Our investigator considered this complaint and set out the details of the relevant cancellation 
rights  and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. They also explained that it is 
a fundamental principle of insurance law, that if the insurer has started to bear risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. The investigator said that this 
meant its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it 
covered during that time. 
The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because Mr and Mrs M did have some cover under the policy  
including under the additional travel disruption cover. This cover was in place from when the 
policy started on 16 February 2020 until the point Mr and Mrs M cancelled their insurance 
policy. This cover would have remained in place until the holiday was cancelled on 
30 March 2020, if Mr and Mrs M had not asked to cancel the policy earlier.
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs M with a pro-rata refund, for both the single trip 
insurance policy, and the additional travel disruption cover. And they felt the provision of a 
voucher valid for 36 months was a fair way to provide the refund, as they didnt feel the 
terms of the voucher were restrictive.
The investigator highlighted to Great Lakes that so far, its voucher offer was calculated 
without the additional travel disruption cover, and so they recommended Great Lakes 
recalculate the voucher value to include a refund for the unused cover on this too. Great 
Lakes did so, with the voucher value now being £455.59  this being based on the 42 days 
of unused cover.Mr and Mrs Ms response
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with our investigators opinion. The main reason for this being 
that they would have selected the option to move their holiday dates, if they had been given 
the option of doing so within 18 months, when they called to discuss the policy on 
28 March 2020.
Because Mr and Mrs M remained in disagreement, this complaint has been referred to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part as our investigator did.
I can see that Mr and Mrs M feel very strongly about this matter  and I can appreciate why. 
Id like to reassure them that Ive considered all of the points raised in respect of their 
complaint, including but not limited to the ones mentioned above. However, in providing my 
decision, Ive only referred to those I consider necessary to explain my reasoning on the 
outcome here.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case, so I wont 
repeat these again in detail here.
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make, a 
claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling-off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
Im upholding this complaint in part because;
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund to Mr and Mrs M.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that it wont provide a refund after the 
cooling-off period, unless in exceptional circumstances. And, it gives examples of what 
would be considered exceptional circumstances. I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs M called 
to discuss and then cancel their policy. But I dont think their reasons for cancelling the policy 
reasonably fall into what would be considered exceptional circumstances. 
I say this because I dont think the global coronavirus pandemic, which affected many of 
Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term relating to discretion is intended to 
cover. The examples of exceptional circumstances given in the policy terms relate to 
bereavement or changes in the policyholders health. Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, 
including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. And in the 
circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer of a pro-rata credit voucher is fair. And 
that the increased value of £455.59 now attached to the voucher following this services 
involvement is reasonable.
I say this because Mr and Mrs M were covered from the date they purchased their policy, for 
any cancellation claim or travel disruption claim they needed to make, until the date their 
holiday was cancelled. The policy premium they paid included this cover. As Great Lakes 
were on risk for any potential claim during this time, Im satisfied its reasonable that 
Mr and Mrs M pay for Great Lakes acceptance of this risk. 
But, because of the coronavirus pandemic, Mr and Mrs M called to discuss and cancel their 
insurance policy on 28 March 2020. And information from Mr and Mrs Ms airline shows the 
holiday was confirmed as cancelled two days later.  
Great Lakes accepted Mr and Mrs Ms cancellation of their policy on 28 March 2020. And so, 
from that point, there was nothing left for it to insure under the policy. Given that this was an 
unprecedented situation I think it was fair for Great Lakes to offer a pro-rata refund from 
28 March 2020. But I think this should have been for both the core policy, as well as the 
extended travel disruption cover purchased.
Great Lakes initial offer of £428.56 didnt include the additional travel disruption cover where 
I think it should have. Including both parts of the cover purchased would have meant that 
Great Lakes wasnt charging a premium when it knew there was nothing left for it to cover on 
either part of the policy. 
Great Lakes has now agreed to include the travel disruption cover in its refund calculation  
and has provided this service with information to show the amended value as a result, which 
takes the refund to £455.59. And as such, I now think this offer of a refund is fair. It ensures 
Mr and Mrs M werent charged any premium from when they cancelled their policy and 
where there was no holiday left to insure. 
I understand Mr and Mrs M have concerns about the voucher offered to them. But I do think 
the refund being provided in voucher form is fair. The voucher does provide Mr and Mrs M 
with a number of options, including the ability to purchase a single or annual multi-trip policy, 
or gift the voucher to someone else. And it allows them to go on the same holiday at a later 
date than originally planned.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M have said that if theyd been offered the opportunity to move their 
holiday dates to within 18 months of the policy purchase date, rather than within 12, they 
would have chosen this option, as they feel it would have been more beneficial to them. And 
I understand Mr and Mrs Ms viewpoint here. But the relevant rules, guidelines and 
Mr and Mrs Ms policy all note Mr and Mrs M isnt entitled to any refund in premium. So, I 
think providing Mr and Mrs M with the option of a voucher as above is fair and reasonable in 
and of itself. And so, Im not requiring Great Lakes to alter or extend its offer. 
Im also satisfied the value attached to the vouchers is now fair and I dont think Great Lakes 
has treated Mr and Mrs M differently, and therefore unfairly, in relation to how it has set and 
calculated the voucher amount in this case. Great Lakes has calculated the voucher amount from 28 March 2020, which is the date the 
policy was actually cancelled, to the date the policy was due to end, 8 May 2020. This 
means the offer made to Mr and Mrs M is based on 42 days of unused cover for both the 
core policy and the travel disruption cover. This equates to £455.59 of the premium paid. 
Given that the offer reflects the time Mr and Mrs M werent on risk under the policy I dont 
require Great Lakes to do anything more. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that Im satisfied the voucher Great Lakes has offered 
Mr and Mrs M is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I dont require it to do 
anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman