DRN-3653854
The complaint
Mr A complains that A-Plan Holdings trading as A-Plan Insurance mishandled a proposed  
motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to A-Plan, I refer to the above-named firm and I include employees and others 
insofar as I hold A-Plan responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
In May 2022, Mr A was thinking about buying a hatchback car. He asked A-Plan how much it 
would cost to insure for a year.  A-Plan said it would cost  over £6,000.00. Mr A complained 
to A-Plan that the cost was too much.
By a final response dated late May 2022, A-Plan turned down the complaint. Mr A brought 
his complaint to us in early June 2022.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that the 
price is at the insurers discretion. She said that Mr A had cheaper options, and that he 
hadnt suffered any financial impact.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A-Plan is an insurance intermediary. Its role for Mr A was gather information about Mr A and 
the vehicle and to ask its panel of insurers about the cost of insuring the vehicle for him.
From what Ive seen, A-Plan correctly gathered and passed on to insurers the relevant 
information about Mr A and the vehicle.
Each of the insurers was responsible for assessing risk and deciding whether or not to offer 
insurance and, if so, at what price.
A-Plan was not itself responsible for setting any of the prices.
I can understand that the lowest price was unaffordable for Mr A. But I havent seen enough 
evidence to say that A-Plan did anything wrong. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
uphold this complaint or to direct A-Plan to do any more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct A-Plan Holdings trading as A-Plan Insurance to do any more in response to this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman