DRN-4245996
The complaint
Mr F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded him in full for money he sent in 
connection with what he now believes was a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here. 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
Mr F says Mr B, his stepbrother (or brother-in-law), asked him to make payments on his 
behalf, in connection with an immigration matter. In summary, Mr B had entered the country 
in 2016 and was applying for asylum. This had been denied. Mr B appealed but the appeal 
judge commented on inconsistencies in Mr Bs testimony and found his evidence incoherent, 
denying his appeal in December 2019.
Mr B told Mr F hed found a company (which Ill refer to as E) online, that said it could help in 
these circumstances. Because Mr B didnt hold a suitable bank account, he asked Mr F to 
send money to E on his behalf. Between January 2020 and January 2021, Mr F sent seven 
payments to E from his Lloyds account. In total, this amounted to £46,800. 
With the exception of the final payment sent in January 2021, before making each outbound 
payment Mr F received credits to his account corresponding to the amount he was about to 
send on. Mr F explains this money was sent to him by Mr Bs friends, in order that he could 
pay E.
However, it appears the results promised by E did not materialise. Mr F reported the matter 
to Lloyds as having been fraudulent  an Authorised Push Payment scam (APP scam).
Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the 
CRM Code) which can offer additional protection from APP scams. But Lloyds said it 
wouldnt refund Mr F in full because it didnt think hed taken enough steps to check he was 
paying a legitimate company for a legitimate service. But it thought it could have done more 
to protect Mr F. It refunded 50% of the amount hed paid from the fourth payment onwards. 
Mr F didnt accept this. One of Investigators looked into what had happened. She thought 
Lloyds could have taken action sooner, and recommended it refund 50% of the overall 
amount (with interest on that amount at 8% simple per year). But she didnt think Lloyds 
needed to pay back more than this. She thought Mr F had made the payments without 
having a reasonable basis for belief that the transactions were legitimate.
Lloyds agreed. It paid Mr F in line with the Investigators recommendations. 
But Mr F didnt accept the investigators findings. In light of this disagreement, I have been 
asked to reach a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Lloyds has a primary obligation to carry out the payment instructions its customers give it. As 
a starting point, a customer is therefore assumed liable for a payment they have instructed to 
be made.
But that isnt the end of the story. In particular, as Ive mentioned above, the CRM Code can 
provide additional protection where payments have been made as the result of an APP 
scam. 
Lloyds hasnt disputed that Mr Fs payments resulted from an APP scam. It hasnt disputed 
that these payments fall within the scope of the CRM Code. In short, Lloyds hasnt accepts 
that the additional protections of the CRM Code should apply here.
Indeed, the bank has confirmed that it has now made a partial refund to Mr F equating to 
50% of the total amount he sent, with statutory interest added to account for the time he was 
without the money. Lloyds accepts it was at fault, but it considers Mr F must equally share 
part of the blame.
So, what remains for me to decide is whether Lloyds can fairly be required to repay the 
balance.
The CRM Code wont always require a firm to refund payments in full. In particular, it says a 
firm can choose not to fully reimburse APP scam losses where the firm can establish that the 
customer made the transactions without having a reasonable basis for believing what they 
did - including that they were paying for a genuine service from a legitimate person or 
business. 
I need to therefore consider whether Mr F made the payments without having a reasonable 
basis for believing this was for a genuine service from a legitimate person or business. Ive 
carefully considered everything Mr F has submitted as well as the evidence submitted by the 
bank.
Mr B had found E through an online search. He saw Es website, which looked professional. 
E apparently had an office in London. There were some features that therefore looked 
genuine or legitimate.
Mr B then communicated with someone claiming to represent E mainly through a messaging 
app. I can see from the chat history that he was told he could visit Es office after hed made 
the transfer. Its unclear from the chat when this visit happened if it it happened at all. Mr F 
recalls that they did visit. However, the comments in the chat lead me to conclude this must 
have been after the first payment had been sent. In any event, based on what I can 
establish, there seems to have been limited information given before the first payment was 
made.
Later in the chat there is discussion between E and Mr B about E helping Mr B arrange a 
marriage ceremony and paying extra to have the marriage certificate backdated. This and other comments throughout indicate to me that Mr B was almost certainly aware these 
arrangements were not legitimate, and further that the representative of E was not operating 
legitimately.
Furthermore, the sums being requested were disproportionate to the service supposedly 
being offered. The comments show Mr B offering huge sums unbidden to secure what he 
wanted. That again points to a recognition that what was being paid for was understood not 
to have been legitimately offered.
I appreciate Mr B was in a truly desperate situation. His comments indicate he was willing to 
pay whatever sum it took to secure residency. But I think this meant he was willing to ignore 
the obvious risks here that E wasnt offering a legitimate service. 
Having reviewed everything, I am not satisfied that Mr B could be safely said to have had a 
reasonable basis for believing the service being offered was genuine or that the 
representative was legitimate at the time these payments were made. Neither am I 
persuaded Mr F (acting on Mr Bs behalf) had a reasonable basis for thinking this was 
legitimate when he sent the payments. Rather, it seems most likely to me (given the familial 
ties between Mr B and Mr F and the duration of the arrangement) that Mr F placed reliance 
on what Mr B told him, in the knowledge that Mr B may not have held a reasonable basis for 
believing in the legitimacy himself.
Ive considered the evidence here thoroughly including everything Mr F has said. But overall, 
Im satisfied that Lloyds has fairly established that the exception to full reimbursement under 
the CRM Code can be applied to Mr Fs payments. 
Even setting aside the requirements of the CRM Code, I dont find I could fairly require 
Lloyds to refund Mr F by more than it has for any other reasons. 
In particular, even were I to find Lloyds at fault for further reasons than those it already 
accepts, I dont consider the circumstances here could fairly and reasonably lead me to 
make an award higher than Lloyds has paid Mr F.
With all of the above in mind, and based on what Ive seen, I dont consider that Lloyds 
needs to do more than it has already done, and it does not need to refund more than the 
50% it has already paid to Mr F. I understand that this is not the outcome Mr F wants. But I 
can reassure him that Ive carefully considered all the circumstances of his complaint before 
reaching what I consider to be the fair and reasonable decision in all of the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC. The 
bank does not need to refund Mr F by more than it already has paid him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman