DRN-4343932
The complaint
Mr C complained about JN Bank UK Ltds delays and broken promise in setting up a savings 
bond. He wants the interest backdated to his application and for the full 12-month term and 
compensation for the trouble and distress he has been caused.
What happened
I set out the background to Mr Cs complaint in my provisional decision, and here. 
On 19 October 2022 Mr C applied online for a 12-month fixed term savings bond at 4.75% 
with JN Bank. He said he was asked to provide verification and he did so the same day. On 
21 October JN Bank told Mr C it couldnt verify his bank account and requested he upload a 
statement., which he did. Mr C said he then heard nothing and complained on 8 November. 
Mr C said he had provided all documents JN Bank requested but his account wasn't set up. 
He said he spent hours trying to resolve the issue and in his complaint. He wants to be 
compensated for backdated interest and said JN Bank promised it would do this.
In its initial response JN Bank told Mr C his application wasnt ready to proceed. A week later 
it promised to backdate the 4.75% interest rate to 22 October if he completed his application 
within five days. On 4 December Mr C tried to open the account as advised by JN Bank, but 
discovered that the interest rate had reduced to 4.25%, and he complained again. Mr C then 
brought his complaint to our service saying that JN Bank were ignoring him.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. He said JN Bank accepted it 
had got things wrong but still hadnt responded to Mr C about the interest rate that should 
apply to the account. The investigator said JN Bank should pay 4.75% interest to Mr C on 
£25,000 from 22 October 2022, for 61 days, and £150 for the inconvenience he suffered. 
The investigator thought 61 days was a reasonable period in which Mr C could have 
obtained an account elsewhere.
Mr C disagreed that this represented a fair outcome and requested an ombudsman review 
his complaint. He said JN Bank had breached its promise to open a 4.75% bond for 12 
months and the investigator through being biased, had let the bank off the hook. 
JN Bank also responded in July 2023 that it was now willing to pay Mr C 4.75% interest from 
the application date for 61 days on £85,000 even though Mr C put £25,000 as his investment 
on the application form. And pay him £150 compensation recommended by the investigator. 
Mr C said this offer was as irrational as the investigators view. He said if the ombudsman 
were to take the same view, he will start legal proceedings against the bank to recover 
4.75% interest for the full 12-month term of the bond for breach of promise. 
In August 2023, I issued a provisional decision for this complaint and explained why I was 
minded to uphold Mr Cs complaint as follows; -
Mr Cs application to JN Bank for a savings bond appears to have stalled over the 
recognition of his funding bank account, though its not clear why this was a problem. But 
when this was resolved, JN Bank failed to tell Mr C he could proceed to fund the bond 
account and he was left waiting. 
JN Bank accepted it caused delays in the handling of Mr Cs application and agreed to pay 
backdated interest at 4.75% on £25,000 from 22 October 2022 provided the bond was 
funded by 5 December 2022. However, when Mr C attempted to open the bond with £85,000 
on 4 December 2022, he discovered the interest rate had reduced to 4.25%. Mr C didnt 
want to proceed on the basis of the lower interest rate, and I can understand why he felt JN 
Bank hadnt honoured its commitment to him. 
Neither Mr C nor ourselves could gain an explanation from JN Bank as to the change of rate. 
But JN Bank has lately responded by offering to backdate Mr Cs investment of £85,000 for 
61 days at the 4.75% rate. The investigator thought Mr C could have mitigated his losses 
during this period and he thought JN Banks offer was fair. However, by the time JN Bank 
made the offer nine months had elapsed since Mr Cs application for the bond and so he 
rejected this offer.  
Generally, we would expect consumers to mitigate their losses, which in Mr Cs case would 
have meant funding the account at 4.25% whilst seeking the higher rate, or taking out an 
alternative investment. Mr C told us he didnt invest elsewhere as the funds had to remain 
liquid as he expected JN Bank to honour the backdated interest on the bond and he couldnt 
achieve the same interest rate elsewhere. 
JN Banks commitment to Mr C to honour the original 4.75% interest rate wasnt time limited 
and hadnt been revoked, but the bank didnt say why it had lowered the interest rate 
previously promised. I think Mr C was left with an unfulfilled commitment about the interest 
rate and an unanswered complaint, and he didnt know how best to react to this. 
Although this means that Mr C didnt fund the account, or make alternative investment 
arrangements I dont think this was his fault as I dont think there was a point when he 
should reasonably have decided that this was the course that he needed to follow. He clearly 
intended to invest his sum for the 12-month period set by the product, and he was left 
waiting for the bond to begin. JN Bank should have responded to his email of 5 December 
2022 about the reduced interest rate and because it didnt, I am minded to require it to set up 
the bond for the full 12-month period from 22 October 2022 on receipt of payment from Mr C. 
Having said this, we have to be certain about any interest Mr C may have earnt on his lump 
sum so as to avoid overcompensation from JN Bank. This means we need to see evidence 
of where Mr Cs investment sum was deposited since October 2022 and any interest that he 
earnt or will earn over this period, including from a flexible savings account.
Mr C says JN Bank were on express notice of my intention to fund the account with that 
amount (£85,000). Although JN Bank latterly offered to pay interest at 4.75% on £85,000 it 
has always maintained that Mr C applied for the investment for £25,000. For me to decide 
what sum the interest should be based on, Mr C should provide proof of the communication 
of his intended investment from before his attempted funding on 4 December 2022 and JN 
Bank should provide us with a copy of Mr Cs application for the account. 
JN Banks customer service failings have caused Mr C a degree of frustration, lost time and 
uncertainty about his financial arrangements. I currently think the compensation of £150 it 
has now agreed to pay is a reasonable reflection of this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
JN Bank hasnt provided any further information in response to my provisional decision.
Mr C rejected my provisional decision. He said JN Banks promise of the savings bond only 
required completion of its application form, which was blocked on its website. He said JN 
Banks terms allowed funding up to £100,000 and on 5 December 2022 he provided notice 
of his intention to pay in £85,000 within the time limit of 19 December 2022 the bank had 
provided. He said this was why JN Bank increased its compensation to cover interest on 
£85,000. 
Mr C said that in its email of 30 November 2022 JN Bank guaranteed 4.75% for the duration 
of the 12-month term on completion of the savings application. And stated, should you wish 
to proceed and complete the remaining steps of your application within the next 5 days the 
interest will be accumulated from 22/10/2022 to the date you fund your new savings 
account. He said these were promises in exchange for an act.  
He said JN Banks promises about the savings bond available to him were in exchange for 
an act, that he complete the remaining steps of his application. But up until 4 December 
2022 he couldnt access his application on JN Bank's website. So JN Bank's promise merely 
required Mr C to go through to the end of the application. He said funding was separate from 
completing the remaining steps of the application. With the deadline for completing the 
remaining steps of the application being within 5 days of 30 November 2022 so by 5 
December 2022.
I understand Mr Cs point to be that JN Bank was committed to providing the savings 
account he applied for. JN Banks commitment to Mr C to honour the original 4.75% interest 
rate wasnt time limited and hadnt been revoked and I have said that I think it was fair and 
reasonable for the bank to provide the account to Mr C on the basis offered. The only 
remaining disagreement is the quantum of the investment on which compensatory interest 
should be paid. Mr C wants interest that would have accrued on his intended investment of 
£85,000, not the £25,000 he stated as his likely investment of his initial application to JN 
Bank in October 2022.  
I think Mr Cs points concerning promises in exchange for an act are an indication that he 
thinks there was a contractual commitment for JN Bank to offer him the account at £85,000, 
or that it was estopped from not doing so. I think Mr Cs application for the account 
represented the offer here and that was never accepted by JN Bank. Im not convinced there 
is a legal requirement on the bank to provide the account, but in any event we dont give 
legal opinions in our decisions. Our remit is to decide a complaint on the basis of what we 
consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and that is what Ive attempted to 
do here.
Mr C says that JN Banks offer to compensate his interest on the sum of £85,000 at the 
higher rate (albeit for only 61 days) was made because he had given notice of his intention 
to apply for the account in the sum of £85,000 within the time limit provided. I think JN 
Banks offer was an attempt to informally resolve the complaint by means of a compromise 
settlement and falls some way short of an acknowledgement of Mr Cs entitlement to interest 
on this sum for the whole 12 months. JN Bank has consistently stated that Mr C applied for 
the account in the sum of £25,000 and gave an example of the backdated interest based on 
Mr Cs intention to invest £25,000 if those funds were deposited by 5 December 2022.
For the reasons Mr C has given about not being able to complete his application and then 
indicating the much higher investment before 19 December 2022, he didnt fund the savings 
bond. I think its fair that Mr C be compensated interest from the date JN Bank promised to 
backdate interest (22 October 2022). The only information about Mr Cs intended investment 
at this time is from his initial application which is the £25,000 sum he recorded. Mr C said he 
couldnt find an investment to match the 4.75% JN Bank had offered, and I remain of the view that it wouldnt be fair to JN Bank to require it to pay interest on the sum of £85,000 
subsequently indicated by Mr C as part of his complaint. 
I requested Mr C provide evidence of any interest he may have earnt on his lump sum, so as 
to avoid overcompensation from JN Bank. I said that I needed to see evidence of where Mr 
Cs investment sum was deposited since October 2022 and any interest that he earnt or will 
earn over this period, including from a flexible savings account. Mr C hasnt responded on 
this point and so I have nothing with which to calculate the interest I think he should be fairly 
awarded. 
Mr C said dealing with JN Bank took a lot more of his time than it should, and he is seeking 
£350 compensation for this and his trouble and distress. I can see that he had to spend time 
on trying unsuccessfully to get a response from JN Bank and I think he suffered a lot of 
frustration about the lack of response to his communications and delay, and so on reflection 
I think fair compensation for his distress and inconvenience would be £250.  
In all the circumstances, Ive concluded that the provisional decision provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the issue of the interest payable to Mr C. Mr C said if this was the 
case he would pursue legal action against the bank. He should note that by rejecting this 
decision it will be of no legal effect and he will be free to do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons given here I uphold this complaint. If Mr C decides to accept this decision, I 
require JN Bank UK Ltd to open the 12-month fixed term savings bond that should have 
been opened for Mr C on 22 October 2022 at the original rate of 4.75% interest. This should 
be funded by Mr C at the amount he notified to the bank before 4 December 2022, namely 
£25,000 and to run for the original 12-month term. 
Any compensatory interest payable by JN Bank Ltd should be reduced by the interest earnt 
by Mr C during the period on his investment sum and he should provide the bank with this 
information, or evidence of the sums non-investment. 
I also require JN Bank Ltd to pay Mr C £250 compensation as a reflection of the trouble and 
inconvenience he has been put to by its poor customer service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman