DRN-3310583
The complaint
Mrs N and Mr S complain about poor service from an appointed representative of Openwork 
Limited. They ask for compensation and an apology. Mrs N has dealt with the complaint 
throughout.
What happened
Mrs N and Mr S hoped to buy a property. They contacted Openwork for mortgage advice at 
the end of August 2020. Mrs N says Openworks mortgage adviser was rude and caused 
unnecessary delays. In summary, Mrs N says:
Openwork should have told them at the outset that they wouldnt get a mortgage. It was 
almost two months before it did so.
Openwork should have told Mr S at the outset that he needed at least two years left on 
his residence permit to apply for a mortgage. He could have started an application 
straight away.
Openwork was wrong to say another family member wouldnt be offered a mortgage.
Openworks mortgage adviser was rude and shouted during a phone call.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties setting out why I didnt intend to uphold this 
complaint.
Mrs N and Mr S didnt agree with my provisional decision. Mrs N sent comments and 
evidence, including screenshots of messages between her and Openworks mortgage 
adviser. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs N and Mr S met with Openworks mortgage adviser at the end of August 2020. They 
then had conversations in phone calls which werent recorded. The parties dispute what was 
said on these calls. Both parties have set out their version of events, and there is some 
documentary evidence, such as emails. From what Ive read, it seems the parties broadly 
agree the following.
Mrs N and Mr S contacted Openwork on 28 August 2020. They provided documents by 
email and met with Openworks mortgage adviser on 31 August 2020.
Mrs N and Mr S told Openwork from the outset theyd had three applications in principle 
(AIP) declined, they had a default and county court judgement (CCJ) on their credit files, 
and Mrs N was named on two joint mortgages with her ex-partner. In response to my 
provisional decision, Mrs N said the AIPs that were declined were enquiries and not 
applications. Only she had a default on her credit file, and the CCJ had been wrongly 
recorded and has been corrected. She said she had three joint mortgages with her ex-
partner.
Openwork said that as thered been a number of recent searches on Mrs N and Mr Ss 
credit files, further searches at that point wouldnt be helpful.
Openwork didnt make a mortgage recommendation, apply for an AIP or start a 
mortgage application on behalf of Mrs N and Mrs S.
Mrs N contacted Openwork in October 2020. She sent a statement from family members 
saying theyd provide a gifted deposit. She sent documents related to a family member to 
see if adding him to the mortgage would make it affordable and a copy of her credit 
report.
Openwork told Mrs N that her being named on joint mortgages with her ex-partner was 
part of the problem with affordability.
There was a call between Mrs N and Openworks mortgage adviser on 29 October 2020 
which didnt go well.
Mrs N says at the end of October 2020 they contacted another mortgage adviser who 
immediately told her they wouldnt be able to get a mortgage due to her credit record and 
Mr S having only a short period left on his residence permit. Following my provisional 
decision, Mrs N said this adviser had also said that Openwork should have known they 
couldnt afford a mortgage.
Did Openwork make an error or treat Mrs N and Mr S unfairly?
Both Mrs N and Openwork set out their views about what happened. What I need to 
consider is whether Openwork made an error or treated Mrs N and Mr S unfairly. I should 
say that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision 
on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mrs N says the adviser did nothing after their meeting at the end of August 2020. She says 
this was because the adviser was incompetent or couldnt be bothered. Mrs N says they 
contacted Openwork a number of times and it didnt tell them until the end of October that it 
couldnt help them find a mortgage.
Openwork says its mortgage adviser told Mrs N on 2 September 2020 they didnt meet 
lenders affordability criteria for the loan they wanted. Openwork says it told Mrs N this was 
unlikely to change unless there was a change in their circumstances  for instance they 
found a cheaper property, increased their deposit or their income increased. It didnt make a 
mortgage application on their behalf because there was no prospect of it being successful.
On balance, I think the mortgage adviser didnt take the matter further because the loan 
Mrs N and Mr S wanted wasnt affordable. And I think the adviser told Mrs N this. 
Openwork says Mrs N continued to contact it, and sent further information in late October 
2020 by email (which Ive seen copies of). Mrs N wanted to see if the loan they wanted was 
affordable with the addition of a third applicant and/or a gifted deposit. So I think Mrs N was 
aware that there was a problem with affordability. This supports what Openwork said, that it 
told Mrs N and Mr S the loan they wanted wasnt affordable.
Mrs N provided screen shots of messages with the mortgage adviser during September and 
October 2020. Mrs N asked questions about whether searches by car insurance providers would be a problem, and when she could progress the mortgage. The messages suggest 
they were allowing six weeks for changes to a credit file to take effect, which took them to 
the end of October 2020. Mrs N says this shows Openwork caused the six-week delay. 
However, the mortgage adviser said in her message if you have more deposit money and 
require a smaller loan, I can work out your affordability again. And Mrs N has said that the 
adviser suggested they look for a cheaper property. I think these messages are consistent 
with what Openwork said, that it told Mrs N and Mr S that the loan they wanted was 
unaffordable.
Unfortunately, despite Mrs Ns efforts, the loan remained unaffordable. I can see that looking 
into these suggestions kept the matter open for longer. But the evidence suggests it was 
Mrs N that contacted Openwork with these ideas. I dont think it was unfair for Openwork to 
look into whether these changes made the loan affordable. 
I dont think its reasonable to say that Openwork caused delays. I think Mrs N and Mr S 
were unable to obtain a mortgage due to their circumstances, not because of any delays or 
errors by Openwork.
Mrs N says if Openwork had told them that Mr S needed to extend his residence permit they 
could have started this process sooner. But I dont think this would have made a difference. 
Even if any problems with the residence permit were sorted out, Mrs N and Mr S still had 
problems with their adverse credit and not meeting affordability criteria.
I dont think it would have made a difference if Openwork had carried out credit searches. 
Mrs N and Mr S had told Openwork about the adverse information on their credit files. 
Openwork told them it can source mortgages from lenders that accept adverse credit. The 
problem here was the lack of affordability.
Mrs N says Openwork should have told them theyd have problems getting a mortgage due 
to their credit records and the short time remaining on Mr Ss residence permit. But, having 
established that the loan Mrs N and Mr S wanted wasnt affordable, I dont think its fair to 
say that Openwork should have looked further into Mrs N and Mr S circumstances to see if 
they met lenders other criteria.
While Mrs N says Openwork said her family member wouldnt get a mortgage, I think this is 
most likely a misunderstanding. Openwork was only assessing whether adding the family 
member to Mrs N and Mr Ss mortgage would make it affordable.
I dont know what discussions there were between Openwork and Mrs N about Mrs Ns 
existing mortgage commitments. The screen shots Mrs N sent in response to my provisional 
decision show that she asked for Openwork more than once for a statement to provide to the 
court in relation to her dispute with her ex-partner, to assist her being taken off the mortgage 
accounts. But Openwork was giving mortgage advice. It wasnt providing wider financial or 
legal advice. I think it would have been reasonable for Openwork to tell Mrs N that having 
existing mortgage commitments was likely to affect her ability to meet affordability criteria for 
a new mortgage. I dont think it needed to get involved in any discussions Mrs N was having 
with her ex-partner or related court proceedings.
It's clear that the call on 29 October 2020 between Mrs N and the mortgage adviser was 
difficult. The disagreement starts with who made the call. The mortgage adviser says Mrs N 
called several times outside office hours, and she eventually took the call thinking it might be 
urgent. 
Mrs N says the mortgage adviser had told her she could call at evenings or weekends if she 
needed to. Mrs N says the mortgage adviser called her, ranting and shouting about her talking to her ex-partner (who she says is a mortgage adviser) about the advice she was 
providing. 
I said in my provisional decision it seemed unlikely the mortgage adviser called for the 
reason Mrs N gave as she wouldnt have known what Mrs N discussed with her ex-partner. 
Mrs N provided screen shots of messages she sent to the mortgage adviser. On 29 October 
2020 she sent messages saying: her ex-partner didnt believe what the mortgage adviser 
said and said that she was lying; asking that Openwork start an application in Mr Ss sole 
name; and (at about 7.30pm) that theyd found out they couldnt get a mortgage at all as 
Mr Ss visa was about to run out, that Openwork hadnt told them this and they could have 
processed the visa weeks before. 
I agree that these messages could have prompted the mortgage adviser to call. Equally, 
they could explain why Mrs N called the mortgage adviser that evening. She had been 
chasing the mortgage adviser to provide a statement to the court in relation to her dispute 
with her ex-partner and to progress the mortgage. And she was upset that she wasnt told 
earlier that the short time left on Mr Ss visa might be a problem. 
I appreciate the strong feelings on both sides here, and Ive no doubt this was a difficult call 
for both parties. But based on the available evidence, I dont think I can fairly find, on 
balance, that Openworks mortgage adviser called Mrs N and screamed and shouted at her.
Mrs N asked why Openwork didnt record her calls. Rules on mortgage regulation require 
Openwork to keep certain records. For instance, if it recommended a mortgage it would 
need to keep a record of this and why it concluded that the mortgage was suitable. It didnt 
have to record each call. Openwork didnt recommend a mortgage or start an application  it 
didnt even apply for an AIP on behalf of Mrs N and Mr S. I cant fairly find that Openwork 
made an error by not being able to provide more evidence of its discussions with Mrs N, 
including call recordings. .
It seems Mrs N was in a dispute with her ex-partner. Mrs N said this isnt relevant to this 
complaint. However, Mrs N said the situation with her ex-partner contributed to her poor 
credit record as he left her responsible for his debts. Openwork said the joint mortgages 
Mrs N had with her ex-partner were part of the problem with a new application meeting 
affordability, and Mrs N wanted Openwork to provide a statement saying this. Mrs N said it 
was a discussion with her ex-partner that led to the difficult call on 29 October 2020. I think 
the situation with Mrs N and her ex-partner is relevant here. Both parties have specifically 
referred to it. And I think its relevant in that it made trying to find a mortgage more difficult 
and stressful, but wasnt something Openwork was responsible for, or could do anything to 
change.
Mrs N and Mrs S didnt meet affordability criteria for the loan they wanted. They had adverse 
information on their credit files. Mr S had a short period remaining on his residence permit. 
Mrs N looked into ways to make the loan they wanted affordable. Shed involved her family 
and collected information and documents. All of this must have taken time and effort, and I 
can appreciate how disappointing it was that it wasnt successful. 
Mrs N said another financial adviser told her that Openwork should have known they couldnt 
afford a mortgage. But, as Ive said, I think Openwork told Mrs N and Mrs S in early 
September 2020 that the mortgage they wanted wasnt affordable. 
Mrs N and Mr S wanted to buy a property, and they must have disappointed that they 
werent able to borrow the amount they needed for this. But, based on the available 
evidence, I dont think Openwork treated Mrs N and Mr S unfairly when looking into sourcing 
a mortgage for them. And, while I can appreciate that Mrs N found the call at the end of October 2020 upsetting, I dont think I can fairly find that this was because Openworks 
adviser was rude and shouted.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman