DRN-4235216
The complaint
Mr F complains West Bay Insurance Plc unfairly declined his motor insurance claim. 
Mr Fs been represented for the claim and complaint. For simplicity Ive generally referred to 
the representatives actions as being those of Mr F. In the same way Ive referred to the 
actions of West Bays agents as being its own. 
What happened
In August 2022 Mr Fs home was broken in to. The only set of keys for one of his cars were 
stolen - but the car itself wasnt. Mr F believed, due to age of the car, replacement keys 
couldnt be sourced. He felt it wouldnt be economically viable for a new set to be produced. 
So, as the car could no longer be used, he considered it a total loss due to the theft of its 
keys. 
So Mr F claimed against his West Bay motor insurance policy for the value of the car, 
around £19,000, as a total loss. But the insurer declined the claim  stating the policy 
doesnt cover lost or stolen keys. Mr F complained that cover for loss of key is irrelevant as 
hes claiming for the value of the car, not the keys. 
In November 2022 West Bay responded to a complaint. It denied a point made by Mr F that 
it had initially accepted the claim. It said instead it had incorrectly thought his policy provided 
key car cover. It refused to cover storage costs Mr F had requested. It didnt change its 
position on the claim outcome. Mr F wasnt satisfied so came to this service. He wants West 
Bay to pay his claim and costs  including legal and storage fees. 
Our Investigator didnt feel West Bay had done anything wrong or treated Mr F unfairly. So 
he didnt recommend it do anything differently. Mr F didnt accept that outcome, so the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr F and West Bay provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be key or
central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered everything
provided.
Section 3 of Mr Fs policy provides cover for loss or damage to the car and its accessories 
caused by fire, theft or attempted theft.
The same section of the policy states What is not covered under Section 3Loss of keys, 
keyless entry system devices, tapes.
Mr F has said the policy terms are ambiguous, so should be interpreted in his favour. I dont 
agree with him on that.  The exclusion is found within the theft section  so is relevant to a 
theft of the keys. So the policy doesnt provide cover for keys when stolen  regardless of 
whether they are considered part of the car or an accessory. 
But Mr Fs claim is for the loss, or financial detriment, resulting from the theft of the keys  
rather than for the actual keys. The theft of the keys, according to Mr F, has caused a 
greater financial loss than simply the standard cost of their replacement. 
It seems there may be potential costs, resulting from the theft of the keys, beyond their 
simple replacement. (Although West Bay questions whether it really is impossible or 
unviable to replace the keys). This might range from the requirement for a second-hand lock, 
key set and ECU (with a possible impact on the value of the vehicle) to a total loss. 
Mr F says the exclusion doesnt apply to his claim  what might be considered as loss 
caused by the loss of keys. My understanding is that he feels the exclusions reach is instead 
limited to the direct loss of the keys themselves. So in his opinion any loss caused by the 
loss of keys is covered. 
He contrasts the wording of the loss of keys exclusion with another in section 3: Loss or 
damage caused by theft or attempted theft if the keys or lock transmitter or entry card from 
the keyless entry system are left in or on the car with unattended. 
Mr Fs point seems to be that second exclusion does exclude loss caused by an event  
where as the loss of keys one is restricted to the direct loss of that item. 
In my opinion the reason for any, either direct in the form of the keys or consequential, loss 
is the theft of the keys. The relevant exclusion means the policy doesnt cover theft of keys. 
So, whilst Ive considered Mr Fs arguments about ambiguity and imbalance, I dont think it 
would be reasonable to require West Bay to cover either the keys or any indirect loss 
resulting from their theft. Ultimately any loss derives from the theft of the keys  something 
not covered by the policy. So Im not going to require West Bay to settle Mr Fs claim. 
Mr Fs asked that West Bay reimburse his storage costs. He seems to have incurred these 
from a month or so after the claim was originally declined. I havent found West Bays 
decision unfair or unreasonable. So I wouldnt expect it to cover those storage costs. I can 
see Mr Fs incurred costs for his representatives for the claim and complaint. For the same 
reason, I dont find its decision unfair or unreasonable, Im not going to require it cover those 
costs. 
Finally Mr F feels West Bay initially accepted his claim  but later changed its position. Ive 
listened to the claim notification call. Im not persuaded anything it said could be taken as the 
claim being accepted. In any event it can be reasonable for insurers to change their position 
on receipt of further information. 
So Im not going to require West Bay to settle Mr Fs claim, reimburse any costs or pay 
compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require West Bay Insurance Plc to pay any additional 
compensation or to do anything differently. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman