DRN-3502204
The complaint
Mr L complains because Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. hasnt paid a claim for lost luggage under his travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr L travelled abroad in December 2020. One of his suitcases didnt arrive at his destination 
and he made a claim under his policy with Mapfre. 
Mapfre said it needed additional information, including the following:
confirmation from Mr Ls airline that his luggage has been irretrievably lost and 
whether the airline has paid him any compensation for this. 
Mr L said the airline wont speak to him and, so, brought a complaint to the attention of our 
service. 
Our investigator said he didnt think Mapfres request for this evidence was unfair or 
unreasonable in the circumstances. Mr L didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While on the same holiday, Mr L fell ill and required medical assistance. However, Mr L has 
confirmed he is only complaining about his luggage claim, so this is the only issue which I 
intend to address in this decision.
Industry rules set out by the regulator say insurers must handle claims fairly and shouldnt 
unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when making my decision 
about Mr Ls complaint. 
Its up to a policyholder to demonstrate that they have a valid claim under an insurance 
policy, and an insurer is entitled to make reasonable enquiries to satisfy themselves that a 
loss has occurred before accepting a claim. 
I appreciate Mr L has provided some documents to Mapfre, including receipts, but he hasnt 
provided any evidence that his suitcase was irretrievably lost by his airline. I understand Mr L 
says the airline wont speak to him, but I cant fairly ask Mapfre to accept his claim without 
the evidence it has asked for. Mr L simply hasnt demonstrated that his suitcase was lost. 
Im aware Mapfre has also asked for other evidence from Mr L, including details of friends for 
whom he says he bought gifts which are being claimed for. There is limited information 
available to me about this claim and I dont intend to make a finding on whether this request 
by Mapfre is reasonable. Like our investigator, I think that until Mr L has demonstrated that 
his suitcase has been irretrievably lost, there is no claim for Mapfre to consider. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr L has been unwell, but I wont be directing Mapfre to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman