DRN-3845526
The complaint
Mr P has complained that IG Index Limited (IG) unfairly closed a position on his account 
when it didnt need to. As a result, he has incurred losses and would like those to be repaid 
to him. 
What happened
In January 2021 IG removed Ripple (XRP) from its platform and as a result Mr Ps position 
was closed without his knowledge. Mr P complained to IG who rejected his complaint. It 
said;
Ripple/XRP was subject to a lawsuit which had, and continued to have, an impact on 
the providers of XRP.
IG had received notification from several major exchanges through which 
cryptocurrency exposure was hedged that XRP would no longer be offered. And as 
there was no central exchange for cryptocurrency, a range of providers was needed 
to accurately quote a market. 
A number of cryptocurrency providers had imposed restrictions, and some without 
any notice of suspension, hence the action that IG had taken. Only one of IGs 
providers was trading in XRP. This offered insufficient liquidity and was too high a 
risk for IG to offer the market. 
Ideally IG would like to give customers 30 days notice, but it was given short notice 
itself, and it maintained the action taken was in the best interest of its customers. 
There had been the risk that IG would have been prevented from selling its holdings 
on exchange and customers would be left with worthless positions they were unable 
to close. It referred to its terms and conditions.
While the notice it gave Mr P was short, it was enough to allow its customers to gain 
exposure through another provider who was willing to continue offering XRP.
The losses had already been incurred by the time IG closed the position. However, it 
did offer £100 as a gesture of goodwill and would consider any reasonable costs 
incurred by Mr P in taking an equivalent position in XRP with another provider.  
Unhappy with the response Mr P brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our 
investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. He said;
He outlined the background to the regulators announcement in October 2020 that 
cryptocurrencies through spread betting and CFDs were not suited to retail investors 
and which would not be permitted after 6 January 2021. He also detailed the 
background to Ripple Labs and the lawsuit it was subject to. On 8 January 2021 IG 
emailed its customers to say it wouldnt be offering Ripple prices, but the email went 
to Mr Ps spam folder and his positions were closed. 
He concluded that IG was entitled to take the actions it did and were in line with its 
terms of agreement with Mr P. It had good reason to do so because of the lawsuit 
and lack of liquidity. Media reports reflected this change in circumstances. IG could 
only make fair quotes if it received accurate prices and it wasnt receiving those. 
It wouldnt have been reasonable to have expected IG to phone all its clients. Email 
was an accepted method of contact.  
Mr P didnt agree with the investigator and provided additional points for consideration. They 
didnt change the investigators view. As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
The crux of this complaint relates to IG removing XRP from its platform and whether it was 
entitled to do so, and if it was, did it act fairly and reasonably in doing so.
Ive first considered whether IG acted in line with its Customer Agreement it had with Mr P. 
IG has referred to Term 23 of its Agreement and for completeness I quote sections of the 
term below;
23. FORCE MAJEURE EVENTS
(1) Subject to Applicable Regulations, we may, in our reasonable opinion, determine that 
an emergency or an exceptional market condition exists (a Force Majeure Event), in which 
case we will, in due course, inform the FCA and take reasonable steps to inform you. A 
Force Majeure Event will include, but is not limited to, the following:
(a) any act, event or occurrence (including, without limitation, any strike, riot or civil 
commotion, act of terrorism, war, industrial action, acts and regulations of any 
governmental or supra national bodies or authorities) that, in our opinion, 
prevents us from maintaining an orderly market in one or more of the Indices in 
respect of which we ordinarily accept Bets;
.
(2) If we determine that a Force Majeure Event exists we may at our absolute discretion 
without notice and at any time take one or more of the following steps:
..
(b) close any or all of your open Bets, other than any Limited Risk Bet, at such 
Closing Level as we reasonably believe to be appropriate (and, in the case of a 
Limited Risk Bet, where there is no quotation available, we may close any such 
Bet at any time when we reasonably believe that, but for the existence of the 
Force Majeure Event, the level set by you for closing the Bet would have been 
reached);
.
IG has said there werent enough providers of XRP to allow it to offer a fair market quote. 
Term 23 refers to a force majeure and that would include whether IG, in its opinion, was 
prevented from maintaining an orderly market. Im satisfied that, in IGs opinion, a force 
majeure event had occurred, and as a result it didnt consider it could offer an orderly market 
in XRP. And as IG reached that conclusion, which I dont think is unreasonable based on its 
explanation of the reasons why, I think it acted within its Customer Terms and didnt do 
anything wrong.However, in reaching its opinion that a force majeure had occurred, I will consider whether 
IG was being fair and reasonable in reaching the decision when taking the subsequent 
action that it did. 
Mr P has referred to all of the background information and correspondence from IG and the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) as well as press and social media 
commentary from around the time. He said that bearing all of this, IG should have supported 
XRP on its platform and it reneged on its promises. I outline this below -  
6 October 2020  the FCA announce that it was banning the sale of crypto-
derivatives to retail customers with effect from 6 January 2021.
9 December 2020  IG confirms that retail customers can only open positions until    
5 January 2021 and after that it will be close only.
17 December 2020  IG sends a reminder of the above. 
22 December 2020  the US Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) announce 
that it had filed a lawsuit against Ripple Labs. Major exchanges announced they 
would stop XRP trading for US residents.
4 January 2021  IG emailed Mr P to says hed no longer be able to open a spread 
bet or CFD position on crypto from 6 January 2021. After that, he would only be able 
to close existing positions. 
8 January 2021  IG emailed Mr P to say Ripple (XRP) has been subject to 
significant volatility following the announcement that the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC) has filed a lawsuit again Ripple Labs Inc. IG has been closely 
following the market reaction and has taken a decision that, given the exceptional 
circumstances, we will no longer offer trading on ripple from 12pm (UK time) on 15 
January 2021. 
19 February 2021  Further to the FCAs announcements, IG would be removing all 
cryptocurrencies from its retail client offerings and all positions had to be closed on 
24 March 2021.
As a result of the SEC announcement of 22 December 2020 IG told us that at the start of 
January 2021 it started to lose nearly all of its main liquidity providers in XRP. And in its 
opinion, there was no longer an orderly market in XRP. This led to its decision to stop 
offering XRP due to it being unable to properly hedge its client positions and therefore it 
couldnt continue to support client XRP positions.  
In IGs email of 8 January 2021 it explained Many market participants have already stopped 
or restricted trading in XRP and others have announced their intention to do so shortly. This 
includes a number of major cryptocurrency exchanges, which have announced they will be 
delisting the coin in the coming weeks. As a result, we are concerned about the potential for 
significant interruption, liquidity and pricing issues up to and including the risk that the market 
is no longer viable. These circumstances would make it difficult to price the market 
accurately, hedge client activity and provide clients with a fair service. 
In response to the investigator Mr P has said IG could have continued offering XRP at no 
risk to itself if it had imposed 100% margin which it did for other crypto assets from around 
six weeks afterwards. But I consider this to be after the event and with the benefit of 
hindsight. IG told us that it considered what was happening to XRP was an unprecedented 
situation. This was due to XRP being an unregulated cryptocurrency and there having been 
no comparable situation for any major cryptocurrency prior to that. Im satisfied that IG acted 
within its Customer Agreement terms and taking the above into account, I dont find that it 
was unfair or unreasonable int he actions that it took. Mr P has said that IGs actions were excessive and disproportionate and that if the situation 
was so pressing so as to abandon normal protocols  the 30-day notice period  it should 
have made more of an effort to convey the urgency. By this Im assuming that Mr P means 
IG should have done more than just send an email  it should have called  which he says it 
had done in the past. Clearly, it was extremely unfortunate for Mr P that the email he was 
sent by IG was sent to his spam box. But, like the investigator, Im satisfied this was a 
reasonable method of communication and theres no evidence that this had happened 
previously, and IG was aware of that. And without knowing how many of IGs clients had an 
interest in XRP, I would think it impractical for IG to have made individual calls. 
Mr P has referred to other examples of what he considers to be similar situations. But I think 
that IG was within its rights  and was prudent to do so  based on the individual 
circumstances of what was happening with XRP. I wouldnt expect it to take situations that 
had happened to other investments or assets into account. It concluded the situation 
impacting on XRP was unprecedented. 
Mr P has said IGs comments about the lawsuit were unfounded. XRP continued to trade, 
albeit remaining restricted for US residents. And Mr P has provided us with several media 
articles and provider commentary about what actions were being taken, and why, with XRP 
at around this time. But I agree with the comment IG has told us that its business model and 
regulatory permissions make it necessary for it to manage its exposure in a prudent way and 
ensure it manages its exposure within applicable limits which is only possible within an 
orderly market environment. 
Mr P has said that IG used the SEC announcement as an excuse to cheaply get out of XRP 
early and at its clients expense without the usual notice. And this was despite IGs promise 
that customers could still buy crypto assets until 5 January and could keep any crypto asset 
positions for as long as they wanted. But I think this misses the point that the situation  in 
IGs opinion  had changed. IG was concerned about there not being an orderly market 
because of the actual and potential lack of liquidity providers and took prudent action. 
IG has said that Mr P couldnt have his losses reimbursed as they had been incurred 
anyway. Mr P didnt agree. He said if IG had given him 30 days notice he could have waited 
until 1 February and traded out of XRP with a profit. And similarly, if he had been given 90 
days notice like the FCA, he could have traded out in April at a substantial profit. While I 
sympathise with Mr P that he wasnt able to act on his account as he would have liked, these 
comments about him making profits on the position if IG had acted differently can only be 
made with the benefit of hindsight. At the time IG  and Mr P  wouldnt have known how the 
price of XRP would react. And IG has a responsibility to be prudent, I would have expected 
to have acted as such rather than speculate on the potential future of a position it about 
which it wasnt confident enough to offer a fair market price. 
Taking all of the above into account and based on the individual circumstances of Mr Ps 
complaint, I wont be upholding Mr Ps complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons give, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Catherine LangleyOmbudsman