DRN-3263328
The complaint
Mr I says 1Plus1 Loans Limited (1Plus1) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about a Guarantor loan taken out by Mr I in December 2016 with 1Plus1. 
The loan was for £4500 and Mr I agreed to repay over 60 months.
Our investigator upheld Mr Is complaint and thought 1Plus1 shouldnt have provided the 
loan. She concluded that 1Plus1 didnt make a fair lending decision based on the information 
it had in front of it. 1Plus1 disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Is complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did 1Plus1 complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr I 
would be able to repay loans in a sustainable way and without experiencing 
significant adverse consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that 1Plus1 wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did 1Plus1 act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required 1Plus1 to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Is ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so 1Plus1 had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and cause significant adverse consequences for Mr I. In 
practice this meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr I undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for 1Plus1 to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr I. Checks also had 
to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Is complaint.
Did 1Plus1 complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr I would be 
able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
1Plus1 has provided evidence to show that before lending to Mr I it asked him for information 
about his income and expenditure. It also carried out a credit check and obtained a payslip 
to verify Mr Is income. Based on those checks 1Plus1 thought it was fair to lend.
Mr I was entering into a significant commitment with 1Plus1. He was agreeing to make 
monthly repayments for a period of 5 years. So, I think it is right that 1Plus1 wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Is financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks it did were sufficient to 
achieve that aim. I think 1Plus1s checks were proportionate. 
Did 1Plus1 make a fair lending decision?
I have concluded 1Plus1 made proportionate checks. But simply performing proportionate 
checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to react appropriately to the information 
those checks show. Those results might sometimes lead a lender to undertake further 
enquiries into a consumers financial situation. Or, in some cases, the results might lead a 
lender to decline a loan application outright.
Our investigator concluded in her view that 1Plus1 needed to undertake further checks 
based on what it had gathered. In particular she felt it needed to do more, after it had seen 
the results of its credit check. So, she asked Mr I to provide bank statements so she could 
get a better idea of what 1Plus1 would have seen if it had done so. Mr I was unable to 
provide this information. So, our investigator on balance, felt 1Plus1 shouldnt have given the 
loan anyway, based on what it would have seen in the credit check it had gathered. I agree 
with our investigator, for largely the same reasons. I will explain what these are. 
1Plus1 would have seen within the credit check it gathered that Mr I had around £18,000 in 
unsecured debt to repay and had 18 active accounts. I think this is quite a lot of debt for Mr I to repay considering the amount of income he was receiving, based on what he had told 
1Plus1 his income was. This was recorded down by 1Plus1 as £1080 a month. Mr I had 
disclosed to 1Plus1 that he was living at home and had no accommodation costs but had 
some living expenses such as food and clothing at around £250 a month. 1Plus1 added a 
buffer of £100 for emergencies. 1Plus1 loans could then see that he had a significant 
amount of credit repayments each month at around £1331. This monthly figure was higher 
than his disclosed monthly income. I can also see though that taking out this loan would 
reduce that relatively high monthly figure to £358. 1Plus1 calculated that based on this the 
loan would be affordable for Mr I. But like our investigator, I think there was quite a lot of 
information on the credit report, alongside the overall figure of debt that Mr I had accrued, 
that I think ought to have given it serious concerns about Mr Is ability to sustainably repay 
this loan especially as it was over a long term of 5 years.  
I have drawm that conclusion, because Mr I had several accounts that were either in arrears 
or had defaulted. In 2 of these accounts Mr I had defaulted only a month before asking 
1Plus1 for this loan. I think on seeing all of this, 1Plus1 ought to have seen that Mr I was 
having problems managing his finances and repaying his existing credit. In addition, I think it 
would have been harmful to Mr I for him to add to his already high overall unsecured debt 
levels. 
In conclusion, I dont think, based on what 1Plus1 had in front of it, that it should have given 
Mr I this loan. I dont think it made a fair lending decision. 
1Plus1 needs to put things right.
Did 1Plus1 act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive also thought about whether 1Plus1 acted unfairly in some other way and I havent seen 
any evidence that it did.
Putting things right  what 1Plus1 need to do
refund all interest and charges Mr I paid on the loan;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
If there is a remaining balance left to repay, 1Plus1 should work with Mr I to find an 
affordable repayment plan. 
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Is credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 to take off tax from this interest. 1Plus1 must give Mr I a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Is complaint. 1Plus1 Loans Limited should 
put things right for Mr I as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman