DRN-1514711
The complaint
Mrs B says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs B bought the policy in 2003 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint for the following reasons. 
The postal application form had a box to tick if Mrs B wanted PPI. The form was posted to 
her, and she had to post it back to RBS, so I think she completed the form in her own time 
without the presence of an RBS representative. So, I think RBS made Mrs B aware that she 
had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it. She says she wouldn't 
have ticked the box, but I don't think it would be reasonable to uphold the complaint based 
solely on her memory of something that happened so long ago.
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Mrs B doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover  and based on what I know about her circumstances it looks like the policy 
couldve been useful to her. So, I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying 
it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Bs comments. But these points dont change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman