DRN-3932792
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC declined payments he was attempting to make while 
he was on holiday overseas.
What happened
Mr R wanted to pay for an excursion while he was overseas on holiday with his family. But 
Lloyds wouldnt allow the payment for the excursion to complete or allow money to be 
transferred to an account he held with another provider so the incursion could be paid for 
from that other account. Mr R wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Lloyds responded to Mr Rs complaint and explained that they hadnt blocked or stopped any 
payments. However, Lloyds did acknowledge that Mr R hadnt received an acceptable 
standard of service when hed contacted them to discuss the issues hed encountered, and 
they apologised to Mr R for this and made payments to him totalling £115 as compensation 
for any trouble and upset he may have incurred, as well as a further £60 to cover any costs 
Mr R incurred when calling from overseas. Mr R wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so 
he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt Lloyds had been able to 
demonstrate that they hadnt blocked the attempted payments as theyd explained. Mr R 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Id like to begin by confirming that it isnt within the remit of this service to 
investigate and uncover exactly what happened here regarding the payments Mr R 
attempted to make. 
Instead, given that this is a complaint brought against Lloyds, my review here will only 
consider the actions of Lloyds and specifically whether I feel Lloyds can be considered to 
have acted fairly or unfairly here towards Mr R. This means I wont be considering what may 
or may not have happened regarding any of the other parties involved here, including the 
company selling the excursion or the other banking services provider Mr R attempted to use.
When considering the actions of Lloyds, Im satisfied  given the information provided to this 
service by Lloyds, which includes screenshots of internal systems  that Lloyds didnt block 
the payments that Mr R attempted to make to the holiday company selling the excursion. 
This is because Lloyds internal systems show that the attempted payments to the holiday 
company were approved by themselves. And, following a payment approval, its then for the 
company requesting the payment to complete the process and take the approved payments.
Im similarly satisfied that Lloyds didnt prevent the transfers to the other banking services 
provider as Mr R believes was the case. Mr R has explained to this service that he believes 
the issue may have been with Lloyds requirement for Secure Customer Authentication 
(SCA) to have been completed. And Lloyds have confirmed that SCA was required. 
But while it was Lloyds that required the SCA, its for the party or merchant initiating a 
payment or transfer request to provide any required SCA prompt. This means that if Mr R 
wasnt being provided with the necessary SCA prompt, that isnt something which Id 
consider holding Lloyds responsible for.
I can appreciate Mr Rs frustrations with what took place here, but Im satisfied that Lloyds 
shouldnt fairly or reasonably be considered as being responsible or accountable for those 
frustrations  for the reasons explained above. 
Finally, in regard to the payments totalling £175 that Lloyds have paid to Mr R as 
compensation for the poor service he received when contacting Lloyds and his costs in 
doing so, Im satisfied that these amounts do fairly compensate Mr R for what happened in 
these regards and I can confirm that theyre commensurate with what I may have instructed 
Lloyds to pay here, had they not done so already.
All of which means that I feel the response Lloyds issued to Mr Rs complaint already 
represents a fair and reasonable resolution to what happened here. And it follows from this 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any further action. 
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr R was wanting, but I trust that hell understand, 
given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman