DRN-2414903
The complaint
Mr A has complained that following his car being stolen his motor insurance policy provided
by Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) was cancelled and his claim rejected.
What happened
Mr A reported the theft of his car as being stolen from outside his partners house when he
wasnt there. Calpe initially voided Mr As policy and rejected his claim due to information on
his driving history that was not disclosed to it when Mr A took the policy out. Calpe later
agreed that Mr A hadnt non-disclosed any information but decided to void the policy and
reject his claim anyway, as it felt there were discrepancies in the way Mr A had described
the theft.
Mr A explained that he parked his car on his partners drive in the early hours of the morning,
around 5am, and had a friend collect him as he had been smoking and drinking and he
wasnt able to drive. He later had a call from his partner at around 10.15am to say the car
had gone missing.
Calpe said there were several inconsistencies between the statement Mr A gave Calpe
when he reported the theft, and the statement he later gave. Calpe relied on the following
term in Mr As policy when it declined his claim:
7. Inaccurate or misleading information
When asked, if you or anyone acting on your behalf
Misleads Us in any way, in order to obtain this insurance, obtain more favourable terms or to
reduce the premium payable
Misleads or fails to accurately answer questions which affect either the terms and conditions
or the premium of this insurance or underwriters accepting your cover, including as to who is
the main driver of your car, information relating to claims, no claims discount, motoring
convictions, criminal convictions, Modifications to your car and its use;
We or the Underwriters may
Immediately avoid your policy from the start date of the policy. If your policy is avoided as a
result of section 7 Underwriters will not pay any claim and in certain circumstances may
retain any premiums paid.
Calpe also explained that it was requesting payment for storage costs and recovery fees as
these were not covered under the policy.
Our Investigator considered the evidence available and thought the terms and conditions of
Mr As policy had been applied fairly when Calpe decided not to pay his claim. But she did
think the customer service Mr A had received was lower than he should have expected so
said Calpe should pay him £150 compensation.
In my provisional decision sent in November 2020 I said:
I accept that Calpe made a mistake when it first voided Mr As policy and that this could 
have been avoided had it looked at the information in more detail. But as Calpe and Mr A 
both accept Calpe made a mistake, I dont think I need to go into any more detail about this.
Calpe has rejected Mr As claim and voided his policy due to discrepancies in two 
statements he provided to it after his car was stolen. We discussed this with Mr A and he
explained that any discrepancies were only minor and were still a correct account of what
had happened, or the detail had changed because he had received further information
himself after he first notified Calpe of the theft.
I have looked at the discrepancies Calpe has highlighted to be its reasons for cancelling Mr
As policy and not paying his claim, I will go through these below.
Calpe says when Mr A first notified it of the claim, he said he had been drinking. 
When he gave a statement later, he explained he had been drinking and smoking. I 
dont think either version Mr A gave Calpe was inconsistent, in the second statement 
Mr A gave further detail of the event. I have also listened to this part of the call when 
Mr A first notified Calpe of the claim and he said the reason he parked there was 
because he had been drinking, it doesnt appear that Calpe asked him if he had been 
smoking so it is not surprising that this information wasnt gathered during the call.
Calpe says when Mr A first notified it of the claim, he said he was picked up by a 
friend after he parked his car and went home. In the later statement Mr A said he was 
picked up by a friend and went for a drive around the city centre. Ive listened to the 
call and the Calpe representative said to Mr A that once you parked your vehicle you 
went to your home address, didnt you? and Mr A replied yes. I dont think this 
response means he necessarily went straight home, and Calpe didnt ask any follow 
up questions to this.
Calpe says when Mr A first notified it of the claim he said his partner called him as 
she noticed his car missing from the driveway when she was on her way to the 
shops, but later Mr A said she noticed the car missing after stepping outside to 
smoke. Mr A has told us that his partner smoked every morning and that she was 
also going to the shops. I dont think this explanation is unreasonable.
When Mr A first reported his claim he said there were two sets of keys to the car. He 
later said that the second key had been lost around two years ago. Mr A has 
explained to Calpe that the car used to belong to other family members before he 
took ownership of it. Previously the car had belonged to both his father and his uncle. 
He has told us that after speaking to his uncle he confirmed the second key had 
previously been lost. I have also listened to the call when Mr A first reported the theft 
of his car and he explained the first owner of his car was his uncle, then his father, 
who he then purchased the car from. During the call he also says he has one key 
and he thinks his uncle has the other set. He also says he is not 100% sure his uncle 
has the other set of keys as he has not asked him.
When Mr A first reported his claim he said the car didnt have an MOT, he later said it 
did have an MOT but that he wasnt sure where it was. During the call when Mr A 
reported the claim he did say the MOT had run out in February. I wasnt present 
when Mr A made the second statement, but he has told us that even though the 
statement says he told Calpe there was an MOT there never was and he wouldnt 
have said that. There does seem to be a discrepancy here but I dont think Mr A was trying to deceive Calpe into believing the car did have an MOT and I dont think this is 
enough to reject his claim.
Calpe have recently sent us a call recording to show it gave Mr A a chance to explain the 
discrepancies between his two statements. I have listened to the recording provided and Mr 
A asks for the reasons the claim was declined and explained he didnt understand as he had 
told them exactly what happened.
The Calpe advisor explains the reasons are due to discrepancies. Mr A attempts to go 
through the discrepancies during this call explaining that he didnt feel there were 
discrepancies. The Calpe advisor explained she was stopping him there and that it wasnt 
something she could overturn. Based on this I dont think Mr A was given the opportunity to 
explain the differences between the two statements.
From the information available I dont think Calpe has acted fairly in declining Mr As claim,
cancelling his policy and asking him to pay related costs such as recovery and storage.
So, I thought Mr As complaint should be upheld. I gave Calpe and Mr A time to respond to 
my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Calpe nor Mr A responded to my provisional decision with anything further for me to 
consider. So, I see no reason to make a finding different to that I made in my provisional 
decision.
I require Calpe Insurance Company Limited to:
pay Mr A £300 compensation for the overall trouble and upset it has caused him 
throughout the claim process
no longer require Mr A to pay storage and recovery fees. If Mr A has paid any of 
these costs Calpe should refund these costs plus 8% simple interest from the date he 
paid them to the date the funds are returned
remove any record of cancellation or voidance it has placed on all internal and 
external databases
pay Mr As claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy
My final decision
I uphold Mr As complaint and require Calpe Insurance Company Limited to put things right 
by doing what I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman