DRN-2344104
The complaint
Mr P complains that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited didnt complete the
opening of an ISA for him.
What happened
In early March 2019 Mr P made an online application to open the ISA. He failed to provide
his National Insurance (NI) number, so Scottish Friendly wrote to him explaining that the ISA
had been provisionally opened, but he would still need to provide his NI number.
In response, Mr P sent Scottish Friendly an email with a copy of the front page of his tax
return, which showed his NI number. However, several weeks later Scottish Friendly sent
Mr P an email saying that it still didnt have the NI number. He says he then called Scottish
Friendly and was reassured by the person he spoke to that it did in fact have the NI number.
Soon after, Mr P received a letter from Scottish Friendly informing him that the opening of
the ISA hadnt been completed because it hadnt received his NI number in time.
Mr P complained to Scottish Friendly, but it concluded it hadnt done anything wrong. It did
however, offer him £50 in respect of its handling of the complaint.
Mr P referred the matter to this service, where our investigator reached a different
conclusion to that reached by Scottish Friendly. He felt that the method Mr P had used to
send his NI number  by email using an email address hed found on a previous
communication from Scottish Friendly  was reasonable. And he was persuaded that Mr P
had called Scottish Friendly to confirm receipt of the NI number, although there was no
record of this call being made. So, he concluded that Scottish Friendly had acted incorrectly.
The investigator suggested that Mr P be compensated for any loss hed incurred due to the
delay in his ISA being opened. He also suggested that the £50 be increased to £100 to
reflect the trouble caused to Mr P.
Scottish Friendly didnt accept this, but it did propose that it pay Mr P £200 for the failure to
monitor the email address to which hed sent his NI number, and the fact that no auto-
response was sent.
Mr P didnt accept this offer, so as no agreement could be reached the matter was referred
to me to review.
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained that Id reached a different conclusion to 
that reached by the investigator. I said: 
When Scottish Friendly received Mr Ps ISA application with the NI number missing, as
noted, it sent him a letter explaining that the account had been provisionally opened but that
the NI number was still needed. The letter asked him to contact it by phone, email or post
using the details provided.
There doesnt appear to have been an email address provided in the letter. But there was a
weblink given for email queries. However, Mr P didnt use this. (I note hes said he later tried
to use it and encountered problems doing so. But he hasnt indicated that he was prevented
from using it at this point in the process. I also note his comments regarding the opening
times of the telephone service, but these were not unusual  8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to
Friday).
Instead, Mr P found an email address on an email that had been sent to him some weeks
earlier. This email concerned subscribing to Scottish Friendlys email list and included the
address Mr P used to send his NI number  mail@scottishfriendly.co.uk. The email said that
the address was for questions about the subscription list.
Despite this, Mr P sent his NI number to this email address. But as the address wasnt
monitored, or set up to auto-respond, he received no acknowledgement.
Mr P was aware that the mail@scottishfriendly.co.uk address wasnt the method by which
hed been asked to contact Scottish Friendly. And, as noted, the email made reasonably
clear that the address was in fact intended for a different purpose. Mr P wouldve also been
aware that he didnt receive any response to the email he sent to that address, which is
unusual when contacting a corporate email address.
So, while I can understand why he might have thought it was a valid way in which to send
his NI number, it wasnt, and I dont think I can place any blame for that on Scottish Friendly.
I appreciate that it wouldve been useful for it to have monitored the address and/or provided
an auto-response. But I dont think it acted incorrectly in not doing so. Ultimately it had no
reason to think the email address would be used for the purpose Mr P chose to use it for.
Because the address wasnt monitored, Scottish Friendly was unaware that it had been sent
the NI number. So, it sent a reminder email to him a couple of weeks later. Mr P says that
upon receipt of this he called Scottish Friendly and was told that it did, in fact, have the
number. As such, he took no further action.
Scottish Friendly has no record of this call  theres no recording of it or notes on Mr Ps
account relating to it. There are, however, records of several other calls he made later in the
process.
Given that I dont think that Scottish Friendly acted incorrectly regarding the subscriber
email, for me to uphold the complaint, its in respect of this phone call that I need to be
satisfied that Scottish Friendly made a mistake  namely, that Mr P called, and a member of
its staff misinformed him about the status of the NI number, leading him to believe there was
no need to act further or think that completion of the opening of the ISA wouldnt happen.
While I note Mr Ps recollections, balancing the evidence as a whole, I dont think I can
reasonably make a finding that Scottish Friendly acted incorrectly and misinformed Mr P. Not
when there is no other evidence, other than Mr Ps recollections, that the call took place.
I recognise this will be disappointing for Mr P. But I must look at the matter impartially, in
light of all the evidence, and be fair to both sides.
I note Mr P has provided some further evidence that Scottish Friendly already had his NI
number, in relation to a product hed taken out in the past. However, from what Scottish
Friendly has said, it doesnt appear that a NI number was required for that product. And in
any event, I wouldnt have expected it to cross reference Mr Ps details with other products
to try and find missing information. I think it was reasonable for it to contact him in the ways it
did and ask him for the information.
I note also that Scottish Friendly has offered Mr P £200 for having failed to monitor the emailaddress or provide an auto-response from it. If my view of the complaint remains
unchanged, I wont be making any direction to Scottish Friendly in respect of compensation.
So, the matter of the payment will remain something to be agreed separately between Mr P
and Scottish Friendly.
Scottish Friendly confirmed that it didnt have any further comments or information to 
provide. 
Mr P responded to say, in brief:
Id based my provisional decision on an incorrect assumption about a key aspect.
Hed used the mail@scottishfriendly address because it wasnt titled as a 
subscription or no reply address. So, he was reassured that Scottish Friendly would 
read his email and reply or forward it. 
It was effectively the same as sending a letter to the wrong department  it would be 
forwarded on to the correct one. 
The inbox for the address was monitored, so there was an active decision taken to 
not forward the email on. 
Corporate emails dont always provide an auto-response. 
He did make the call and his willingness to make a subject access request supported 
this.
Scottish Friendly should have cross-referenced the application with its other records. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
While Mr P may have assumed the mail@scottishfriendly address would be monitored, 
Scottish Friendly has confirmed that, for whatever reason, it wasnt. I accept that Scottish 
Friendly invited questions (about its subscription list) to be sent to the address. But in my 
view that isnt evidence that the address was monitored. 
Even if it had been, Mr Ps email might not have been forwarded appropriately. But that 
wouldnt have mattered as he received a second reminder that Scottish Friendly didnt have 
the NI number. And while I note his comments about the call that he says he made in 
response to the reminder, as I said in my provisional decision, without any other evidence to 
support the call being made or what said on it, I dont think I can fairly conclude that Scottish 
Friendly acted incorrectly.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman