DRN-3381609
The complaint
Mr P says Nationwide Building Society failed to return his payment in full after an 
international transfer failed.
What happened
Mr P sent £1,000 to an overseas bank account via a SWIFT transfer. He paid a £20 
processing fee. The money didnt arrive in the recipients bank account. Nationwide put a 
trace on the transfer and £964.01 was returned. Mr P want the full £1,000 to be returned, 
asking why the recipient bank would deduct any fees if it did not receive the money. Mr P 
had to borrow from friends and family when the money didnt arrive which caused stress. So 
he also wants compensation for his losses.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said Nationwide had 
made no error. It put a trace on the payment when Mr P contacted it about the non-receipt of 
the money overseas and it has returned the full amount of funds it received from the 
recipient bank within the 20 working-day period its process allows. 
Unhappy with this assessment, Mr P asked for an ombudsmans review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not found any failings on the part of Nationwide, so I am not upholding Mr Ps 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr P requested a SWIFT transfer for £1,000 on 1 September 2021. Nationwide has provided 
evidence to show it processed this accurately in line with Mr Ps instructions. When Mr P 
contacted the society on 10 September 2021 to say the money had not been received it put 
a trace on the payment. £964.01 was returned by the recipient bank on 21 September 2021 
and credited to Mr Ps account on 22 September 2021. So within the 20 working-day 
timeframe it set out.
I understand Mr P is frustrated by the £35.99 difference, but Nationwide has returned in full 
the amount it has evidenced it received from the recipient bank. It has explained the 
difference would be due to charges and/or difference in exchange rates that it does not 
control. To clarify, the recipient bank did receive the money - but it was not allocated it to the 
named account. Mr P would need to ask the accountholder to contact the overseas bank to 
investigate this further.    
It follows as I have not found Nationwide made any mistakes I am not asking it to take any 
further action. Mr P asked for compensation for his losses but based on my findings it would 
not be fair to ask Nationwide to pay Mr P the £35.99, or any other amount to compensate 
him for the stress he says he has suffered.  
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman