DRN-3602700
The complaint
Mr H complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) rejected his request for a 
small credit card limit increase, but then offered a higher overdraft with a higher APR.
What happened
Mr H applied for a £100 increase to his NatWest credit card. This is because a credit 
reference agency, through his NatWest app, indicated this would improve his credit rating. 
But his application was declined. He was unhappy with this, because it was only a small 
amount and he had previously been offered higher increases to his credit card limit. In 
addition, he received two offers of a £1,000 overdraft facility on his current account. 
Mr H complained to NatWest, but they could not see they had done anything wrong. 
NatWest were satisfied they had correctly followed their processes and, in their response, 
they pointed out that loans, overdrafts and credit cards were all different lending products 
with varying criteria and eligibility and they said they therefore shouldnt be compared.
Mr H then complained to us. Our investigator couldnt see that NatWest had made an error 
with their processes and procedures and he did not consider this to be irresponsible lending 
as these are different products, under different regulations which are analysed on different 
systems. He understood the disappointment and frustration that Mr H had experienced and 
pointed out the role of this service. He also clarified that NatWest have a legal obligation to 
assess each application on its merits and treat everyone fairly within the relevant guidelines 
and rules.
As Mr H remains dissatisfied, this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the view that I agree with the conclusions reached by our 
investigator. I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed, but Ill explain why this is.
Ultimately, what I have to consider here is whether NatWest treated Mr H fairly when 
considering his application for the additional £100 credit he requested. In my view, they did. 
Its for NatWest to decide how much they lend to people who want to borrow. What they 
should do is ensure that any request to borrow is subject to appropriate and proportionate 
checks, in line with the relevant rules, guidelines and their own lending criteria. Those 
checks will depend on a number of factors.
Here, Mr H only requested a relatively small amount of borrowing, because he was 
encouraged to do so on his banking app. But that doesnt mean that NatWest should have 
automatically agreed to it. As Ive explained, they were entitled to check whether they were 
prepared to lend that amount, however small it was and thats what they did here. After they 
performed these checks, they decided that they wouldnt be willing to lend and I think that 
was a decision they were entitled to make and one they reached fairly.
I can see why Mr H is unhappy here. He had his credit card limit increased several times in 
2020 and then NatWest offered him an overdraft for much more than he was requesting 
here. But, credit cards and overdrafts are different products that operate and are repaid 
differently  so theyd need to be considered differently, depending on what a customer asks 
to borrow.
In any event though, Ive seen that when NatWest have made these offers  they always 
made clear that any increase to a credit limit, or offer of an overdraft would be subject to 
checks. So even when the credit reference agency mentioned that this may help Mr Hs 
credit rating, it was no guarantee that Mr H would be entitled to this amount. Id add that this 
is just one of the credit reference agencies NatWest uses and they applied the same 
process that they would for all their customers. From a review of the information on file I 
cannot see that Mr H was treated any differently to any other customer here. 
While I understand Mr Hs frustrations, I havent seen anything which suggests NatWest 
have acted unreasonably or unfairly here and I dont think they need to do anything further in 
this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman