DRN-3504894
Complaint
Miss A is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) closed her account and then 
registered a fraud prevention marker against her.
Background
In March 2021, Miss As current account received payments of £2,200.00 and £4,900.00 into 
her current account. These funds were immediately transferred out to a crypto-currency 
provider. 
Barclays subsequently received notification from the third-party bank, responsible for 
sending the payments to Miss As account, stating that the payees of the funds had reported 
being victims of fraud. As a result of this notification, Barclays reviewed Miss As account 
and its investigation led it to decide to close the account and record a fraud prevention 
marker.
Miss A was unhappy and complained. Barclays looked at Miss As complaint and didnt 
uphold it. As Miss A remained dissatisfied she referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss As concerns. He didnt think Barclays had done 
anything wrong or treated Miss A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Miss A disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Barclays has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss A is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Barclays must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Miss As account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Barclays also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss A was deliberately dishonest 
in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. 
This can include Miss A allowing someone else to use her account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss As complaint, I need to decide whether I think Barclays had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss As account and that her actions 
suggest she was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Barclays did 
have enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more 
detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Miss As 
account in March 2021, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Miss A was complicit in allowing her account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Miss A has said she was looking to invest in crypto currency and was approached by 
someone who said they would show her how to invest and lend her the money to start with. 
She said she didnt know this person who offered to help her with the investment but was 
told to transfer the money that arrived into her account to a crypto-currency account in her 
name and then from there transfer them to another crypto-currency account. 
Miss A has also said that once she made the transfers the people who she was investing 
with blocked her messages and she didnt have any further contact with them. Finally,     
Miss A wasnt able to provide any of the messages she exchanges with the individuals but 
was able to provide some screenshots of some crypto-currency transfers on her account 
with her provider and some evidence of individuals who no longer follow her on social media. 
Ive thought about what Miss A has said. But while Miss A has provided us with some 
screenshots showing a number of individuals who no longer follow her on social media there 
arent any messages at all to show the involvement of anyone else in the activity which took 
place on Miss As account. 
Its also a similar story in relation to the screenshots Miss A has provided from her crypto-
currency account too. There isnt anything in this information which enables me to 
reasonably conclude that Miss A could have reasonably believed that she was participating 
in a legitimate investment with the people she described. I also find it difficult to understand 
why Miss A didnt retain any of the messages she says she exchanged with the individuals, 
given she held them responsible for what happened and Barclays placed the block on her 
account almost immediately after the funds were transferred. 
Im afraid Miss As inability to provide anything to corroborate being an unwitting participant 
in what took place, together with this having happened on an account which had very little 
other activity on it and Miss A being unable to explain why she reasonably believed 
someone she didnt know would be prepared to lend her thousands of pounds to invest, 
means that I cant reasonably conclude she was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I 
think its more likely than not Miss A was complicit in her account receiving fraudulent funds 
and then being dispersed  albeit I do accept that she may not have gone on to realise the 
profit she expected to make at the outset.  
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Barclays did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Miss As account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Miss A was complicit in this. As this is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Barclays to record a fraud prevention marker in 
the circumstances that it did. 
I now turn to the closure of Miss As account. The terms and conditions of Miss As account 
state Barclays could close an account in certain circumstances. These included where it had 
reasonable grounds for thinking a customer commit(ted) (or attempt) fraud against us or 
someone else.
Ive already explained why I think Barclays was reasonably entitled to conclude that Miss As 
account had been used for fraudulent purposes when explaining why it didnt act unfairly in 
recording the fraud prevention marker. As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much 
the same reasons, the terms and conditions permitted Barclays to close Miss As account. 
So overall I dont think that Barclays acted unfairly towards Miss A and Im not upholding this 
complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss A  especially in light of the 
ongoing impact shes said the fraud marker is having on her. But I hope shell understand 
the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to. 
Furthermore, Miss A might find that shes able to open an account with another bank as long 
as she applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman