DRN-3477661
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds handling of their
claim for damage caused by an escape of water under their home insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr and Mrs M contacted RSA to make a claim following an escape of water
from a damaged waste pipe/trap in their bathroom.
Mr and Mrs M were asked to provide the costs for tracing the leak and quotes for the
reinstatement work, which they did. Their contractor replaced the existing wet room with a
new bathroom. A settlement payment was agreed for this work.
Mr and Mrs M say they had no problems with their contractor when completing this work.
They wanted to use the same contractor for the repairs required to their kitchen, but RSA felt
their quote was too high. It inspected the damage and it was subsequently agreed for its
contractors to carry out the work.
In mid-August 2020 work began on the kitchen ceiling. The possibility of asbestos was
identified. This meant testing had to take place. Mr and Mrs M say waste material from the
ceiling was left outside their home for around a week in plastic bags, whilst waiting for the
test results. Around a week after the potential for asbestos was identified, the test result
came back positive.
The earliest appointment to remove the asbestos was two and a half weeks later. The
earliest reinstatement of the ceiling could start was nine and a half weeks later in November
2020. Mr and Mrs M say they were without a kitchen ceiling for this time. This meant it was
dusty, dark, noisy, and smells from the kitchen travelled upstairs through the ceiling.
Whilst the work was ongoing Mr and Mrs M found damage caused by RSAs contractors to
tiles, work surfaces and their fridge. The business agreed to repair the damage and replace
the damaged fridge, which couldnt be repaired.
Mr and Mrs M complain that RSAs process is longwinded. They have criticised the standard
of communication between it and its contractors, and with them. They have a young baby
and living conditions werent satisfactory because of the missing ceiling, which allowed dust
and debris to fall into the kitchen. They had condensation on the kitchen walls as no
extraction fan was available. And were worried about health issues whilst waiting for the
asbestos to be removed.
RSA acknowledged the issue with waste asbestos material left outside, and the damage its
contractors caused. It offered £250 compensation. Mr and Mrs M didnt think this was
enough and referred their complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld their complaint. He thought there were avoidable delays in the
handling of the claim. He thought more couldve been done by RSA to seek alternative
options to the timescales advised by its contractor. Because of the distress and
inconvenience caused he felt compensation totalling £600 was fairer.
RSA disagreed that this level of compensation was justified and asked for an ombudsman to
review the complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2022 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold this complaint. I understand this will be very
disappointing for Mr and Mrs M, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair.
RSA agreed a settlement payment with Mr and Mrs M for the leak investigation and the work
carried out to the bathroom. Their contractors carried out this work.
I understand there is no dispute about the settlement payment RSA provided for the
bathroom element of the works. My focus here is on the time taken to remove and replace
the kitchen ceiling and the issues Mr and Mrs M have described that impacted on this.
RSA appointed a contractor in mid-July 2020 to dry out the areas of the house affected by
the leak. I understand a bathroom pod was made available as Mr and Mrs M decided this
was preferable to the available alternative accommodation.
At the end of July 2020 RSAs contractor assessed the damage. It says this was necessary
as it felt the quotes Mr and Mrs Ms contractor provided were higher than it had expected. It
asked for an asbestos test relating to the glue used to fix the bathroom flooring. This didnt
go ahead as Mr and Mrs Ms contractor was happy to proceed with the work without this. I
understand a settlement payment was agreed and the bathroom works were progressed.
In mid-August when RSAs contractor attended to remove the kitchen ceiling a further
potential for asbestos was identified. The contractors stopped work having removed a
section of the ceiling. Mr and Mrs M describe how the contractors left bags containing the
ceiling material outside their home. The bags had been pecked by birds and were torn.
RSAs records indicate the ceiling waste was double-bagged when it was left outside. And
the ceiling had been covered in polythene to make it safe.
Given the risk asbestos can pose I can understand why Mr and Mrs Ms had concerns. I
understand the bags were removed by RSA a week later. Mrs M describes making several
calls before this happened. In its complaint response RSA agrees that this material shouldnt
have been left by its contractor.
There was a delay of around a week whilst the asbestos test results were obtained. The
result was positive. Mr and Mrs M returned the payment RSA provided for the cost of works
in the kitchen. And instructed it to carry out the works. I understand this is because their
contractor wasnt now available to continue the work due to the testing delay. RSA emailed
Mrs M in response to her concerns to confirm that the kitchen area wasnt unsafe to use. It
says its contractors would remove the asbestos in a controlled manner and all surfaces
decontaminated.There was a wait of around two and a half weeks before RSAs contractor was available to
remove the remaining parts of the ceiling. The ceiling was removed at this point, but it wasnt
reinstated until just over nine weeks later in November 2020.
Prior to the ceiling being reinstated, RSA carried out an inspection in October 2020 because
Mr and Mrs M thought the ceiling posed a hazard. RSAs records show the ceiling area was
covered by polythene, after it was removed. Mr and Mrs M were concerned that rubble and
debris continued to fall onto the polythene, and an area of this had come loose. They were
also concerned about condensation, as there was no extractor fan and the polythene added
to this problem.
RSAs contractor says heavy duty sheeting was in place. It identified a small area of plaster
that had been damaged, which Mr and Mrs M thought was due to dampness. RSA agreed to
have this area re-skimmed. It says the section of polythene that had come loose or been
loosened allowed some ventilation which was helpful. It was in this area that dust entering
the kitchen was noticed. It was decided not to add further polythene, but to wait for the
ceiling to be replaced. I understand temporary lighting was installed in mid-October in
response to Mr and Mrs Ms concerns about the kitchen being dark.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Ms concerns that bits of rubble and dust were entering the
kitchen where there was a gap in the polythene. As well as the condensation issue. But I
think RSAs response was reasonable. Nothing of benefit could be done to improve the
situation, until the ceiling was replaced. A certain level of disruption and inconvenience is
inevitable in circumstances such as these. I sympathise with Mr and Mrs M having to live
with this disruption. But as above, I think RSA responded reasonably to address the
concerns raised and provide the appropriate assistance.
Its clear the time taken to replace the kitchen ceiling was the main cause of the ongoing
disruption. The records show it only took a few days to reinstate the ceiling when the
contractors attended. The asbestos testing delayed matters by a week. The availability of
contractors to remove the ceiling added a further two and a half weeks. But the delay to
reinstate the ceiling took the longest time, with a further nine weeks wait for the work to start.
RSA refers to a backlog of work in the area due to the time the country was locked down due
to the pandemic. It says its contractors were working through a backlog of claims at this
time. The records show RSAs claims handler asked for appointments to be expedited in the
event of cancellations. But ultimately the business was reliant on its contractors to have slots
available. The main constraint being the backlog of work that had been caused by the
pandemic.
There were additional complications. Mr and Mrs M highlighted damage caused by RSAs
contractors to floor tiles, a kitchen work top, a radiator, and their fridge. I can see from the
records that RSA investigated this in depth with its contractors and Mr and Mrs M to
ascertain who was responsible. It eventually took responsibility and arranged for the repairs
and for a voucher allow Mr and Mrs M to replace their fridge. This was resolved in January
2021.
I acknowledge Mrs Ms comments regarding the damaged areas. She was frustrated and felt
she was being interrogated as if she had caused the damage herself. I can understand that
she found this upsetting.
Ive read the email exchanges regarding this issue to understand what was discussed. I
accept that RSA must validate any cost its being asked to pay for. In these circumstances it
wasnt entirely clear how the damage had occurred or when. Its contractors didnt acceptresponsibility. So, RSA made the decision to pay for the cost of repairs and replacement
based on the information it had. In the circumstances I think its approach to dealing with this
issue was reasonable and its decision to pay these costs was fair.
I note a cash settlement was provided in respect of the extraction fan, coving and a section
of tiling to be completed in this area. I understand the fan was initially installed but later
removed because of issues with how this was done. From the records the fan was fitted half
over tiles and half over a section of wall that isnt tiled. The notes indicate the fan had been
purchased by Mr and Mrs M and wasnt an exact fit with the one it was intended to replace,
which caused the fitment issues. But it was agreed that RSA would pay the cost of the work
required.
I acknowledge Mrs Ms comments that she struggled to find a contractor to fit the fan and
complete the remaining finishing work, because of the impact of the pandemic.
Ive thought about the overall standard of communication that took place between RSA, its
contractors and Mr and Mrs M. As well as their view that RSAs processes are long winded
and complicated.
RSA has provided detailed records from all interactions regarding the claim. I have
considered Mrs Ms testimony about the conversations she had, and her view that she had
to do a lot of chasing and contacting RSA with updates. She says the contractors took time
updating RSA. It then had to provide authorisation, which caused delays.
Having considered all this, I think the records show RSAs claims handler was actively
involved in managing the claim. She made regular contact with Mr and Mrs M and relayed
concerns and instructions to the contractors in a timely manner. There are references to Mrs
M being asked to speak directly to RSAs contractors on occasion, to arrange appointments,
as this approach was more efficient.
I dont doubt that Mrs M was regularly in contact with RSA and the contractors it used. This
is evident from the records provided. Its also indicated that the contractor responsible for the
asbestos work proved difficult to contact.
The records show RSAs claims handler was often in discussion with contractors, behind the
scenes, resolving issues and following RSAs process so that works, and other action could
be authorised. I think there were some instances where responses and perhaps courtesy
calls at an earlier stage wouldve been beneficial for Mrs M.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Ms frustration at the time taken to complete the repairs to their
home. I acknowledge the point they make about waiting times for surveys and material lists
to be produced and then authorised. As well as their view that RSA should have more
contractors available. But I think its reasonable for RSA to follow its process that allows it to
validate the claim and any costs prior to appointing contractors or agreeing a settlement
payment.
In summary, I think there were elements where RSA couldve provided better
communication. This wouldve helped to ensure Mrs M felt RSA was aware of and actively
progressing all issues relating to its contractors. She clearly had concerns about the ongoing
disruption and potential health hazards caused by the missing ceiling and the asbestos. This
was especially important as she was looking after a young baby with the added difficulties
this caused.
I agree that RSA shouldnt have left bags of material containing asbestos outside Mr and
Mrs Ms house. This caused them worry and distress. The damage caused by its contractorscreated further disruption and inconvenience whilst repairs were arranged, and a
replacement fridge sourced.
Mr and Mrs M were offered alternative accommodation. They chose to have a bathroom pod
as they didnt think the alternatives offered were workable. This was mainly due to the size
and location of the properties. Although it was clearly inconvenient and disruptive for Mr and
Mrs M to live in their home whilst work was ongoing, I dont think RSA couldve done much
more to limit the impact.
As above, some level of inconvenience is unavoidable in these circumstances. But I think
RSA has shown that it couldnt have arranged for contractors to have attended any earlier.
The discovery of asbestos was unfortunate. But the main issue in repairing the damaged
ceiling was the availability of contractors due to the pandemic. I note Mrs M has referred to
her own experience of being unable to arrange contractors to attend for this reason.
In considering all this, I dont think RSA treated Mr and Mrs M fairly in relation to the
asbestos material left at their home, the damage caused by its contractors and some
aspects of communication. But I think it behaved fairly in offering £250 compensation. It
should provide this payment if it hasnt already. However, I dont think it was responsible for
the delays in contractors being available. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore to
resolve this complaint.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
RSA didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs M responded to say they were disappointed with the outcome. They say the 
impact on their family during the claim wasnt just practical but also emotional and mental. 
They say the kitchen wasnt fully functional for weeks and the alternative accommodation 
wasnt suitable for their baby or their dog. 
They say they understand delays were caused by Covid but they were the ones who had to 
live in those conditions with a young baby. They dont think the stress caused with respect to 
the ceiling issue has been considered given the impact this had on their living conditions. 
Mr and Mrs M say its hard for a case reviewer to measure the impact on mental health of a 
family living in lockdown with a kitchen that is unsafe because of dust and asbestos. They 
say the fridge, floor tiles and radiator damaged by RSA were eventually replaced. But this 
was after they had been accused of causing the damage, which added to the stress of the 
situation. They also say the replacement extractor fan wasnt the same size as the original  
because the original was no longer available to buy. 
Mr and Mrs M dont think the compensation paid by RSA is adequate for the stress and living 
conditions they experienced. They also think that by our service agreeing that £250 is a 
reasonable payment, it gives the impression that RSA did nothing wrong. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I considered the issues regarding the removal and reinstatement 
of the kitchen ceiling. I can understand that this was a very stressful time for Mr and Mrs M with their young baby given the disruption caused. By no means is my intention to diminish 
the impact this has had. 
When considering the impact on Mr and Mrs M, I acknowledged a delay occurred due to a 
suspicion of asbestos in the kitchen, which necessitated testing. I noted the area was 
covered with heavy duty polythene and thought RSA had taken reasonable steps to ensure 
the area was safe and carried out inspections when Mr and Mrs M highlighted concerns. 
There was some dust due to a small gap in the polythene  but following an inspection RSA 
didnt think this posed a risk. It also thought the ventilation this allowed to the area was 
beneficial, given that condensation had been noticed. In the circumstances I thought RSA 
had behaved reasonably to provide the appropriate assistance and minimise the disruption 
caused to Mr and Mrs M. 
This didnt mean there was no disruption, but some inconvenience and disruption is 
inevitable in circumstances such as these. Based on the information provided I dont think 
much more couldve been done by RSA to minimise this. I acknowledge Mr and Mrs M didnt 
think the alternative accommodation was suitable. Im sorry this was the case. But they did 
agree to be provided with a bathroom pod whilst works were ongoing, and as stated I think 
reasonable action was taken to ensure the kitchen was safe and as disruption free as was 
possible. 
The main issue for the delays experienced was the availability of contractors due to the 
pandemic. I considered this in my provisional decision and noted Mr and Mrs M had the 
same issues when they tried to appoint their own contractors. I did consider the impact on 
Mr and Mrs M and their family, but I didnt think RSA couldve done more to have the work 
completed more quickly. 
I understand Mr and Mrs M were upset that they felt they were being blamed for damage 
caused by RSAs contractor. In my provisional decision I said it wasnt clear when or how the 
damage had occurred. I thought it was reasonable that the business attempted to validate 
the costs it was being asked to pay for. In the circumstances it decided to pay for the cost of 
the replacement items, which I think was fair. 
I have considered the impact on Mr and Mrs M and their family as a result of the delays and 
living with the disruption. I acknowledge their comment as to the stress and mental impact 
this had on them. I agree it isnt easy to measure the impact such events have had on 
someones mental health. But I do think RSAs compensation payment for £250 is fair and in 
line with what our service considers reasonable in these circumstances.  
The company is aware of the issues identified with the service it provided. I explained that 
this includes its failure to remove the bags of asbestos material in a timely manner, the 
damage caused by its contractors, and the standard of its communication. So, its aware that 
it didnt behave fairly toward Mr and Mrs M in relation to these points.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is 
that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Mike WaldronOmbudsman