DRN-3877026
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) hasnt justified 
the costs for works carried out to his property when he made a claim under his home and 
buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
In November 2021 Mr C made a claim for damage to his property caused by a third party 
vehicle collision. His insurer LV says the third party insurer has accepted liability for the 
incident and LV expects to recover its costs from them. 
LV instructed a Loss Adjuster (LA) to deal with Mr Cs claim on LVs behalf. 
The LA provided Mr C with a Schedule of Works (SOW). However he later contacted the LA 
as he was unhappy with some of the works set out and the costs quoted. He thought they 
were excessive and wanted LV to justify them. 
In August 2022 LV didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It explained that the costs for the SOW 
had been shared with him in error and were commercially sensitive. It said the prices 
charged were correct and in line with agreed rates for the works involved. 
Mr C remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. He wanted LV to provide a 
SOW with costs - to justify them - and if incorrect to provide an updated schedule. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mr C didnt agree. He 
disagrees with the costs for some items on the schedule and LVs overall costs. He wants 
LV to provide an updated accurate schedule of costs. 
Mr C says we havent accurately recorded his complaint. He says this is detrimental to him. 
So he asked for an ombudsman decision. 
Mr C provided an estimate from an independent contractor for some equivalent works that 
LV completed on his property. And he provided a pricing list for cavity wall insulation. 
The Investigator passed the information provided by Mr C to LV for its comments. In 
response, the LA on behalf of LV accepts that the schedule should have been more 
transparent and provided a further breakdown of the works as it appeared that one of the 
items costs were excessive. But it explained that the schedule didnt break down weekly 
labour, staff and administration costs. As they were summarised elsewhere in the schedule, 
the LA can understand how this made some of the costs appear excessive. But LV is 
satisfied that the costs are correct. 
The Investigator provided an explanation to Mr C - but this is limited due to the commercially 
sensitive information around costing which cannot be shared with Mr C. 
Mr C didnt accept the Investigators response and so the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Cs complaint is that he disagrees with some of the costs set out by LV in its 
schedule. He wants LV to provide an accurate schedule of work with updated costs to justify 
what he believes is in parts excessive. 
It isnt our role to decide on a claim - but to look at whether an insurer has acted reasonably 
or not. If it hasnt, we look at what the impact was and what it did to put things right. 
LV shared the costs for the works with Mr C in error. This is commercially sensitive 
information and so we cannot share what LV has provided to us with Mr C about the costs of 
the works. I understand this may be frustrating for Mr C. 
The additional information provided by Mr C for facia works and cavity wall insulation have 
been reviewed by LV. While this did alert the LA to some of the costs which he agreed stood 
out as appearing excessive, Im satisfied from LVs explanation provided by the LA that the 
costs quoted are reasonable. So it doesnt change the outcome. I appreciate that this wont 
give Mr C the answer he wants. 
Mr C says he doesnt know what the indirect cost of the claim may have. A claim under a 
policy may or may not affect the cost of future premiums. Insurers apply different rates to a 
customers claims history depending on their risk appetite. This is why we see a wide range 
of prices offered for insurance using the same information on a comparison website for 
example. In this case, LV intends to look to recover its costs in full for the claim from the third 
party insurer as they have accepted liability for the incident. 
I understand how strongly Mr C feels about his complaint. But I dont think LV has acted 
unreasonably. It isnt obliged to provide Mr C with an updated schedule of works with revised 
costs. It explained that it provided costs information in error and wouldnt share further 
information on costs with Mr C. I think it has provided a reasonable response to this service 
as to why one of the summary costs for cavity wall insulation appear excessive. On review, it 
includes associated costs related to the claim. Im satisfied LV has fairly dealt with Mr Cs 
claim in relation to the costs Mr C disagreed with. This means Im not asking LV to do any 
more.  
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C. But for the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman