DRN-1697117
 
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy about having to send personal data  in the form of certified personal 
information and an original share certificate  to a PO Box number apparently not registered 
to Interactive Investor Service Limited (the business), leading to a delay in opening his 
account and registering his shares. 
Mr H says hes not been able to sell shares when the prices were higher and has therefore 
lost out financially.   
 
What happened
The business partially upheld the complaint. It made the following key points:
Mr H applied for an account under its Irish site on 7 January 2019 which was opened 
on 8 February 2019. 
It usually conducts electronic checks, but because this failed it requested a 
Verification of Identity (VOI) form along with a certified copy of ID and proof of 
address to satisfy its customer due diligence requirements. 
As Mr H was opening an account under its Irish brand, he was asked to send 
documentation to its Irish PO Box which would then be re-routed to its operational 
centre in Leeds. 
The documentation Mr H sent was never received so couldnt be forwarded to be 
processed. It thinks this may have been down to the postal service. 
The Irish PO Box  address wasnt incorrect (as it had initially said), but since Mr Hs 
complaint it has updated its process to ask for documentation to be sent direct to its 
Leeds centre as this was probably the most efficient way of receiving such 
information. It offered Mr H £50 compensation for any distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Had Mr H been told to send the documents directly to Leeds it wouldve been able to 
open the account sooner and thats why it upheld the complaint  even though the 
information  to send to the Irish PO Box  at the time was correct. 
Following Mr Hs account opening it received a share certificate on 11 February 
which was deposited in his account. The certificate was for a registered stock that 
had been delisted on the UK stock exchange since 16 July 2008 therefore was non-
tradeable unless done privately. 
It wouldnt normally allow deposits of share certificates for delisted stock but at the 
time it didnt have a system in place to help it verify if a stock had been delisted. So if 
it had known the stock was delisted it wouldve rejected it.  
Mr H called and spoke to the business customer service on 12 February, he was 
notified that he held a delisted stock, and would need to cross-border the investment 
to trade on the NASDAQ. It also expected  upon instructions  to fully settle his 
share certificate deposited on 11 February within five working days, and was told by 
the adviser to contact the business to convert his investment to another listing.Mr H followed up by calling the business on 18 February, as agreed, enquiring about 
the status of his shares and his cross-bordering request. But as there had been no 
request made in the previous call he was told the adviser would review his earlier call 
and get back to him. 
The second adviser found that there was no NASDAQ listing for this specific 
instrument to be cross-bordered to, but as an exception the business would be willing 
to facilitate the conversion of this investment to the ADR instrument for Amarin stock 
held on the NASDAQ, as it should never have accepted the certificate into Mr Hs 
account initially.
On 27 February, Mr H was notified of the charges for facilitating this request. Mr H 
called to confirm the costs on 14 March and its transfer team tried to contact him 
back but was unsuccessful. Mr H got back in touch on 18 March and had no issue 
with the charges and instructed the business to proceed  which began on 19 
March.  
The UK version of Amarin was removed from his account on 22 March and the new 
ADR version of the NASDAQ settled on his account on 28 March 2019.
To date Mr H hasnt sold his investment and has transferred his holdings to another 
provider on 20 May 2019.
Although there was a month between the application and the date when the Mr Hs 
account was opened this hasnt contributed to any lost opportunity. Investment in the 
Amarin Corp had not been traded since 2008, and wouldnt have been even if the 
account had been opened in January 2019.
An exception was made for Mr H, to allow him to liquidate the investment, and the 
process began as soon as it received his instructions. 
There was no contradiction between the information provided by the business during 
the first two calls with Mr H.   
It has located three emails from Mr H which had been replied to. It located two 
additional emails dated 22 and 24 January 2019 that hadnt been replied to but they 
were requesting confirmation that his VOI documentation had been received  which 
is down to an admin error. 
Mr H is unhappy that it doesnt offer secure messaging to its clients under its Irish 
brand but the business confirmed that this wasnt a feature with this account  it was 
never referred to for this account for any of its branding. 
 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld for the 
same reasons as the business. In summary, he said:
Although there had been a month between the request to open an account and when 
the account was opened, this hasnt caused Mr H a financial loss. The £50 
compensation offered for trouble and upset is fair and reasonable. 
The holding of Amarin shares wasnt tradable and the transferring of stock appears to 
have been done with no delays when Mr H agreed to it. 
The price movements in the stocks dont reflect a decrease in price from when Mr H 
applied to open the account to when the stocks were in his account on 28 March 
2019. 
The business has provided historic price data which shows on 7 January the price 
was $14.07 and on 28 March a price of $18.44. And his holdings were intact when he 
transferred to a new provider on 20 May 2019.  
 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators conclusions. In summary, he said:
He feels the investigators decision is based on false information. He wants to know where his documents went before the business received them in 
February.
Hed like someone who cares about the truth to look at his complaint objectively.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons, Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr H says, I think the business 
decision to partially uphold this complaint and pay Mr H £50 compensation for trouble and 
upset is fair and reasonable. 
Im not persuaded that the delay in opening his account has resulted in a missed opportunity 
to sell his shares that were delisted in the UK stock exchange since July 2008.
But before I explain further, I think its important for me to recognise Mr Hs strength of 
feeling about this matter.
He has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading  its not what Im required to do  in order to reach a decision in this case. I 
appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent 
points. 
I appreciate Mr H feels that the investigator has based his views on false information, and 
Im sorry he feels that way. My role is to consider the evidence presented by him and the 
business, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on 
the facts of the case, rather than take any sides. I note Mr H hasnt made any new points or 
pointed out what he says is false.  
Its not my role to regulate or punish the business for any alleged breaches, thats the role of 
the industry regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). My role is to consider whether 
or not the business has done anything wrong, and whether compensation is required to put 
things right.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened.
I agree with the business that it wouldve been more efficient to ask customers  applying 
through its Irish site  to send documentation directly to its operational centre in Leeds, 
rather than a postal address in Ireland before being re-routed to Leeds. But I dont think the instructions were wrong at the time as it was an established process in 
the event that electronic checks failed and it still needed to verify a customers identity and 
address for the purposes of performing its customer due diligence. I note following Mr Hs 
complaint, it has changed its process, so customers can directly send documents to Leeds. 
In this instance Im satisfied that Mr H sent the documents as requested but I also think its 
likely that the business didnt receive them on time probably because they went missing in 
the post. In the circumstances Im unable to hold the business responsible for the actions of 
a third party postal service over which it has no control. 
I note that there were two emails that the business didnt respond to about whether or not it 
had received Mr Hs documents. I accept that this is likely to have been as a result of a 
admin error. Im aware the business didnt reply to two emails dated 22 and 24 January but 
did on 29 January, but I dont think this has caused him any financial loss. 
Despite the unhelpful delay in opening the account Im unable to safely say that this has 
prevented Mr H from trading his shares and resulted in loss.
I note Mr H received a share certificate a few days after opening his account which was for 
registered stocks that had been de-listed on the UK stock exchange since July 2008, and 
therefore was non-tradeable unless done privately. 
I understand that the business wouldnt normally allow this kind of deposit but at the time it 
didnt have the system to verify if the stock had been de-listed, otherwise it wouldve rejected 
it from the outset.  In any case, I think the business couldve left the issue to Mr H to resolve, 
instead it offered to help him convert to another listing because it shouldnt have accepted 
the de-listed stock in the first place. 
I understand that there were some phone discussions, and it was only after the business 
managed to get conformation from Mr H, having discussed its fees, that the he wanted to 
proceed. On the evidence Im unable to say that Mr H was given any contradictory 
information, and I dont think it was wrong for the second phone operative from customer 
services to verify what Mr H was first told, before proceeding with the removal of the stocks 
from his account. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think that its unlikely that Mr H requested the 
cross-bordering in the initial call on 12 February although I think he accepted that that would 
need to happen. On balance I think its likely he was told the share certificate had been sent 
to the registrar and that the adviser would call back when it had settled in Mr Hs account 
(which was likely to take five days) and thats when Mr H could request the cross bordering. 
In short, Im persuaded that an exception was made for Mr H, to allow him to liquidate the 
investment, and the process began as soon as it received his instructions. Im conscious that 
despite the transfer the Amarin shares still havent been sold, and Mr H moved his holdings 
to a new provider, which doesnt suggest that he was keen to sell his shares even when he 
was able to. 
In any event, based on the historic share price data, it doesnt look like the share prices have 
gone down and Ive not received anything from Mr H to the contrary. 
Im mindful Mr Hs concerns about secure messaging but Im satisfied that this wasnt a 
feature that was offered on this account. Perhaps its something the business can consider 
introducing, but its entirely a matter for the business in the exercise of its reasonable 
commercial judgement and its not for us to tell it how to run its business. Overall I think the compensation offered for distress and inconvenience is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Im mindful that the business has changed its process with 
regards to where customers should send documents. I also note the impact of the delays 
have been limited and havent resulted in any financial loss to Mr H that I can see. 
I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not persuaded to require the business to do anything.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I think the compensation offered by Interactive Investor Services Limited is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman