DRN-4516332
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Santander UK Plc didnt reimburse all of her legal costs related to 
obtaining a new grant of probate and new executors for her late husbands estate.
What happened
Mrs L had a joint mortgage with her husband. Her husband died in 2015. His executors were 
a firm of solicitors that stopped practising.
Mrs L says Santander told her it needed a new grant of probate and new executors to be 
appointed to deal with the mortgage. Mrs L says this involved considerable time and costs, 
and was unnecessary as Santander allowed her to repay the mortgage in late 2020 before 
she obtained a new grant of probate.
In 2019 Santander had agreed to pay Mrs Ls reasonable legal costs in obtaining a new 
grant of probate. It paid about £5,300 by late 2020. Mrs L asks that it pays her remaining 
legal costs (of about £1,500), which she says were incurred due to delays caused by the 
pandemic, lockdowns and amendments to the application to the court.
We told Mrs L and Santander that we can only look into part of this complaint. We cant look 
into Mrs Ls complaint that Santander required a grant of probate/new executors and closed 
the mortgage before this happened, as this was brought to us outside our time limits.
We told Mrs L and Santander that we can look into Mrs Ls complaint that Santander didnt 
agree to re-imburse her additional legal costs of about £1,500.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties explaining why I didnt think it was fair and 
reasonable to require Santander to reimburse Mrs Ls remaining costs. My reasons were 
substantially as set out below.
Santander didnt respond. Mrs L didnt agree. 
Mrs L raised issues about whether it was right that Santander said she needed a grant of 
probate to deal with or redeem the mortgage account. As weve explained, we cant look into 
that part of her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When it wrote to Mrs L in January 2019, Santander said it would look to reimburse any 
reasonable costs to you in obtaining a new grant of probate. I note the reference to 
reasonable costs. Santander didnt agree to pay all of Mrs Ls costs.
In November 2019 Santander told Mrs L this offer was an error. It said it wouldnt usually pay 
costs related to estate handling. It said having made the offer it would cover costs related to 
the grant of probate and accrued court fees, but not estate handling. It said it would only pay 
costs incurred and not estimates.
Santander wrote to Mrs Ls solicitors in late 2019 saying it would pay the costs set out by the 
solicitors on 5 November 2019 and nothing more. It wrote to Mrs L confirming this and 
saying it was willing to cover the additional cost mentioned, however only up to the amount 
that has been advised. This was about £5,300.
Santander made the agreed payments (totalling about £5,300) to Mrs Ls solicitors in late 
2019 and in late 2020.
The mortgage was repaid in late 2020. Santander wrote to Mrs L confirming the mortgage 
account was closed in January 2021.
Mrs L contacted Santander in 2022, asking it to re-imburse further legal costs. Mrs L says 
her legal costs increased due to the pandemic, and she doesnt think its fair that she should 
bear the cost of this. I appreciate that Mrs L is upset that her costs increased for reasons 
outside her control. But I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Santander to 
reimburse Mrs Ls additional legal costs. Ive taken the following into account when reaching 
this decision.
It seems the legal work related to the new grant of probate and appointment of new 
executors continued after the mortgage was redeemed. So this work was required for 
reasons not related to the mortgage. And I think its likely Mrs L would have had to incur 
these legal costs regardless of Santanders requirements regarding the mortgage.
In response to my provisional decision Mrs L said the legal work that continued after the 
mortgage was redeemed involved the court hearing to authorise new executors and lodging 
the probate with probate records. She said she didnt understand why I said it was likely 
shed have had to incur the legal costs regardless of Santander's requirements regarding the 
mortgage. Thats simply because Mrs L continued to incur these costs after the mortgage 
account was closed. Mrs L should speak to her solicitors if she needs information about why 
this work was needed after the mortgage account was closed.
Mrs L also said that when she sent the money outstanding at the end of the mortgage term 
her assumption was that the payment would be held in a holding account until the new 
executors had been appointed and had authorised the removal of her husband's name. I 
cant see that Santander was responsible for this misunderstanding on Mrs Ls part. 
I can see from the email Mrs Ls solicitors sent to her in late 2021 that at least some of the 
legal work related to changes to or restrictions on the property title that were not related to 
the mortgage or the grant of probate.
When the solicitors wrote to Mrs L in late 2021 they said: Santander agreed to pay [£5,300] 
including VAT, towards your legal fees for removal of the executors and we have advised 
you there would be additional costs that were not covered by the Santander contribution. So 
I think Mrs L was aware that there would be legal costs that shed have to pay herself.
Mrs L said her understanding is that Santander would pay reasonable costs to obtain a new 
grant of probate. But I think Mrs L is actually asking that Santander pays all of her costs  
even those incurred after the mortgage account was closed and not obviously related to the 
mortgage or the grant of probate. I dont think thats reasonable.
Santander was clear about the contribution it would make towards Mrs Ls legal costs. It 
didnt agree to pay all of her costs, and I dont think its fair and reasonable to require it to do 
so.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman