DRN-2032600
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society has unfairly recorded a marker at CIFAS, 
the national fraud database.
What happened
Mr B says he discovered that in 2016 Nationwide had registered a CIFAS marker. He says 
that he wasnt involved in any fraudulent activity and he contacted Nationwide in March 2020 
about this.
Nationwide said it wouldnt be removing the marker. And it referred to a final response letter 
it had sent Mr B in April 2016. It said he had reported a £2,000 withdrawal from his account 
then as fraudulent and told it that he didnt have his card and PIN and wanted a refund. But a 
payment into his account at that time of £3,500 had been reported as fraudulent by another 
financial business. And that was even though Mr B had initially said it was a payment from 
his partner that he was entitled to. Nationwide then told him it wouldnt be upholding his 
claim or changing its decision to close his account.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that Mr B had now 
told him that he didnt recognise where these funds had come from. And that he thought it 
might be linked to a past case of impersonation fraud the year before. So, Mr B said he 
reported this to the authorities and provided Nationwide with the reference number to help 
with the investigation.  Mr B said that at the time he was paid weekly and sometimes had a 
bonus. And that hed checked with his employer and family to see if theyd paid the money 
in. But none of them had. His account had been closed and he later found out about the 
marker and said that Nationwide told him it would be removed.
Our investigator said that Nationwide had noted that the credit of £3,500 had been received 
on 14 April 2016. And it had documented that Mr B said it had come from his partner from 
the sale of goods online. The next day £2,000 was withdrawn in a branch. Although Mr B 
had later said to Nationwide that he didnt know where the funds came from it was 
reasonable to rely on what hed initially said especially as it was unlikely hed had been 
confused about such a large amount from his partner. Nationwide had carried out an 
investigation that confirmed the funds to be fraudulent. Mr B hadnt provided evidence to 
support that he didnt know the source of the funds or about the outcome of any police 
investigation. Our investigator considered Nationwide had grounds to support the marker 
being added at CIFAS.
Mr B didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said he would take this up 
with the authorities and that his evidence hadnt been looked into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Nationwide 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
Nationwides referred to the final response letter it issued in April 2016. And what it says in 
that letter is supported by its case notes from the time. I find it unlikely that it would have 
wrongly documented Mr Bs initial explanation about the source of the funds. And so, Im 
satisfied that when he first contacted Nationwide that was on the basis that he said he hadnt 
made the £2,000 withdrawal. Nationwide received a report that the credit had been 
fraudulently obtained and Mr B had by then said he didnt know where the funds were from. 
But the point is that he never had any entitlement to them. 
I am now looking specifically at the CIFAS marker applied. The key issue is whether Mr B 
reasonably knew those funds werent legitimate. Hes told our investigator he saw them 
online and this is why he contacted Nationwide. I dont accept as most likely that he only 
later came to realise and so explain that this was money from someone he didnt know and 
wasnt rightly his. I appreciate the difficulty in him providing anything more about what 
happened in 2016. But he also hasnt provided the further information he said he could to 
our investigator. Im satisfied on balance that Mr B would reasonably have known that these 
funds were never legitimately his. And I say this taking into account that its documented that 
hed been inconsistent in his explanation.
Nationwide says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr B received fraudulent funds 
and made a claim that he hadnt received a withdrawal of part of those funds. So, Ive looked 
at whether Nationwide was fair to apply the marker, based on the evidence it had, and the 
investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must have carried out checks 
of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This essentially means that 
Nationwide needs to have enough information to make a formal report to the police. And that 
any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to believe fraud or 
financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Bs account of events and the evidence Nationwide has provided, Im 
satisfied that Nationwide had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr B received fraudulent funds into his account and initially said that these were his.
- He made a fraud claim relating to the withdrawal of funds that were never rightly his..
- Nationwide had grounds to believe that Mr B had been trying to benefit from 
fraudulently obtained funds based on the evidence it hadMy final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman