DRN-2866927
The complaint
Ms B, Mrs D and Mrs S complain that AWP P&C SA declined their claim against their travel 
insurance policy. Reference to AWP includes reference to its agents.
What happened
In July 2019, Mrs D booked a boating trip with her two sisters, Ms B and Mrs S. She also
purchased a travel policy with AWP.
The intended departure and return dates of the trip were 9 September 2019 and
13 September 2019 respectively. A few hours after arrival, Ms B, injured herself when 
boarding the barge at 11pm or 12 pm. The emergency services were called to the scene, 
treated Ms Bs injuries and left but returned later when Mrs B reported pain to her side.
Ms B was taken to hospital for treatment in the early hours of 10 September 2019. Ms B also 
damaged her mobile phone in the accident.
On 10 September 2019, Mrs D curtailed the trip and collected Ms B from hospital. Ms B 
was the driver but couldnt drive home. Ms B, Mrs D and Mrs S booked into a hotel and 
made arrangements for other family members to collect them. They stayed in a hotel for 
one night and returned home on 11 September 2019.
Mrs D made a claim against the policy in relation to the unused part of the trip, hotel costs 
and mobile phone repair costs for Ms Bs phone. AWP declined the claim. It said that the 
policy excludes claims for damage to mobile phones. It said that the policy doesnt cover 
cancellation or curtailment of a trip. AWP said that under the medical expenses section of 
the policy, theres cover for additional hotel accommodation costs but only if its medical 
assistance team has pre authorised the costs. In any event, AWP said that theres no 
medical evidence from the treating doctor to confirm that it was medically necessary to 
curtail the trip or stay in a hotel. It offered Mrs D £100 as a gesture of goodwill because of 
the time it took to respond to the complaint.
Mrs D didnt accept AWPs offer of compensation. She accepted that the policy doesnt 
cover hotel accommodation but didnt think that AWPs decision in relation to the 
remaining parts of the claim was fair. She pursued the complaint in relation to the costs of 
the curtailed trip and repairs to Ms Bs mobile phone. Mrs D said that they were only four 
hours into the trip when the accident happened and that a representative of the holiday 
provider told them theyd get a full refund.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that she didnt think that 
AWP had acted unfairly in declining the claim in relation to Ms Bs mobile phone. The 
investigator said that AWP hadnt pointed out at the outset that the policy doesnt cover 
curtailment. She thought that AWP should refund the trip costs and pay interest and 
compensation.
AWP didnt agree with the investigator. It said that the policy makes it clear whats insured 
under the summary of cover on page one. It said that the policy covers emergency 
medical and associated expenses, personal possessions, personal money, personal 
accident, personal liability and additional expenses. AWP said that theres no reference to 
cancellation or curtailment, so these matters simply arent covered. It said that it didnt sell 
this policy.
There was further correspondence, which I wont set out here. AWP asked that an 
ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
On 10 May 2021, I sent the parties my provisional decision in this case. I said that I intended 
to uphold the complaint but for different reasons and with a slightly different outcome than 
had been suggested before. I said that I intended to direct AWP to deal with the claim for 
curtailment, subject to the other terms and conditions of the policy, pay interest on any 
settlement and pay the compensation of £100 it had already offered, if it hadnt already done 
so. I said:
I need to decide whether AWP acted unfairly in declining the claim for curtailment of the trip 
and for repair costs for Ms Bs mobile phone. Mrs D has previously accepted AWPs 
position in relation to the hotel costs, so Im not considering that part of the claim further.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy. The policy provides: 
THE TRAVEL INSURANCE PRODUCTS AND SERVICE
This travel insurance is suitable for those who wish to insure themselves when travelling in 
respect of medical emergencies, cancellation (for overseas holidays only), losses to 
possessions/money, personal liability and similar expenses incurred from your travel. []
The SUMMARY OF COVER  PERSONAL TRAVEL shows six areas of cover and sets 
out the relevant limits and excesses due under the policy. The areas of cover are shown as 
follows:
Section/Cover
1 Emergency medical and
 associated expenses         
 2 Personal possessions    
 3 Personal money             
 4 Personal accident
5 Personal liability
6 Additional expenses
The personal possessions part of the policy says as follows:
PERSONAL POSSESSIONS  SECTION 2
WHAT YOU ARE COVERED FOR
Up to £1,500 in total for your personal possessions damaged, stolen, lost or destroyed 
on your journey. []
WHAT YOU ARE NOT COVERED FOR
[]
Breakage of or damage to: [] phone equipment.
GENERAL EXCLUSIONS
The following exclusions apply to the whole of your policy:We will not cover you for any claim arising from, or relating to, the 
following: []
10. You not enjoying your journey or not wanting travel. 
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AWP has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I intend to uphold 
the complaint and Ill explain why.
The policy doesnt cover curtailment of a trip. I think thats a significant limitation 
that should have been brought to the attention of Ms B, Mrs D and Mrs S at the 
outset, to enable them to decide whether the policy met their needs.
I dont think that the Insurance Product Information Document made it clear 
that curtailment wasnt included in the cover: it wasnt mentioned in the What is 
not insured? section of the summary. This service asked AWP to provide screen 
shots from the sale process or information about what Ms B, Mrs D and Mrs S 
were told at the outset, but AWP hasnt provided anything further. Based on what 
Ive seen, I dont think that AWP brought to Ms B, Mrs D and Mrs S attention that 
the policy didnt include cover for curtailment.
The Insurance Product Information Document referred Ms B, Mrs D and  
Mrs S to the policy wording, but I dont think that was enough to draw their 
attention to the significant limitation in relation to curtailment.
I think that if Ms B, Mrs D and Mrs S had been made aware that the policy didnt 
cover curtailment they would have sought another policy that included that cover. 
So, I dont think its fair and reasonable for AWP to decline the claim for curtailment 
on the basis that its not covered under the policy. In order to put matters right, I 
think that AWP should deal with the claim as if the policy included cover for 
curtailment, subject to other terms and conditions of the policy, such as the excess 
due under the policy.
Mrs D says that a representative of the holiday provider said that theyd get a full 
refund. I dont think that the representative of the holiday provider was acting as an 
agent of AWP when he or she said that. Even if I reached a different conclusion 
about that, I wouldnt proceed on the basis that the incorrect information was true. I 
think its fair in this case for AWP to deal with the claim for curtailment in 
accordance with the other policy terms.
The policy provides cover for personal accident, but the injuries Ms B suffered 
arent the sort of very serious injuries covered under the policy. So, the claim here 
cant be considered under that section of the policy.
As Ive set out above, theres an exclusion in relation to damage to phone 
equipment. I dont think that AWP acted unfairly in relying on that exclusion in 
declining that part of the claim.
I think that the compensation of £100 AWP has already offered in relation to the 
time it took to deal with the matter is fair. In reaching that view Ive taken into 
account the nature, extent and duration of the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the delay.
Responses to my provisional decisionMs B, Mrs D and Mrs S had no further comment. AWP acknowledged receipt of my 
provisional decision but didnt provide any substantive response. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information or comment I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. So, for the reasons Ive explained, 
I think that AWP didnt bring a significant limitation of the policy to the attention of Ms B,    
Mrs D and Mrs S at the outset. If it had done so, I think they would have sought another 
policy that included cover for curtailment. In order to put matters right, AWP should deal with 
the claim as if the policy included cover for curtailment, subject to the other terms and 
conditions of the policy.
I remain of the view that Ms Bs injuries dont fall within the scope of the very serious injuries 
covered by the policy. Also, I dont think that AWP acted unfairly in declining the part of the 
claim that related to phone equipment. 
For these reasons and those set out in my provisional decision, I uphold Ms B, Mrs D and 
Mrs S complaint in part.    
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, I direct AWP to:
deal with the claim for curtailment of the trip, subject to the other terms 
and conditions of the policy;
pay interest on any settlement at the simple rate of 8% per year, from the date of 
the claim to the date it makes the payment and;
pay the compensation of £100 it has already offered to pay, if it has not already 
done so.
HM Revenue & Customs requires AWP to take off tax from this interest. AWP must give
Ms B, Mrs D and Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if they ask for one.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms B, Mrs D and Mrs S complaint in part. AWP P&C SA 
should now take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B, Mrs D and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman