DRN-2817198
The complaint
Mr D complains that Plus500 UK Limited added unfair charges to the trades in his Contracts 
for Difference (CFD) account and would not allow him to close his trades. 
What happened
Mr D held a CFD trading account with Plus500. He complains about a number of things, but 
mainly that:
- When trading on the platform, he attempted to close a trade, but instead new trades 
opened its place
- He was charged a currency conversion fee when trading in USD which he believes is 
against CFD trading
- He was charged unfair overnight funding fees for his positions
- He has had to request closure of his trading account as he believes Plus500 use 
unfair trading practices.
In response, Plus500 say Mr D must have been on the Trade screen in order to open any 
new positions. They say its not possible for a new trade to be opened as a result of a trade 
being closed on a different screen.
They say they operate an execution only service and say traders are responsible for 
understanding each instrument they choose to trade in. They say their prices are clearly 
listed before each trade is placed and it is the traders choice whether they wish to trade at 
the price and conditions that are being offered. In addition, they say, the terms of the CFD 
account were accepted before Mr D began trading. They didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Unhappy with this outcome Mr D brought his complaint to this service.  
Our investigator explained that his role in this complaint was to consider if Plus500 had done 
anything wrong. He concluded that Plus500 had acted in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the agreement. He didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr D didnt agree so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint. I will explain why.
Much of the concerns Mr D raises are issues to do with conduct and regulation of CFD 
trading generally which are beyond the remit of this service. It is not for this service to 
prescribe how a firm should run its business or operate its services. Our remit mainly relates 
to addressing alleged wrongdoings by firms and any detriments or loss allegedly associated 
to a complaint.
The investigator has explained in detail the nature of CFD trading, the risks associated with it 
and the warnings that are given prior to the commencement of any trading. I wont repeat 
these again here, but I do think its important for Mr D to understand this, particularly as 
Plus500 provide an execution only service. They do not give any advice to their customers 
and it is entirely the customers responsibility to ensure they use their own knowledge and 
understanding when investing. 
I want to re-assure Mr D that I have considered everything he has said and reviewed all the 
information he has provided. Whilst I appreciate his strength of feelings and dont want to 
undermine what hes experienced, I have to look at what has happened here specifically. 
Opening and closing positions
Mr D says he was not able to close his position and instead an opposite new position 
opened up. The position he refers to was opened at 12:37 on 13 March 2020, three minutes 
after the previous one was closed at 12:34. Plus500 say it is not technically possible on their 
platform for a new position to open in place of a closed position. They say in order to close a 
position, a trader must click on the close button. This is standard practice amongst various 
platforms and should have been clear to Mr D when he started trading.
I have found Plus500 to be transparent in the way they operate - the available Buy price is 
visible and clear for him to see and he can make the choice whether he wishes to trade at 
that price. So, only he is ultimately responsible for the decision he takes to trade, or not to, at 
the given price.
Plus500 have also provided links to their website which show the different screens involved 
in opening and closing trades and so I am satisfied that there has been no wrong doing on 
their part.
Fees and charges
Plus500 and our investigator in his view have made available the terms and conditions which 
explain the fees and charges that they add to the account. Clause 12.2 and 12.3 explain that 
0.3% currency conversion fees will be added for trading any currency different to the account 
currency. The terms for adding overnight funding fees are also detailed here. So, Im 
satisfied that they havent done anything thats been unfair to Mr D. The terms and 
conditions are clear and it is for him to ensure he has read and understood these before 
trading.
Termination of account
As requested, Plus500 have confirmed they closed the trading account and removed Mr D 
from their subscriber list.
Overall, I consider that Plus500 are entitled to use the policies or processes they wish to 
use, as long as they are transparent, not in breach of relevant regulations and the terms of 
its service.  From what Ive seen they have been fair and reasonable, and I am not 
persuaded that any wrongdoing on Plus500s part has been established. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Plus500 UK limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman