DRN-2981462
The complaint
Mr Ms representative has complained, on his behalf, that The Financial Planning Practice 
Limited (FFPL) gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefits from his 
occupational pension scheme (OPS)  the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS)  to a 
personal pension plan (PPP).     
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, one of 
which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund 
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when 
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31 
March 2017. 
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ms employer would be set up  the BSPS 2. 
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit 
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was 
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in 
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor 
scheme, BSPS 2, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) or into a private arrangement, such as 
a PPP.
A deadline was set for members to notify the scheme administrators as to their choice by 
December 2017. 
Mr M was introduced to FPPL by a separate regulated business in early July 2016. 
Mr Ms circumstances were recorded as follows:
He was 53 years old, married and had one financially dependent child. 
He was employed, earning £42,000 pa and Mrs M was self-employed, earning 
around £8,000 pa.
He owned his home, valued at £400,000, with an outstanding mortgage of £120,000. 
He planned to sell the property to downsize and repay his mortgage 
He had cash savings of £15,000, along with shares worth £7,000.
His attitude to risk was recorded as being moderately cautious.
Mr M had been a member of the BSPS for 36 years.
Mr M had an anticipated retirement age of 58.
Mr M had minor health issues, but they werent expected to affect his life expectancy.  
In terms of Mr Ms deferred benefit entitlement, he had a normal retirement age of 65, at 
which point FPPL said that he could expect an annual income of £34,567.
Mr M received a transfer value from the BSPS for his deferred benefits of £307,453 in 
August 2016, guaranteed for three months.
Within the suitability report produced in October 2016, Mr Ms preferences and priorities 
were recorded as follows:
To control his pension fund. Mr M was concerned about the future of both his 
employer and the pension scheme. 
To not expose a significant proportion of his retirement benefits to anything other 
than limited risk where there was a reasonable potential for rewards.
A lump sum death benefit  although he had life cover, he wanted his wife to benefit 
from 100% of the fund value, rather than 50% of the scheme income.
Flexibility with the level of income he would receive in retirement and the format of 
spouses benefits.
The flexibility to manage his withdrawals from his pension funds  he may or may not 
need a tax free lump sum to, for example, repay his mortgage.
He wanted to continue working for at least another five years, but to have early 
retirement as an option, especially considering that the future of the steel company 
and his pension was at risk.
He didnt wish to expose himself to anything other than a minimal amount of risk in 
the hope of increasing his pension benefits.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) indicated the amount of growth required by the 
transferred funds to match those being relinquished in the scheme  the critical yield. It 
concluded that the PPP would need to grow by 15.45% pa to match the BSPS benefits at a 
retirement age of 65.
A projection was also made of the required yield to match the PPF benefits. This showed 
that, for age 65, the PPP would need to grow by 10.28% pa to match those benefits.
FPPL also provided the hurdle rate, which it said was the estimated annual investment 
return which the PPP would need to achieve to match the annual income Mr M would 
receive from the BSPS at age 65. This assumed no spouses pension, no increases in 
payment, and no guarantee. The hurdle rate was 9.24% pa. 
FPPL recommended that Mr M transfer his deferred benefits to a MetLife PPP in order for 
him to achieve his objectives, and Mr M accepted the recommendation. FPPL advised Mr M 
not to retire before the normal scheme retirement age of 65, due to the high critical yield 
which it said would be difficult to achieve without taking a higher level of risk than that which 
had been attributed to him. However, the application form recorded an intended retirement 
age of 60.
It further advised Mr M to invest in the secure income option, with 50% of the pension 
funds having 25% exposure to the growth asset, and the remaining 50% having 35% 
exposure to the growth asset. 
The fee to complete the transfer was £7,000, which would be taken from the pension fund. 
There was a product charge of 0.7%, a guarantee charge of 0.65% and a secure income 
charge of 0.55% pa. A 0.5% ongoing advice fee would be payable to the referring business.
Mr M complained to FPPL, through his representative, in July 2019, saying that he didnt 
think hed been given the right advice and that hed suffered considerable loss as a result.FPPL didnt uphold the complaint, and the matter was subsequently referred to this service.
Our investigation
One of our investigators considered the matter, and recommended that the complaint be 
upheld. She said the following in summary:
Although there were reports in the media about the troubles facing the BSPS, the 
government had in May 2016 launched a public consultation on its future and this 
was ongoing at the time of the advice. As Mr M hadnt reached his pensionable age, 
he should have been advised to wait for the result of the consultation before making 
any decision on transferring his benefits and losing valuable scheme guarantees.
Mr M had accrued benefits in the BSPS which were relatively secure. They would 
form a significant part of his pension provision, including a 50% spouses pension 
and pension increases in line with the Retail Prices Index (RPI). 
The regulators requirement when considering a transfer of defined benefits was that 
it should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated that it 
was in an individuals best interests.
In determining whether this was the case, she first considered the required critical 
yield to match the scheme benefits. 
The advice had been given during the period in which this service was publishing 
information with which businesses could calculate future discount rates for 
complaints about transfers which were being upheld. Whilst businesses werent 
required to use these when giving advice, they nevertheless provided a useful guide 
as to the kinds of returns deemed feasible at the time of the advice.
The investigator noted that the discount rate was 3.9% pa for a period of 11 years to 
normal scheme retirement age, compared to a required critical yield to match the 
BSPS benefits of 15.45%. The regulators assumed growth rates at the time were 
2%, 5% and 8% for low, mid and high band growth respectively.
She said that this meant the potential to improve on the BSPS benefits was 
compromised  the critical yield was too high. 
So she considered it unlikely that the PPP would be able to return sufficient growth to 
improve upon the relinquished benefits. And to do so would have meant exposing Mr 
Ms pension funds to a higher level of risk than the risk rating attributed to him.
She also considered Mr Ms capacity for investment loss, noting that he was 
transferring over 36 years service. His other assets, with which to absorb any losses 
on his pension funds, amounted to around £22,000.
In her view, this provided Mr M with little or no capacity to absorb losses. This, in 
conjunction with the other factors from a financial perspective, meant that the transfer 
wasnt demonstrably viable.
It was clear that Mr M liked the idea of guaranteed income for life, hence the 
recommendation that he invest in a way which would give him some kind of secured 
income. But this hadnt been compared against the worst case scenario of retaining 
the scheme benefits and moving into the PPF.As with many other BSPS members, Mr M was seeking advice on his options, but the 
investigator didnt consider that FPPL had provided this.
The investigator noted that one of Mr Ms objectives was to retire early at age 58  
but he could have done so through the scheme benefits. So she couldnt understand 
why Mr M was advised to transfer and select a secured income which was likely 
considerably lower than that which Mr M would have received even after early 
retirement factors were applied. She couldnt be certain of this, however, as no such 
comparison had been undertaken.
But having assessed the detail in the illustration provided, she noted that the 
guaranteed income from the transfer arrangement was projected to be £11,032 at 
age 58. This evidenced that Mr M would be substantially worse off after the transfer, 
and for the income to be higher than this, Mr Ms investments would need to perform 
very well. But this wouldnt have been feasible with Mr Ms stated attitude to risk.
The investigator acknowledged that FPL had pointed out the risk of this being the 
case, but said that it needed to go further and not recommend an unsuitable solution.
She also noted Mr Ms desire to leave a lump sum death benefit to his family, but she 
said that both Mr M and Mrs M had separate life cover of £100,000 and £200,000 
respectively. And if they didnt think this was enough, they could have increased this 
rather than transferring the defined benefits.
Mr M had no significant history of investment experience which would have enabled 
him to appreciate the nature of the recommended investments or the losses which 
could be incurred.
The investigator accepted that Mr M might have appreciated that the investment 
carried some degree of risk, but he was reliant upon FPPL to make a 
recommendation which was consistent with his attitude to risk, wider circumstances 
and capacity for loss.
Mr Ms attitude to risk was downgraded from an initially higher rating, but she also 
noted that hed been recorded as not wanting to take substantial financial risks to 
achieve better returns with his retirement benefits.
She also considered that the overall 2.4% pa charge which Mr M was paying in the 
new arrangement meant that the new plan was always going to be more expensive 
than remaining in the scheme. And if hed retained the scheme benefits, he would 
have avoided the need for further regular reviews.
The investigator concluded that the transfer advice was unsuitable, and that, suitably 
advised, Mr M would have retained his BSPS benefits. She therefore recommended that 
FPPL undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators guidance. She also 
recommended that FPPL pay Mr M a further £200 in respect of the trouble and upset caused 
by the matter.
FPPL disagreed, however, saying the following in summary:
Mr M wished to retire at the latest by age 58, and earlier if his circumstances allowed.
He was in good health and, as his child was planning to attend university in two years time, he was thinking of downsizing, which would mean repayment of his 
mortgage. This would make early retirement a reality for him.
At the time of the advice, the BSPS 2 wasnt an option  the recommendation was 
given on the basis of the pending move to the PPF.
Mr M had already opted out of the BSPS and, as recorded in the fact find note, he 
was fully aware of the options and the consequences of his decision making.
Mr M was unhappy with his employer and was concerned about being pressurised 
into making decisions based upon the fear of losing his job.
The option to retire early at age 60 without a reduction in the benefits payable had 
been removed, as had a further option which would have given him a higher income 
until the state pension age.
Retiring at age 58 would have meant a 21% reduction in his pension under the 
BSPS. Mr M was aware that the PPP would still likely be unable to match the 
scheme benefits, but he felt that his employer was going to transfer them into the 
PPF.
Under the PPF, the benefits accrued pre-1997 would have had no indexation, which 
would make up 63% of Mr Ms accumulated benefits. And the BSPS 2 had no 
indexation of pre-1988 benefits.
The answers given by Mr M in the risk evaluation indicated that he understood 
financial risk, and this was discussed with him  in particular, one question which 
related to having a guaranteed rate of return.
It was determined that, with prospective retirement within the next five years, it would 
be prudent to reduce his exposure to investment risk.
The future income base with the MetLife contract was guaranteed at 2.8% and the 
ongoing adviser charge would be taken from the value of the secure income only. 
Until Mr M started taking an income, the secure income base was guaranteed to 
increase by 4% pa compound, applied daily. No charges were taken from that 
element of the pension  only from the underlying fund value.
Mr M had the option to switch out of the secure income arrangement at any time and 
use the pension fund in the usual way for drawdown or an annuity. So if the 
underlying fund value had increased over and above the secure income base, he 
could change this.
Over the last five years the underlying fund value had grown by 4.9% pa, net of 
charges.
The investigator noted the points made and said that, as agreement hadnt been reached, 
the matter would be referred to an ombudsman for review. But she also wished to address 
some of FPPLs comments as follows:
Although it had been suggested that Mr M was well versed in investment risk and 
understood what was being proposed, having been referred by another adviser who 
was promoting transfers, she didnt think the evidence supported the position that Mr 
M was a sophisticated investor. He held a small number of shares, but this wouldnt have afforded him enough exposure or experience to make a decision about 
transferring his guaranteed benefits. He relied on FPPL for this.
She acknowledged the uncertainty around the employer and the BSPS, but this was 
FPPLs opportunity to allay Mr Ms fears and explain that, even in the PPF, Mr M 
could retire early. Furthermore, the consultation on assistance measures for the 
BSPS had already been launched.
Although Mr M may have been prepared to transfer, it was the role of FPPL to advise 
him on the best option. She didnt think that Mr M understood the implications of 
relinquishing his benefits, including that he had swapped a guaranteed income for life 
for one which would be dependent upon investment returns.
Although FPPL had pointed to the guarantees associated with the MetLife 
arrangement, Mr M could have enjoyed enhanced guarantees with no cost to him, 
had he retained his BSPS benefits.
She also noted that the fund had performed well, but this didnt affect the advice 
given in 2016.
The investigator concluded by saying that, suitably advised, Mr M would have opted to join 
the BSPS2.
As agreement hasnt been reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP, I need to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements 
This isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied, but provides 
useful context for my assessment of the business' actions here.
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time FPPL advised Mr M were 
set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like FPPL, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, FPPL 
needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met Mr Ms 
objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the requirement 
for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or 
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer 
out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to         
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison and 
its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;    
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Ive therefore considered the suitability of FPPLs advice to Mr M in the context of the above 
requirements.
FPPLs rationale for transferringFPPLs advice pre-dated the outcome of the consultation the future of the BSPS, and so Mr 
M hadnt yet received information relating to the time to choose exercise which began in 
late 2017. Its FPPLs position that Mr M was sufficiently concerned about the future of the 
BSPS to make him keen to transfer (which I address below), but Mr M was nevertheless 
seeking advice on his options for meeting his objectives. Mr M wasnt categorised as an 
insistent client, and so FPPL could be confident that he would be acting upon, or at least 
taking into account, its advice.
In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, FPPL undertook its fact finding for Mr M and then set out 
its assessment of his circumstances and objectives. 
As set out above, in its suitability report FPPL summarised Mr Ms objectives as follows:
To control his pension fund. Mr M was concerned about the future of both his 
employer and the pension scheme. 
To not expose a significant proportion of his retirement benefits to anything other 
than limited risk where there was a reasonable potential for rewards.
A lump sum death benefit  although he had life cover, he wanted his wife to benefit 
from 100% of the fund value, rather than 50% of the scheme income.
Flexibility with the level of income he would receive in retirement and the format of 
spouses benefits.
The flexibility to manage his withdrawals from his pension funds  he may or may not 
need a tax free lump sum to, for example, repay his mortgage.
He wanted to continue working for at least another five years, but to have early 
retirement as an option, especially considering that the future of the steel company 
and his pension was at risk.
He didnt wish to expose himself to anything other than a minimal amount of risk in 
the hope of increasing his pension benefits.
I cant see that FPPL pointed out  certainly not in any prominent sense within the suitability 
report - to Mr M that the starting assumption for an assessment of Mr Ms options was that a 
transfer would be unsuitable, unless it could be demonstrated that it was in his best interests 
in order to meet specific objectives. But Ill nevertheless explore these objectives further 
below.
The requirement for flexibility - and early retirement
FPPL obtained a TVAS report for comparison purposes to determine the viability of the 
transfer to meet Mr Ms objectives from a financial perspective. 
The suitability report was issued before the FCAs revised guidance which was released in 
late October 2017, and provided discount rates for levels of growth which were deemed 
achievable for particular time periods until prospective retirement. But before that, similar 
rates were published by this service. Businesses werent required to reference these when 
providing advice on transfers, but they would nevertheless have been a useful indicator of 
the type of investment return deemed feasible at the time.
The discount rate deemed achievable for the 11 years left to the scheme retirement age of 
65 was 3.9% pa. And the growth rates used to illustrate the benefits which might be payable 
from a PPP were -1.62%, 1.31% and 4.23% for the low, mid and high projections 
respectively.
The critical yield for retirement at age 65 with the BSPS, at 15.45% pa, or even that required 
to match the PPF benefits, at 10.28%, was therefore considerably higher than both the discount (or growth) rate deemed achievable over the same period, and the mid-band 
growth rate used by the pension provider. FPPL itself said that it considered the critical 
yields to be unachievable, given Mr Ms attitude to investment risk.
And I agree. As with both FPPL and the investigator, Im not persuaded that the critical 
yields were in fact achievable, year on year, for the number of years that Mr M had until he 
reached the scheme retirement age. And as a reminder, these growth rates were required to 
just match the scheme benefits. There needed to be a realistic chance that the benefits of 
the scheme could be bettered through transferring. As set out and repeated by the 
investigator, it needed to be clearly demonstrated that the transfer would be in Mr Ms best 
interests. As such, my view is that the transfer couldnt be justified from a purely financial 
perspective, especially given the valuable guarantees which Mr M would be relinquishing. 
But the feasibility of achieving a critical yield alone wouldnt in any case indicate suitability of 
a transfer, as set out in COBS 19.1.7b. And FPPL has also itself commented that the basis 
of the recommendation was the benefit to Mr M in terms of other objectives being met - 
including control and flexibility, along with the different format of death benefits with a PPP.
Before I assess those in greater detail, I think its firstly fair to say that FPPL did provide 
warnings on the guarantees which would be relinquished, but as FPPL will be aware, risk 
warnings alone wouldnt render unsuitable advice suitable. And as the investigator pointed 
out, irrespective of the detail contained in a suitability report, this also wouldnt make 
otherwise unsuitable advice suitable. FPPL needed to be satisfied, before providing its 
recommendation, that relinquishing the guarantees and taking the investment risk was a 
suitable course of action for Mr M.
As Ive said above, FPPLs reasoning for the recommended transfer was that Mr M required 
flexibility of income due to his particular circumstances and objectives. And so Ive given this 
argument careful consideration.
As a preliminary comment, I do acknowledge that Mr M was likely to have understood the 
principle of needing to take some risk to achieve the required reward, along with the 
discussions around such concepts that he would have had with colleagues, and perhaps 
with the firm which had referred him to FPPL. 
And so I think Mr M may have had a reasonable understanding of the concept of risk/reward.
But I have similar concerns to those expressed by the investigator regarding the reliability of 
that risk rating for Mr M, given his lack of investment experience  and I dont think that the 
stocks and shares experience would have imbued Mr M with knowledge or experience of 
pension investment matters, especially with such a specialised area of defined benefit 
transfers. I also note, as did the investigator, that Mr M had indicated that he would rather 
not take a high risk/return strategy with his retirement planning.
But as further observed by the investigator, I think theres also the wider issue about Mr Ms 
capacity to take financial risks with his pension funds which is pertinent to overall suitability 
here. Mr M hadnt had the opportunity by that time of joining the replacement defined 
contribution scheme (launched in 2017), and so, other than the state pension which wouldnt 
be payable until his late 60s, the defined benefits accrued through the BSPS were likely to 
have been his only source of guaranteed income. Any reduction in the benefits payable from 
them would therefore have had a considerable impact on his financial security in retirement.
However, I also dont think Mr M in any case needed to take the associated risks here. In 
terms of the control and flexibility argument, I understand this to be that Mr M would have 
control over his pension funds, outside of the BSPS, and could alter the income he withdrew from a flexi-drawdown arrangement to satisfy changing income needs. But its unclear as to 
why Mr M would have needed such flexibility, especially given the investment risk associated 
with it, his attitude to risk, lack of capacity to incur losses and apparent lack of any similar 
historical investment which might otherwise indicate a preparedness to take risks with his 
pension income.  
And in particular Ive thought about whether Mr M could meet his objectives of retiring early 
whilst also retaining the valuable guarantees offered by either the PPF, or as it later 
transpired, the BSPS 2. I note that, in the suitability report, Mr M was recorded as being 
unable to access benefits for another two years under the scheme but [you] do wish to 
finish at Tata Steel for at least another five years and wish to have the option of flexibility 
going forward especially as the future of the steel company and the pension fund is at risk. 
I think, intuitively, the first part of this should have read dont wish to finish at Tata steel for 
at least another five years, or the phrase at least makes no sense. And this would also be 
consistent with the references to Mr M retiring at age 58. 
I acknowledge that there was no facility for Mr M to take tax free cash from the PPF, or any 
successor scheme, until age 55, and after that without also starting to take an income. But 
there was no clear requirement for him to separate tax free cash and income. The objective 
of downsizing was to free Mr and Mrs M of their mortgage, and so tax free cash may not 
have been required earlier than a regular pension income.
But perhaps more importantly to my consideration of early retirement as an objective here 
was the recommendation in the suitability report that Mr M not begin taking his benefits from 
the replacement PPP until age 65 because of the high critical yield required to match the 
scheme benefits at that age, which would have been exacerbated by taking benefits earlier.
And so it seems early retirement had in any case been effectively ruled out for Mr M as an 
achievable objective through the transfer. But its difficult to know whether early retirement 
would in fact have been available through the scheme benefits, as there was no detail in the 
suitability report about his expected expenditure in retirement, and so his income needs.
But on the basis of the prospective income from the scheme of £34,567 pa, his income at 
the time of the advice of £32,000, and the possibility that his mortgage would have been 
repaid in the short to medium term, its seems entirely feasible, and Id say more likely than 
not, that Mr M could in fact have afforded to retire early through the PPF or successor 
scheme  on a guaranteed, escalating basis.
In light of this, as the guarantees attached to the defined benefits would have been of 
considerable value, these benefits should not in my view have been relinquished in favour of 
a flexible income which couldnt in any case match the same level of income provided by the 
scheme before age 65, and had little chance of matching it even at 65  given the high 
critical yield. Early retirement after the transfer was advised against by FPPL, and I cant see 
that any residual flexibility argument which might then remain could realistically or 
reasonably justify the transfer of Mr Ms guaranteed benefits when he could simply have 
retained them and capitalised on them at age 65, with no early retirement reduction, or as 
Ive said above, likely earlier if he chose.
The requirement for control
A further recorded objective for Mr M was control over his pension benefits. This was borne 
of his concern about the financial viability of his employer and the BSPS, along with the 
prospect of the latter entering the PPF. But Mr Ms concerns should have been addressed and appropriately managed. I appreciate 
that there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice with preconceived notions 
or concerns about the financial health of an employer or pension scheme, but as the 
professional party, the IFA is tasked with rationally addressing those concerns and providing 
an appropriately balanced view of the available options. 
I dont think this happened here. The extent to which Mr Ms concerns were discussed and 
managed was seemingly a single line, as follows  You were particularly concerned about 
the future of the British steel pension and wished to transfer out and have the fund under 
your control in spite of the safeguarded benefits. Had reassurances instead been given 
about the protections which would still be available, even in the worst case scenario of the 
scheme benefits needing to enter the PPF, I think Mr M would have viewed things differently.
Its fair to say that the detail of any potential successor scheme, as an alternative to the PPF, 
is likely to have been lacking at this point in time. This advice predated the announcement in 
May 2017 relating to the RAA, but even if the BSPS entered the PPF, many important 
guarantees would remain. And my view is that, if Mr M had wanted to retire early and it was 
deemed feasible (and dependent upon the actual age), he would in fact have been better off 
by transferring to the PPF rather than the BSPS 2. A reduction of 10% would apply to the 
benefits payable, but even if Mr M retired early, its possible that those benefits would still 
have met his income needs.
But Mr M also didnt need to make any decision about whether to transfer until more details 
were known about the options which might later be available. My understanding is that there 
was no imminent prospect of the BSPS entering the PPF, and even once the options were 
known, members still had the choice of transferring out of the scheme, rather than being 
forced into the PPF.
So I dont think that these concerns, if appropriately managed, would have been sufficient 
justification to transfer at this time. 
Death benefits
On the basis that Mr M was married with a dependent child, he was recorded as being keen, 
in the event of his death, for death benefits to be paid to his dependants as a lump sum.
And its fair to say that, after the transfer, a lump sum would be payable to his 
beneficiary/ies, rather than in the form of spouses/dependants pensions from the scheme.
But I have concerns about this as a reason for transferring Mr Ms benefits. Firstly, he had no 
particular health issues which would mean that death benefits, or any likelihood to not 
benefit from a pension income derived of his scheme membership upon retirement for a 
reasonable amount of time, were of concern at that point. 
Secondly, the accrued pension provision is intended to provide for an individuals retirement 
rather than a desire to leave a lump sum legacy for that individuals spouse or dependants. 
The financial wellbeing of Mrs M and his child would inevitably have been a priority for him, 
but the recommendation needed to be given in the context of  primarily - Mr Ms best 
interests in terms of his retirement needs. And under the schemes terms, Mr Ms 
dependants would in any case have been entitled to a lump sum return of his contributions 
to the scheme, together with compound interest. Any fund value which would have arisen of 
Mr Ms subsequent defined contribution scheme membership would also have been 
available as a lump sum. There is also the matter of the lump sum benefits which would have been paid, had Mr M 
remained in the same employment  recorded as being four times his annual salary.
Mrs M would also have been entitled to a spouses pension equivalent to half of that which 
would be payable to him, along with a further pension in respect of his child, if still financially 
dependent.
Notwithstanding the above, a desire to leave a lump sum legacy for his beneficiaries cannot 
reasonably have subjugated Mr Ms own personal requirement to benefit from his pension. 
And there was no detail about why a lump sum would have been so important to Mrs M or 
their child, given the other available death benefits, that it would justify a transfer of Mr Ms 
guaranteed benefits.
I therefore think that it was more likely than not an entirely understandable desire to leave a 
lump sum financial legacy to his beneficiaries, but not essential, and certainly not of 
sufficient importance, given the other death benefits which would be available, to justify Mr M 
compromising the security of his own retirement.
A lump sum may have its appeal  and I recognise that in some situations the ability to pass 
a lump sum to beneficiaries could be particularly advantageous when compared to an 
income stream through a spouses or dependants pension, but given the actual level of 
death benefits which would in any case be available here, I dont think the right conditions for 
this to have outweighed the benefits of Mr M retaining his deferred benefits were present.
The objective to leave a lump sum legacy should have been properly weighed against the 
guaranteed benefits Mr M was relinquishing, along with the considerable other benefits to 
which Mr Ms wife and child would be entitled in the event of his death, and FPPL should 
have advised him that his own financial security in retirement took priority here.
So for the reasons given, I dont think the prospect of a lump sum benefit for Mr Ms wife and 
child by way of transferring to the PPP constituted sufficient reason to transfer and lose 
otherwise valuable guaranteed benefits for Mr M. 
What should FPPL have done  and would it have made a difference to Mr Ms decision?
There were understandably concerns relating to the BSPS at the time of the advice - and I 
fully acknowledge this. Its undeniable that this was a period of great uncertainty for 
individuals such as Mr M. But this only serves to emphasise the need for a balanced 
assessment of the options available and, ultimately, suitable advice.
Furthermore, as Ive also said above, there was no need for Mr M to make any irreversible 
decision on relinquishing valuable scheme pension guarantees at that time. And it was the 
responsibility of FPPL to explain this to Mr M. As Ive said above, there was no imminent 
prospect of his scheme benefits entering the PPF, which would have ruled out a later 
transfer. It would have been better for him to await further detail as to the prospects for the 
BSPS, whether this was a transfer into the PPF, or as was ultimately the case, the further 
option of transferring into the BSPS 2.
Ive also thought very carefully about whether the service provided to Mr M was a balanced 
appraisal of the options available to him, coupled with a robust and candid discussion about 
his own concerns relating to the BSPS. Mr M, amongst many others in a similar position, 
may have been concerned by developments relating to his employment and the BSPS, but 
he was nevertheless entitled to an impartial review of his options. And looking at those options, one of the key recorded objectives - early retirement  was in 
any case achievable within the BSPS 2, and would have remained so even in the worst 
case scenario of entering the PPF. And as Ive said above, although this was effectively 
ruled out as a result of the high critical yield attaching to the transfer, had Mr M retained his 
scheme benefits, it seems more likely than not that he could have retired early on the basis 
of a guaranteed, escalating income. 
For the reasons given above, I dont think the perceived advantage of flexibility and control 
of income outweighed the guaranteed benefits in the scheme. The available evidence simply 
doesnt support the position as to why these attributes would have been sufficiently 
compelling reasons for Mr M to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees. 
My further view is that, if properly discussed, Mr Ms concerns about the existing scheme 
could have been successfully allayed, such that he appreciated the important guaranteed 
benefits, even under the PPF, which he would be relinquishing for the sake of income 
flexibility which he simply didnt need, and a future pension which was diminished as a result 
of losing the scheme guarantees.
Tax free cash for the purpose of mortgage repayment (if indeed Mr M didnt downsize as 
planned and repay it) would have been available from his defined benefit pension funds. 
Death benefits were also payable from the defined benefit scheme, albeit in a different 
format from those available from the PPP. But for the reasons set out above, I dont think 
these should have been a more important consideration than Mr Ms own retirement 
guarantees which hed be relinquishing through the transfer.
The critical yield is usually a telling indicator of the value of the benefits being relinquished. 
And as the critical yield to just match either the PPF or BSPS benefits was considerably 
higher than the discount rate, the regulators mid (and indeed higher) rate growth 
assumptions, and the higher growth rate set out by the receiving pension provider, I think it 
was unlikely to be achievable, year on year, to even simply match the scheme benefits. This 
position is supported by FPPLs own comments within the suitability report. 
The justification for transferring was that it was nevertheless suitable in view of Mr Ms stated 
objectives and the concerns about the BSPS. 
And whilst I accept that the critical yield isnt the only factor to consider when weighing the 
suitability of a transfer, Im unconvinced by what FPPL considers to have been the overriding 
justifications for proceeding with the transfer, for the reasons given above. 
FPPLs view is that Mr M was keen on effecting the transfer. And Ive noted the comment 
that hed already opted out of the BSPS. Mr M has said that he opted due to concerns over 
the future of the BSPS. I dont think this necessarily indicates that Mr M would have been 
determined to transfer. And as Ive said above, if concerns about the prospects for the 
scheme had been properly managed, Mr M may have formed an entirely different view.
It is also relevant to note here that Mr M was referred to FPPL by a separate firm, and 
separate conversations may have taken place around Mr M opting out. But this was FPPLs 
opportunity to take proper account of Mr Ms circumstances and objectives and advise him 
not to transfer, for all the reasons set out above.
I certainly acknowledge that it wouldnt be straightforward to effectively undo either 
conversations which might have occurred with a separate firm, or alternatively notions which 
Mr M may have formed separately based on his own concerns about the future of the BSPS. 
But I think the advantages of Mr M retaining his scheme benefits, if set out in terms similar to those above, would have persuaded Mr M to do just that. And I think any concerns about the 
pension scheme would have been assuaged if properly managed.
In terms of the responsibilities of Mr M in deciding whether to still proceed (and as Ive said 
above, I accept that Mr M was given risk warnings and was more likely than not capable of 
understanding them), I dont disagree that properly informed, correctly advised individuals 
would be in a position to take that kind of responsibility and decide for themselves if they 
wanted to transfer their defined benefits. The problem here is that this was a complex matter 
involving many factors with which Mr M, as a layman, wouldnt have been familiar  hence 
his reliance on a professional party to take those factors into account and provide suitable, 
balanced advice.
For the reasons given above, my view is that Mr M simply wasnt placed in a properly 
informed, or suitably advised, position to be able to take that kind of personal responsibility.
Mr Ms decision to proceed may well have been borne of wider concerns relating to the 
financial viability of the BSPS, but as Ive said above, this was due to the absence of a 
detailed and balanced assessment of the schemes attributes and prospects in the advice 
process.
Taking account of Mr Ms circumstances, including his attitude to risk, his objectives and the 
guarantees which the BSPS offered and would have persisted with either the BSPS 2 or the 
PPF, my view is that FPPL should have advised against the transfer.
And I think that, had this happened, Mr M would have followed that advice and not 
transferred his benefits to the PPP.
Summary
For the reasons given, my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case leads 
to a clear conclusion  that the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable for Mr M, nor was 
it in his best interests. The key contributing factors here are: Mr Ms attitude to risk and its 
incompatibility with the type of investment risk which would have likely been required to 
match the scheme benefits  a failing under COBS 19.1.7; and the lack of a comprehensive 
and balanced portrayal of Mr Ms options and the future benefits available from both the 
BSPS defined benefits and defined contributions  a failure to adhere to COBS 19.1.2 (2) 
and 19.1.8.
Furthermore, at least one of the key benefits sought by Mr M was available without needing 
to transfer  early retirement, which would have been available to him through the BSPS (or 
indeed through the PPF). Although, for the reasons given, its not been possible to clearly 
determine whether this would in any case have been feasible, the anomaly here is that, 
given the critical yields required to match the scheme benefits, and whats known about his 
income at the time along with that which would have been received from the scheme at 65, 
early retirement seems to have been a more realistic prospect if hed retained his scheme 
benefits.
It follows that my view is that, taking account of those critical yields, Mr Ms attitude to risk 
with regard to his pension funds and matching that with the likely corresponding investment 
returns, it was unlikely that the benefits available from the BSPS, or a successor scheme, 
could be bettered through the transfer. As the other reasons for transferring were 
insufficiently compelling, when considered against the valuable benefits being relinquished, 
as required by COBS 2.1.1R and COBS 19.1.6, FPPL would - or should - then have drawn, 
and conveyed, the conclusion that transferring wasnt in Mr Ms best interests. Putting things right
My aim to is put Mr M, as closely as possible, into the position hed be but for FPPL (Life & 
Pensions) Limiteds unsuitable advice. Reinstatement of Mr Ms deferred benefits isnt 
possible. Therefore, FPPL (Life & Pensions) Limited should undertake a redress calculation 
in line with the pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers.
My view is that, had Mr M not transferred his pension funds to the PPP, he would have opted 
to join the BSPS 2. There would be a 10% reduction in the starting pension entitlement 
within the PPF, whereas the BSPS 2 wouldnt cut the starting entitlement for deferred 
members. 
As Ive said above, the reduction for early retirement under the PPF was lower and the 
commutation factors for tax free cash entitlement were also slightly more favourable under 
the PPF. And so, on the basis of prospective early retirement, both the starting income and 
the tax free cash would likely have been higher with the PPF. 
But for the reasons set out above, its difficult to know whether Mr M would in fact have been 
able to retire early enough to make the benefit of entering the PPF more financially 
advantageous in terms of early retirement reductions. Mr M could have accessed his defined 
contribution scheme benefits to make up any income shortfall produced by taking his defined 
benefits early, but these are unlikely to have been significant given Mr Ms age at the time he 
joined that scheme.
In terms of death benefits, under the BPSP 2 his spouses pension would be set at 50% of 
his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken 
at retirement. 
And so, on balance, I think its the benefits offered by the BSPS 2 which should be used for 
comparison purposes.
As such, the calculation on the basis of choosing to enter the BSPS 2 should be carried out 
using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of the actual calculation. FPPL (Life 
& Pensions) Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to 
obtain Mr Ms contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any future loss 
should if possible be paid into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax free cash and 75% would have been 
taxed according to Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date 
FPPL (Life & Pensions) Limited receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
that 90 day period, that it takes FPPL (Life & Pensions) Limited to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require FPPL (Life & Pensions) Limited to pay Mr M 
the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require FPPL 
(Life & Pensions) Limited to pay Mr M any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require FPPL (Life & 
Pensions) Limited to pay Mr M any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
FPPL (Life & Pensions) Limited pays Mr M the balance. I additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.
Ive also thought carefully about the further award in respect of distress and inconvenience. I 
think its fair to say that, as Mr M was many years away from retirement, there would have 
been perhaps little stress resulting from an immediate sense of compromised retirement 
plans. But I do also think that its quite likely that, even without that sense of immediately 
pending financial disadvantage, Mr M would have been troubled by the realisation that hed 
taken an ill-advised and unnecessary course of action.
And so I think the investigators recommendation is about right. As such, FPPL (Life & 
Pensions) Limited should pay Mr M an additional £200 in respect of this.
If Mr M accepts my decision, the money award is binding on FPPL (Life & Pensions) Limited. 
My recommendation is not binding on FPPL (Life & Pensions) Limited. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr M can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold the complaint. FPPL (Life & Pensions) Limited should undertake 
the above calculation and pay any resulting redress as directed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 Philip Miller
Ombudsman