DRN-3761300
The complaint
Mr M complains Revolut Ltd removed his referrals page on his account.
What happened
During February 2022, Mr M was using Revoluts referral scheme to refer family and friends 
to Revolut in exchange for incentive payments, if the relevant criteria were met. Shortly 
before the end of February, he says Revolut removed the referrals screen from his account  
so he complained. 
Revolut responded to Mr Ms complaint. They said Mr M had reached the maximum number 
of referrals for the February 2022 campaign - five. Because of this, they said the other 
referrals Mr M had made were removed automatically. Mr M wasnt happy with this 
response, so referred his complaint to our service. 
An Investigator considered Mr Ms complaint. He said, in summary, he thought Revolut 
hadnt made a mistake and had paid Mr M for the maximum of five referrals. 
Mr M didnt accept the Investigators findings. He said he was concerned because the 
removal of the referrals page had occurred before the fifth payment had been made.
 
As Mr M didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M says the referral page was removed completely. Revolut have said the additional 
referrals were removed. 
Its not clear whether Revolut removed Mr Ms access to the referral screen or just removed 
the additional referrals he had made  as hed reached the limit. However, I dont think this 
makes a difference to the overall outcome of Mr Ms complaint because Im satisfied he had 
already reached the maximum number of referrals for that campaign. So he wouldnt have 
been able to make any further referrals for that specific campaign anyway.
 
Revolut have provided evidence that Mr M was paid for the five referrals. I accept that one of 
the payments wasnt made until after Mr M says there was a problem with the referral page  
and after hed already raised his concerns about it. But Revolut have explained that the fifth 
payment was already being processed at this point and I can see Mr M was told this in an 
online chat on the same day as he raised his concern. So again, whether this information 
was or wasnt available to Mr M on the referral screen  I dont think this matters - as the 
payment was already being processed and was paid to Mr M the next day. 
I can also see Mr M was able to make referrals during subsequent campaigns  so theres 
been no impact on Mr Ms use of the referral scheme.
 
Overall, Im satisfied Revolut have treated Mr M fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman