DRN-2232629
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) acted unfairly and unreasonably 
by declining their claim under a travel insurance policy. They want matters put right.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had a travel insurance policy with UKI through a bank account. They were 
abroad when Mrs C started to suffer from symptoms associated with Covid-19 on 2 March 
2020. She was treated, and Mr C started to suffer from the same symptoms. The treating 
doctor said that they were well enough to continue with their trip if they didnt use public 
transport, but they were ordered to quarantine in hospital on 4 March. They stayed for about 
36 hours, where Mr and Mrs C say they didnt receive the basics such as food.
Mr and Mrs Cs test results were negative so they were discharged; but Mr and Mrs C said 
the doctors thought they had Covid-19 and told them to home isolate. Mr and Mrs C said that 
the advice of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office staff in the country (FCO) was to 
return to the UK, or theyd have to stay for 28 days. Mr and Mrs C paid for flights home two 
days earlier than planned (though the travel provider contributed to the cost).
Mr and Mrs C made a claim to UKI for medical and phone costs and the curtailment of their 
trip. The claim was declined. UKI said that it wasnt medically necessary to cut their trip 
short, rather than continue, and the excess of £75 per insured person was more than the 
medical and phone calls claimed. It added that curtailment had to be authorised by its staff 
before a return home and supported by medical evidence that curtailment was necessary.
Mr and Mrs C complained to us, and explained that they suffered great difficulty contacting 
UKI on the phone while abroad, but had been in contact before returning. The investigators 
view was that the complaint should be upheld. She said that while the FCO had confirmed 
directly to this service that by the time it was contacted by Mr and Mrs C, theyd cancelled 
their plans in order to return home, it did advise them to follow the advice of the hospital to 
self-isolate at home. The investigator said it was clear the FCO hadnt advised Mr and Mrs C 
to cut the trip short, but that the trip was curtailed due to them entering quarantine on 4 
March 2020 and being unable to continue with their trip as planned due to the advice to 
isolate on discharge from quarantine.
The investigator said that UKI should pay the curtailment claim from 4 to 9 March 2020 with 
interest as it was cut short effectively when they entered quarantine. But she explained that 
UKI wasnt responsible for the conditions in the hospital so it wouldnt be fair to ask UKI to 
pay compensation for this. The investigator also didnt think it was fair or reasonable for UKI 
to pay the upgrade costs of the return flight as there was no medical evidence to support 
such a claim.
Mr and Mrs C said the curtailment period should start from 2 March 2020 as they were ill 
from then and told not to use public transport. The investigator said that in her view it wasnt 
until 4 March that the trip had been effectively curtailed when the quarantine in hospital 
started but pointed out she had recommended payment to the date the trip was due to end, 
not the date Mr and Mrs C returned to the UK.
UKI disagreed with the investigators view. It said the policy required Mr and Mrs C to 
contact it as soon as reasonably possible about their need to return home, and such claims 
had to be supported by medical evidence and authorised in advance by it  this didnt 
happen. UKI pointed out that the FCO didnt advise Mr and Mrs C to return home due to 
medical needs, but to avoid quarantine abroad. It said that the policy didnt cover the claim. 
The investigator explained that her decision was based on the effective curtailment of the trip 
and the reasonableness of the decision to return home in the circumstances. She said that 
the policy covered quarantine as an insured event. UKI responded and said curtailment due 
to quarantine still needed its staff to agree in advance and medical evidence; and it had 
been wrong for Mr and Mrs C to return to the UK having been advised to isolate for 28 days 
by the hospital. UKI said their decision to do so without authorisation prevented it from using 
the most cost-effective way forward. The investigator pointed out Mr and Mrs C did speak to 
UKI on 5 March when theyd left quarantine; UKI noted the flights home were booked before 
Mr and Mrs C contacted it about their return.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I refer to UKI, Im also referring to its agents. The relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. This means that it shouldnt stick rigidly to the terms 
and conditions of a policy if it produces an unfair or unreasonable outcome.
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy itself. In relation to curtailment 
(the cutting short of a trip once its started), the policy says it will cover claims for unused 
accommodation and travel costs, and the reasonable extra costs for returning home early if 
those insured unavoidably need to abandon the trip for a variety of reasons, including being 
seriously ill, being quarantined, or the FCO advising against all travel or all but essential 
travel to the destination. Theres also a requirement that claims arising from illness must be 
supported by medical evidence and the insurer is contacted as soon as reasonably possible 
once the insured is aware that they need to return home. An excess of £75 per person does 
apply.
Emergency medical costs and phone costs can be claimed if the insurer becomes ill or is 
quarantined under a different section of the policy. Again, an excess of £75 per person 
applies. In Mr and Mrs Cs case, the costs are well below the excess and I dont think its 
unfair or unreasonable for UKI to apply this term to all policyholders.
UKI wasnt responsible for the conditions in the hospital quarantine, so it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for it to pay anything in respect of this. And while I appreciate why Mr and Mrs C 
wanted to upgrade their flight, theres no medical evidence by their own account supporting 
this decision saying that it was necessary. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable for UKI to pay this 
additional cost for the upgrade.
This leaves the costs of the basic flight home and the effective curtailment of the trip itself for 
me to consider. Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs C were seriously ill. They didnt need 
hospital treatment and were told to carry on with their trip by the original treating doctor. It 
was the fear that they might have Covid-19 that led to the quarantine in the hospital. The 
Covid-19 test was negative also; the medical evidence shown to this service and UKI 
supports a finding that they suffered from a virus, but nothing more certain can be said. And 
the FCO has confirmed that it didnt advise Mr and Mrs C to return to the UK or for that 
matter advise anyone to leave the country in question in early March 2020 due to the pandemic. The FCO told Mr and Mrs C to follow the medical advice given by the hospital, 
which is more likely than not to have been the advice from any insurer if asked.
UKI relied heavily on a term within the policy requiring its authorisation to return home. But in 
my view, it has overlooked key points. Mr and Mrs C didnt choose to enter quarantine on 4 
March 2020; their evidence is that they were ordered to report to the hospital, and this is 
confirmed by the information from the FCO. As soon as Mr and Mrs C entered quarantine, 
their trip had already been affected and effectively curtailed.
When they were discharged, the evidence shown to UKI and this service shows the hospital 
advised them to home isolate for 28 days. What does this reasonably mean? To isolate at 
home, Mr and Mrs C would have to get back to the UK. To stay in the country meant that the 
trip was still over. It made no difference whatsoever what UKI thought about the matter; the 
medical advice was unambiguous to the extent that the trip was over for Mr and Mrs C. 
There was no cost-effective solution to this problem and the medical evidence shows the 
quarantine was advised by the hospital. Im satisfied that the fair and reasonable outcome is 
for Mr and Mrs Cs unused accommodation, travel and expeditions between 49 March 2020 
should be refunded by UKI in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
The basic return flights are more of a debatable point. The evidence available to me shows 
that Mr and Mrs C didnt get UKIs consent before booking them. Its possible UKI couldve 
got a cheaper flight and Ive already said that the costs of the upgrade shouldnt be covered 
by UKI. But Mr and Mrs C did tell UKI what had happened, and I dont think its unreasonable 
for them to speak to the FCO first. The travel provider arranged the flights. 
And its relevant to point out that there were very limited options  if Mr and Mrs C didnt 
leave the country quickly, they would have to quarantine for 28 days there. Who would pay 
the costs of this? The policy doesnt say UKI would pay; I think its unlikely UKI would have 
paid these additional costs. The policy does cover a flight back to the UKI if curtailment is 
required due to quarantine. The hospital put in writing that Mr and Mrs C should isolate at 
home, so it isnt obvious that medical advice was being breached by doing so; a doctor wrote 
Mr and Mrs C were fit to fly. Im not persuaded that UKIs authorisation have made any 
difference given the medical advice, which it refused to accept when speaking to Mr and Mrs 
C. I think a fair and reasonable response wouldve been to accept the hospital discharge 
note and authorised the basic costs of the flight home, as the alternative would be to leave 
two vulnerable policyholders in a foreign country to spend 28 days unsupported in 
quarantine.
Putting things right
UKI should accept the claim under the curtailment section of the policy as Im satisfied that 
the holiday was effectively curtailed. It should meet the lost costs of the trip between 4 to 9 
March 2020 and consider payment in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. In addition, UKI should pay the basic cost of the return flights it would have paid, (it 
does not have to refund the contribution by the travel provider and the costs of the upgraded 
seats). Interest at the rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date the claim was made to 
the date of payment should be paid by UKI too.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and UKI should consider the effective 
curtailment claim and return travel costs as outlined above in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy. It should also pay interest as set out above. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to accept or reject 
my decision before 19 January 2021. 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman