DRN-3796129
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC did not answer his questions in enough detail.
What happened
Mr H made a separate complaint regarding his Lloyds credit card to our service and our 
investigator said Lloyds should answer the following questions that Mr H asked them:
If he uses his credit card to place a £20 credit on a (specific) Toll Tag location, and 
he then immediately transferred £20 from his current account into his credit card 
account within minutes, how much would he be charged for this cash transaction?
He then asked why he should pay for this when Lloyds take money immediately from 
his current account, but dont credit it to his credit card account for three days?
He wanted to know similarly for utility pre-payment systems, transport pre-payment 
cards, two large online retailers etc. What would be the charges and the interest for 
such charges?
Mr H also asked why they apply these charges in the first place
Lloyds wrote to Mr H and they said when he makes a cash transaction (including currency 
exchange and cash-equivalent transactions);  they charge interest from the date of the 
transaction, they charge a cash transaction fee, and cash withdrawals in a foreign currency 
also incur a non-sterling transaction fee. They said the cash transaction fee is 5% of the 
transaction amount. This is in line with his account terms and conditions. Mr H said they did 
not answer his questions in enough detail and he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Hs complaint. He said Lloyds provided a sufficient 
response. He said they highlighted the term relating to his queries and they dont need to go 
into more detail about their policies as that is commercially sensitive information and they 
arent required to provide that to us or him.
Mr H asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said Lloyds response did not answer the questions he specifically raised in the 
original complaint. He said they are deliberately dancing around the issue because the case
scenarios that he specifically raised are ones which they would be making money on 
unjustifiably, due to the instant charge for the transaction, but the almost obligatory three day 
delay in any credit back to cover the cash transaction on the debit/credit card. He said he 
wanted specific and detailed answers to the questions he had posed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Id like to explain to Mr H that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their credit card procedures including what and when they charge for cash transactions. It 
would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to 
instruct Lloyds to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Im persuaded Lloyds have tried to explain how their cash transactions work. Even if they 
have responded to the questions in the same way they had previously responded to these 
questions. Mr H has asked Lloyds very specific questions. But Im not persuaded they would 
be able to give him responses to the questions in the level of detail he wants them to. I say 
this as the questions are hypothetical and they would not be the only party involved with a 
transaction. For example, Lloyds have confirmed to me that the question about the toll tag 
would be dependent on how/when the merchant processes the transaction. So Im not 
persuaded that Lloyds would be able to give him a specific answer when this would be 
outside of their control. 
I was able to get further information from Lloyds regarding the second question he asked 
them. Lloyds told me that the customer payments are always backdated to the date they left 
the current account. They said the transaction will have an effective date (date received) and 
a posted date (applied to card system). They said the days in between are simply processing 
timescales on their card system.
In terms of the third question, the answer is similar to the first question. Lloyds have 
confirmed to me that it is dependent on how/when the merchant processes the transaction. 
They would have no control over how a merchant does this. Lloyds have also confirmed that 
Mr Hs terms and conditions and his statements would show him the interest charged for the 
different types of account transaction. So if Mr H has any doubt about what interest he would 
be charged, then he may wish to look at his statements for this information. 
Lloyds deem the last question as commercially sensitive. So I would not expect them to 
provide an answer to this  nor would they be required to give our service this information. In 
terms of fees for cash transactions, this forms part of the terms and conditions, which Mr H 
would have needed to agree to when he opened his account. So I cant say that Lloyds have 
done anything wrong here. They have provided a response to his questions and they have 
tried to summarise the answers to his questions, which I think given the circumstances of 
what they actually could tell him was reasonable for them to do this. So it follows I dont 
require Lloyds to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman