DRN-2240282
The complaint
Mr B complains about the systems that The Co-operative Bank Plc has established for 
supplying statements and information on past transactions, which dont provide information 
in the format or at the frequency that he wants.
What happened
Mr B said hed asked Co-op to do three things for him  
to provide a record of the last five years of payments hed made to a family member,
to allow him to see more than 13 months of previous statements online, and
to receive statements every month, instead of either every month or every 25 
transactions.
He told us Co-op hadnt done this, and his mental health had deteriorated due to the stress 
and anxiety of this not being resolved. So he wanted Co-op to do what hed asked and to 
provide compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Co-op said it had partly upheld his complaint. It would pay him £50 to say sorry. 
On both the length of time that statements were available for online, and the frequency of 
statements, Co-op said it had made a decision about how its systems were designed. It 
issues statements every month or every 25 transactions. It only offers 13 months of historical 
statements to customers who get paper statements. It said that some customers can see 
more than 13 months of previous statements, but to do that, they have to be opted in to 
paperless statements. Mr B wasnt opted in.
But it was sorry Mr B had been told it couldnt view historical transactions for the past five 
years. Whilst that facility wasnt available to Mr B online, Co-op can see those statements. It 
said it would send him paper statements free of charge. Co-op said it had arranged for those 
to be posted to Mr B, with the payments he was concerned about highlighted for him. 
Mr B said hed received no paper statements, or information on how he can view statements 
more than 13 months in the past. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Co-op hadnt 
made a mistake in telling Mr B he couldnt see statements online quite as far back as he 
wanted to. Our service cant tell Co-op to redesign its systems in order to give Mr B what he 
wants, or to send out statements to Mr B at a different frequency. He thought Co-op was 
right to pay Mr B £50 in compensation for not having told him right away that it could see the 
transactions Mr B wanted. It had sent statements now, but our investigator said that as Mr B 
hadnt received them, he would ask Co-op to send them again. Our investigator didnt think 
Co-op had to do more than this. 
Mr B wrote to disagree. He said Co-ops current arrangements for viewing and issuing 
statements didnt meet his needs. And Co-ops ethical policy says it will involve customers in 
designing and improving its products and services. He said it hadnt done that. And he 
thought we as a regulator were responsible for making sure he received the statements Co-
op said it would send him. 
Our investigator said that our service isnt a regulator. Were an independent dispute 
resolution service. And the policy document Mr B had drawn to our attention only said that 
Co-op would listen to customer feedback. It didnt commit Co-op to always acting on that. 
Our investigator still thought Co-op had done enough to provide a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint. 
Mr B wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Ive read carefully the online chat Mr B had with Co-op. And it appears that Mr B was told 
Co-op couldnt look for individual transactions in the past five years. Co-op now says it could, 
but it would have to do this manually. Even with access to Mr Bs online statements, Co-op 
doesnt have a way to select and view only particular transactions over the past five years. 
But Co-op thought it shouldve been more helpful when Mr B asked for this information. It 
couldve offered to go through Mr Bs statements for him, and provide this information on an 
online chat. Instead, it sent him paper statements. 
I understand that Co-op has paid Mr B £50. I think that a payment of £50 is enough to make 
up for this mistake. 
Co-op has said that if Mr B wants to access more than 13 months of online statements, he 
would need to register for paperless statements. And it said that it does issue statements 
every month or every 25 transactions. 
Our investigator explained that were not a regulator. Our service doesnt tell Co-op how to 
design its systems. We can only look at the individual circumstances of each complaint. And 
in this case Its not unfair or unreasonable for Co-op not to offer right away to redesign its 
systems so it can provide Mr B with the information he wants
Mr B drew our attention to Co-ops ethical statement, and in particular the provision about 
involving its customers in designing and improving its services. Mr B said Co-op hadnt done 
that. 
But Co-op hasnt flatly refused to consider Mr Bs feedback. it said its digital team would 
consider it. It told us that team reviews all suggestions from customers, and prioritises them 
for change depending on the impact on customers and the number of customers asking for 
change. 
I think this is in line with what Co-op has promised in its ethical statement. I dont think it has 
to do more than that.
I know Mr B will be disappointed, but I dont think Co-op has to do more than its already 
done. So I dont think this complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman