DRN-4295041
The complaint
The complaint in this case relates to the information provided by Scottish Equitable Plc 
trading as Aegon (Aegon) to Ms Ws IFA explaining how the tax on pension benefits over the 
Lifetime Allowance (LTA) is payable, specifically regarding whose responsibility it is to make 
payment to HMRC.
This incorrect information was used by Ms Ws IFA to provide pension advice which 
subsequently turned out to be incorrect, causing Ms W financial loss.
I am aware that there was an additional unrelated complaint point made against Aegon 
relating to the delay in setting up of an annuity. This complaint point was upheld by our 
investigator with Aegons redress calculation showing that no loss had occurred. As this 
outcome was accepted by all parties this decision has focussed on the outstanding issue of 
the incorrect information given by Aegon detailed above.
Finally, I would note here that there is a linked complaint Ms W has made against her IFA. 
This has been dealt with separately and will not be discussed further within this decision.
What happened
In September 2020 Ms Ws IFA contacted Aegon to clarify their stance on taxes due to 
HMRC should a policyholder have utilised their entire LTA.
Aegon stated that they would not facilitate the payment and that this must be made by Ms W 
to HMRC directly.
This information was then used as part of an advice process completed by Ms Ws IFA, 
which detailed the sequence in which Ms Ws remaining pots of uncrystallised pension funds 
should be taken to minimise the tax payable and ensure Ms W could gain maximum benefit 
from the Aegon policy and the valuable guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) which this policy 
provided.
Ms W followed the advice given by her IFA and crystallised other pension funds held away 
from Aegon. Subsequently, having reached age 70, and moved into the new tax year, in 
May 2022 Ms W started the process of accessing the Aegon pension, wanting to take the 
whole fund as income to maximise the benefits provided by the GAR.
As part of this process, it became apparent that the information previously provided by 
Aegon was incorrect. The tax payable would in fact be sent by Aegon directly to HMRC from 
the monies held within the pension. This reduced the fund value available to provide income.
Ms W registered a complaint with Aegon about the incorrect information and the lost annual 
income. 
On 29 June 2022 Aegon issued their response to the complaint. Aegon accepted that they 
gave the wrong information to Ms Ws adviser regarding the tax due and how this would be 
paid and offered £200 to cover the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Ms W did not accept the outcome and in response explained that given the tax charge of 
around £10,000, and a GAR of 10.8%, annual income of around £1,000 had been lost 
because of Aegons error.
As a result of the additional points made by Ms W Aegon increased their offer of redress to 
£1,200. 
Ms W did not accept this second response to her complaint and as such referred the case to 
this service. 
Whilst the case was being investigated by this service, Aegon explained that whilst they 
accepted that the information they had provided was incorrect, they did not consider 
themselves responsible for the lost annual income. They stated that they had provided the 
information to Ms Ws IFA, and that the IFA was responsible for checking its accuracy. As 
part of this argument Aegon also noted that the information they had provided was 
contradicted by the pensions tax manual, and that the adviser should have been aware of 
this and acted accordingly. 
Our investigator looked into things and agreed with the argument put forward by Aegon. The 
£1,200 offered by way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused was 
considered reasonable with the investigator concluding that the lost annual income was not 
Aegons responsibility.
Ms W did not agree, and with no agreement reached as to who was responsible (if anyone) 
for the lost annual income, the case has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As above, the issue around the delay in setting up the annuity was settled as a result of the 
investigators findings and as such this decision has focussed solely on the incorrect 
information provided by Aegon to Ms Ws IFA, and its impact on Ms Ws retirement income.
It has already been accepted that the information provided by Aegon was incorrect and as 
such the only thing I have to consider is whether this information was the cause of Ms Ws 
losses. 
The content of the pension tax manual was referenced by both Aegon and our investigator 
when reaching their outcomes regarding this issue. I also consider the content to be a key 
consideration. The tax manual states:
Liability for paying the lifetime allowance charge varies, depending on whether the charge 
arises during the members lifetime, or following the members death: 
during the members lifetime, the scheme administrator and the member are both equally 
liable to the charge; the liability is joint and several - in practice the scheme 
administrator is obliged, as a result of its liability, to account to HMRC for the charge due 
after the BCE.
Additionally 
Joint and several liability means that both the scheme administrator and the member are 
equally and separately liable to the whole charge, and that payment by one will discharge the liability of the other(s), to the extent of the amount paid. 
To meet their obligation, the scheme administrator must pay and account to HMRC for any 
lifetime allowance charge that arises in respect of any scheme member at a BCE taking 
place under their scheme
The above would seem to make it clear that the responsibility of settling any tax liability due 
to HMRC upon crystallisation of pension monies would fall on the pension administrator  
Aegon in this instance.
Given the advice being sought by Ms W centred around the taxation of her existing pensions 
I consider it entirely reasonable that the content of the tax manual would be a key source of 
reference for the IFA tasked (and being paid) to provide suitable advice. 
Additionally, I have considered the actual content of the information provided by Aegon and 
believe this itself should have raised concerns about its accuracy. 
The note completed by the IFA at the time stated that it would be Ms W who would settle the 
tax liability directly with HMRC as Aegon would be unaware of Ms Ws previous pension 
crystallisations and as such they would be unable to calculate the tax liability to be paid to 
HMRC.
However, whilst it is true Aegon would be unaware of Ms Ws other pension provision and 
what had previously been crystallised, this argument could be applied to all other pension 
providers who would all be unaware of any pension provisions a policyholder may hold 
elsewhere. 
The argument is undermined by common practice amongst the majority if not all pension 
providers who, when processing a pension crystallisation event for a policyholder, will 
routinely ask for confirmation from that policyholder (or their adviser) as to what amount of 
that policyholders lifetime allowance has already been utilised. This allows the provider to 
calculate if the lifetime allowance has been breached, if so by how much, and subsequently 
arrange for the correct amount of tax to be sent directly to HMRC.
This is a process I would expect an IFA to have followed numerous times, if not with Ms W, 
then almost certainly with other clients. As such, the flaw in the information provided by 
Aegon should have been apparent to the IFA.
Given the above I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator. The information 
provided by Aegon was clearly incorrect, however it was not the cause of Ms Ws lost annual 
income. Had Ms Ws IFA acted appropriately the incorrect information would have been 
discovered, the correct process for paying the tax due to HMRC would have been clarified, 
and alternative suitable advice could then have been given to Ms W. This would have 
allowed Ms Ws pension provision to by crystallised in the correct order, ensuring maximum 
benefit was provided by the Aegon policy and the GAR this included. 
Whilst I am not holding Aegon responsible for Ms Ws lost annual income, their provision of 
incorrect information undoubtedly caused Ms W distress and inconvenience. As such I am 
upholding the complaint. Having considered the chain of events above I have also reached 
the same conclusion as our investigator regarding the redress offer already made by Aegon. 
The £1,200 offered by Aegon to cover the distress and inconvenience caused is considered 
fair and reasonable and as such I am not changing it.Putting things right
I consider the offer made by Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon (Aegon) of £1,200 to 
cover the inconvenience caused by their error to be more than sufficient and as such I see 
no reason to change this. 
If this payment has not already been made to Ms W, then Scottish Equitable Plc trading as 
Aegon (Aegon) must take steps to arrange this as soon as possible.
My final decision
As per the rationale above I am upholding this complaint as it is clear that Scottish Equitable 
Plc trading as Aegon (Aegon) made an error and gave incorrect information to Ms Ws IFA. 
However, I have concluded that the offer already made is sufficient and as such I am not 
asking Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon (Aegon) to take any further action other than 
to ensure that if it has not already done so, the sum of £1,200 is paid to Ms W as soon as 
possible.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
John Rogowski
Ombudsman