DRN-3787796
The complaint
Mrs J invested in a bond issued by Basset & Gold Plc (B&G Plc). She complains that it 
was mis-sold to her by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), an appointed representative of 
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited (Gallium). She says it was unsuitable for her and she was 
persuaded to invest by misleading information  in particular that it had Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) protection. She also feels the bond was mismanaged, as 
the money invested into it was all lent to one payday lender, rather than being diversified 
as she was led to believe it would be.
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Mrs J invested in a B&G Plc Three year Compounding High-Yield IFISA Bond. Sales of 
this bond were dealt with by BG Ltd, a separate business from B&G Plc, the issuer of the 
bond. BG Ltd arranged applications for investments in the bond, through a website it 
operated. And it was responsible for advertising/marketing the bond. Potential investors 
were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium. B&G Plc and BG Ltd 
were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Mrs Js investment in the bond
Mrs J visited BG Ltds website in April 2017 following an internet search for high interest 
producing products. She says she had no previous investment experience and was risk 
averse, and at the time had around £15,000 to £20,000 in savings. She says was re-
assured that the bond she found details of and invested into was safe and well-diversified 
over lots of companies.
Mrs J says she completed the online application form and applied to invest £8,000. The 
bond she invested in offered an interest rate 6.70% per year, with the invested capital to be 
returned after three years.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that 
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day 
lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into administration 
in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mrs J 
has not had her invested capital returned to her.
The application process
As noted, Mrs J says carried out her bond application online. 
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show the 
application journey that Mrs J underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed to meet the 
rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on how to test whether the 
investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was certification, where Mrs J 
was categorised as everyday investor. The second was the appropriateness test.
Galliums response to Mrs Js complaint
Gallium didnt uphold Mrs Js complaint. It said she had been given sufficient information and 
risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions once Mrs Js complaint 
was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also considered what 
Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general information on the 
background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mrs Js complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mrs J as a restricted 
investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for her - was 
misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Mrs J wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Mrs J to invest. For these reasons, both cumulatively 
and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to compensate 
Mrs J for the loss she suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: 
Our findings went beyond the scope of Mrs Js complaint.
Regardless of label, Mrs J was required to confirm that she met the requirements of a 
restricted investor and confirmed that she did. It is not fair or reasonable to conclude 
that the use of the word everyday contributed to Mrs J giving an incorrect 
declaration, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration. 
The appropriateness test answers, and these confirmations were sufficient for 
Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and 
experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mrs J made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it, and 
did not chose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the 
concentration risk. So she would have proceeded with the investment regardless. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relaiton to the sale of the bond. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I 
have taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are 
relevant here.
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
The bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who it could 
be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the potential 
investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I have 
considered the releavant rules in full.
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered 
these too. 
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for the same reasons. In summary:
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mrs J into certifying herself as belonging in 
a category to which she did not belong (a restricted investor) by changing the term 
used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the category as being one 
anyone could fall into. This was not treating Mrs J fairly or acting in her best 
interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Mrs J, it is unlikely she would 
have certified herself as being a restricted investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bond was not an appropriate investment for Mrs J. In the circumstances Mrs J would 
either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have 
concluded it should not promote the bond to Mrs J.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mrs Js complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mrs J would either not have proceeded to make the 
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably 
to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to 
compensate Mrs J for her loss.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mrs J as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not made the 
investment.I take the view that Mrs J would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is 
fair and reasonable given Mrs J's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mrs J fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mrs J's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Its clear Mrs J has been caused distress and inconvenience by the loss of her 
investment. Given her circumstances, this was money she couldnt afford to lose. I 
dont think Mrs J foresaw such a drastic loss and I recognise the considerable worry 
she will have felt when B&G Plc failed. I consider a payment of £350 is fair 
compensation for this.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Three year 
Compounding 
High-Yield 
IFISA BondStill exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
As the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market), the 
actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mrs J agrees to Gallium 
taking ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take 
ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mrs J that she repays to Gallium any 
amount she may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs J wanted to achieve a reasonable return and I dont think she wanted to take a 
significant risk.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mrs J's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mrs J would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Gallium 
Fund Solutions Ltd to pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mrs J in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman