DRN-2340500
The complaint
Mr W complains because Ageas Insurance Limited hasnt paid a claim under his personal 
accident insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr W held a personal accident insurance policy, provided by Ageas. 
Unfortunately, Mr W had an accident and suffered severe injuries. He spent 15 nights in 
hospital, where he underwent surgery. Mr W was unable to work for five months and 
subsequently had to change jobs, as he was unable to lift or carry heavy items because of 
his injuries. Mr W made a claim under his personal accident insurance policy with Ageas. 
Ageas said Mr Ws policy was very specific and fixed sum benefits were only payable in the 
event of, for example, permanent total disablement. Ageas said the policy didnt cover 
scarring, fractures or temporary disablement in any circumstances. 
Unhappy, Mr Ws representative complained to Ageas on his behalf before bringing a 
complaint to the attention of our service. Our investigator looked into what had happened but 
said she didnt think Ageas had been unfair in declining Mr Ws claim. Mr W didnt agree with 
our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator say an insurer must handle claims fairly and shouldnt 
unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when making my decision 
about Mr Ws complaint. 
Insurance policies dont cover every eventuality. Mr Ws personal accident insurance policy 
only covers specific situations which are listed in the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr Ws policy says:
WHAT IS INSURED
If you suffer bodily injury as a result of an accidentduring the period of insurance 
and which within 104 weeks of the date of the incident solely and independently of 
any other cause results in your
1. death
2. permanent total disablement
3. loss of sight
4. loss of limb or limbs
5. loss of speech
6. loss of hearing
we will pay you the applicable benefit as specified in the Table of Benefits shown in 
the Schedule.
Permanent Total Disablement is defined as disablement which has lasted for 52 
consecutive weeks and which in the opinion of an expert medical specialist will prevent you 
from engaging in gainful employment of any and every kind for the remainder of your life. 
Mr Ws policy doesnt say that no benefit is payable for situations where the policyholder is 
unable to work for a number of months, or for situations where a policyholder is forced to 
change jobs due to their injuries  but I dont think it needs to. The limits of the cover 
provided by Ageas are set out above. So, unless Mr W can demonstrate that he satisfies the 
definition of permanent total disablement (or meets one of other criteria listed), his claim 
isnt covered under his policy. 
Im sorry to hear about what Mr W has been through and I have no doubt the accident has 
severely impacted his life. I understand Mr W is considered to be disabled, but a benefit is 
only payable under his policy if he meets the criteria set out in the terms and conditions. 
Based on the information Ive seen Mr W didnt meet the criteria for a benefit to be paid to 
him under his personal accident insurance policy when he made his claim in 2016. 
Mr W told us his GP has now said he wont be able to work in the future. But his policy only 
provides for a benefit to be paid if Mr W met the definition of permanent total disablement 
within 104 weeks of his accident. 
This means I dont think Mr Ws claim is covered under the terms and conditions of his 
policy, and I dont think Ageas has acted unfairly or unreasonably by turning down his claim. 
Mr Ws representatives have also commented on a legal protection insurance policy which 
he holds. Ageas provided Mr Ws representatives with the information theyd need to make a 
claim on Mr Ws behalf under that policy. I wont be commenting on this any further, as the 
complaint Im deciding relates solely to the claim made under Mr Ws personal accident 
policy.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman