DRN-2978295
The complaint
Mr M complains that Equifax Limited didnt allow him to select his address when trying to 
access his statutory credit report. 
What happened
Mr M complained to Equifax on 9 June 2021 after he couldnt get a copy of his statutory 
credit report. Mr M explained that his flat number wasnt listed in the drop-down menu. Mr M 
said he was embarrassed and disappointed as a result. Mr M says that without seeing his 
report, he didnt feel confident enough to apply for credit.
The investigator initially recommended that Mr Ms complaint be upheld. He thought Equifax 
shouldve given Mr M a clearer explanation of how to access his report. The investigator 
recommended that Equifax pay Mr M £100 compensation.
Equifax didnt agree with the investigators recommendation. It provided evidence to this 
service that it had given Mr M instructions on how to access his report. As a result, the 
investigator changed his recommendation.
Mr M is unhappy about the change of view. He doesnt consider that Equifaxs instructions 
were clear.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I agree with the investigators recommendation not to uphold 
his complaint. I can appreciate that it was concerning to Mr M when he couldnt locate his flat 
number in the drop-down menu. But Im satisfied that Equifax responded to his concerns 
within a reasonable timeframe. 
Mr M complained to Equifax on 9 June 2021. When Equifax initially responded to Mr Ms 
concerns it told him that although the address on his tenancy agreement referred to Flat, 
the electoral roll recorded his address as beginning with Apartment. Which explained why 
using the word Flat didnt bring up any results. 
Mr M replied to Equifax to say that using Apartment didnt work either. Equifax later sent a 
message to Mr M on 16 June 2021 asking him to try Apt and to make contact if that didnt 
work. Equifax followed its message up the next day with a screen shot of what it had used to 
bring up Mr Ms address. 
Although there was a small delay between Mr M making his complaint and Equifax clarifying 
the format to use, I dont consider it was excessive. I also cant see that Mr M told Equifax 
that he needed his statutory credit report in order to apply for credit. And if applying for credit 
in the intervening period had been critical, Mr M couldve tried to access his report from one 
of the other two credit reference agencies.
Im satisfied that Equifaxs instructions in its messages of 16 June and 17 2021 were clear. 
So, Mr M shouldve been able to access his credit report on either 16 June or at the latest 17 
June 2021. 
Overall, I dont require Equifax to compensate Mr M.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman