DRN-4051417
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy with the settlement offered by AA Underwriting Insurance Company
Limited (the AA) following a claim under her home insurance.
What happened
In February 2022 damage was caused to the roof of Mrs Ks property during a storm, so she
made a claim to the AA, her home insurance provider.
Mrs K was advised to obtain her own quotes for repair, as the AA would likely be cash
settling the claim. A surveyor was also appointed by the AA. They inspected the damage
and sent a report to the AA.
Mrs K submitted a quote for repairs to the AA totalling £2,950, plus £150 for temporary
emergency works. The AA didnt accept the quotes, and instead offered £773.50 (after
deduction of the £350 excess) for storm damage repairs and also agreed to settle the £150
invoice for emergency repairs. The AA said not all the damage being quoted for was storm
related as there was wear and tear, they said their offer was for what it would cost them to
repair the storm damage only.
Mrs K was unhappy with the settlement offer from the AA and approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things and issued several assessments on the complaint. This is
because her view of what was fair and reasonable changed a number of times. Ultimately,
the investigator said the AA had acted fairly by only accepting the ridge tiles and localised 
repairs to the flat roof, as she was persuaded the remainder of the repairs werent covered.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the case was passed to me to decide.
I reached a slightly different outcome to our investigator. So, I issued a provisional decision, 
to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings, before I reached my 
final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a slightly different outcome to our investigator, and Im 
minded to direct the AA to do something different to what our investigator 
recommended to put things right. So, Im issuing a provisional decision, to give both 
parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings, before I reach my final 
decision.
Mrs K has submitted a quote for repair totalling £2,950. This is for:
Supplying and installing scaffolding
Removing, supplying and installing a new felt roof
Supplying and fitting lead flashing
Replacing any broken tiles
Removing and refixing of the ridge tiles
Rubbish removal
The AA says that not all the damage being claimed or quoted for is storm related, 
instead they say some of the damage is wear and tear and due to poor workmanship. 
So, the AA has offered a cash settlement for what they say it would cost them to 
carry out storm related repairs only.
The AA has offered a settlement of £1,273.50 before the £350 policy excess is 
deducted. This includes £150 for emergency works. The net total for the storm 
repairs being offered is £773.50. The AA has accepted and included the following in 
the settlement:
Temporary repairs
Scaffolding
Removal and refitting of ridge tiles
Localised repair to the flat roof
External protection of the existing finishes and rubbish removal
The dispute here is around the extent of repairs covered under the claim and policy, 
and the appropriate settlement for that. Our investigators view of things changed 
several times, Ill outline this below as Im minded to agree with some parts of the 
assessments and what they said the AA needed to do to put things right.
The initial assessment by the investigator
Our investigator initially said that the AA had agreed to cover the cost of all the tiles, 
so she only went on to consider the flat roof part of the claim and the cash settlement 
amount.The investigator said the AAs surveyor report was very brief and she didnt think the 
AA had shown there was poor workmanship or wear and tear. So, she said it wasnt 
fair or reasonable for the AA to only partially settle the claim for the flat roof. She also 
said that the AA chose to cash settle the claim, rather than complete repairs. So, she 
said it wasnt fair for the AA to limit the cash settlement to their own costs and 
concluded the AA should meet the full cost of Mrs Ks quote, with 8% interest added.
Mrs K agreed, but the AA didnt. They said the method of the flat roofing construction 
was incorrect, and this was highlighted by the storm weather. Therefore, the AA 
maintained that only a patch repair to the flat roof was covered. They also said the 
tiles and remaining roof was in poor condition and this was historical rather than 
being the result of the storm.
In light of the response and additional comments, the investigator revisited matters.
The second assessment by the investigator
The investigator revisited her conclusions that the AA hadnt sufficiently shown the 
exclusion applied to the flat roof damage. She thought the AA had provided sufficient 
evidence that the construction method wasnt correct, and that this had been 
highlighted by the storm. So, she said the AA only partially accepting the flat roof 
repairs wasnt unreasonable.
But the investigator also said the AA had accepted the full tiles repairs, but 
maintained that it wasnt fair for the AA to limit the cash settlement to their own costs 
of carrying out works. So, she said that the AA needed to pay Mrs Ks quote for 
completing the tiled roof repairs, subject to Mrs K providing evidence of the tile repair 
costs. And she said 8% simple interest should be added.
Mrs K didnt agree and said she wanted all the repairs covered. The AA didnt say 
whether they agreed or disagreed. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the 
investigator said the case would be reviewed by an ombudsman for a final decision.
The third assessment by the investigator
Whilst the case was awaiting a review by an ombudsman, the investigator revisited 
things.
The investigator explained that shed previously thought the AA had agreed to cover 
the full tile repairs, and the only dispute on this point was whether it should be at the 
AA or Mrs Ks costs. But she realised this wasnt correct. Instead, the AA had only 
agreed to cover the refitting of the ridge tiles, not replacing all the tiles. Therefore, 
she considered whether that was reasonable.
The investigator said that having viewed images of the roof, she thought there were 
signs of gradual damage and wear and tear, which is excluded under Mrs Ks policy. 
So, she said it wasnt unreasonable for the AA to only cover the ridge tiles and 
exclude the remainder.
The investigator also said her view remained as previously about the flat roof, that 
the AA was only responsible for the partial repair, not the full replacement.My provisional findings
For clarity, Ill consider the flat roof, the tiled roof, and the appropriate method of 
settlement separately below.
The flat roof
Mrs K has had a quote for the full replacement of her flat roof. The AA says the flat 
roof has been poorly constructed, and thats the dominant and main cause of most of 
the damage, but there are some parts which they accept are storm damaged. 
Therefore, theyve only agreed to cover part of the repairs as storm damage, rather 
than the full replacement.
Having considered all the information provided, Im minded to conclude the AA has 
acted fairly by only partially accepting the flat roof repairs. Ill explain why.
When we consider complaints about storm damage claims, we take into account the
following questions, and if any of the answers are no then its likely a claim wont 
succeed:
Were there storm conditions?
Is the damage consistent with storm type damage?
Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage?
It isnt disputed that a storm occurred, so I dont need to decide point one. And a 
storm could cause damage to a flat roof, therefore the first two questions are 
potentially satisfied.
However, the AA says the flat roof was poorly constructed, and this was highlighted 
by the weather rather than the storm being the main or dominant cause of damage 
(question three).
The AA have said that the felt on the flat roof overlaps the tiles and therefore isnt 
secured, and this isnt the correct building method. They say this has resulted in the 
wind being able to lift the felt, and had it been correctly fitted, this wouldnt have 
happened. So, they say the weather has highlighted the existing workmanship issue, 
rather than being the main cause of the damage.
Having considered all the information provided, Im minded to agree with what the AA 
says here as the images support this. These show that the felt doesnt appear to be 
secured, and Im persuaded this has then been highlighted by the weather at the 
time.
Therefore unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional 
decision, Im minded to conclude the AA has acted fairly by declining the full flat roof 
replacement, and limiting cover to the patch repair which they were able to conclude 
was storm related damage.
The tiled roof
Mrs Ks quote is for both removing and refitting the ridge tiles and replacing any 
broken tiles. The AA has accepted the ridge tile removal and replacement is covered, 
but they say the remainder of the tiles, which Mrs K has submitted a repair quote for, 
are suffering wear and tear rather than storm damage.Ive considered this in line with the approach explained above regarding storm 
damage. A storm isnt disputed and damage could be caused during a storm. So 
again, questions one and two are potentially satisfied.
However, having reviewed images of the remaining roof tiles, Im minded to agree 
with the AA that they are showing signs of historic wear. I say this because from the 
images, multiple tiles have slipped, cracked, showing signs of historic deterioration 
and corroded mortar, along with moss and debris being present.
Mrs Ks policy excludes
Loss or damage arising from gradually operating causes including 
deterioration, wear and tear, corrosion, rot or similar causes.
With this in mind, unless anything changes as result of the responses to my 
provisional decision, Im minded to conclude the AA has acted fairly by only 
accepting the ridge tiles under Mrs Ks claim as Im persuaded this is the only 
element of storm damage.
The claim settlement
As outlined above, and to summarise, unless anything changes as a result of the 
responses to my provisional decision, Im minded to conclude the AA has acted fairly 
by only accepting the ridge tiles and localised flat roof repairs  and the associated 
scaffolding and clear up costs.
The AA has offered settlement of £773.50 for this (after excess deduction and 
separate to the emergency repair costs which theyve also accepted). The AA say 
this is based on the costs if they were to carry out repairs, rather than the costs 
Mrs K would incur. They say this is in line with the following in Mrs Ks policy terms:
How we will settle your claim
At our option we will:
Repair or rebuild the damaged part using our suppliers; or
Make a cash payment if you wish to use your own supplier.
If we make a cash payment, we will only pay you what it would have cost us 
using our suppliers and therefore the amount you receive may be lower than 
the cost charged by your suppliers.
If a repair is not carried out, or if the loss or damage involves part of the 
building that is in a poor state of repair or redecoration, then we will decide to 
either:
a) pay the cost of rebuilding or repairing the damage, less a deduction for any 
wear and tear; or
b) pay the difference in market value of the building immediately before and
immediately after the damage. This will not exceed what we would have paid
under point a).
Therefore, the terms do outline that if the AA decide to cash settle, then it would be at 
their costs, rather than Mrs Ks. However, I dont think thats fair or reasonable in the
circumstances. Ill explain why.If the AA had offered to carry out repairs but Mrs W had wanted to use her own 
contractor instead, then the approach taken by the AA might not be unreasonable. 
However, here, Mrs W would rather the AA carry out repairs, but it is the AA who has 
decided to cash settle the claim. So, the settlement being offered needs to be 
sufficient for Mrs K to be able to get the works completed. I dont think it is fair and 
reasonable for the AA to restrict settlement to their costs, if they arent willing to 
complete those repairs. Therefore, the AA need to pay the costs that Mrs K would 
incur in having those works completed.
Mrs Ks quote is for £2,900. But this includes works above and beyond those which 
Im minded to say are covered under the claim. And the quote isnt itemised or 
broken down, instead its for a total of £2,900 to include everything. So, its unclear 
what the cost would be to Mrs K for only those covered works to be carried out by her 
contractor.
Therefore unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional 
decision, Ill be directing the AA to settle Mrs Ks claim for what it would cost her in 
carrying out those repairs, subject to Mrs K providing evidence of this.
My understanding is that the AA has already paid what they have offered as an 
interim payment. Therefore, if Mrs K has already arranged for the works to be carried 
out, 8% simple interest should be added to any additional amounts, above the 
settlement already paid by the AA, from date of payment of the invoice to date of 
settlement.
The AA has already paid the £150 invoice for temporary repairs, so the above repair
settlement is separate to that. And the AA has already deducted the £350 excess 
from the interim payment already made  and the excess deduction from the overall 
claim isnt unreasonable. So that would also need to be taken into account in 
calculating the remainder of the payment due to Mrs K.
To be clear though, Im not asking either party to provide quotes or settlement figures 
in response to my provisional decision, instead they need to confirm whether they are 
in agreement with the proposal Ive outlined.
If my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, and Mrs K accepts, 
then theyll both need to discuss the appropriate settlement amount directly. If any 
further dispute arises after that about the settlement amount, that would be a new 
complaint, which Mrs K may be able to bring to this service  subject to our usual 
rules and timescales.
The service
As Ive outlined above, Im not minded to conclude the AA reached an unfair overall 
outcome on what items to include or reject under Mrs Ks claim. However, I dont 
think the way the AA has reached the cash settlement  based on their own costs  
is reasonable.
Ive also listened to the calls Mrs K had with the AA, and the AA wasnt clear in 
explaining the settlement to Mrs K. The amounts changed a number of times which 
caused confusion.The AA has also said that one of the settlements offered included a supplier fee, so 
should never have been included. But due to the error, it meant one of the offers 
made to Mrs K was higher than the AA had intended. And when later reduced, this 
caused additional confusion and concerns for Mrs K as the AA wasnt able to explain 
the decrease in the settlement which she was already unhappy with.
Along with calculating the cash settlement incorrectly, I also think this could have 
been communicated more clearly to Mrs K how the settlement was calculated and 
what was and wasnt covered.
In addition to what Ive outlined above that Im minded to direct the AA to do to put 
things right in relation to the claim, Im also minded to direct the AA to pay Mrs K 
£150 compensation for the inconvenience and confusion caused.
So, I was minded to uphold the complaint in part and to direct AA to:
Cash settle the claim for the storm damage repairs already accepted as covered, 
but in line with Mrs Ks repair costs  subject to Mrs K providing evidence of this
If Mrs K has already had repairs completed, add 8% simple interest to any 
additional cash settlement amount above the interim cash settlement already 
paid by the AA, from date of payment of the invoice to date of settlement
Pay Mrs K £150 compensation
The responses to my provisional decision
Mrs K responded to my provisional decision. She said AAs surveyor didnt go onto her roof 
and instead relied on photos of the roof, and said her estimate was reasonable. She also 
said AAs view that the roof was poorly constructed goes against the council planners view.
Mrs K also said the repair work has already been completed as its over a year since the 
storm. And she also said shed like me to decide the specific amount to be paid as part of 
this final decision.
The AA didnt respond to my provisional decision by the deadline set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the provisional conclusions I reached. Having done so, my 
final decision remains the same as my provisional decision.
I note Mrs Ks comments that the surveyor didnt go onto her roof and instead relied on 
photos. Whilst that may be the case, Im satisfied the images and remainder of the 
information provided support the conclusions ultimately reached by AA.
I also acknowledge what Mrs K has said about the council planners view of the flat roof. This 
was information Mrs K provided to our investigator previously, so is something I took into 
account when reaching my provisional decision. However, the flat roof works were part of a 
major extension to Mrs Ks property. And the documents provided show what was submitted 
to planning, but not what was inspected or signed off individually.When considering the flat roof part of the claim, I explained howd Id done this in line with 
our usual approach to storm claims and complaints. And I dont think the storm was the 
dominant cause of damage. Therefore, Im satisfied AA has acted fairly by declining the full 
flat roof replacement and limiting cover to the patch repair which they were able to conclude 
was storm related damage.
Neither party has provided anything which leads me to depart from the conclusions I 
reached about the tiled roof. So, my decision on that aspect remains the same  that the AA 
has acted fairly by only accepting the ridge tiles under Mrs Ks claim as Im persuaded this is 
the only element of storm damage.
My final decision also remains the same as my provisional decision in relation to how the 
claim should be settled  at Mrs Ks costs, rather than restricted to the AAs.
I acknowledge Mrs K has said she wants me to decide the specific amount of the claim 
settlement here in my final decision. However, as explained in my provisional decision, 
Mrs Ks quote is for £2,950. But this includes works above and beyond those Ive decided 
are covered under the claim. The quote isnt itemised or broken down. So, its unclear what 
the cost of those works covered is and consequently thats not something I can decide as 
part of my final decision here.
Therefore, Im directing the AA to settle Mrs Ks claim for what it would cost her in carrying 
out those covered repairs, subject to Mrs K providing evidence of this.
My understanding is that the AA has already paid what they have offered as an interim 
payment. Therefore, if Mrs K has already arranged for the works to be carried out, 8% 
simple interest should be added to any additional amounts, above the settlement already 
paid by the AA, from date of payment of the invoice to date of settlement.
The AA has already paid the £150 invoice for temporary repairs, so the above repair
settlement is separate to that. And the AA has already deducted the £350 excess from the 
interim payment already made  and the excess deduction from the overall claim isnt 
unreasonable. So that would also need to be taken into account in calculating the remainder 
of the payment due to Mrs K.
If any further dispute arises after that, about the settlement amount, that would be a new 
complaint, which Mrs K may be able to bring to this service  subject to our usual rules and 
timescales.
And my final decision remains the same about the compensation, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Cash settle the claim for the storm damage repairs already accepted as covered, but 
in line with Mrs Ks repair costs  subject to Mrs K providing evidence of this
If Mrs K has already had repairs completed, add 8% simple interest* to any additional 
cash settlement amount above the interim cash settlement already paid by the AA, 
from date of payment of the invoice to date of settlement
Pay Mrs K £150 compensation*If AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs K how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mrs K a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman