DRN-2649271
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax blocked her account without 
warning and closed it. Mrs W would like compensation for the way Halifax dealt with the 
account closure and the failures in customer service.  She would like the account reinstated.
What happened
Mrs W had an account with Halifax.
On 14 August 2019 Mrs W noticed that she wasnt able to use her online banking. Her 
account had been suspended. When she contacted Halifax, they confirmed her account 
would be closed on 60 days notice. Mrs W says she was told she could access all the 
money in her account except for £1,776. This was money Mrs Ws brother had transferred to 
her. Halifax said they were querying the origin of these funds. Halifax said they were waiting 
on a third-party banks confirmation of the legitimacy of the funds and in the meantime, Mrs 
W could go to branch and withdraw her wages and benefits.
Mrs W went to branch to withdraw her money but was told she could only withdraw benefits 
and wages. She said she had to take time off work and borrow money which caused her 
stress and aggravated a long-term health condition. 
Halifax recognised that Mrs W had received poor service in branch, and it had given her 
some misleading information about how much money she could withdraw and offered her 
£350 as compensation for the distress it caused her.
Mrs W was unhappy with Halifax response and the offer of compensation so she 
complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He said Halifax could review the account 
and he was satisfied there had been no undue delays. He said Halifax could close the 
account giving 60 days notice. He said that the offer of £350 was a fair amount in the 
circumstances even taking into account the stress Mrs W had suffered, her medical 
condition and the way Halifax had dealt with the complaint.
Mrs W was unhappy with the view. She said the compensation wasnt enough considering 
the misinformation and the service she had received from Halifax. She said she suffered a 
lot of stress as a result and had to take time off work.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Review and blocking of the account
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mrs Ws account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. Having looked at the evidence I am satisfied that 
this is what Halifax was doing when it reviewed and blocked Mrs Ws account. 
I appreciate it was a shock to Mrs W when she found out her account was blocked. And that 
she no doubt found the whole episode frustrating, but Halifax are entitled to carry out 
reviews of their customers accounts under regulations and the terms of the account. So, I 
cant say they have done anything wrong when they blocked and reviewed Mrs Ws account.
Closure of the Account
Mrs W was given 60-day notice of closure of the account. I have looked at the terms and 
conditions of the account and they allow Halifax to close the account in certain 
circumstances.  Having looked at the evidence Im satisfied that Halifax were able to close 
the account giving 60 days notice.
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed. So, I 
cant say Halifax have done anything wrong when it closed Mrs Ws account.
Failures in customer service
Halifax have accepted that it gave Mrs W poor customer service when she went into branch 
and spoke to staff on the phone. Halifax have offered Mrs W £350 for the failures in 
customer service. Mrs W has said that this isnt enough compensation.
Mrs W has told us the impact the situation had on her. She has said she had a wasted trip 
into branch and on her second trip to branch to withdraw money she was told she could only 
access her wages and benefits. I appreciate Mrs W has told us she had to leave work early 
to go to the branch to try and sort things out. And she had to borrow money to pay her bills. 
She was very stressed by the whole situation and this had a detrimental impact on her long-
term health condition. I have considered that Mrs W was caused distress and inconvenience 
when she went into branch and was given the wrong information by staff. I can also imagine 
that she was concerned about her credit history when staff mentioned she would be loaded 
for a Cifas marker. I would like to reassure Mrs W that this has not been loaded.  
I recognise that Mrs W spent a long time checking with her brother and the third-party bank 
in order to provide the information in response to what the bank requested. 
Having said all this I consider that £350 already paid by Halifax is a fair amount of 
compensation taking into account all the above and I wont be asking Halifax to pay any 
more compensation.
In conclusion, I agree that Halifax treated Mrs W unfairly but considering everything I am 
satisfied that the banks offer of compensation is fair. And whilst I appreciate Mrs W wont 
agree Im satisfied Halifax has done enough to put things right. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that Im not going to ask B to do anything more to resolve Mrs Ws 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman