DRN-2174713
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy with Lloyds Bank PLCs decision to not refund her after she lost
£1,133.04 after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained why I was upholding this case on 
14 August 2020. Both parties have had an opportunity to respond. Ive restated the 
background and findings in this final decision. 
Miss T received a replacement debit card from Lloyds as her previous one was about to
expire. This arrived at her home around 26 July 2019. She received an email from her
mobile phone provider shortly after. The email asked her to update her payment details and
the email appears to have been genuine.
Miss T also received an email asking her to update her payment details for her TV licence.
The email also appeared genuine to Miss T and, given her replacement card and the email
from her mobile phone provider, she proceeded to reply with the requested details. She
disclosed her full name, address, date of birth and new card number. It now seems very
likely this was a scam or phishing email. Miss T had become concerned about this email
when she reflected on replying to it but wasnt sure what she might do to verify its legitimacy.
Miss T received a call from someone claiming to be from Lloyds fraud department on the
evening of 29 July 2019. Miss T didnt realise at the time, but this was in fact a fraudster.
Miss T remembers the call coming through on an 03 number that she said, looked like a call
centre number. She recalls the scammer knew various details about her including her name,
date of birth and address. It seems likely such information was obtained from her response
to the phishing email a few days earlier.
The scammer told Miss T that her account and her money were under threat. They said that
someone had tried to use her card for transactions a significant distance from Miss Ts
home. They said a credit card had been applied for as well. Miss T confirmed to the
scammer that shed not made the transactions herself and that she hadnt applied for the
credit card. And so she was panicked into believing the scammer and that her account was
under attack. Miss T cant recall if she was told that the activity had been blocked or if it was
pending.
The scammer asked Miss T if shed responded to any suspicious emails. She recalled the
email about her TV licence and told the scammer about how shed responded. The scammer
said this was likely how someone had obtained her details and was now trying to use them.
Miss T has described how she was being passed between an adviser and a supervisor at
this time and how this interaction, and how the two people were explaining things, made
everything seem genuine and normal. Miss T has described how the callers sounded very
professional and it seemed as though they were genuinely calling from the bank.
Miss T, convinced by the scammers story, proceeded to follow the instructions she was
given. Shes explained how she acted in a state of shock and panic, with little time to think of
anything apart from trying to protect herself.
The scammers told Miss T that shed need to transfer her funds in order to protect them.
They explained how theyd set up a new account within the bank and that Miss T could move
her money there to keep it safe. At this stage Miss T questioned how she could be sure she
was talking to someone from Lloyds. The scammer replied to say that once the payment had
been set up shed receive a text confirming the details. Miss T felt reassured by this as the
caller clearly knew the banks processes and so she continued to believe she was dealing
with a genuine Lloyds employee.
Miss T proceeded to make three payments in quick succession, funded by transfers from her
savings account. Within four minutes she transferred £679.18, £352.86 and £101 from her
current account to the account provided by the scammers. Shed transferred £1,100 from her
savings before making these payments as shed been told that her savings account was at
risk too. Once the money had been sent to the scammers account she had a balance of
£21.02 remaining in her current account.
Miss T had sent the varying amounts across three transfers on the instruction of the
scammers. Theyd told her it was necessary to send the payments in this way to correspond
with the amounts they were blocking. Shes said she doesnt recall seeing any warnings
when setting up or making the payments.
Once the payments were made the scammers said they also needed to block her overdraft.
They said, in order to do so, shed have to first increase her limit in order to activate it. 
Miss T thought this sounded odd and wanted to visit a branch the next day. The scammers 
said she could do so but then couldnt provide any details about her local branch when 
she asked for them. This made her suspicious and she hung up.
Miss T called the bank on a genuine number once shed terminated the call with the
scammer. The scam was revealed at this point. Lloyds contacted the receiving bank the
following morning to see if any of Miss Ts money could be recovered. It took the receiving
bank a while to respond and, when it did, it said no funds remained.
Lloyds considered whether it ought to reimburse Miss T for her loss. It recognised Miss T
authorised the payments herself, albeit as a result of a scam. Lloyds is a signatory to the
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM or the Code) and so considered its
obligations under it.
Lloyds chose not to reimburse Miss T under the Code. It said shed ignored warnings about
scams when she made the payments. Lloyds also felt Miss T hadnt done enough to check
the legitimacy of the call and so didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was talking
to the bank. It didnt feel Miss T had met her requisite level of care under the CRM and so
declined to refund her.
Miss T was unhappy with Lloyds response and so brought her complaint to this service. One
of our investigators looked into what had happened and recommended Lloyds refund Miss T.
She said Lloyds hadnt suitably demonstrated that Miss T had failed to meet her requisite
level of care. Ill summarise her conclusions.
She didnt feel Miss T had ignored an effective warning because:
Miss T couldnt remember seeing any warnings and it wasnt entirely clear what 
might have been shown;the warning Lloyds has said would have been shown wasnt applicable to Miss Ts 
situation;
Miss T reasonably believed she was talking to a genuine Lloyds employee, given 
what they knew about her and the banks processes, and so the warning might not 
have seemed applicable if Miss T did see it.
She felt Miss T did have a reasonable basis for believing what the caller was saying
because:
Miss T had spoken to an adviser and a supervisor, both of whom seemed 
professional and knowledgeable about the banks processes;
the scammers knew Miss Ts personal details;
the call appeared to come from a number which looked as though it could be one for 
the bank;
Miss T was lured into a situation in which she felt panicked and believed her money 
was at risk;
Miss T tried to remain alert throughout the call and did pick up on something 
suspicious when asked about increasing her overdraft.
Our investigator said the complaint should be upheld on the basis of the above. She
recommended Lloyds refund Miss T under the conditions of the CRM and that it pay interest
on the refund from the date Lloyds rejected the claim.
She also noted that the spending pattern was unusual for Miss T and that this ought to have
put the bank on notice that something was wrong. She pointed out that Miss T rarely set up
new payees or made faster payments yet in these circumstances there had been a new
payee and three payments in very quick succession. She also noted the activity left Miss Ts
account almost completely empty, which was unusual for her specifically and, more
generally, often a sign of someone falling victim to a scam similar to the one thats the
subject of this complaint.
The investigator felt Lloyds ought to have stepped in and contacted Miss T at the point of the
second transfer and, had it done so, the scam would have been revealed at this point. This
didnt change the outcome of the CRM element of the complaint. It meant the bank ought to
pay the 8% interest for the second and third payments from the date the money was lost,
rather than from when they ought to have been refunded.
Lloyds didnt respond to the investigators opinion and so the case was passed to me
for a final decision. But before issuing this final decision I provided both parties with my 
provisional findings. 
I agreed with the investigators recommendations, for the most part. I said Miss Ts claim 
under the CRM ought to have been successful. But I didnt feel Lloyds ought to have flagged 
the payments as unusual, before they left Miss Ts account. And so I didnt find Lloyds ought 
to pay the extra interest on the second and third payments. 
I also said I was awaiting evidence from the receiving bank to show when the funds left the 
receiving account. That was in case quicker action from Lloyds might have seen some of 
Miss Ts funds recovered. That evidence has now been obtained and I can see the money 
was removed from the account very quickly, with almost all of it being taken within an hour of 
the funds crediting the account.Both Miss T and Lloyds agreed with my findings, which Ive set out again below. Ive slightly 
updated my findings on the attempted recovery of funds, in light of the additional evidence 
Ive received. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And that would mean
the customer is responsible for any transactions that they have authorised themselves, even
when theyve done so as a result of a scam.
There are a number of reasons why it may not be fair to hold the consumer responsible
though. Firms have an obligation to monitor accounts and protect customers from fraud.
Those obligations are well-established in law as well as numerous pieces of industry
guidance and best practice produced by a range of institutions including the British Bankers
Association (BBA) and the British Standards Institution (BSI).
It may then, where the consumer makes a payment or payments as a consequence of the
actions of a fraudster, sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the
consumer even though they authorised the payment.
And of particular relevance to the question of what is fair and reasonable in this case is the
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code), 
which Lloyds has signed up to.
Under the CRM Code the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who is
the victim of an APP scam, like Miss T. The circumstances where a firm may choose not to
reimburse are limited and it is for them to establish that a customer failed to meet their 
requisite level of care, as set out in the Code. It says:
A Firm may choose not to reimburse a Customer if it can establish any of the following
matters in (a) to (e). The assessment of whether these matters can be established should
involve consideration of whether they would have had a material effect on preventing the
APP scam that took place.
(a) The Customer ignored Effective Warnings, given by a Firm in compliance with SF1(2), by
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an Effective Warning given in any of the
following:
(i) when setting up a new payee;
(ii) when amending an existing payee, and/ or
(iii) immediately before making the payment
(c) In all the circumstances at the time of the payment, in particular the characteristics of the
Customer and the complexity and sophistication of the APP scam, the Customer made the
payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
(i) the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay;(ii) the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
(iii) the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
(e) The Customer has been grossly negligent. For the avoidance of doubt the provisions of
R2(1)(a)-(d) should not be taken to define gross negligence in this context.
When assessing whether it can establish these things, the firm must consider whether they
would have had a material effect on preventing the APP scam. The Code itself doesnt set
out specific examples of a customer failing to meet their requisite level of care. Its for
businesses to consider each case on its facts.
I have thought about how the CRM Code applies in the circumstances of the payment
Miss T made and, in particular, whether Lloyds ought to reimburse her under the provisions
of the Code.
Firstly, Lloyds says Miss T ignored effective warnings. Lloyds says Miss T would have seen
the following when setting up the payments:
fraud warning  paying someone unexpected?
The above statement presents a link for a customer to click on the same page as payee
details are entered. If followed it goes on to show a pop-up on screen which says:
Suspicious Calls
If youve been called unexpectedly and asked to make a payment -this could be a scam.
Fraudsters may pretend to be from your bank, the police or well-known companies. They do
this to gain access to your money.
Never do any of the following for an unexpected caller:
- set up a payee
- move money to a safe/secure/holding account
- download anything to your device
To find out more please read our suspicious calls information.
If in any doubt, do not continue with this transaction. Better safe than sorry.
I believe its more likely than not Miss T would have been presented with the first warning.
But the bank hasnt confirmed or demonstrated that Miss T would have seen the second,
more detailed warning. It hasnt evidenced whether she clicked the link which would have
revealed it. Given Miss T has said she doesnt remember seeing any warnings Im not
persuaded the second part was presented to her. But Ill provide my thoughts on it in any
case.
I can appreciate why Miss T wouldnt have necessarily reacted to the first warning that
Lloyds says would have been shown. I think she could have seen it and thought it didnt
relate to her situation. I dont think a scam like this this would be readily compared to paying
someone unexpected. Instead, Miss T thought someone was trying to use her card details to
spend money elsewhere and apply for credit cards in her name and that she had to move
her money in order to protect it. And so the warning didnt fit the context of what she was
experiencing and I can see why it wouldnt have had a material effect in preventing the scam
for someone in Miss Ts circumstances. And there was no indication what Miss T might do
differently to protect herself, a key feature the Code notes as being important in the context
of effective warnings.When taken in isolation, I can see why the bank would seek to argue that if Miss T did see
the second part of the warning, which Im not persuaded she did, then she would have
ignored what ought to have been an effective deterrent to proceeding. Thats on the basis
that it does describe some of the features of the scam Miss T was caught up in. It refers 
specifically to an unexpected call and the need to set up a new payee and move money to a
safe account. But its important to take into account all of the circumstances of what Miss T
was experiencing at the time.
Miss T had been convincingly persuaded that she was genuinely talking to her bank. The
scammers knew a lot of details about her and were calling on what she reasonably thought
was a genuine number. On the latter point we  and the bank  know that fraudsters are
able to spoof genuine numbers. That is to say they can make it look as though theyre
calling from one of the banks phone numbers when they arent. Miss T hasnt said she
checked the number specifically, but she does recall it looking as though it was a call centre
number. So it seems quite possible this is what happened here or at least that attempts were
made by the fraudsters to make the number look more legitimate. And I dont think Miss T
acted unreasonably in not doing more to check the number. Many ordinary consumers would
act in the same way in similar circumstances.
Given the tactics employed by the fraudster I can see why Miss T was convinced she was
talking to Lloyds. And the warning the bank has presented doesnt put Miss T on notice of
any of those tactics, or that the bank would never ask her to move money, and so it
becomes more apparent why Miss T continued to believe she was talking to the bank and
needed to act.
We  and the bank  know a warning in isolation may not be enough to prevent a scam
where a customer is convinced they are talking to a genuine party. And that is whats
happened here.
The picture the scammer painted is also a factor here. Miss T was led to believe her money
was under threat and that she needed to act quickly to stop it from being lost. And so a high 
pressure situation was created, where attention to detail and perhaps even the level of
critical thinking a person might engage in is reduced. Clearly Miss T thought she was doing
the right thing and was acting out of panic. In such circumstances its understandable that
pop-up warnings will have a limited impact on a customer.
The warning doesnt present Miss T with any alternative courses of action or ways in which
she might try to verify who she is speaking with. She would not have been prompted to act
or do something differently, only to stop what she was doing if she correctly identified the
potential for a scam. There seems to be a resource provided by Lloyds on suspicious calls,
but the information wouldnt have been presented to Miss T and its unclear how she might
have accessed it. There doesnt appear to be an active link in the warning. And so she was
without some tools that might have otherwise helped to prevent the scam.
With all that in mind Im not persuaded Lloyds has been able to establish that Miss T should
not be reimbursed on the basis that she ignored an effective warning.
I also dont think that Lloyds has been able to establish that Miss T didnt have a reasonable
basis for believing that she was genuinely acting to protect her money. Some of the
reasoning here overlaps with what Ive already said about Miss T having not ignored an
effective warning. The two considerations are inextricably linked in some respects. Rather
than repeat those points in detail again Ill summarise in bullet point form:the caller knew details about Miss T which I think, fairly and reasonably, persuaded 
her she was talking to the bank;
the call seemed to come from a phone number that Miss T believed could 
legitimately have been the banks;
a sense of urgency, panic and a need to act quickly was created by the scammer 
making her more vulnerable to the scam as it unfolded.
Miss T had replied to a phishing email prior to the call from the scammer. This is likely what
led to them knowing details about her. But it also provided further reasonable basis for
believing that something was wrong and that she needed to act.
Miss T had already been suspicious about the email when she reflected on responding to it.
The scammer then asked her specifically about any unusual emails which, it seems, they
already knew shed replied to. And that detail was then used to explain how Miss Ts details
were then being used to attempt transactions across the country. Miss T was then aware
that shed potentially put herself at risk by answering the email and now the bank was telling
her that her fears were being realised. I can see why this layering of the scam would have
made it more persuasive to Miss T that she needed to act to protect her money.
I think its worth my commenting on the issue of the phone number as a final point here. Its
true that Miss T could have checked the number she was being called on. But given her
recollections about how the number appeared, and the sophisticated set up of the scam with
the phishing email, I believe its more likely than not the number was spoofed to look more
legitimate. Its even possible the banks own number would actually have been shown. But it
certainly seems as though the number wasnt suspicious; it wasnt a mobile or normal
landline number that might have otherwise raised suspicion.
Im persuaded overall that Miss T did meet her requisite level of care and I dont believe
Lloyds has established it was able to choose not to refund her under the Code. It ought to
have refunded Miss T at the time she reported the loss and so it should refund that loss now.
Lloyds should also apply 8% simple interest to that amount  from the date of its final
response; when it ought to have refunded  to the date of settlement in order to compensate
Miss T for having not had access to those funds.
Could Lloyds have done anything else to prevent the scam; bearing in mind good industry
practice at the time and considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the
case?
Our investigator thought the bank should have stepped in to question Miss T when she
made the second payment. Ive set out her reasoning in the background of this decision. And
I can understand her reasoning for saying as much. But Im not persuaded the bank ought to
have stepped in here. The points highlighted by the investigator are important, but I also
have in mind each transaction was for a relatively low amount, although I accept still a
significant and important sum of money for Miss T to have lost. And so Im not persuaded it
would have been fair and reasonable for Lloyds to stop the transactions to question them at
the point they were being made.
This finding doesnt alter my consideration of Miss T being refunded under the Code. Only
the date from which Lloyds ought to pay Miss T 8% simple interest.Did Lloyds act quickly enough when notified of the scam?
When a firm like Lloyds is put on notice of a scam its important it acts quickly to try and
recover the funds. This means contacting the recipient bank as quickly as possible. The best
practice standards, set out by UK Finance and embedded into the CRM Code, explain how
firms should have scam reporting lines available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. And
they say the sending bank should contact the recipient immediately.
There isnt an elaboration on what immediately might mean in practice. But here it appears
Lloyds didnt contact the recipient for 12 hours. Lloyds were put on notice by Miss T at
around 10pm but it didnt contact the receiving firm until around 10am the next day. I dont
find that can be fairly described as acting immediately.
The recipient bank has said all funds were removed from the account and there was nothing
to return to Miss T. And Ive now seen evidence to show that almost all of the money was 
removed by 10:30pm. And so, even if Lloyds had acted more quickly in trying to recover the 
funds, its unlikely to have made any difference. The money was removed from the account 
too quickly. And so there are no changes to be made to the outcome and redress I set out in 
my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Miss T and Lloyds have accepted my findings and the redress set out in my provisional 
decision. And so Lloyds should now make arrangements to:
refund Miss T the £1,133.04 lost as a result of the scam; and
pay Miss T interest on that amount at 8% simple from the date it declined her claim 
under the Code to the date her loss is refunded.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC and direct it to pay the redress set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman