DRN-3417856
The complaint
Mr H makes a number of complaints about Nationwide Building Society following an account 
opening.
What happened
Mr H opened a Nationwide Individual Savings Account (ISA). He says there were delays 
opening the account and that the account was set up incorrectly. Mr H says he asked for 
interest to be paid monthly but the account was set up to pay interest annually. He also says 
he asked for £80,000 to be transferred to his new Nationwide account but it requested the 
full amount of the account balance in his other account which meant that account closed. Mr 
H would like appropriate compensation for what took place and for the distress he was 
caused.
Nationwide accepts it made a mistake with the interest setting and has apologised as well as 
correcting it. It accepts there was a delay in opening new accounts and has again 
apologised. Nationwide says all interest was backdated. It says Mr H completed the ISA 
transfer form and ticked the box that all previous years subscriptions be transferred. 
Nationwide has offered £75 compensation.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator accepted there was a delay in opening 
the account and a mistake about the interest. The investigator didnt think Mr H suffered any 
financial loss and that the mistake had been corrected. The investigator thought the 
compensation offer appropriate but didnt think Nationwide made a mistake about the 
transfer amount as Mr H had ticked the relevant part authorising full transfer.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and in summary says the compensation offer isnt enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Nationwide has made a fair and 
reasonable compensation offer. I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed by my decision and 
appreciate how strongly he feels about what has taken place. I have read his detailed e-
mails to us which included details about his employment background.
There is no question here that Nationwide made a mistake in setting the interest payment on 
Mr Hs account and that there was a delay in opening the account. I appreciate Mr Hs 
concerns in those circumstances and his frustration in finding out the interest payment 
details were incorrect. But I dont think Mr H suffered any financial loss as a result of what 
took place and dont consider the impact of the mistake or delay particularly significant as to 
justify further compensation. Im satisfied Nationwide fairly apologised and fairly backdated 
the account opening.
The key issue here is the amount that was transferred into the new ISA. I have no doubt Mr 
H wished to transfer £80,000 into the new account and keep his previous account open. But 
equally Im satisfied that Mr H completed the relevant form and ticked the box which 
authorised Nationwide to request the full amount from the other ISA account. So, I cant fairly 
hold Nationwide responsible for what took place and appreciate that Mr H appears to accept 
that position.
Overall, Im satisfied the compensation offer is fair and reasonable and of course it is up to 
Mr H to decide if he wishes to accept it, as it appears Nationwide hasnt paid it. If Mr H does 
accept the offer, then it would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer of £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman