The complaint
Mr and Mrs O have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs O took out the PPI around the same time as arranging the mortgage in 1992. 
Nationwide cant confirm how the PPI was sold. Mr and Mrs O think it was sold during their 
mortgage meeting in branch and Nationwide agrees that is most likely the case. Although it 
was a joint mortgage, the PPI was set up just to cover Mr O for accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Nationwide disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint and Ill explain why.
Nationwide no longer has any paperwork from the sale, which is not surprising given how 
long ago it took place. But this does make the complaint more difficult to decide. In reaching 
my decision I have considered the evidence that we do have as well as what I consider is 
most likely to have happened.
Mr and Mrs O say they didnt know that PPI had been added to the mortgage account, 
meaning that it was added without their knowledge or consent.
From what we know of Nationwides sales processes at the time, the PPI was normally 
presented as optional. I havent seen any evidence that would lead me to conclude that 
something different happened in this case.
I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs O have provided their genuine recollection of events. But it 
wouldnt be surprising if their memories have faded over time. On balance I think that they 
probably decided to buy the PPI, knowing they didnt have to, even if they no longer 
remember doing so.
Nationwide didnt advise Mr and Mrs O to take out the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that 
it met their needs. But it did need to provide Mr and Mrs O with sufficient information for 
DRN-1597057them to be able to make an informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for 
them.
The policy had a 90 day waiting period. So even if Mr O had made a successful claim, Mr 
and Mrs O would have had to carry on paying their mortgage repayments themselves for 
that initial period.
This information would have been important to Mr and Mrs O because, as Mr O was self 
employed, he wouldnt have received any sick pay if he was unable to work due to accident 
or illness. And the couple didnt have any other means, such as savings, to fall back on. So, I 
think theyd have quickly found themselves unable to pay the mortgage if Mr O wasnt 
working.
Nationwide says that, if Mr and Mrs O were unable to make their mortgage repayments 
following a claim being made, it would have come to an informal arrangement such as giving 
them a payment holiday during the waiting period. Nationwide says it wouldnt be in its 
interests to be unsympathetic in such circumstances.
I appreciate what Nationwide has said about what would happen in practice. But Ive had to 
consider what Mr and Mrs O would have done if theyd been aware of the 90 day waiting 
period. Im not persuaded that they would have wanted to rely on the promise of a potential 
informal arrangement, even if they knew that such an informal arrangement might be 
available. And they would have still needed to make up those mortgage payments 
afterwards. Therefore I think its likely that they would have preferred a more concrete 
arrangement that met their needs, rather than having to rely on the goodwill of Nationwide if 
those circumstances arose. 
The 90 day waiting period was a significant term that Nationwide needed to bring to Mr and 
Mrs Os attention. Im not persuaded that it did that, because I dont think that Mr and Mrs O 
would have taken out the policy if theyd have understood that the policy would only start 
paying out after three months. Thats because it didnt entirely meet their needs and so I 
dont think theyd have considered it to be good value for money in their circumstances. It 
follows that I uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint.
Putting things right
Nationwide should put Mr and Mrs O in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. Therefore Nationwide should:
Pay Mr and Mrs O the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr O made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes Mr and Mrs O.  
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr and Mrs O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint and require Nationwide Building 
Society to pay fair compensation as detailed above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman