DRN-3572781
The complaint
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund him for two 
transactions that he says he didnt agree to. Hed like the money refunded.
What happened
Mr S holds a NatWest debit card. He used this card to make a deposit payment of £1 to 
book a trip. Several weeks later he found that the merchant he had booked with had taken 
two further payments from his debit card, which he says he wasnt expecting. He thought this 
was a scam. He asked the merchant for a refund, but they declined citing their cancellation 
policy.
He contacted NatWest, who looked into what happened. They received information from the 
merchant that said Mr S had agreed to further payments being taken. NatWest ultimately 
didnt feel they should be liable for refunding the transactions. They said that by providing his 
debit card details he had willingly agreed to the merchant taking additional payments in the 
future. 
NatWest also said that under the chargeback rules right for cancellation, so they couldnt 
pursue this avenue. They didnt consider the matter to be a fraud issue. But they accepted 
there had been service issues with the way they had handled Mr S claim and paid him £100 
compensation and call costs.
Unhappy with this answer Mr S referred the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators took a look at the complaint but didnt think NatWest needed to do anything 
further. It wasnt in dispute Mr S had given over his card details to the merchant. 
She said Mr S had asked the merchant why two payments were taken on the same day, 
rather than monthly payments, which showed he was aware he was entering into an 
agreement for a series of payments to be taken. She also cited the booking email Mr S 
received. She thought the information provided by NatWest in relation to the chargeback 
rights was correct, and she couldnt see that NatWest should be liable for refunding him.
Mr S disagreed saying the wording of his comments to the merchant about payments had 
been misunderstood  he had only found out about the payments afterwards. He also said 
that NatWest had not been sympathetic to his personal circumstances and the difficult 
situation he had just left. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, like the investigator I can see Mr S hasnt asked our service to look into the customer 
service issues that hes faced in relation to these events. I can see that NatWest have 
offered £100 compensation and call costs. This decision will therefore focus on whether 
NatWest should be liable for refunding him the transactions in dispute.
Its not disputed that Mr S gave his card details to the merchant to authorise the initial 
payment of £1. The key consideration for me here is whether Mr S entered into an 
agreement for the merchant to take further payments using these card details. 
Generally, merchants and consumers can enter into agreements to use stored card details 
to take a series of payments, and this is generally termed as a continuous payment authority 
(CPA). The expectation is that the merchant gets the consumers informed agreement to 
enter into the CPA, along with providing knowledge of what payments can be expected to be 
taken.
Having reviewed the terms of Mr S agreement with the merchant, and the confirmation 
email sent to him by the merchant, I think it ought to have been reasonably clear that he had 
agreed to a series of payments. Although I note the confirmation email only specifies the 
monthly instalments payable. The full terms say that the full balance is due eight weeks. But 
I dont think this negates the entire agreement to pay. 
In any case, Im satisfied that when paying the £1 deposit Mr S was giving authorisation for 
the merchant to take further payments. And Ive seen nothing to suggest this agreement was 
withdrawn or cancelled before the next set of payments were taken. On that basis the 
payments are authorised, and NatWest can hold Mr S liable for them.
Ive also reviewed the relevant card schemes rules in relation to chargebacks. Its important 
to bear in mind that the rules around chargeback are set by the card scheme, rather than 
NatWest. And for a chargeback to be raised it needs to meet the criteria set down in the card 
schemes rules. 
But I dont see that there are criteria that match these circumstances. The criteria for 
services not received exclude situations where the consumer cancels the services before 
the expected delivery date, which is what happened here.
I also considered whether NatWest could have raised it under misrepresentation. But I 
havent seen any compelling evidence that the merchant misrepresented what Mr S had 
ordered. Im also not persuaded the merchant was behaving fraudulent, or Mr S has fallen 
victim to a scam. On this basis the decision by NatWest not to pursue a chargeback claim 
was reasonable.
Im sorry to hear about the difficult personal circumstances Mr S was in, and Ive no doubt 
this was a particularly distressing time for him. I appreciate he feels NatWest could have 
been more empathetic to his situation  and NatWest have accepted as such in their 
response to his complaint, which I find appropriate. 
But this doesnt mean they can reasonably be held liable for refunding the transactions  for 
the reasons explain these are authorised, and there is no reasonable option for NatWest to 
pursue a chargeback. So, in this regard I dont see that NatWest have been unfair or 
unreasonable in declining to refund Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc do not need to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman