DRN-2323175
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, didnt treat her 
fairly when they rejected a claim she made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (section 75), that a service contract had not been completed to a satisfactory 
standard.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Tesco Bank, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs W made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Mrs W complains about four elements of the service she had completed on her caravan by a 
company Ill call A. Whilst the service was completed, its an implied term of the contract 
that the service should be completed to a satisfactory standard and, as I think theres 
evidence here that it wasnt performed to an acceptable standard, Im going to be asking 
Tesco Bank to take some action.
misrepresentation
Before I go on to consider the standard of service supplied I will consider Mrs Ws claim that 
the service contract was misrepresented to her. If Mrs W was told something that was wrong 
and that led her to enter into an agreement with A, that she wouldnt have otherwise 
entered into, Id think the agreement had been misrepresented to her. 
Mrs W says the first service checklist was different from the one A eventually used. But the 
checklist A eventually used was longer. I dont think Mrs W would have been likely not to 
have proceeded with the agreement if she had known the checklist eventually used was 
going to be more comprehensive. I therefore dont think theres been a misrepresentation or 
that Tesco Bank were unreasonable when rejecting this element of Mrs Ws complaint.
unsatisfactory quality of service
the battery
The test result provided by A varied significantly from the test result Mrs W obtained from 
the supplier. The suppliers result was corroborated by the manufacturer who I think are truly 
independent here. 
Im persuaded by the weight of evidence that A didnt test the battery to a satisfactory 
standard.
I understand Tesco Banks explanation that results will vary depending on conditions, but the 
results were so wildly different I dont think it would be reasonable to suggest As readings 
could be within a reasonable margin of error.
the smoke alarm
Whilst its not listed on the checklist that the smoke alarm will have new batteries fitted I think 
its reasonable to suggest that as A had explained the smoke alarm was working they 
should have either left it in that condition or explained that batteries would need to be 
refitted. So, Im persuaded this work wasnt completed to an adequate standard.
the gas heater
I dont think Ive been provided with sufficient evidence that a dirty inlet would mean the 
service hadnt been completed to a satisfactory standard. So, Im not persuaded there is 
sufficient evidence to support Mrs Ws assertion the gas heater service was inadequate, and 
I dont think Tesco Bank have been unreasonable when rejecting this element of Mrs Ws 
claim.
Putting things right
Mrs W hasnt provided evidence that she needed to get another service completed so I dont 
think its necessary for Tesco Bank to refund the whole service cost.
I also dont think they needed to compensate her for any trouble and upset caused by A. 
But I do think they should refund some of the money Mrs W paid for a service that wasnt 
adequately performed.
Its only fair that Mrs W pays for some of the benefit shes had from the service, but Id agree 
with the investigator that, in the circumstances, Tesco Bank should refund 20% of the £330 she paid. That equates to £66 on top of which Tesco Bank will need to pay Mrs W 8% simple 
interest as shes been deprived of that money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC to refund £66 and add 8% simple interest from the date Mrs W paid her service bill to 
the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman