DRN-4491197
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain they were given incorrect information by Santander UK Plc about 
being able to switch to a product without an early repayment charge (ERC). They ask that 
the ERC is refunded and compensation for the upset and financial impact.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had a mortgage with Santander. Theyd taken out a fixed rate product with an 
ERC which applied until early May 2023.
Mr and Mrs M wanted to move home and asked Santander about porting and taking out 
additional borrowing. Santander said this didnt meet its affordability checks. Mr and Mrs M 
applied elsewhere, via a broker, and received a mortgage offer in early December 2022.
Mrs M contacted Santander later in December 2022 about switching to a tracker product, 
which didnt have an ERC. She asked if they could switch to the new product early (before 
May 2023) without paying an ERC. Santander said they could call to request an early switch.
Mr and Mrs M proceeded with their sale and purchase. They exchanged contracts at the end 
of February 2023. But when they called Santander in early March 2023 and asked for an 
early product switch, Santander said this wasnt possible. Mr and Mrs Ms sale completed in 
mid-March 2023 and they paid an ERC of £13,000. 
Mr and Mrs M say if theyd known that the ERC would be applied, they wouldnt have 
exchanged contracts. They say theyd have waited until the fixed rate product expired or until 
Mr M received a bonus in March 2023 that would have meant they could re-apply to port 
their product with Santander.
Our investigator said Santander had given Mr and Mrs M incorrect information that they 
could switch products before May 2023 without paying an ERC. However, he thought Mr and 
Mrs M would have continued with the sale and purchase if it had told them theyd have to 
stay on the fixed rate product (and therefore pay an ERC). So the incorrect information didnt 
make a material difference. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree. They said theyd have waited until the fixed rate product expired 
or Mr M received his bonus in March 2023 so that they could complete a porting application 
to Santander.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs M took out a fixed interest rate product in 2021. The product offer sets out the 
amount of the ERC and when it applies. Mr and Mrs M accepted the terms of the product, 
including the ERC, when they took out the product. Mr and Mrs M repaid the mortgage while 
the ERC applied. So Santander was entitled, under the mortgage terms and conditions, to 
apply the ERC.
Mr and Mrs M say, in effect, that because of the incorrect information given to them by 
Santander its unfair for it to apply the ERC. They say they acted on this information when 
they exchanged contracts for their sale and purchase. 
Santander accepts it gave Mr and Mrs M incorrect information in December 2022 and in 
January 2023. It said they could book a tracker product and then call and ask to switch early. 
This was incorrect. Santander says it only allows an early switch in circumstances that dont 
apply here. Santander refunded the £999 booking fee Mr and Mrs M had paid and paid £250 
compensation for the upset caused by the incorrect information.
I need to decide whether the offer made by Santander is fair or if, as Mr and Mrs M say, it 
should refund the ERC. When doing so, Ive taken the following into account.
Mr and Mrs M accepted an offer for their property in September 2022 and had an offer 
accepted to buy a property in November 2022. 
Santander said Mr and Mrs Ms porting application (with additional borrowing) wasnt 
affordable. Mr and Mrs M say the only outstanding issue was that Santander needed 
evidence of Mr M receiving a bonus in March 2023. 
Mr and Mrs Ms options were to wait until March 2023 and complete a porting application 
with Santander (with the delay and the risk this might not be successful). Or apply 
elsewhere and either pay the ERC or delay completion until May 2022. 
Mr and Mrs M say they wanted to stay with Santander and their porting application 
remained open pending them sending evidence of Mr Ms bonus in March 2023. But if Mr 
and Mrs M were intending to port their mortgage product, I think its unlikely theyd have 
paid a £999 product fee for a tracker product with a higher interest rate. 
Mr and Mrs M received a mortgage offer from another lender in early December 2022. 
This was before they were given incorrect information by Santander. So I think at this 
point they were either expecting to pay the ERC or to delay completion of their sale and 
purchase until May 2023. 
Mr and Mrs M say their purchaser and vendor were flexible about timing and there were 
no other parties in the chain. We asked Mr and Mrs M if they could provide any evidence 
that their vendor and purchaser agreed to completion in May 2023. They were unable to 
do so. Given the amount of time Mr and Mrs M would have been asking their vendor and 
purchaser to wait Id expect some record of them being told about this and agreeing to it. 
Id expect this to have been referred to in emails with the vendor or purchaser, the estate 
agents or solicitors. 
In late December 2022, Mrs M called Santander about taking out a new product. 
Santander asked Mrs M why they were looking at a tracker product. Mrs M said they 
wanted flexibility. She didnt say they were in the process of moving. Had she done so, 
Santander would have been able to give her information more suited to their 
circumstances. 
Santander told Mrs M the product switch would take place when the fixed rate product 
expired as the tracker rate was higher. Mrs M asked about switching early, but again she didnt explain why she wanted to do this. 
Mrs M says Santander knew they wanted to move because theyd been in contact about 
porting and this would be in their mortgage notes. This didnt prevent Mrs M from 
mentioning this on the call.
Even if the call handler had read through the notes on Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage 
account, they wouldnt have known Mr and Mrs M were proceeding with a different 
mortgage lender. There were opportunities for Mrs M to mention this, but she didnt do 
so. In fact, Mrs M asked how theyd move things forward if they wanted to stick with 
Santander and go onto the tracker.
Having listened to the calls, I think Santander provided information on the basis Mr and 
Mrs M were remaining with Santander and I think Mr and Mrs M must reasonably have 
known this.
Santander told Mrs M they couldnt switch early if they moved to an alternative lender. 
Given Mr and Mrs M were moving to an alternative lender, this ought to have alerted 
them to the risk their request for an early switch could be declined.
Santander said Mrs M could request an early switch, and if this was because her 
preference was for a different type of product this would be allowed. It seems this wasnt 
correct. But in any case, this wasnt the reason Mr and Mrs M wanted an early switch. 
Mr and Mrs M exchanged contracts on 28 February 2023 with completion agreed for 
mid-March 2023. So when they asked for an early switch on 2 March 2023, theyd 
already exchanged contracts to sell their property with completion about two weeks 
away. The reason Mr and Mrs M wanted an early product switch was to avoid paying the 
ERC when they repaid the mortgage.
Like our investigator, I think its likely Mr and Mrs M would have proceeded with their sale 
and purchase if theyd been told they couldnt switch products early in order to avoid paying 
the ERC. They havent provided evidence theyd discussed delaying completion with the 
other parties involved in the sale and purchase. I think its unlikely theyd have chosen to 
incur the cost of a product fee for the tracker product and the trouble and cost of applying to 
a new lender if they had the flexibility to wait until Mr M received a bonus in March 2023 to 
complete a porting application. 
Mr and Mrs M hoped to switch products early to avoid paying an ERC when they sold their 
property before their product expired. I can understand they were disappointed when 
Santander declined their request for an early switch, having previously said this was 
possible. But having listened to the calls, I think Mr and Mrs M must reasonably have known 
this was a risk. If Mr and Mrs M wanted certainty they could have been open with Santander 
about their plans and why they wanted to switch to a tracker product. 
I dont think, in the circumstances, its fair and reasonable to require Santander to refund the 
ERC. 
Santander did give Mr and Mrs M incorrect information and I think its right that Santander 
refunded the product fee. I dont think Mr and Mrs M would have paid this if theyd known 
they wouldnt be able to switch products early to avoid paying the ERC. 
I also think its right that Santander paid compensation for the upset caused by the incorrect 
information. Mr and Mrs M say finding out after exchanging contracts that they had to pay 
the ERC meant they had to take out loans at short notice. They say this caused financial strain, especially with interest rate rises. 
Mr and Mrs M took mortgage advice and applied for a mortgage before they discussed 
switching products with Santander. Id have expected them to take the cost of repaying the 
Santander mortgage (including the ERC) into account. As I said, I think Mr and Mrs M ought 
reasonably to have known there were risks with their plan to switch products early to avoid 
having to pay the ERC. Nonetheless, I can understand that hoping to avoid paying the ERC 
and then being told they would after all have to pay it was upsetting. I think the £250 paid by 
Santander is fair and reasonable compensation for the upset caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Thats because I think the steps taken and 
compensation paid by Santander UK Plc is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman