DRN-2823162
The complaint
Miss B complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
Marsh Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss B and to Marsh Finance on 5 March 
2021 and described what had happened as follows:
A used car was supplied to Miss B under a hire purchase agreement with Marsh 
Finance in July 2019. She contacted the dealer about some issues with the car and 
paid £60 for a diagnostic test in September 2019 which found some issues with the 
car. She paid £100 for another diagnostic test in November 2019 and complained to 
Marsh Finance about the car.
It arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert later that month and 
said that the dealers offer of inspecting the brake discs and, if needed, organising 
replacements was a fair outcome. The car failed an MOT test in December 2019 and 
Miss B complained to this service in February 2020 - and said that she wants to 
reject the car.
Our investigator thought that Marsh Finance took a fair approach in accepting the 
reports findings and had taken responsibility for having the issue with the brake discs 
investigated and replaced. He didnt think that the other issues identified in the 
reports needed to be repaired.
Marsh Finance says that the dealer says that the car was of satisfactory quality when 
it was supplied to Miss B and Miss B says that the diagnostic tests have already 
shown that theres an issue with the cars brake discs.
My provisional findings were that:
Marsh Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss B. Whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it. Satisfactory quality also 
covers durability which means that the components within the car must be durable 
and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will also 
depend on a number of factors.
The car that was supplied to Miss B was about seven and a half years old, had been 
driven for 69,160 miles and had a price of £7,449. She complained to the dealer 
about some issues with the car and she arranged a diagnostic test in September 
2019. She paid £60 for the test and the test report shows that the cars mileage was 
72,484 and identified a number of faults with the car, including: Front brake 
pads/discs incompatible/wrong.
Miss B complained to Marsh Finance about the car in November 2019 and said that 
she wanted to reject it. She arranged another diagnostic test later month, for which 
she paid £100. The test report shows that the cars mileage was 76,005 and 
identified a number of faults with the car, including that the wrong size front brake 
discs were fitted and the exhaust gas recirculation pipe was leaking.
Marsh Finance arranged an independent inspection of the car later that month. The 
independent experts report recorded the cars mileage as 76,114 and concluded: 
The vehicle currently remains road legal and complied with all the criteria laid 
out in section 75 of the road traffic vehicle using a public highway. 
There is no critical systems are not operational at this point that the majority 
of the issues being, with the only exception being the EGR valve coolant leak 
which will benefit from early investigation and replacement as necessary, 
there was no plausible evidence presented at the time of inspection to confirm 
that the EGR valve leak was present at the point of purchase i.e. the vehicle 
at 7000 miles since the date of purchase which is undoubtedly sufficient for 
the coolant leak to have developed with the probable cause being general 
wear and tear. 
In conclusion the brake discs which remain functional and operating within 
minimum MOT standards however we do believe that the brake discs 
diameter may be smaller than the manufacturers original specification, as are 
recommending that the user removed to allow the brake this to be measured 
and compared with the manufacturers specification to confirm this, they are 
below the manufacturers original specification should be replaced.
The car then failed an MOT test in December 2019 when its mileage was recorded 
as 77,002 because of issues with the brake linings. Ive seen no evidence to show 
that the cars brake discs were replaced or that other repairs were made to the car 
and an MOT test check shows that the car didnt take an MOT test until January 
2021, when it passed and its mileage was recorded as 102,113.
Both diagnostic tests, the independent experts report and the failed MOT test refer to 
issues with the cars brakes. I consider it to be more likely than not that there was an 
issue with the cars brake discs when the car was supplied to Miss B and that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at that time because of that issue.
The dealer has offered to inspect and, if necessary, replace the brake discs. But 
since the independent inspection in November 2019 the car has driven more than 
26,000 miles. Miss B hasnt provided evidence to show that the brake discs have 
been replaced but, if shes now able to provide that evidence showing the cost of that 
work, I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for Marsh Finance to reimburse 
her for the cost of replacing the cars brake discs. I also consider that it would be fair 
and reasonable for it to reimburse her for the cost of the two diagnostic reports which 
show issues with the cars brakes  and to pay interest on those amounts.
The November 2019 diagnostic report refers to a leaking exhaust gas recirculation 
pipe  and the independent experts report also refers to an EGR issue but says that 
the probable cause is wear and tear. The first diagnostic report didnt refer to such an 
issue and Miss B had been able to drive nearly 7,000 miles in the car between July 
2019 and the date of the second diagnostic test. Im not persuaded that theres 
enough evidence to show that there was an issue with the cars exhaust gas 
recirculation system when the car was supplied to Miss B so I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Marsh Finance to take any action about 
that issue.
The diagnostic reports refer to other issues with the car but the independent experts 
report concluded that those issues were caused by fair wear and tear or wouldnt 
have been present when the car was supplied to Miss B. Im not persuaded that it 
would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Marsh Finance 
to take any action about those issues.
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Marsh Finance 
to reimburse Miss B for the cost of replacing the cars brake discs, if she provides 
evidence to show the amount that shes paid for the brake discs to be replaced, and 
to reimburse her for the cost of the two diagnostic reports, with interest. But I dont 
consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Marsh Finance to allow 
Miss B to reject the car, to pay her any other compensation or to take any other 
action in response to her complaint.
So, subject to any further representations by Miss B or Marsh Finance, my provisional 
decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint. Marsh Finance says that its happy 
with that outcome and Miss B has provided an invoice for work on the car in January 2020, 
which included replacing the brakes, with a total cost of £1,832.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Marsh Finance is happy with my provisional decision, I see no reason to change it. 
Miss B has provided an invoice for work on the car, which included replacing its brakes, for a 
total amount of £1,832. It included 10 hours of labour at £50 for each hour and £105 for front 
discs and £48 for front pads. The garage has been asked to provide more information about 
the cost of replacing the brakes but hasnt done so.
Miss B has suffered a close family bereavement and has asked for her complaint to be 
finalised. I sympathise with Miss B for her loss and offer her my condolences. 
The invoice provided by Miss B included five items of work and my research shows that 
replacing a cars brake disc and pads takes between one and three hours. As Ive not been 
able to obtain more detailed information about the amount that Miss B was charged for the 
brake discs and pads on her car to be replaced in January 2020, I consider that it would be 
fair and reasonable for Marsh Finance to reimburse her for two hours of labour at £50 per 
hour and for the cost of the replacement discs and pads. That totals £253.
Putting things right
I find that Marsh Finance should pay £253 to Miss B to reimburse her for the cost of 
replacing the cars brakes. I find that it should also pay her £160 to reimburse her for the 
cost of the two diagnostic reports. I find that it should pay interest on those amounts.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I order Marsh Finance Limited to:
1. Pay £253 to Miss B to reimburse her for the cost of replacing the cars brake discs.
2. Pay £160 to Miss B to reimburse her for the cost of the two diagnostic reports.
3. Pay interest on the amounts at 1 and 2 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Marsh Finance to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to at 3 above. Marsh Finance must give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax 
its deducted if she asks it for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 August 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman