DRN-3619379
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard refused his credit card 
application and will not provide him with its reason for doing so.
What happened
Mr G says he applied for the Barclaycard account in March 2022, but his application was 
refused. He says he has a good credit score and would like to know the refusal reasons. Mr 
G says he has other credit card accounts and questions if the refusal was due to his age.
Barclaycard says it declined Mr Gs application in line with its lending policy. It says it doesnt 
consider a customers age when assessing an application and has provided reasons for the 
refusal.
Mr G brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought Barclaycard had dealt fairly 
with the complaint. The investigator didnt think it was obliged to provide further information 
about the decision and didnt think it our role to tell it how to run its business.
Mr G doesnt accept that view and says the investigators view implies wrongdoing on his 
part and a lack of morals. He remains unhappy and would like further information about the 
refusal decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate that Mr G will be disappointed by my decision.
I am sure that Mr G will appreciate that its up to Barclaycard to decide with whom it has a 
business relationship just as its Mr Gs choice to decide the same thing. Im satisfied that 
Barclaycard has assessed Mr Gs application and fairly concluded that it doesnt wish to offer 
him an account. It is not our role to direct a business on what its lending criteria should be.
A business in these circumstances should provide a customer with the reasons for an 
account refusal. And having looked at Barclaycards records and its letter to Mr G, Im 
satisfied that it has, in general terms, explained why the application was refused. Im also 
satisfied that I have not seen any evidence that Barclaycards decision was based on Mr Gs 
age.
I appreciate Mr G would likely know the exact reasons and suggests that wrongdoing may 
be implied. I have not seen any evidence that Barclaycard has suggested such matters to Mr 
G, and Im satisfied that it has provided the required information to Mr G.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclaycard was entitled to make a commercial decision based on 
its lending criteria and reject Mr Gs account application. I have not seen any evidence that 
Barclaycard made a mistake or acted unfairly. I accept Mr G will remain unhappy following 
this decision, but this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute 
informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman