DRN-2176530
The complaint
Mrs S complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited gave her 
unsuitable advice when it advised her to contract-out of the state earnings related pension 
scheme (SERPS) in 1989. 
Mrs S is represented by a third party in this matter.
What happened
In 1989, Mrs S was advised to contracted-out of SERPS from April 1987 onwards. Her 
SERPS rebate funds were invested in a with-profits fund.
In 1993, after the contracting-out incentive was reduced, Royal London wrote to Mrs S 
advising her to contract back into SERPS. However, Mrs S said she wanted to remain 
contracted-out. I understand that Mrs S remained contracted-out until April 2003.
In 2019, Mrs Ss representative complained to Royal London on her behalf about the 
suitability of the advice she had been given to contract-out. 
Royal London didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. It said it was satisfied that its advice had 
been suitable for Mrs S based on her circumstances at the time the advice was given. It also 
noted that at the time it advised Mrs S she was entitled to a 2% incentive on her rebate. 
When the contracting-out incentive was reduced in 1993 it said it had advised Mrs S to 
contract back into SERPS.
Mrs S wasnt satisfied with Royal Londons response and her representative referred the 
matter to this service. 
Mrs Ss representative said it didnt think that the investment risk or the charges had been 
properly explained to Mrs S at the time the advice was given.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. 
He explained that when assessing whether a customer was likely to be better off by 
contracting-out of SERPS the adviser would have considered Mrs Ss age at the time of the 
advice and her income. 
He said he was satisfied that Mrs S was under what is called the pivotal age in 1989 and 
that the SERPS rebate, based on her earnings, was judged to be enough to make 
contracting-out likely to be beneficial for Mrs S. Based on the assumptions used at the time 
the advice was given, he said he was satisfied that Royal London hadnt acted unreasonably 
by advising Mrs S to contract-out.
He also noted that in November 1993, Royal London wrote to Mrs S to say that it thought it 
would be in her best interests to contract back into SERPS. But Mrs S had confirmed that 
she wanted to remain contracted-out for 1993/94 onwards. 
Our investigator said he thought Royal London had treated Mrs S fairly by giving her the 
opportunity to contract back in when the SERPS rebate incentive became less favourable. 
Mrs Ss representative also said it didnt think the with-profits fund Mrs S had invested in was 
suitable. Our investigator said he accepted that Mrs S was disappointed with the investment 
performance, but he noted that Mrs S hadnt been given any guarantees about the funds 
performance. 
In relation to the fees and charges he noted that at the time there was no regulatory 
requirement for fees and charges to be disclosed during the sales process. 
In summary he said he didnt think the original advice to contract-out was unsuitable.
Mrs S did not accept our investigator view. Her representative made the following points:
-the net (after costs) returns of the Personal Pension were always highly unlikely to 
match the benefits that the additional State Pension would have provided;
- Mrs S was not warned of the risk of this; and
- the recommendation of a single, complex, opaque, high-cost fund, meant an 
unnecessary lack of diversification and therefore excessive and unnecessary risk.
It also said it didnt think it was fair for our investigator to say he felt the advice was suitable 
based on what was thought reasonable at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered the points Mrs Ss representative has made. Having done so I 
dont agree that the advice Mrs S received to contract-out of SERPS in 1989 was unsuitable. 
Ill explain why.
Mrs S was 33 at the time of the original advice in 1989 and her annual earnings were 
recorded as £2,340 on the application form. In view of this I am satisfied that Mrs S was 
below the pivotal age and her earnings were sufficient for the adviser to have had 
reasonable grounds to think that Mrs S could potentially benefit from contracting-out of 
SERPS. 
The point of sale information Mrs S received at the time made clear that her SERPS rebate 
would be invested in a with-profits fund. In particular, I note it said:
Each contribution accumulates to provide a fund at State pension age, part of which is 
guaranteed. The remaining investment value comes from bonuses representing your share 
of the profits of our life and pensions business. Bonuses are normally added throughout the 
duration of the plan and, once added, they are guaranteed.
I appreciate that Mrs Ss representative feels she should have been advised to invest in a 
range of funds, but the information Mrs S received at the time made clear that her SERPS 
rebate funds would be invested in a with-profits fund.
With regard to the impact of charges and whether the adviser could reasonably have 
foreseen that the net (after costs) returns of the Personal Pension were always highly 
unlikely to match the benefits that the additional State Pension would have provided. I dont 
agree that this could reasonably have been foreseen by the tied representative advising 
Mrs S in 1989. Under the self-regulatory authority rules in force at the time there was no requirement to 
carry out an analysis of the costs involved, or indeed to carry out a comparison with other 
products available on the open market. Additionally, I am mindful that the level of disclosure 
of costs and charges required at that time would have made this a virtually impossible task 
even if the adviser had been qualified to do so. 
I must also take into account that, as the point of sale information sets out, Mrs S benefited 
from a 2% enhancement on her SERPS rebate until April 1993. Based on her age and 
income at the time the advice was given I dont agree that it could have reasonably been 
foreseen that the advice to contract-out was likely to leave Mrs S worse off. 
I am also mindful that Mrs S chose to remain contracted-out of SERPS in 1993 despite 
having been advised to contract back in. I note that Mrs S did contract back in from 6 April 
2003 onwards after she had been contacted again by Royal London.
Having carefully considered this matter I dont think the advice Mrs S received in 1989 to 
contract-out of SERPS was unsuitable. 
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman