DRN-1734978
The complaint
Miss C complains about how Surestone Insurance DAC (Surestone) dealt with a claim she 
made for structural damage to her sofa bed.
What happened
In April 2016 Miss C purchased a sofa bed from a company that Ill refer to here as A. At 
that time, she took out a three year policy of insurance, which provided cover for accidental 
damage and/or staining and structural defects to her sofa bed. This policy was underwritten 
by Surestone.
In March 2019 Miss C contacted Surestone to report that her sofa bed seats were caving in, 
which was causing them to be uncomfortable to sit on. She believed this was due to a 
manufacturing fault.
Surestone appointed a technician to inspect the damage Miss C had reported to her sofa 
bed and to assist it in dealing with her claim. This technician attended Miss Cs property on 
24 May 2019.
Following the technicians inspection, they told Surestone there was no evidence of any 
structural faults to Miss Cs sofa bed. But they noticed normal settlement to the seat foam. 
They felt this had been caused by wear and tear over the time Miss C had owned the sofa 
bed. So, Surestone repudiated Miss Cs claim because it said wear and tear was excluded 
under her policy.
Miss C felt Surestone hadnt assessed her claim fairly and she said the technician hadnt 
adequately inspected her sofa bed. So, she complained. Surestone referred Miss Cs claim 
to a senior technician for a second opinion. But they agreed with the previous technician and 
felt the sofa bed cushions were showing signs of wear and tear. So, Surestone maintained 
its decision to decline Miss Cs claim and it didnt uphold her complaint. 
Being dissatisfied with how Surestone intended to resolve her complaint Miss C referred it to 
our service. Our investigator looked into what happened. But they didnt recommend 
upholding Miss Cs complaint. Overall, they were persuaded that the issue with Miss Cs 
sofa bed was due to wear and tear, which fell outside the scope of her policy. And they 
thought Surestone had acted fairly in declining her claim. But Miss C disagreed with our 
investigators view of her complaint and asked for it to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to assess whether I think Surestone made a mistake, or treated Miss C unfairly, 
such that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything she 
and Surestone have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Miss C will be 
disappointed by this outcome. But I hope she can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided by Miss C and Surestone, but Ill concentrate my decision on what I 
think is relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Miss Cs policy covers the sofa bed she purchased from A for accidental damage and/or 
staining and structural defects. But, for a claim to be successful under this policy, Miss C 
would have to show that the damage shes claiming for was caused in one of these ways.
Miss C believes her sofa bed has suffered structural damage. So, Ive carefully considered 
the terms of her policy to see what it says about structural defects. Having done so, I can 
see that structural defects are limited to:
breakage or separation of frame components, springs, breaking or bending of metal 
mechanisms or other metal components, cushion interiors and webbing.
Miss Cs policy goes on to state that any damage resulting from wear and tear falls outside 
the remit of her policy, which isnt unusual. 
In determining whether Surestone acted fairly in declining Miss Cs claim for damage to her 
sofa bed Ive also considered the photographs taken by the technician during their furniture 
inspection, their opinion of the cause of damage, Miss Cs account as to how she believes 
the damage was caused and the photographs she provided our investigator. 
I can see that our investigator invited Miss C to obtain an independent report confirming that 
her sofa bed was damage due to a structural defect. However, she hasnt provided our 
service with any independent evidence that contradicts the inspection report Surestone 
provided our service.
Miss C has questioned the thoroughness of the inspection undertaken by the technician that 
attended her property on 24 May 2019. She says the technicians visit only lasted five 
minutes and they didnt remove the seat covers or open the sofa bed to inspect the springs 
or framework. But Surestone disputes this and told our service that, when their technician 
inspected Miss Cs sofa bed, their visit lasted 20 minutes. It also stated their technician 
removed the cushions, base cloth and examined the framework, springs and sofa bed 
mechanism during that visit. 
In determining whether a proper inspection took place on 24 May 2019, Ive reviewed the 
inspection report the technician completed that day. Ive seen evidence that the shows this 
report was completed contemporaneously. So, Im satisfied the technician had a good 
recollection of the inspection theyd undertaken when they completed their report.
The report shows the technicians visit to Miss Cs property lasted 20 minutes. Im satisfied 
this is accurate because photographs were taken by the technician during their visit, which 
are time stamped. These photographs were taken over a period of almost nine minutes. 
The photographs therefore satisfy me that the technicians visit to Miss Cs property lasted 
longer than the five minutes she has claimed. I also think its likely that additional time would 
have been taken by the engineer to discuss the issues Miss C had reported with her sofa bed and to inspect the framework, springs and sofa bed mechanism. Its feasible, and likely, 
that this all took 20 minutes.
Having carefully reviewed the photographs taken by the technician, Im satisfied they 
corroborate their inspection findings and show that they inspected Miss Cs sofa bed to the 
extent stated in their report. I say this because there are nine photographs in total, which 
include pictures of the springs and framework from under the sofa bed. Im therefore 
satisfied the technician undertook an appropriate inspection  as our service would expect. 
Miss C told our investigator that the photographs taken by the technician werent of her sofa 
bed. But Ive compared these photographs to those provided by Miss C, which show an 
identical sofa bed. So, Im satisfied that the photographs the technician took are of Miss Cs 
sofa bed.
While the photographs Ive seen show theres some sinking in the seat cushions Im satisfied 
this is consistent with normal settlement or age related wear and tear. I say this because 
theres no evidence of a manufacturing or structural defect to the springs and framework of 
the sofa bed. So, these parts of the sofa bed havent caused the seat cushions to dip. 
Ive considered the opinion of the second technician that inspected Miss Cs sofa bed. They 
agreed with the initial technicians findings and said the seating on a sofa bed is typically 
designed to be a lot softer than a fixed frame sofa. I think thats a reasonable comment. And 
I also think Surestone acted fairly and reasonably by appointing a second technician to 
provide a second opinion on the cause of damage given Miss C disputed the opinion of the 
first technician.
The photographs Ive seen show the sofa bed is sitting very low on the floor as it doesnt 
have any feet installed. I can see this was commented on by the first technician during their 
inspection. Miss C says A didnt supply feet when her sofa bed was delivered. And I can see 
our investigator has already signposted Miss C to A if she wishes to pursue this matter 
further. Theyre right to say that because theres no evidence this has caused the issues 
Miss C reported with her sofa bed. So, this is something that wouldnt be covered by the 
terms of Miss Cs policy with Surestone. I therefore wont comment on this issue any further.
I realise Miss C will be disappointed with this decision. But, based on the evidence Ive seen, 
Im persuaded the damage she reported occurred gradually over the time the furniture was 
within her possession. As this is excluded under the terms of her policy, I cant fairly find 
Surestone made an error in declining to cover her claim.
I can understand how Miss C might feel frustrated that her policy doesnt cover the damage 
she reported to her sofa bed. But her policy was sold on a non-advised basis and I think her 
policy documents clearly outlined what was and wasnt covered. I therefore think Surestone 
provided Miss C with sufficient information to enable her to make an informed decision as to 
whether the policy she purchased was suitable to her requirements. 
For the reasons set out I am not upholding this complaint. This now brings to an end what 
we, in trying to resolve Miss Cs dispute with Surestone informally, can do for her. Im sorry 
we cant help her any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman