DRN-3927895
Complaint
Miss B is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) registered a fraud prevention marker 
against her.
Background
In December 2021 and January 2022, Miss Bs account received payments of two payments 
of £200 and one for £100. Monzo subsequently received notifications from the third-party 
banks responsible for sending the payments to Miss Bs account stating the payees of the 
funds had reported being victims of fraud. Monzo reviewed Miss Bs account and as a result 
of its investigation, it decided to close her account and record a fraud prevention marker.
After learning of the fraud prevention marker, Miss B complained that this was applied 
unfairly. Monzo looked at Miss Bs complaint and didnt uphold it. As Miss B remained 
dissatisfied she referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Bs concerns. She didnt think that Monzo had done 
anything wrong or treated Miss B unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Miss B disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
The marker that Monzo has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it 
isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss B is guilty of fraud or a financial 
crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Monzo must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Miss Bs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Monzo also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss B was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Miss B allowing someone else to use her account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss Bs complaint, I need to decide whether I think Monzo had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss Bs account and that her actions 
suggest she was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Monzo did 
have enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more 
detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Miss Bs 
account, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which remains in dispute 
here is whether Miss B was complicit in allowing her account to receive the illegitimate 
payment. 
Miss B says she doesnt know anything about the activity that took place on her account. 
She said that she opened this account because she saw an advert for it on social media. But 
she never used it or put any money into it. Miss B has also said that shes unable to find the 
card for this account either. 
Ive thought about what Miss B has said. But even if Miss B did lose her card, this simply 
doesnt explain how an opportunistic fraudster who just managed to find it would have been 
able to access Miss Bs mobile banking app to make the account transfers which took place, 
or Miss Bs Personal Identification Number (PIN) to make the cash machine withdrawals. 
And without a plausible explanation of how someone would have been able to get hold of 
quite an extensive amount of confidential information, I cant reasonably conclude that this 
activity took place without Miss Bs cooperation.  
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Monzo did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Miss Bs account. And given Miss Bs 
inability to provide a plausible explanation on how someone was able to obtain her security 
credentials, Monzo was also reasonably entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not 
that Miss B was complicit in this. As this is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Monzo 
to record a fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that it did. And Im not upholding 
Miss Bs complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss B. But even taking into account the 
impact Miss B says the marker is having on her, I cant ignore the fact that the available 
evidence appears to indicate that its more likely than not she was complicit in fraudulent 
activity. So I hope that Miss B will understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at 
least feel her concerns have been listened to. Furthermore, Miss B might find that shes able 
to open an account with another bank as long as she applies for a Basic Bank Account, 
rather than a full Current Account or any such equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman