DRN-4416506
The complaint
Mr H complains about the level of service provided by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy and its valuation of his car. 
What happened
Mr Hs car was deemed to be a total loss after an incident. Mr H wanted to retain the car, so 
Admiral deducted the salvage value from its settlement. But Mr H was unhappy with 
Admirals level of service and the time it took to deal with his claim. Admiral offered Mr H 
£250 compensation for its poor service and £910 for loss of use. But Mr H thought it should 
have taken account of the cars modifications in its valuation. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He found two 
valuations for the car in the motor trade guides we use. He couldnt see that the cars 
optional extras increased the valuations. But he thought that as the cars bodykit had been 
added when it was new, then it should be included as an optional extra. He relied on a 
dealerships opinion that this kit was rare and would increase the cars valuation to £33,500. 
So he thought Admiral should recalculate the salvage deduction and then add interest to the 
difference in settlement. But he thought Admirals compensation offers were fair. 
Mr H accepted this. But Admiral disagreed. It said the dealerships valuation wasnt based on 
the motor trade guides which it had used to provide a valuation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral agreed that its level of service had been wanting and it had caused delays in the 
claim so that Mr H was without a car for three months. It paid Mr H £250 compensation for 
his trouble and upset and £910 compensation for his loss of use. Mr H has accepted this, 
and I think its fair and reasonable compensation for the impact of its errors, so I wont 
consider this further here.
Admiral thought Mr Hs car had modifications and these werent covered by his policy. It 
relied on the following terms and conditions to say that it would only cover standard parts:
Page 10 - Your Car Insurance Guide Section 2: Damage to your vehicle (cont.)
4. We will not pay:
 To replace or repair any modifications. Please read in conjunction with General condition 
12
Page 24 - General conditions (cont.)
12. Standard parts replacement - Your policy does not cover modifications. If you make a 
claim for loss or damage to your vehicle, provided it is economical to do so, we will only pay 
the cost of replacing parts needed for your vehicle to meet the manufacturers specification 
along with any optional extras and/or disability adaptations you have declared. 
Manufacturers optional extras and disability adaptations are only covered if they have been 
declared and we agreed to cover them.
Mr H provided evidence from the cars original dealer that the car was fitted with the bodykit 
by the manufacturer as an optional extra. So Im not satisfied that it was fair and reasonable 
for Admiral to decide that the bodykit was a modification and so not covered by the policy. 
And I can see that Mr Hs policy schedule includes: Bodykit (non standard), Windows - 
tinted < 30%. So I think Mr H declared the optional extras and Admiral agreed to cover 
them. 
But Admiral said the optional extras didnt add to the cars market value at its date of loss. It 
offered Mr H £25,835, less deductions for the policy excess and salvage in its settlement of 
his claim. 
In most cases, we assess the market value as the price which the consumer would have had 
to pay for a comparable vehicle across the various markets, immediately before the time of 
the damage or loss. 
This could be slightly less than advertised retail prices, although this will depend on the most 
likely market for the particular age and model of vehicle. Because of recent changes in the 
market, we are increasingly hearing of cars selling either for or close to their advertised 
price. 
Assessing the value of a used vehicle isnt an exact science. We generally find the 
valuations given in motor-trade guides most persuasive. These guides are based on 
extensive nationwide research of likely selling prices. We also take all other available 
evidence into account, for example, engineers reports, advertised prices and independent 
valuations.
Our Investigator checked the motor trade guides we use and found valuations for the car in 
two of these with an average of £26,002.50, which was within the range of Admirals 
valuation. 
He found that the optional extras didnt increase the valuations. But these optional extras 
didnt include the bodykit which Mr H provided evidence to show had cost £13,500 originally. 
Mr H said his car was rare, and Im satisfied this was confirmed by the dealers garage and 
that only one other has been recently advertised for sale. 
So I think its fair and reasonable to consider the advertised price and the dealers valuation 
in coming to an estimate of the cars current market value. The advertised price was 
£35,995, but this would include a premium for negotiation. The dealers estimate was 
£33,500 and it said the cars optional extra was rare and it would enhance the cars value. 
And so Im satisfied that £33,500 is a fair and reasonable assessment of the cars market 
value at the date of its loss. 
Admirals valuation was less than this amount, and so I think it should now increase it to 
£33,500. And, as Mr H retained the cars salvage, it should recalculate the salvage value 
and the settlement. Mr H has been without his money for some time. So I think Admiral 
should reasonably add interest to the difference in amounts. 
Putting things right
I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to increase the valuation of Mr Hs car to 
£33,500, recalculate the salvage value, apply this to the settlement and pay Mr H the 
difference. Interest should be added to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per annum from 
the date of the initial settlement to the date of payment.
If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman