DRN-4103796
The complaint
Miss S complains FUND OURSELVES LIMITED (FOL) gave her a loan she couldnt afford 
to repay. Miss S also complains that she asked to withdraw from the agreement and FOL 
didnt respond to her.  
What happened
Miss S was advanced one loan of £400 from FOL on 11 May 2022. She was due to make 
four monthly payments of £199.20. Had Miss S made her payments on time, she wouldve 
repaid FOL a total of £796.80. 
Miss S has had some problems repaying her final loan and a statement of account provided 
by FOL in May 2023 shows Miss S made her first two contractual repayments. And from 
February 2023 Miss S has been making monthly repayments of £5.  
Following Miss Ss complaint FOL wrote to her to explain why it wasnt going to uphold the 
complaint about her loan because it had carried out proportionate affordability checks before 
it was granted. 
Unhappy with the response, Miss S referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Then, after the complaint about the unaffordable loan was passed here, in January 2023, 
she told us more.  Miss S provided a copy of a letter she had sent FOL where she was 
unhappy she had received arrears notices, she hadnt received the notice of default FOL 
says it sent, she has been ignored and FOL has made it difficult for Miss S to speak to 
someone. 
 
The case was then considered by an adjudicator. She started by saying that she wouldnt be 
dealing with any of the new concerns Miss S had brought here in January 2023 but could be 
the subject of a new complaint. And with regards to Miss Ss unaffordable lending complaint 
the adjudicator didnt uphold it as the checks showed Miss S could afford her repayments. 
The adjudicator also couldnt conclude that the loan was unsustainable for any other reason. 
Miss S didnt agree with the adjudicator and Ive summarised her response below.
Miss S says at the time of the application she had two missed payments with her 
bank account. 
She had a shopping account where she had exceeded the credit limit. 
Miss S had payments included a payday loan and a car finance loan which exceeded 
£300 per month. 
At the time, Miss S says she was reliant on other creditors.
Miss S says she owed her creditors £646 per month  before any other living costs 
(and the FOL loan).
The adjudicator responded to Miss S and explained why in her view, her comments hadnt 
changed her mind about the outcome of the case. As no agreement has been reached, the 
case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
FOL had to assess the lending to check if Miss S could afford to pay back the amount shed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. FOLs checks couldve taken into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss Ss income and 
expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest FOL should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss S. These factors include:
Miss S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss S. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to her complaint.  
FOL was required to establish whether Miss S could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss S was able to repay her 
loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ss complaint.
To be clear, this decision only deals with those issues that were raised as part of Miss Ss 
original complaint to FOL in 2022. 
For this loan, Miss S told FOL her full-time employment and provided a monthly income 
figure of £1,700. Miss Ss income was also electronically verified, and FOL has provided the 
results of this check. FOL says, the results provided by the credit reference agency indicated 
Miss Ss declared monthly income was likely to be accurate. Miss S had also declared monthly outgoings of £1,180 to cover a number of different items 
including food, other credit commitments, utilities and rent. Based solely on the information 
Miss S declared to FOL, it wouldve been reasonable for it to believe Miss S would be able to 
afford her monthly repayment of around £200 per month. 
FOL has also said it carried out a credit search and it has provided the 
Financial Ombudsman with the summary of the results it received. It is worth saying that 
there is no requirement within the regulations at the time to have carried out a credit search 
let alone one to a specific standard. But what FOL couldnt do is carry out a credit search 
and then not react to any concerning information that it may have seen. 
So, although Miss S has provided copies of her full credit reports, Im not, in this case going 
to be considering them, because FOL did a credit search and has provided the results which 
it saw at the time it reviewed Miss Ss application. I can therefore see what FOL was told 
about Miss S. In my view, FOL was also entitled to rely on the results it was given as it didnt 
have anything to suggest the results were in anyway inaccurate. 
The raw data is in an unusual format, but it seems that it had Miss Ss correct details. It was 
also aware of a number of credit searches. In addition, there does appear to show some late 
payments, but the details provided show the account with arrears (which is unnamed) was 
now up to date. Overall, I dont think the results that Ive seen wouldve prompted FOL to 
carry out further checks, such as verifying Miss Ss bank statements or have led it to decline 
the loan application. 
Given it was early on in the lending relationship and Miss S, she was advanced a modest 
sum over a small term, I think it was reasonable for FOL to have relied on the information 
Miss S provided about her income and expenditure to show she had sufficient disposable 
income to afford the repayments. There also wasnt anything else to suggest that Miss S 
was having financial difficulties or that the loan repayments would be unsustainable for her. 
Finally, as part of Miss Ss original complaint she says she emailed FOL on 16 May 2022 to 
cancel the loan and she says she didnt receive a response from FOL. FOL has provided a 
copy of an email (which seems to be correctly addressed), it sent to Miss S on 17 May 2022 
explaining what Miss S needed to do. So, Im satisfied, FOL did respond to Miss Ss request. 
I dont have any records to show that Miss S proceeded to try to cancel the loan.  
I am therefore not upholding her complaint about the affordability of the loan. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I am not upholding Miss Ss complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman