DRN-2170794
The complaint
 Mr H complains that Capital One (Europe) plc failed to pay the full amount of his claim 
under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of faulty and incomplete building 
work.
What happened
 Mr H entered into a contract with a builder, I will call C, to build an extension to his house for 
a price of £100,000. There was an error in the architects drawings and this led to further 
work being done and Mr H decided to make further renovations to the existing property. He 
obtained quotes for these renovations from several contractors but decided to award the 
new contract to C for a price of £21,500. I shall refer to the original contract as contract A 
and the second one as contract B.
Mr H paid C £4,000 using his credit card and made other payments of £4,000 and £13,500 
totalling £21,500. These payments were for contract B.
Mr H had paid £80,000 on contract A, but C asked him for more money as it considered the 
contract to be 85% complete. Mr H didnt believe it was 85% complete and he refused to 
pay. Mr H was also concerned with the quality of the work. C left the project with work on 
both contracts uncompleted. Mr H commissioned an independent report which identified a 
number of faults and said that the work hadnt been carried out in accordance with the plans. 
It estimated it would cost £50,000 to repair the poor work and complete contract A. It said it 
would cost some £25,000 to complete contract B.
Mr H had the work done on contract B and submitted invoices totalling £25,823.90 to Capital 
One. He said that there were some missing, but he didnt wish to pursue these. 
Initially Capital One refused Mr Hs claim as it believed the two contracts should be viewed 
as one and as a result the claim fell outside the financial limits for section 75. The matter 
was considered by one of my colleagues who didnt agree and Capital One accepted there 
were two separate contracts.
Capital One considered the claim for contract B and took the view that as contract A hadnt 
been paid in full this had an impact on the second contract making it impossible for C to do 
the work on contract B. It offered Mr H £5,823.90 to cover the financial loss Mr H incurred 
due to C not completing the work.
Capital One rejected Mr Hs complaint and so he brought the matter to this service where it 
was considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld.
She referenced the report and concluded that contract A had not been completed with 
reasonable care and skill. She didnt believe that the building work was 85% complete. This 
was reinforced by the report noting it would cost some £50,000 to complete the work. 
She said the report also showed that the foundations had been laid incorrectly and Mr H had 
explained that to rectify this error alone and to make the extension safe it would cost in the 
region of £35,000 - £40,000.
She acknowledged there were some issues with the architects drawings but this only related 
to a wall, and not the foundations, so she was satisfied something went wrong with the work 
done by the builder. In any event, she believed the work to be done under contract B wasnt 
related to the extension and there was no reason given for not completing the renovation 
work on the front of the property and the existing bathrooms. 
She thought contract A wasnt carried out with reasonable care and skill, and whilst we 
werent investigating a breach of contract for this, she believed it was reasonable for Mr H 
not to pay the additional £20,000. In essence C hadnt completed 85% of the agreed works 
for contract A.
Capital One had approved the costs on the invoices and agreed that the total to rectify the 
works for contract B would be £25,823.90. It had already been agreed that the jobs are 
separate, so she didnt think it would be right to deduct money claimed by the builder for 
contract A.
Ultimately the second job had not been completed as agreed in the terms of the contract and 
she believed Capital One should compensate Mr H to put things right with the sum of 
£25,823.90.
Mr H agreed and Capital One which said it had made a chargeback for £4,000 and credited 
Mr Hs account which it never re-debited.  It said it thought that the £4,000 was for remedial 
work after the contract was completed and as it wasnt party to the original contract it wasnt 
liable. It referred to the original complaint and suggested that this service had expressed 
doubts about the consistency of Mr Hs claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
I must admit I struggle to understand the arguments put forward by Capital One, particularly 
those made in response to our investigators view. It seems that it has not been able to 
follow the difference between the two contracts. However, I am satisfied they were different 
contracts for different pieces of work. 
Mr H decided to have additional work done to his house making internal alterations which 
were separate to the original extension. He invited builders to provide estimates and he 
chose C. The fact it was already carrying out work on his house doesnt mean that we can 
merge the two contracts into one.It is obvious that the work done by C on the first contract wasnt up to standard and the 
independent report makes it clear that C hadnt completed 85% of the work to a satisfactory 
standard. As such Mr H wasnt obliged to pay the final sum of £20,000. It follows that any of 
the payment made cannot be deemed to have been in satisfaction of that final sum claimed 
by C on contract A.
Mr H paid C £21,500 for contract B, of which £4,000 was by credit card. He paid for all the 
work to be done, but it wasnt completed and so he had to hire others to finish the job.  This 
means Mr H is entitled to make a claim against Capital One for the cost of competing the 
project.
He has supplied the relevant invoices and has explained that he is not concerned about the 
costs for which he has no invoice. I consider that to be both fair and reasonable.
In summary Mr H incurred £25,823.90 to compete the work C failed to carry out despite 
being paid.
Putting things right
 Capital One should accept Mr Hs claim under Section 75.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Capital One (Europe) plc to pay 
Mr H £25,823.90.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman