DRN-3727637
The complaint
Ms M complains that she has received very poor service from The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited. In particular, Ms M complains that her previous adviser was disrespectful 
and unprofessional. Ms M also complains that when her adviser was changed, the new 
adviser contacted her without prior notice. Ms M has also raised concerns about the way 
Prudential has handled her complaint.
What happened
In September 2021, Ms M had a meeting with her Prudential adviser. Ms M says she was 
unhappy with the advisers conduct during the meeting and says the adviser twice said that 
she really didn't care if I cancelled my ongoing advice charge. Ms M also says the adviser 
said she thought Ms M wanted her to spend more time with her than she was able to.  
After the meeting Ms M contacted Prudential about the advisers conduct. Prudential 
arranged for a new adviser to contact Ms M, but failed to notify Ms M that it had done so. As 
a result, Ms M says that when the new adviser contacted her, I did not know he was 
phoning and I did worry slightly due to the scams and fraud we are told to be aware of as he 
was asking me security questions being my most personal details which made me feel 
uncomfortable.
Prudential apologised for failing to let Ms M know that it had arranged for a new adviser to 
contact her and paid Ms M £50 for the worry and upset this had caused.
Ms M then complained about the way her complaint had been handled. She said she felt the 
letter Prudential had sent in response to her complaint was very unpleasant and contained 
incorrect information. Ms M also said she was unhappy that Prudentials complaints handler 
had telephoned her about her complaint without warning.
Our investigator said he appreciated that Ms M had found the service she had received from 
Prudential upsetting, but he said he didnt think it needed to do any more to resolve Ms Ms 
complaint. 
He noted it had changed Ms Ms adviser when she raised concerns about her previous 
advisers conduct. It had also paid Ms M £50 for its failure to notify her that a new adviser 
would be contacting her. 
He said although he understood that Ms M was unhappy with the final response letter she 
had received from Prudential, he was of the view that it was reasonable for Prudential to 
explain its understanding of the complaint in the letter. 
With regard to the ongoing adviser charge (OAC) Ms M was paying Prudential, he noted that 
Ms Ms new adviser had clarified the charge and the service Ms M could expect to receive if 
she was paying for its ongoing advice service. He also explained that if Ms M didnt want to 
continue to pay the OAC she could add to her investment without taking advice and would 
therefore not incur an initial advice charge if she didnt require advice on top-ups to her 
investment.
Ms M did not accept our investigators view. She provided copies of documentation she had 
received from Prudential and noted that the dates on these documents showed that the 
meeting she had with her Prudential adviser in September 2021 had not been to gather fact 
find information.
Ms M said this showed Prudential had incorrectly claimed that the meeting was to gather fact 
find information in its response to her complaint.
Ms M also reiterated that her adviser had spoken to her twice in a very disrespectful 
manner at the meeting in September 2021 and had said:
I really don't care if you cancel the Ongoing Advice Service - do you KNOW how much it is?
Ms M said that Prudentials response to her complaint had made her feel very "put down" 
as an individual; yet it seems no-one is interested and I am yet again, being cast aside. I 
also feel they, (Prudential) are making a complete fool of me
Ms M also said that Prudential had repeatedly phoned me out of the blue about her 
complaint. 
Ms M explained that she had not complained about the new adviser Prudential had allocated 
to her. She said it had been embarrassing for her to speak to the new adviser after 
Prudential had claimed in its response to her complaint that she was unhappy with the new 
adviser.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Ms Ms position, and I have very carefully considered all the information 
both Ms M and Prudential have provided.
I can see from Ms Ms submissions that she feels the service she received from Prudential 
has been very unsatisfactory and this has caused her a great deal of distress.
 
Ms M has explained that she found the first advisers conduct disrespectful. As Ms M will 
appreciate, it is not possible, based on the information available, for me to say with any 
certainty how the adviser interacted with Ms M. What I can consider however, is what 
Prudential did to resolve Ms Ms concerns about the advisers conduct when Ms M 
complained to Prudential shortly after her meeting with the first adviser in September 2021. 
I think Prudential acted fairly when it arranged for a new adviser for Ms M. It is not in dispute 
that Prudential failed to let Ms M know that a new adviser would be contacting her. 
Prudential has paid Ms M £50 for this failure on its part. I think this is fair and reasonable and 
I dont think it needs to do any more to compensate Ms M for this failing.
I can see that Ms M is also concerned that in its response to her complaint Prudential said 
that the first adviser was gathering information about her personal and financial 
circumstances at the meeting in September 2021. I accept that the adviser had already 
gathered this information. It appears the meeting was for the adviser to discuss her 
recommendations with Ms M. 
I agree that Prudential should not have said the meeting was to gather information about Ms 
Ms circumstances in its response to her complaint. I think this error on Prudentials part was a genuine mistake by its complaint handler and I dont think it had any impact on the 
outcome of the investigation. But I do accept that this error caused Ms M further concern.
Ms M has also said that the response Prudential sent to her complaint wrongly said she had 
complained about the new adviser it had allocated to her. I appreciate Ms M found this 
upsetting and felt it made contact with the new adviser awkward. 
In order to establish what was discussed by Ms M and Prudential on 30 September 2021, 
when Ms M discussed her complaint and her concern about the new adviser contacting her 
without any warning, I have listened to the call recording of this conversation. 
Having done so, I am satisfied that Ms M did raise some concerns about the new adviser in 
the call. Although most of the conversation related to concerns Ms M had about her first 
adviser and the fees she was paying for on-going advice Ms M also said; To be honest, 
after him phoning me, I dont know how Im going forward with all this I feel put in a corner 
a bit with all this. 
Ms M then later said:
To be honest I dont know if this [name of second adviser] is going to be for me either, this 
[name of adviser] last night, I just feel there is this cloud I have lost confidence.
And towards the end of the call Ms M reiterated her concerns about the second adviser 
saying I dont think hes the answer. I just think theres a cloud I said no, Im not going 
down this route. No way.
In view of this I dont think it was unreasonable for Prudential to say it thought that Ms M was 
not happy with the second adviser it had allocated. I accept that Ms M did not specifically 
refer to the advisers manner, but I think, based on the comments Ms M made about the 
second adviser in the call on 30 September, it was not unreasonable for Prudential to have 
understood that Ms M was unhappy with this adviser.
I also note that during this call on 30 September 2021, the member of staff Ms M spoke to 
explained that she wouldnt be investigating Ms Ms complaint but that the member of the 
complaints team investigating the complaint would telephone Ms M. In view of this I am 
satisfied that Ms M was made aware that a member of Prudentials complaints team would 
be contacting her, by telephone, to discuss her complaint.
Having carefully considered all that has been said and provided about this complaint I dont 
think Prudential needs to do any more to resolve this matter. 
I am mindful that Ms M says she feels Prudential was not interested in her concerns. Having 
reviewed all the information available, I am satisfied that Prudential acted promptly on the 
concerns Ms M raised about her first adviser and apologised and paid Ms M modest 
compensation for its failure to notify her that a new adviser would be contacting her.My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I dont think The Prudential 
Assurance Company Limited needs to do any more that it has already done to resolve Ms 
Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman