DRN-4085896
The complaint
Ms S complains about how Bank of Scotland (BOS) handled a payment recall. Shes 
unhappy at the at the time it took for BOS to process a recall for the payment shed made in 
error.
What happened
On 2 August Ms S mistakenly made a £5,000 transfer to a savings account where someone 
who had authority over the receiving account and would have access to this money and had 
been a perpetrator of domestic abuse. Ms S was extremely distressed about this and 
contacted BOS around midnight 3 August. 
A BOS adviser explained to Ms S that once a payment had been sent it couldnt be stopped 
and that it had to follow a process to recall the funds and that the team that deals with this 
had closed. During the call Ms S explained and it was clear her mental health was suffering, 
she was homeless and communicated suicidal thoughts  Ms S begged for something to be 
done. The BOS adviser acknowledged her distress and after taking some advice was able to 
raise a recall request outside of the normal process.
Due to Ms Ss distress a friend took over the call and asked if theres anyway a hold can be 
put on the payment. The adviser explained this couldnt be done as they dont have access 
to the account directly nor could they tell if the money was still in the recipients account. The 
adviser confirmed the transaction had gone and this was reiterated to Ms S through her 
friend. The adviser also confirmed the recall form has been submitted and will be looked at 
first thing in the morning at 8.00am.
Ms S was very distressed in the background and following agreement with Ms Ss friend, the 
police are called due to safeguarding concerns surrounding Ms Ss mental health. 
On 4 August Ms S contacted BOS again to get a further understanding of what was 
happening. Ms S was told that she would get the funds back within 20 working days and this 
was reiterated on a number of occasions. 
Following this Ms S was advised the recall was on a best endeavours basis and that the 
recall came back as a non-return as there were insufficient funds.
Ms S never got the money back and complained to BOS that it mis-lead her to believe she 
would.
BOS partially upheld Ms Ss complaint in relation to the mis-information it provided Ms S and 
offered her £100 compensation, but didnt uphold her complaint regarding it not being able to 
retrieve the payment in error funds.
Ms S is unhappy with this. She says the money was backdated benefit payments and so 
being left without these funds has caused her to be in a difficult situation financially. Ms S 
wants BOS to refund her the money and brought her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ss concerns and reached the conclusion that 
although BOS had initially advised Ms S correctly about the process that needed to be 
followed to recall funds, later advice had mis-lead her and thought given her vulnerabilities 
the impact this had was significant. They thought BOS should pay Ms S a further £200 
compensation. 
BOS accepted our investigators recommendation, but Ms S has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It might help if I explain my role is to look at the problems Ms S has experienced and see if 
BOS has done anything wrong or treated her unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to 
put Ms S back in the position she wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I 
may award compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
Ms S is unhappy about the amount of time it took BOS to process the recall of a payment 
she made in error and that she was misled into believing the recall would be successful.
Where a payment is made in error its not always possible to get the money back. In order 
for this to happen the sending bank is reliant on the help of the recipient bank to send the 
money back. But nevertheless, wed expect the bank  in this case BOS  to process a 
recall of the funds within a reasonable timeframe from when it was told about the mistaken 
payment. And it should be made clear to the customer that the recall is by no means 
guaranteed. 
Ive listened to the phone calls Ms S had with BOS regarding the payment made in error. 
And as explained in the background Ms S was clearly in some distress about what 
happened so BOS agreed to raise a recall request outside its normal process to speed 
things up.  
Unfortunately, it was too late and the recall wasnt successful due to there being insufficient 
funds in the beneficiarys account and Ms S has been left without these funds making her 
financial situation very difficult. 
I sympathise with Ms S but I cant say BOS made a mistake here  it didnt cause Ms Ss 
financial difficulty and did all it could do, without delay, on being notified of the payment 
made in error. I think the actions BOS took here were appropriate and reasonable given the 
circumstances. So I dont think it would be fair to tell BOS to refund Ms S the funds she lost 
due to a mistake she made. 
But thats not to say it did everything right. Following Ms Ss initial contact with BOS and it 
starting the recall process, Ms S contacted BOS again to get a further understanding of what 
was happening. Instead of making it clear that a payment recall may or may not be 
successful, Ms S was incorrectly told (and this is not disputed) and assured the funds would 
be recalled within 20 working days. 
Given BOS was informed of Ms Ss situation and from the phone conversations it had with 
Ms S it was very clear the level of distress she was in and how vulnerable she was. I think it 
should have taken more care. BOS failed to manage Ms Ss expectations regarding the 
payment recall resulting in further distress for Ms S.So I think further compensation is warranted here and agree that the £200 recommended by 
our investigator would be a fair and reasonable way to settle Ms Ss complaint. I accept this 
is not the outcome Ms S is hoping for, but even if BOS hadnt provided Ms S with incorrect 
advice and properly managed her expectations, this wouldnt have changed the overall 
outcome  Ms Ss funds still wouldnt have been recalled.
As BOS has already accepted this, Ms S now needs to decide whether she will accept this 
offer to settle her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided that what Bank of Scotland plc has agreed to do 
and compensate Ms S £200 is a fair way to settle Ms Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman