DRN-3732589
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C sold their house, redeemed their mortgage with Santander UK Plc, and paid 
an Early Repayment Charge (ERC). Their purchase was delayed. They complain they 
missed a better mortgage elsewhere, when Santander said it would pay the ERC back.
What happened
Whilst this complaint is brought by both Mr and Mrs C, as the mortgage is in both their
names, our dealings have been with Mr C. So Ill mainly refer to him in this decision.
Mr C said he and Mrs C paid a large ERC to Santander, when they sold their old home in
November 2021. They had planned to buy a new build property, and port their existing
mortgage across, as well as taking out some additional borrowing. Santander allowed an
extended window of 8 months to port their mortgage to a new property when they sold, but it
then shortened this period.
Completion of the new property was delayed until summer 2022, and Mr C and Mrs C
werent clear on whether they could still take advantage of the extended period to port their
mortgage. Mr C said he rang Santander on 23 March, to find out, and he was told he could
still port, within the 8 months originally allowed. Mr C said that he had asked the call handler
to be 100% sure about this, as it impacted a major financial decision he was going to make.
Mr C said that on the basis of this, incorrect, information he decided not to take up an offer
elsewhere at a more favourable rate of 1.97% fixed for 10 years. Mr C said if hed got correct
information on this call he would have cancelled the Santander application and begun a new
mortgage application. But Mr C said only three days later, when he reapplied for a new
Santander mortgage, he was told the new terms and conditions would apply after all, so he
wouldnt be able to port. Mr C said during this three day period, the rates at the other lender
increased, so now he could only get 2.28%.
Mr C said Santander accepted it had given him wrong information, and it had paid £150 and
£250 in compensation. But it wouldnt accept responsibility for the extra interest he would
now be forced to pay over the next 10 years, around £10,700, or refund the ERC hed paid.
Santander wrote to Mr C twice. In its first letter, it set out that Mr and Mrs C wouldnt be
eligible to port their old mortgage. Santander wouldve allowed them to do so for 8 months
after their sale, under its old rules, but those rules only covered applications made before the
rule change. Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage product was expiring, they needed to make a fresh
application, and Santander said any new application would be covered by the new rules. So
their purchase would be too late to port.
Santander said it had told Mr and Mrs C this on 22 March. It had then considered their
request for a short extension, but it wasnt able to offer this. Santander said its agent should
have told them on 23 March they wouldnt be able to port, so it paid £150 in compensation.
In its second letter, Santander said it had reconsidered, and accepted its first letter didnt
take into consideration what was said on the call on 23 March. It said Mr C hadnt mentioned
applying elsewhere for a mortgage on that call. But it accepted that its agent gave wrong
information about still being able to port the old mortgage, reclaim the large ERC theyd paid,
and apply for a new product for the rest of the borrowing. Santander said that wasnt right, it
had corrected this on 29 March. It was sorry about that. But it wouldnt consider refunding
the ERC in these circumstances, and it couldnt be held accountable for pricing increases at
other lenders. It did pay £250 more in compensation.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He thought there had been
confusion on the call on 23 March. When Mr C spoke to Santander again on 29 March, Mr C
said hed seen a better deal elsewhere, and Santander explained that he wouldnt be able to
get the ERC back if he made a new application with it. Our investigator said Santander had
decided not to extend Mr and Mrs Cs existing deal, and he didnt think we should question
that decision.
Our investigator said when Mr C spoke to Santander on 29 March, he had already sourced a
mortgage deal that was more beneficial, even taking into account that he wouldnt get the
ERC back. So our investigator didnt think Santander had to pay any more.
Mr C said he was disappointed. He had always known there would be a risk he wouldnt get
back the ERC, because his house might not be finished within the 8 months initially allowed.
But he said the issue was deciding whether to take a new offer with Santander, and still have
some chance of getting the ERC back, or make a new application elsewhere. Mr C said he
needed correct information about whether Santander would still pay back the ERC if the
mortgage was in place within 8 months, so he could make this decision. He said thats what
Santander made a mistake over. And it was this mistake that dissuaded him from taking up a
new offer elsewhere on 23 March. By the time Santander corrected its mistake, on 29
March, rates had gone up.
Mr C said Santander knew it had made a mistake, and thats why it had looked into
refunding his ERC. But our investigator didnt change his mind. Although Santander didn't
explain things as well as it could have, he still didnt think there was an onus on Santander to
honour any change in an alternate providers rate. And our investigator said he was aware
Santander had looked into refunding Mr Cs ERC, but it hadnt done that because it was
accepting liability in the way Mr C suggested.
Mr C wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for
review and decision. I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Mr C has told us his decision not to take up a mortgage with a different bank on 23 
March was based on the information that he received on a call of that date, saying that 
although his current mortgage offer was due to expire, he could make a new application 
for the additional borrowing he needed, and still port his old mortgage, within 8 months 
of his sale. Mr C said it was only when he was later told he couldnt do this, that he 
decided not to go ahead with his Santander mortgage, but move to a different bank 
instead.
Santander has sent us call recordings from 23 March and 29 March, and Ive listened 
carefully to the calls Mr C had with Santander on those dates. Ive also considered the 
notes Santander has shown us, and it does appear to me, from the notes and from the 
content of these calls, that these are the two key discussions in this case.The call Ive listened to on 23 March does show that Mr C was given wrong information. 
But the call I then listened to on 29 March doesnt make me think Mr C changed his 
mind only when he understood that Santander wouldnt let him port his mortgage after 
all. Mr C interrupted Santanders agent early in that call to say that he and Mrs C had 
decided to remortgage elsewhere. Importantly, he did this before hed been told that he 
would no longer be able to reclaim the ERC hed paid.
So I accept Mr C was given some incorrect information by Santander. But I dont think 
this information had the impact that Mr C has suggested. I dont think this mistake was 
the reason why he decided to stay with Santander, and then only after the mistake was 
corrected did he change his mind, and remortgage elsewhere. It does appear from the 
call he had with Santander on 29 March that hed already decided the 10 year fix he 
could get with a different bank was a more attractive prospect for him. Hed decided this 
before he was told that the advice given on 23 March was wrong.
For that reason, I dont think Santander has to repay the ERC that Mr and Mrs C have 
paid, or cover the additional interest charges that Mr and Mrs C say they are paying 
now.
That doesnt mean Santander hasnt made any mistakes in this case. It has clearly 
given Mr C some incorrect information about how his ERC could be reclaimed. But in 
the context of what Ive decided above, I think that the two payments of £150 and £250 
that Santander has already made, do provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint.
I know Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be 
upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander said it had reviewed my provisional decision, and it had nothing to add.
Mr C wrote to comment on my provisional findings. He said it was absolutely not true that he 
had already decided to take a mortgage with a different bank instead of staying with 
Santander before the call on 29 March. He said he applied for a different mortgage 
elsewhere on the day after this call. It had been in his interest to remain with Santander, 
because it was offering to lend him more money. But hed had suspicions that Santanders 
information was not correct, which was why he asked it to be 100% certain on the 23-March 
call. After that call he did do some research on other lenders offerings. But he only 
cancelled the Santander application on 29 March, when he was told the ERC clawback was 
not possible. He said there would be no reason for him to cancel this application otherwise.
I then wrote to Mr C, to say that this didnt fit with what I could hear on the call recordings 
from 23 and 29 March. Our service sent him those recordings.
Mr C replied again, to say that he thought Id missed the point of the complaint. He said that 
on 23 March he had been made aware of further delays with the building of his new home, 
which meant that his mortgage offer with Santander was not valid for the new estimated completion date. So he had two choices, to reapply with Santander, as long as he had 
confirmation that the ERC would be refunded, or apply elsewhere at a more favourable rate, 
but with slightly reduced overall borrowing. 
Mr C said hed asked on the 23 March call if I had to select a new mortgage product, would 
the 8 month ERC period still be honoured? And the call handler confirmed this was 100% 
true. This impacted his decision to consider staying with Santander on 23 March. He said 
that if hed been told otherwise, he would have discounted Santander as an option then. 
Mr C said it was only a few days later that the other bank he was considering updated its 
mortgage interest rates, and the rate Mr C could access for new borrowing increased. He 
said this rate increase prompted him to re-evaluate his decision on which bank to go with. 
And it was then that he decided the other bank would be the better option as it was offering a 
rate fixed for ten years, while rates were continuing to rise. 
Mr C said he acknowledged that on the call on 29 March, he had already made his decision 
to go with the other bank. But he said that was irrelevant to his complaint. His complaint was 
that if he had received correct information on 23 March, then he would have cancelled the 
Santander application immediately that day and secured the lower rate at another bank.
Mr C also said on the 29 March call, he commented that every time he called, he got a 
different answer on whether he could claw back the ERC, and that was also a factor in 
deciding to leave Santander. 
Mr C said he didnt believe Santander could hide behind the excuse that it wasnt liable for 
third party price increases. Mr C said he had been put at a financial disadvantage of £11,000 
in interest between the lower and higher rates offered by the other bank. He said that 
wouldnt have happened if Santander had given him the right information on 23 March.
So Mr C has now accepted that he made his decision to change banks, and take a mortgage 
elsewhere, before he was told on 29 March that he wouldnt be able to obtain a refund on 
the ERC he had paid. But he now says that if he hadnt been given wrong information on 23 
March, he would have reached this conclusion even quicker. 
Ive listened again to the calls that Mr C had on 23 and 29 March. I do agree that Mr C was 
given incorrect information on the 23 March call. Mr C has now said he was unsure about 
the advice he was given on this call, at the time. And Mr C now accepts that he and Mrs C 
changed their minds about staying with Santander before this mistake was corrected. He 
says they did so on the basis that interest rates appeared to be rising, and that prompted 
them to opt for an interest rate which would be fixed for ten years. Mr C said hed done the 
calculations, and even with a refunded ERC, he would still be better off with the longer fixed 
rate. It does seem that this is a calculation which Mr C could have done at any point after the 
call he had with Santander.
I have considered carefully what Mr C said, but assessing this overall, I do think its difficult 
to see that this mistake by Santander had such a significant impact on his decision making in 
the days that followed. 
I do agree that Santander gave Mr C wrong information. And I do not condone that. But I 
havent been able to conclude that its more likely than not that this wrong information had 
the impact that Mr C argues for now, and that the situation would be entirely different if 
Santander had told him on 23 March that he could no longer port his mortgage. For that 
reason, I dont think Santander has to pay Mr C that ERC back now. I For the reasons Ive set out above, I havent changed my mind, and I still think that the 
payments Santander has already made do provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint. So Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman