DRN-3092186
The complaint
Mrs P is a sole trader, trading as C. She complains that Aviva Insurance Limited turned 
down her claim for subsidence damage under her Shop Policy.
While the policy is in Cs name, Ill refer to Mrs P directly in my decision for ease of reading.
All references to Aviva include its appointed agents.
What happened
Mrs P holds a shop policy with Aviva. The policy has been in force and renewed annually 
since 2017. Aviva also insured the property between 2007 and 2012. In 2019, Mrs P notified 
Aviva of some damage to her property caused by cracking to the walls, floors, and windows.
Aviva appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the cause of the damage. The loss adjuster 
provided a report which said there was no evidence of damage linked to foundation 
movement. So it recommended Aviva turn down the claim. 
Mrs P arranged for an independent surveyor to inspect the property, who Ill refer to as G. 
Gs report concluded the damage was as a result of subsidence, so Mrs Ps broker asked 
Aviva to reconsider the claim. 
Aviva maintained its position to turn down the claim and provided a final response to Mrs P. 
Aviva said it was evident from its inspection that the damage being claimed for was historic 
and before the policy came into force. And it said the cause of the damage was due to an 
issue with the lintel around the windows, and not from ground movement, so wouldnt be 
covered under the policy.
Aviva acknowledged that a neighbouring property had a claim for subsidence, but said the 
damage was significantly different, and from a different cause. 
Unhappy with Avivas position, Mrs P referred the complaint to our service. She said shed 
noticed further cracking around two years ago and added that the shops either side of hers 
had made successful claims for similar damage. Mrs P said there was a large tree outside 
the shop which was the cause of the problem.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint be upheld. He 
concluded that Aviva hadnt done enough to show that the damage wasnt related to 
subsidence, and it hadnt shown that all the damage pre-existed the start date of the cover.
Our investigator recommended that Aviva deal with the damage caused during the term of 
the policy and reimburse Mrs P for the cost of Gs report.
Aviva disagreed with our investigator. In summary, it said:
It had been able to determine the damage was pre-inception based on the policy 
start date in April 2017.
There was no internal damage present when it inspected the property, but it 
acknowledged it didnt get access to the first floor flat where damage had been 
reported.
The damage to the neighbouring properties was as a result of de-bonded render 
around the window frames.
It hadnt undertaken site investigations related to subsidence because it had 
determined the damage was pre-inception.
That the majority of damage was due to inadequate maintenance of the property.
That if there is any subsidence damage, it pre-dates the policy inception and should 
be referred to previous insurers.
Mrs P provided some further information, which consisted of evidence that the neighbouring 
properties had also made subsidence claims, that had been accepted by their insurers.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to determine whether the decision Aviva has made to decline the claim is fair and 
reasonable based on the available evidence. If I dont think it is, Ill set out what Aviva needs 
to do to put things right.
Having reviewed everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator and Ill 
set out my reasons why below.
Avivas position is that the damage being claimed for is related to lintel issues and no 
evidence of subsidence. It says it is clear there was damage to the property as far back as 
2008 based on publicly available street view maps of the area. And it says, The other 
adjacent properties have cracking in a different location and from a different cause and 
therefore cannot be compared with this case.
In order to decide that Aviva turned down the claim fairly, I would need to be persuaded that 
the evidence shows all the damage Mrs P is claiming for is pre-inception and additionally 
that all damage is not linked to subsidence. 
Ive read all the reports linked to this claim to get an understanding of the original condition 
of the property. And I agree that its likely there is a degree of historic damage present which 
wouldnt be fair to require Aviva to cover. But I do find that Avivas decision to bracket all the 
damage as pre-inception and not subsidence related is unreasonable.
Gs report (which Aviva has seen) includes investigations of the first floor flat. Gs report 
states, There is cracking between the rear addition and the mainframe. The crack increases 
with height showing subsidence towards the front of the property causing separation from 
the rear. I think this shows that there is damage separate to the cracking at the front of the property. 
And further, there is a photo in the report which shows the presence of a new crack over an 
area which was previously repaired in 2011. So, its apparent that this damage has occurred 
since then.
Aviva hasnt commented directly on this point and hasnt explained why this damage in a 
different area of the property falls under either the pre-inception or lintel issue argument. 
Aviva hasnt carried out any investigations to the property either. And given that the evidence 
shows that the properties either side have both suffered from subsidence, along with Gs 
report, I find it unlikely that there is no subsidence damage present here. So, I think Aviva 
has acted unfairly in turning down the claim.
Our services fair and reasonable position on claims such as this is that if movement has 
occurred during the term of the policy then the insurer should deal with the damage caused, 
unless it can show the movement started and finished before the policy came into force.
Therefore, I consider that any new damage that can be clearly identified falls under Avivas 
responsibility and should therefore be accepted as a new claim. 
To be clear, Ive not seen anything from the current evidence to show that all the damage 
identified is related to a previous or historic issue, or as a result of issues with the lintel. I am 
persuaded on the balance of probabilities (and in the absence of any investigations or 
monitoring) that there is new damage present in Mrs Ps property since the policy came into 
force. So I will require Aviva to deal with this claim and take responsibility for investigating 
and determining its liability for any new and ongoing damage.
If there are areas of the property where the only way that Aviva can repair the new damage 
is by also repairing the historic damage, then it must do this in order to achieve an effective 
and lasting repair.
Given the presence of existing cracks and damage, particularly to the front of the property, it 
is reasonable in this case for Aviva to have the opportunity to fully investigate the damage to 
Mrs Ps property and put things right. And its also reasonable for it to consider the most 
cost-effective way to complete an effective and lasting repair of the damage it is responsible 
for. So, I wont be setting out a direction for how Aviva investigates and achieves this repair, 
as this would be a matter for its engineers to decide.
Ive considered Avivas remaining comments in response to our investigator. But they 
havent changed my opinion on what I consider to be a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Ultimately, there isnt enough evidence here to conclusively show all the damage as pre-
existing, and I cant see that Aviva raised concerns with Mrs P about the maintenance of the 
property when it turned down the claim. So, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to consider this 
argument now.
If Aviva finds cause to engage with previous insurers with regards to any potential claim 
costs, it must do so without causing Mrs P further detriment on this claim. 
Mrs P paid G to complete a report and submitted this to Aviva. Ive used the same report to 
determine there is a valid claim. So, it follows that Aviva should reimburse Mrs P for the cost 
of this report subject to proof (such as an invoice) being provided as evidence of the cost to 
Mrs P.Putting things right
To put things right for Mrs P, Aviva must:
Accept her claim, subject to any other policy terms and clauses (such as an excess);
reimburse Mrs P for Gs report;
pay 8% simple interest on the cost of the report, from the date Mrs P paid for it to the 
date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Aviva Insurance Limited must put things right 
by doing what Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P, on behalf of 
C to accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman