DRN-3908179
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with how Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) treated his account when he got into financial difficulty.
What happened
In September 2018 Mr D acquired a used car funded by a conditional sale agreement 
provided by BPF. 
At the beginning of June 2020 Mr D asked for a payment deferral (PD) due to financial 
difficulties caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr D says he received a text message from 
BPF saying someone would be in touch. He says no one got in contact, so he assumed the 
PD had been set up and stopped repayments.
Around November 2020 Mr D called BPF to discuss resuming payments, and he says he 
became aware the PD wasnt set up and the debt had been passed to a third party Ill refer 
to as Y.
In April 2021 a repayment plan was put in place to clear the arrears by Mr D paying 
£1,166.40 a month. This was paid for one month and then missed.
In June 2021, Mr D called again and a further repayment plan was put in place for £1,666.40 
per month. One payment was made but nothing further.
In November 2021 the agreement was terminated. Mr D says he asked to voluntarily 
surrender (VS) the car and sent forms to BPF to do so, but BPF said these werent 
received.
In March 2022 Mr D complained to BPF. He said there was various confusion between BPF 
and Y and that he had been trying to clear the arrears in full. He suggested making his 
original monthly repayments and extending the agreement. 
BPF issued a final response in April 2022. BPF said, in summary, that a PD was declined 
due to previous arrears on the account. It said it wouldve contacted Mr D if the PD was put 
in place, and it was up to him to contact it if he didnt hear. It said both payment plans had 
been broken by Mr D which is why the agreement was terminated. It said it hadnt received 
the forms to VS the car. And it said it didnt need to tell Mr D when it passed the account to 
Y.
BPF also said it and Y had been consistently trying to contact Mr D unsuccessfully. It said 
the arrears on the account were £5,097.52.
Mr D was unhappy with this and referred the complaint to our service. He said he was not 
advised the account had been moved to Y and had assumed the PD was put in place. He 
said BPF wouldnt accept payments hed made. He said hed made payments in June 2021 
and August 2021 but these werent credited. And he said he had sent the VS documents but 
hadnt heard back.
Our investigator issued a complaint and explained he didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He said, in summary, that BPF couldve done more to communicate about the PD 
but it wasnt reasonable for Mr D to assume it was in place. He said it wasnt unreasonable 
to decline the PD because of the history of Mr Ds account. And, while he said 
communication couldve been better, he didnt think BPF had acted unfairly in its overall 
handling of the account.
Mr D got in touch and disagreed. He said BPF sent him a text message when he applied for 
the PD that hadnt been considered. And he said he didnt hear anything about the account 
for months. 
Our investigator said he didnt think a text message had been sent, but asked Mr D to 
provide a copy if he had it. And he said the other comments didnt change his opinion.
Mr D said he did receive a text, but didnt have it. And he said he still disagreed with the 
outcome.
BPF got in touch and said it believed Mr D had been told a payment holiday wasnt agreed, 
around two weeks after he applied, when he called it. 
As Mr D still disagrees with the outcome, the case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr D complains about a conditional sale agreement. Entering into regulated credit 
agreements such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider his 
complaint against BPF.
I think there are several key aspects to Mr Ds complaint, so Ill consider these in turn.
Payment deferral
Mr D says it was reasonable to assume the PD had been put in place, and this was the 
reason the account ended up in arrears.
It isnt in dispute that Mr D requested a PD in June 2020 and this was not put in place. So 
Ive firstly considered if it was reasonable to decline the PD Mr D requested. Ill then think 
about whether BPF otherwise acted reasonably here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance that came into effect in April 2020 
about how firms should treat consumers in financial difficulty due to COVID-19. So, this 
wouldve been in place when Mr D asked for a PD. The guidance stated firms should, where 
appropriate, agree a three month PD for consumers.
But, the guidance explained it applied:
where customers are already experiencing or reasonably expect to experience temporary 
payment difficulties as a result of coronavirus
The guidance goes on to explain:Where a customer was in pre-existing financial difficulty, our existing forbearance rules and 
guidance in CONC would continue to apply
So, Ive considered what applied in Mr Ds case. Looking at the account history, Mr D was 
already in arrears when he requested the PD. Hed missed and/or made late repayments 
several times in 2018, 2019 and 2020 starting around a month after he got the car. From the 
contact notes, Mr D appeared to tell BPF this was due to issues with direct debits, personal 
finances and how he was paid. Im satisfied from this that Mr D was already in pre-existing 
financial difficulty in relation to the account and Im satisfied this was likely not temporary, 
nor due to COVID-19.
So, it follows this that I dont think BPF were wrong to turn down Mr Ds request for a PD 
based on the FCA guidance. But, that being said, I think BPF shouldve communicated this 
to him.
I appreciate BPF recently said Mr D was made aware the PD was declined around two 
weeks after he applied for it. But, it hasnt provided this call to show this. Nor do the contact 
notes from the time explain this was the case. So, I havent seen enough to persuade me 
that this is correct.
Ive thought about what Mr D said about the text message he says he received. He says this 
said someone from BPF would be in touch with him. BPF say a text was never sent. I dont 
know what happened here. But, either way, I need to consider if Mr D acted reasonably. 
Even if he had received a text as he said, I dont think this meant he could assume a PD had 
been put in place without any further confirmation.
So, I think BPF shouldve done more here. But, I need to weigh this up against the fact that I 
also dont think Mr D shouldve assumed the PD was in place and stopped payments. And, I 
also need to consider that at the time, businesses and organisations, including BPF, were 
dealing with an unprecedented situation. 
Lastly on this point, I also need to consider if things wouldve worked out differently if BPF 
had communicated better with Mr D. But, as Ill come onto below, when payment plans were 
later put in place Mr D quickly broke them. So, Im not persuaded that ultimately this lack of 
communication wouldve affected the overall situation. 
Thinking about this, while I think BPF shouldve done more, I dont think in this case any 
further action needs to be taken on this point.
General financial difficulties
As explained above from the FCA, even though I dont think it was unreasonable for BPF not 
to have put a PD in place, it still needed to follow the other relevant guidance. Some of this is 
set out by the FCA in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
CONC sets out that:
A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration
And
Where a customer is in default or in arrears difficulties, a firm should allow the customer 
reasonable time and opportunity to repay the debt.I can see Mr Ds account was discussed with him at various points when he went behind on 
repayments. And I can see from the notes, as above, that it appears he initially told BPF that 
the problems stemmed from direct debit issues, how he was paid and a personal financial 
situation. So, I dont think BPF did anything wrong at this point by allowing him to make up 
the repayments month to month.
Once Mr D had discussed the account being in more significant arrears following the 
disputed PD, an income and expenditure was completed and Mr D agreed to pay £1,166.40 
for six months from April 2021 to bring the account up to date, which was within the 
disposable income noted. But, it appears this was only paid once, before Mr D missed the 
following payment.
After this, Mr D was told the account was to be terminated in June 2021.
But, Mr D got in touch following this and I can see BPF gave him a further opportunity to get 
the account back on track. It was agreed he would pay £1,666.40 per month in August 2021. 
This was slightly over the disposable income previously discussed, but it appears Mr D 
agreed to this. Mr D made one payment of £1,667, but nothing further.
It then appears that the account wasnt terminated until November 2021.
All things considered here, I think BPF gave Mr D multiple chances to repay the arrears. 
Given Mr D first missed a payment in October 2018, and given the level of arrears on the 
account, I dont think BPF acted unfairly by terminating the agreement when it did.
It follows this that I dont think BPF acted unreasonably here.
Voluntary Surrender
It appears Mr D agreed to VS the car around November 2021. BPF says it was waiting for 
him to return paperwork. Mr D says he did return the paperwork but it wasnt actioned.
I can see that BPF received the completed form in September 2022 and this appears to 
have now been processed.
Theres very little evidence to back up what either party says here. It appears from the 
contact notes that efforts were made to contact Mr D to chase the form. But I appreciate 
Mr D says this was sent at the time.
Overall, I think perhaps the communication from both sides couldve been better on this 
point. But, given this has now been processed, I dont think anything further needs to be 
done here.
Other issues
Mr D was unhappy the debt was passed to Y without him being told. But, I can see the terms 
of the agreement say:
We may transfer our rights under this agreement to someone else. We do not have to tell 
you if we do this.
CONC 6.5.2.4 (1) states:
Where the rights of a lender under a regulated credit agreement are assigned to a firm, that 
firm must arrange for notice of the assignment to be given to the customer:(a) as soon as reasonably possible; or
(b) if, after the assignment, the arrangements for servicing the credit under the agreement do 
not change as far as the customer is concerned, on or before the first occasion they do.
This confirms that Y is responsible to contact Mr D and not BPF in this case.
So, I dont think BPF needed to tell Mr D when it passed the debt to Y.
Mr D says he doesnt believe payments he made in June and August 2021 were credited to 
the account. But, I can see from the transaction history that both payments he referred to are 
recorded. So, I dont think its likely this was the case.
Id like to reassure Mr D that Ive carefully considered everything else hes said in relation to 
the complaint. But, this doesnt change my opinion that it should not be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman