DRN-3026890
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) have started charging them 
for a fee-paying Premier account. They say that they were promised theyd get the Premier 
account free for life in 2006.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and 
Mrs B disagreed, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything that 
has been provided, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I understand that Mr and Mrs B opened a fee-paying Premier account in 2004. In 2006, Mr 
and Mrs B contacted Lloyds to see if they could get the account for free. And they say that 
they were offered the account for free for life.
However, Lloyds says that the account was not offered as free for life and instead was only 
offered for free for 12 months, but by mistake, Lloyds says Mr and Mrs B were not charged 
for their account after the 12 months had expired. Because of this, Mr and Mrs B were not 
charged the monthly fee on their account for over 14 years. 
Lloyds has provided notes recorded by its staff when Mr or Mrs B called in on 6 March 2006, 
they say:
Customer has been offered fee free premier banking with competitor. Offered to make a/c 
fee free for 12 mths. Offer accepted. Tarif to be amended
And notes recorded on 7 March 2006 say:
As per above note, client has been offered fee free Premier banking for 12 months in order 
to retain personal banking. BCRU have sent a letter & requested that 2 £15 fees be refunded 
as these should not have been debited in March & were due to amendment of the tariff. 
Client aware that the fee free period will end in 12 months & the fee will then apply.
There are also notes dated 25 April 2006, in which the branch staff made an internal 
application to waive the monthly fee on Mr and Mrs Bs Premier account for 12 months. And 
I can see that Mr or Mrs B called Lloyds on 26 April 2006 as theyd not received credit 
interest on their account. The notes say that when the fee-waiver was applied, the staff had 
not added a (free) Plus bolt-on to the account  which would entitle them to earn interest on 
any credit balance. To rectify this mistake, Lloyds added the Plus bolt-on to the account, 
credited the interest they shouldve earned into Mr and Mrs Bs account and, from what I can 
see, confirmed again that the monthly fee for the account would be waived for 12 months. 
So based on the evidence I have been provided with, given the repeated mention that the 
offer was only for 12 months, I think it was more likely the case that Mr and Mrs B were 
offered the Premier account free for 12 months, but for some reason they were not then 
charged for the account when the 12 months expired. However, as this mistake benefited Mr 
and Mrs B, I dont think Lloyds needs to do anything to put matters right. After all, they 
received an account for free over a number of years, which they usually shouldve paid for.
Mr and Mrs B received a letter in November 2019 which said that they would be charged £28 
per month for their account from February 2020. Mr and Mrs B called Lloyds to question this 
and I can see that they were incorrectly told that they would not be charged for their account 
going forwards. Lloyds has since confirmed that the information Mr and Mrs B were given in 
November 2019 was incorrect. 
I can see that Mr B believes the wrong information he was given in November 2019 is more 
evidence that hed originally been offered the account for free for life. But I dont think that is 
the case. Instead, I think the person he spoke to was confused about what was available on 
the account going forwards. I say this because the Premier account was fee-free if the 
balance was kept above a certain amount - but this feature was not available for accounts 
taken out since 2005. And as Mr and Mrs Bs account was taken out before 2005, this meant 
they were eligible to receive that fee-waiver on their account. And I think it was this 
conditional fee-waiver that the member of staff had in mind when she said the account would 
be fee-free going forwards. 
However, although Mr and Mrs B were given incorrect information in November 2019, as 
they were not charged for their account from February 2020, I cant say that they have lost 
out because of the wrong information they were given. 
I understand that the decision to charge the monthly fee on the account, did then eventually 
come into effect in September 2020. And as Mr and Mrs B say they received a letter in July 
2020 explaining these upcoming changes, I think that Lloyds had given Mr and Mrs B 
sufficient notice of the changes that were coming into effect on their account by that stage. 
In response to their complaint, I can see that Lloyds paid Mr and Mrs B £150 for the incorrect 
information theyd been given; waived 3 months of account fees to give them time to decide 
what to do in light of the changes being made to the account; and also credited £24 towards 
their telephone costs. 
Overall, whilst it does seem that Mr and Mrs B were given wrong information in 2019, I think 
what Lloyds has already offered to do to put matters right is fair in the circumstances. And, 
as it seems more likely from what I have seen that Mr and Mrs B werent charged for their 
account after the initial 12 month period due to an error, I dont think it would be reasonable 
to require Lloyds to continue to offer the Premier account for free to Mr and Mrs B. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think that Lloyds Bank Plc needs to do anything 
more, than what it had already offered to do, to put matters. I therefore dont uphold Mr and 
Mrs Bs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman