DRN-2653135
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax) mis-sold 
him a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mr H bought a regular premium MPPI policy in May 1990. It was sold to him when he was 
arranging a mortgage in a branch.
Mr H says MPPI was presented as a condition of having the mortgage. He also says there 
were catches limiting the usefulness of the cover. He adds that Halifax has told him it used 
the policy booklet and then told us it hasnt got it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. As he doesnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Mr H says Halifax told him it used the policy booklet from the sale when it assessed his case 
but then told us it didnt have the original booklet. It instead gave us a policy document from 
three years after the sale that it said was the nearest document to the date of sale. So, I 
have looked into this. 
I can see on Halifaxs business file submission to our service that it has informed us that the 
original policy document is no longer available. I can see the form that Mr H has referred to, 
where it lists that it was relying on the policy booklet and I acknowledge what he is saying. 
However, Halifax have made it clear to our service since then that it no longer retains a copy 
of the policy documents for the MPPI policy he was sold. And I have no reasons on this 
occasion to conclude that this is anything other than the case. So, I will proceed with what I 
have in front of me that Halifax has submitted to our service. It says a policy from three years 
after the date of sale, is the most relevant to the MPPI policy sold to Mr H and, although this 
wasnt the policy document that related to Mr Hs policy, it will give me some idea as to the 
terms and conditions that would have applied to him.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold        
Mr Hs complaint because of the following reasons:
Mr H says Halifax presented MPPI as a condition of having the mortgage. 
I acknowledge everything Mr H has said. I cant be sure exactly what was discussed 
between Mr H and Halifax when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that the sale 
took place many years ago, and that detailed recollections of what happened can 
fade over time.
Halifax hasnt provided much documentation from the time the policy was sold. Thats 
not surprising given the time thats passed, and its similar to some other cases Ive 
seen. 
Without anything else to support what Mr H has told me and based on what I know of 
sales conducted by Halifax during that time, I cant safely conclude that Halifax didnt 
make him aware that the policy was optional. 
Moving on, Halifax has said it recommended the MPPI to Mr H during the meeting 
and so, as this puts additional responsibilities on the business, I will proceed that this 
was the case. So, as it did recommend the policy to Mr H, it had to ensure during the 
sale that the policy was suitable for his needs. 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy was 
unsuitable for Mr H based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr H 
says he would have been able to use his 6 months full and 6 months half sick pay 
along with £10,000 savings and £10,000 investments but the MPPI policy would have 
paid in addition to any provisions he would have had and for longer than his sick pay. 
Mr H has said the policy would have catches such as no cover until the first 12 
months premiums had been paid and no sickness cover until sick pay was 
exhausted, but this was most likely not the case based on what I have seen in the 
policy document provided by Halifax. So, the benefit would have been of use to Mr H 
during a difficult time as he could have used his provisions to pay for other expenses. 
I think, on balance, Mr H had a need for this cover based on his circumstances at the 
date of sale, for any extended period of unemployment or sickness. I also couldnt 
find any other reason such as a significant or limiting term that would make the policy 
unsuitable for him either.
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI policy 
that Mr H took out but even though it has provided information detailing the cover and 
how much it cost, I cannot be sure that these costs were disclosed to Mr H in a clear 
and fair way at the time of sale. That said, even if they were disclosed clearly, I dont 
think Mr H would have done anything different and decided against having the policy 
for the reasons that I have already given for the policy being suitable.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr H wouldve been affected by any of these.
I understand this will come as a disappointment but in conclusion I do not uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman