DRN-3396579
The complaint
Ms O complains about the advice given to her by Portafina Investment Management Limited 
to transfer the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension schemes, and 
her Additional Voluntary Contribution Plan (AVC), to a self-invested personal pension 
(SIPP). Portafina processed the transfer of Ms Os scheme benefits to the SIPP on an 
insistent client basis. Ms O says Portafina badly advised her and has caused her a financial 
loss.
What happened
In or around 2018, Ms O was approaching her 54th birthday. She was employed as a cleaner 
earning just over £7,500 a year and was also in receipt of tax credits and child benefits 
which totalled £573 per month. Ms O wasnt intending to retire before age 67. She had no 
savings, assets, or investments and lived in rented accommodation. Ms Os retirement 
provision (aside from her state pension) amounted to two occupational defined benefit 
schemes where she was a deferred member of both, one of which included an AVC. 
Scheme 1 had a CETV of £119,049.71 and was predicted to provide tax-free cash of 
£37,870 at the normal scheme retirement age of 65 along with an annual pension of £5,681. 
Separately this scheme also included an AVC worth £2,870.93 The AVC had a guaranteed 
value at retirement of £2,851 along with guaranteed annual growth of 3.5%
Scheme 2 had a CETV of £20,973.59 and was predicted to provide tax-free cash of £7,602 
at the normal scheme retirement age of 65 along with an annual pension of £1,140. The 
CETV was later increased to £22,344.89.
Ms O had responded to an advertisement and contacted Portafina in late 2018 to discuss 
her pension and retirement needs. She signed letters of authority allowing Portafina to obtain 
information about her existing pensions. 
In April 2019 Portafina wrote to Ms O to say there was great news on her pension, namely 
that her pot was worth £141,410.73. The letter invited Ms O to book a phone appointment. 
And it set out what each of the transfer value of her three pensions was along with the 
critical yield each needed to attain. 
The telephone fact-find appointment took place in early May 2019 and was conducted by 
one of Portafinas paraplanners rather than an adviser. The paraplanner gathered details of 
Ms Os circumstances, needs and objectives and recorded them in a fact find document. 
Ms Os objectives were noted as needing tax-free cash (TFC) from her pensions so she 
could give £2,000 to each of her children, pay £3,000 into a funeral plan and leave the 
balance in an emergency fund. She also said she wanted to be able to leave her pension 
fund to her children in the event of her death and would need an income in retirement of 
£11,376 per year. The paraplanner noted the benefits Ms O was in receipt of and that she 
was aware of the impact taking TFC would have on them. She also noted that Ms O was 
aware of the loss of guarantees associated with her existing DB schemes. The paraplanner 
noted the maximum TFC available to Ms O was £35,723.56.
Portafina sent a letter to Ms O on 13 May 2019 in which it said it strongly recommended that 
she didnt transfer her DB pension schemes because of the guaranteed benefits she would 
be giving up. The letter went on to say that if she did still want to effect the transfer then it 
could help her do so that but it would need to treat her as an insistent client. The letter 
included an options form and asked Ms O to tick the box on the form that was right for her. 
This document set out two options, 1) Accept our recommendation, which was to leave all 
three pensions as they were, or 2) Disregard our recommendation and continue as an 
insistent client. The forms went on to set out the high-level benefits associated with the 
existing plans. Ms O was asked to tick a box to confirm she was aware of the benefits 
available from each scheme. She was also asked to confirm she had read and understood 
several risks associated with transferring her benefits. She was also asked to explain, in her 
own words, why she wanted to go ahead with the transfers against Portafinas advice. 
Ms O signed the document on 27 May 2019 and ticked the box that said she understood 
Portafinas recommendation to leave her DB scheme pensions where they were but that she 
wanted to continue against its advice and release TFC of £35,723. Mrs O also ticked boxes 
acknowledging that she was giving up guaranteed benefits on her three schemes.
A suitability report was issued on 5 June 2019. The covering letter explained that Portafina 
had already recommended Ms O did not transfer her pension, but as she had chosen to 
disregard that advice and proceed as an insistent client and ignore that advice, Portafina 
was recommending she transfer her DB schemes and AVC to a SIPP and receive maximum 
TFC of just over £35,000. Portafina charged Ms O £8,702.13 for the advice, which it 
deducted from the residual fund. In addition, the SIPP was expected to carry an annual 
management charge of 0.43% and an administration fee of £75 for taking benefits. A further 
fund charge also applied. The letter also asked that if Ms O agreed with its recommendation 
then she should sign the enclosed forms.
Ms O signed the transfer forms in August 2019 and the transfer took place shortly after. 
Ms O, through her representative, complained to Portafina in October 2020. Ms O said it was 
her intention to access her TFC and it was for this reason alone that she was interested in 
transferring her pension. But she said she didnt want to access TFC to the detriment of her 
retirement fund. Ms O also said that Portafina shouldve provided her with alternative ways 
to access cash to achieve her objectives but she didnt recall any such discussion ever 
happening. 
Ms O also said the transfer of her DB schemes hadnt been in her best interests. She said 
she had received negligent advice from Portafina and had suffered a financial loss as a 
consequence. Ms O also said that her DB schemes were her only retirement assets and that 
she had no assets of her own to fall back on if the investment performance of the SIPP was 
poor. Ms O said the schemes had guaranteed benefits which she had now lost. And she said 
the critical yield the transferred funds needed to reach was unattainable. Ms O said she 
wanted to be put back in the position she had been in but for the poor advice shed received. 
Portafina looked into Ms Os complaint, issuing its final response in June 2021. Having done 
so it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it had clearly communicated to Ms O that 
it wasnt in her best interests to proceed with the transaction. And it said it had made her 
aware of the guaranteed benefits she was giving up. Portafina said it had followed the 
correct regulatory procedures and had provided Ms O with all the information she needed to 
make an informed decision but that she had wished to proceed as an insistent client. 
Unhappy with Portafinas response to her complaint, Ms O referred her complaint to our 
service in June 2021. Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended it was upheld. He thought that Ms O couldnt be said to be a true insistent client. He said he didnt 
consider that Portafina had made any real effort to persuade Ms O to retain her benefits or to 
properly consider any alternative means to meet her objectives. Our investigator 
recommended that Portafina pay compensation to Ms O. 
Portafina disagreed with our investigators findings stating that it had complied with all the 
regulators requirements for the insistent client process and that it was satisfied that Ms O 
understood the risk she was taking by proceeding. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change his mind so the complaint was referred to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Portafina should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Ms Os best interests (COBS 19.1.6). 
Since 2018, COBS 9.5A includes additional guidance on insistent clients. It sets out three 
key steps for advisers to take.
1) Where a firm proceeds to execute a transaction for an insistent client which is not in 
accordance with the personal recommendation given by the firm, the firm should 
communicate to the insistent client, in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading, 
and having regard to the information needs of the insistent client so that the client is 
able to understand, the information set out in (2).
2) The information which the firm should communicate to the insistent client is:
a) that the firm has not recommended the transaction and that it will not be in 
accordance with the firms personal recommendation;
b) the reasons why the transaction will not be in accordance with the firms 
personal recommendation;
c) the risks of the transaction proposed by the insistent client; and
d) the reasons why the firm did not recommend that transaction to the client.
Acknowledgement from the insistent client - COBS 9.5A.4
(1) The firm should obtain from the insistent client an acknowledgement that:
(i) the transaction is not in accordance with the firms personal recommendation; and
(ii) the transaction is being carried out at the request of the client.
(2) Where possible, the acknowledgment should be in the clients own words.Portafina says that it provided suitable advice and acted in Ms Os best interests. It says that 
it followed the correct insistent client process. Ms O says Portafinas advice was negligent 
and shes suffered a loss as a result.
Having carefully considered all of the evidence presented, I think there were weaknesses 
and failings in Portafinas advice process, which meant it didnt act in Ms Os best interests. 
And I think Ms O likely understood, or believed overall, that Portafina was recommending 
she should go ahead with the transfer.
I say this because on 13 May 2019 following the telephone discussion Portafina had earlier 
the same month with Ms O about her pension options, it sent her what I think can only be 
described as a brief letter with the outcome of its advice. It said that it strongly recommended 
she did not proceed with the transfer for the following reasons: 
because of the growth rate required to match Ms Os guaranteed benefits from her 
DB schemes;
because her schemes were a significant proportion of her retirement provision;
because she would lose her state benefits;
because it didnt think her stated objectives justified the transfer; and 
because shed be giving up those guaranteed benefits. 
But despite setting these reasons out, I dont think Portafina clearly set out the risks 
associated with the transfer in the letter. I think it couldve done more to emphasise the 
impact on her retirement income. There was also no discussion of any alternative means of 
meeting Ms Os objectives. And while Portafina later sent a more detailed suitability report, 
which I will refer to later on, at this stage Ms O had less information to go off to decide if 
being an insistent client was truly in her best interests.
And at the end of the letter Portafina told Ms O she had a number of options which were 
described in the enclosed options form which it asked her to complete and return. It also 
said that if she decided to proceed against its advice then she should complete the enclosed 
insistent client declaration form. The options form set out two options, 1) Accept our 
recommendation, which was to leave all three pensions as they were, or 2) Disregard our 
recommendation and continue as an insistent client. The forms went on to set out the high-
level benefits associated with the existing plans. Ms O was asked to tick a box to confirm 
she was aware of the benefits available from each scheme. And she was also asked to 
explain, in her own words, why she wanted to go ahead with the transfers against Portafinas 
advice. Ms O signed the forms on 27 May 2019. 
The options form was sent to Ms O after the fact-find phone call which, I note, wasnt carried 
out by a financial adviser. And Portafina asked her to complete the forms  thereby making a 
decision about whether to disregard Portafinas advice based solely on the information in the 
letter and form alone  before it issued her with its suitability report. I think that, on the face 
of it, the forms and the letter appear to conform with the regulators regulations Ive set out 
above. But Ive thought about whether Portafina genuinely acted within the spirit of the 
regulations and communicated with Ms O in a way that was fair, clear and not misleading 
taking into account her information needs; and Im not persuaded that it did. 
I say that because the evidence Ive seen indicates that Ms O didnt fully understand, at the 
time she was being asked to sign the two forms, the advice she was being given. Looking at 
what she wrote on the options form under the section entitled, in your own words Ms O 
focusses on increasing her working hours. She also says that although she would lose her 
tax credits and state benefits her circumstances had changed since shes spoken to Portafina (presumably during the fact find call)  but she doesnt say how. She finishes by 
saying that she will be putting some money into an ISA so this will all benefit her and the 
risks are now much lower. 
I dont think what Ms O has written demonstrates that she understood the information shed 
been given at that point. That she intends to increase her working hours, lose her state 
benefits and take out an ISA cant reasonably be said to demonstrate that she understood 
what she was giving up, that it wasnt in accordance with Portafinas recommendation and 
was being carried out because she was insisting on it. And I cant see that her comment 
about her circumstances changing led to any review by Portafina of the advice it had given 
her. In summary, there was nothing she said on the form which can reasonably be said to 
show Ms O understood the risks associated with the transfer or why she thought shed be 
better off by transferring out of her schemes. 
And that can be said to carry through to the call between Portafina and Ms O that took place 
between the signing of the form on 27 May 2019 and the date of the suitability report (5 June 
2019). It seems to me that the purpose of the call was for Portafina to validate Ms Os 
understanding of the seriousness of the decision she was making. The call, like the fact find 
call, wasnt undertaken by a financial adviser. It confirmed that her choice meant she could 
access £35,000 but when Ms O was asked why it had been recommended that she didnt 
transfer she said, wellbecause there wasnt another pension scheme to start off with. 
Ms O then went on in the call to mention tax credits and indicated that she thought getting a 
full-time job mitigated the risk of what she was doing with her pensions in some way. Ms O 
confirmed that she understood shed be giving up benefits and, with prompting, agreed she 
was giving up guaranteed benefits. 
I dont think the phone call demonstrates either that Ms O understood the risks associated 
with the transfer or why the transfer itself wasnt in her best interests. And I cant see that 
Portafina made any real effort to ensure Ms O fully understood the message it was giving 
her as it was required to under the regulations. I think Portafina missed the opportunity here 
to drive home why the adviser was recommending she didnt transfer out of her schemes, 
namely because it would jeopardise her retirement income and her reasons for transferring 
out werent good enough. Instead, the call focussed on the loss of guarantees, rather than 
what that meant for her retirement. 
And crucially, as I indicated earlier on, she hadnt yet received Portafinas full suitability 
report and had time to read and digest it before having to decide if he wanted to go ahead 
anyway. So Im not persuaded Ms O was able to make an informed choice here. 
It was only after receiving Ms Os confirmation that she wanted to proceed with the transfer 
that Portafina sent her its full suitability report. And while this repeated the recommendation 
not to transfer out of the DB schemes, it was followed by a positive recommendation, 
advising Ms O to transfer her benefits to facilitate access to his tax-free cash. And this was 
all set out under a heading titled Our recommendation.
I think if Portafina firmly believed in its advice and recommendation, and it was acting in Ms 
Os best interests, it could have made greater effort to make sure Ms O understood what she 
was giving up and when she gave the answers she did (on the form and during the phone 
call), where it is clear she didnt understand, it could have declined to execute the transfer for 
her. It wasnt obliged to continue with the transfer of Ms Os DB schemes. Instead it 
proceeded to effect the transfer in a situation where, I think it can reasonably be said, its 
client demonstrated she didnt fully understand what she was agreeing to. I think it ought to have been clear to Portafina that Ms O had little knowledge or experience 
of financial matters based on the information available at the time of the advice. For example 
theres nothing recorded on the assets section of the fact-find to suggests Ms O was an 
experienced investor  in fact it appears she was completely inexperienced. It is 
documented that Ms O didnt even have a mortgage. Im mindful too that Portafina noted 
Ms Os attitude to risk in the suitability report as being moderately cautious. But Ive not 
seen any risk profiling questionnaire underpinning that assessment. So I dont know why 
Ms O is noted as being moderately cautious. But, as Portafina thought this was the case I 
think it should have been on notice that it had to be very careful if it was to take Ms O 
through the insistent client route.
In order to fulfil the regulators requirements under COBS 9.2, Portafina needed to give Ms O 
advice on the overall suitability of the transaction envisaged, that is the transfer and the 
choice of pension and investment. Instead, it first gave Ms O advice on the advice to 
transfer, and only considered the suitability of the proposed alternative in the full suitability 
report after securing her confirmation to proceed on an insistent client basis.
By recommending that Ms O transfer her benefits to a particular scheme, not only did this 
undermine the recommendation not to transfer, I think Portafina has effectively given her a 
recommendation to transfer out of her DB schemes. If Portafina didnt think that transferring 
out of the DB scheme to a personal pension arrangement was in Ms Os best interests, it 
needed to ensure that it gave clear advice that the whole of the transaction was unsuitable 
for her. In my view it shouldnt have separated out the elements. For this reason, I think on 
receipt of the full suitability report Ms O could have believed that Portafina approved of her 
decided course of action. 
Ms Os objective for accessing her pension early was to enable her to access the available 
TFC of almost £36,000 in order to buy a £3,000 funeral plan, buy a £2,000 car for one of her 
children and help her other child financially to the tune of £2,000. So, she said, she only 
needed immediate access to £11,000. The balance of almost £29,000 was to be used to 
create an emergency fund.  But to achieve these objectives Ms O had to give up almost 
50% of her monthly income (the state benefit element) which, according to the outgoings 
noted on the fact find, she could ill afford to do. 
The fact find notes that Ms O had a monthly income of £1,213 (which included £573 of state 
benefits and tax credits) and monthly expenditure of £1,213. And whilst it also notes on the 
fact-find that Ms O understood that taking the TFC would mean she stood to lose the state 
financial help she received there is no exploration of how Ms O was to plug the huge income 
gap the transfer of her DB schemes would leave her with. Whilst Ms O told Portafina she 
was going to increase her working hours (which would obviously mean an increase in pay) 
there is no evidence as to how much more pay she could or would expect and if it would be 
enough to cover the loss of her state help. So whilst it isnt documented that Ms O intended 
to use the emergency fund to make up her monthly expenditure, and indeed during the 
phone call she had with Portafina indicated that she wouldnt be living off it, it isnt clear to 
me how else she was supposed to live if her plans to increase her working hours didnt 
transpire. 
Im sure that being able to gift both her children £2,000 and to arrange a funeral plan would 
have seemed attractive to Ms O, but I cannot agree that it was suitable to advise her to 
transfer her DB scheme in order to access what would have been a relatively small 
proportion of the TFC or that it was in Ms Os best interests to do so. And whilst it is always 
good advice to put aside a sum of money for emergencies, taking money from a tax-efficient, guaranteed, inflation protected environment to hold it in cash seems to be a poor decision 
and one which Portafina should have fully challenged. 
Portafina failed to fully explore Ms Os financial situation and failed to understand the 
pressing nature of why she needed to give each of her children a modest lump sum, or 
whether this could wait until she retired and had access to TFC at that point in order to do 
so. Similarly with Ms Os need to purchase a funeral plan and have an emergency fund. I 
cant see there was any meaningful discussion about alternative means of arranging for such 
a plan or fund to be set up. Or to waiting until she could afford to do so. Ms O said she had 
researched insurance policies (according to the fact find) but just wanted the lump sum. The 
discussion seems to have gone no further than that. 
If Ms O genuinely could not wait to access some of her TFC, I think Portafina ought to have 
explored taking benefits from just one or more of the schemes early. By the time Ms O 
transferred she was able to access her benefits  this wouldve provided her with sufficient 
TFC to meet her stated need to access £11,000 and the extra income she would be in 
receipt of couldve gone towards building her emergency fund. This wouldve put Ms O on 
stronger ground financially and meant that she kept her guaranteed pension benefits.  
Alternatively she couldve transferred the smaller DB scheme and AVC  which equated to 
around £25,000. She couldve taken TFC of around £6,000 and drawn down a further 
taxable lump sum to meet her needs.
I dont necessarily think that what Ive set out above is what Ms O would have done if 
suitable advice had been given. Instead I am seeking to demonstrate that there were 
alternative ways of Ms O meeting her needs, none of which were explored by Portafina. 
Ultimately I dont think that any of Ms Os needs were so pressing that she wouldve insisted 
on transferring her pensions to a SIPP had she properly understood the impact on her 
retirement.
Portafina had to act with due care and skill and in Ms Os best interests. And by not seeking 
to properly understand her financial situation, and specifically her income needs, Im not 
persuaded it can be said to have been acting in Ms Os best interests. Furthermore, 
Portafinas failure to explore alternative options with Ms O meant that, in reality, I think she 
believed she could only meet her needs by transferring all of her schemes to a SIPP.
Ultimately I dont think Ms O was able to make an informed choice here  it seems to me that 
she most likely went ahead with the transfer as she believed it seemed like a good idea and 
this was the only way to meet her objectives. Portafina failed to properly understand Ms Os 
overall position and failed to recommend to her that it was in her best interests to do nothing 
or, if she genuinely needed access to some cash and this couldnt wait, to access benefits 
from one or more of her schemes instead. Furthermore, I think the way Portafina presented 
its recommendation to Ms O wouldve led her to believe it was giving her a positive 
recommendation to transfer out of the scheme. And I think this wouldve given Ms O the 
impression that Portafina agreed with her approach.
Portafina recommended that Ms O invest in three funds (5% in cash, 40% in one equity fund 
and 55% in another). As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that Ms O cannot be 
truly regarded as an insistent client therefore making the transfer out of her DB scheme 
unsuitable, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Ms O should have been advised to remain in the DB 
schemes and so the investments in the SIPP wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had 
been given.Overall, and on balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to 
conclude the process Portafina followed meant that Ms O can truly be regarded as an 
insistent client - I think Portafina made it altogether too easy for her to agree that she was an 
insistent client. Portafinas overall communication with Ms O wasnt clear or fair. It didnt act 
in Ms Os best interests. And it failed to act with due care and skill.
I now need to consider if Portafina had followed the insistent client process correctly, 
whether Ms O wouldve still gone ahead. Portafina says that because Ms O used her own 
language and it followed the regulators guidance to ensure she understood the insistent 
client process then that is evidence that she wouldve transferred her DB pension benefits 
early regardless of Portafinas involvement.
But I disagree. If Portafina had acted in Ms Os best interests, providing a recommendation 
on the suitability of the whole of the transaction envisaged at the outset, addressing Ms Os 
true objectives at the time and presenting alternative courses of action, explaining that she 
would most likely not be able to achieve her required retirement income if she transferred 
out, I dont think she wouldve insisted on going ahead with the transfer. As Ive outlined 
above, I dont consider Ms O to be an experienced investor who possessed the requisite 
knowledge, skill or had the confidence to go against the advice and recommendation she 
was given. I think she relied solely on the advice and process Portafina employed. 
So if things had happened as they should have, taking everything into account, I dont think it 
likely Ms O would have insisted on going ahead with the transfer.
In light of the above, I think Portafina should compensate Ms O for its failings using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter has caused Ms O. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience. Such awards arent intended to fine or 
punish Portafina but rather to recognise the emotional and practical impact its actions have 
had on Ms O. And taking everything into account, including that I consider Ms O is now at 
the age when her retirement provision is of greater importance to her, I think the unsuitable 
advice has caused her distress. So I think an award of £250 is fair in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Ms O, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for Portafinas unsuitable advice. I consider Ms O 
would have most likely remained in her DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Portafina must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Ms O has not yet retired, and she has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on her normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Ms Os acceptance of the decision.Portafina may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Ms 
Os contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Ms Os SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Ms Os pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Ms IO as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his/her/their likely 
income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Ms O within 90 days of the date Portafina receives 
notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portafina to pay Ms O.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portafina Investment 
Management Ltd to pay Ms O the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Portafina to pay Ms O any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portafina 
to pay Ms O any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Portafina should also pay Ms O compensation of £250 for the distress and inconvenience its 
unsuitable advice caused her. 
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portafina pays Ms O the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest calculated as 
set out above on this balance to be paid to Ms O.
If Ms O accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portafina.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Ms O can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Ms O may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman