DRN-1639326
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs K says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her the PPI. 
For the avoidance of doubt this complaint is now against the above business who 
have taken responsibility for this complaint. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 2002 Mrs K took out a PPI policy at the same time as applying for a high-street store card. 
Both were taken out in-store using the same application.
The policy provided protection for Mrs K's store card payments in the event she 
couldn't work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy benefit was 15% 
of the outstanding account balance each month and it would pay out until Mrs K returned to 
work or the balance was paid off - whichever happened first. It cost £1.00 for every £100 Mrs 
K owed on the card.
At the time of the sale Mrs K was employed, and she initially said she was entitled to 12 
months' or more sick pay.  She later clarified that it was at her company's discretion how 
long it would've paid her if she was off sick. She said she had no other means she could've 
used to make her repayments; albeit her husband would've helped her out. She also 
said she was in good health at the time.
AXA's records show Mrs K paid around £400 for PPI in total.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought 
Mrs K chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or 
inappropriate for her.
Because Mrs K disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant 
here in deciding Mrs K's case.
Having done so, while I know this isn't the answer Mrs K was hoping for, Ive decided not to 
uphold her complaint. My reasons are set out below.
did Mrs K have a choice about PPI? I can see Mrs K has said PPI was never explained to her and things were done in a rush 
during her store visit.  I've therefore considered this carefully.
Having done so, I think AXA made it clear that Mrs K didn't have to take out the PPI and that 
she chose to take it out.
AXA has provided a copy of Mrs K's store card application. Looking at this I can see there 
was a separate section about PPI, which required a customer to sign if they wanted to take 
out PPI. And in Mrs K's case she signed this section. If Mrs K didn't want to take out PPI she 
could've left this section blank. By having to give her signature on the form and in the way it 
was required, I'm not persuaded she would've done so without knowing what she was 
signing for - notwithstanding the fact that she might not have understood all that she needed 
to know about it.
So, overall I think AXA did enough to highlight that PPI was optional and that Mrs K chose to 
take it out. I also think she did so without undue pressure - I've not seen enough to persuade 
me otherwise. 
the information  
Mrs K has said she thinks AXA advised her to take out PPI. AXA says it didn't recommend or 
give advice to Mrs K to take out PPI. And I've not seen anything to suggest that it did. So 
AXA didn't have to ensure the cover was right or suitable for Mrs K. But it did have to give 
her enough clear and timely information about the policy, so she could make an informed 
decision about it.
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information AXA gave Mrs 
K about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve been. I also accept that because the sale 
took place in a non-financial business there wasn't likely anything that could reasonably be 
described as a conversation about PPI - as Mrs K has alluded to.
But as I found above, Mrs K chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And based on her circumstances at the time it doesn't appear that it was 
inappropriate for her - for example she was eligible for the cover; she wasn't affected by the 
significant exclusions on or limits to the cover such as those relating to existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment circumstances; and given her existing means it seems 
like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mrs K off taking 
out the cover. 
conclusion
While AXA might not have done everything it should fairly and reasonably have done when it 
sold Mrs K PPI, in light of her circumstances at the time I think she'd have still gone ahead 
and taken out PPI had AXA done anything more.
This means AXA doesn't have to pay back to Mrs K what she paid for PPI.
Ive thought about everything Mrs K has said - including what she's said about the PPI not 
being explained; the benefit being low but the cost was high; and that it wasn't of any use to 
her. But these points dont change my decision. 
I've acknowledged above that things didn't likely happen as they should have done. But 
given Mrs K's circumstances at the time, I think she'd have taken it out in any event. While 
Mrs K says she had no need for cover, I think it could've proved useful to her if the insured risks became a reality. The policy would've paid out in addition to any sick pay entitlement, 
which Mrs K has said was only payable at her employer's discretion. And given the benefit 
level of the policy it had the potential to clear the outstanding balance in full. And while the 
cost might appear to be high, the benefit level was also high. 
So if AXA had properly informed Mrs K, in weighing up the cost and benefit proposition I 
think that in her particular circumstances she'd have thought the policy was useful to her and 
gone ahead and still taken it out. Because of this I don't think Mrs K has lost out as a result 
of the things AXA might've done wrong when it sold her the PPI.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman