DRN-3473883
The complaint
Mr B complains about Santander UK Plcs administration of his bank accounts. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. But, in summary, Mr B is 
unhappy his ex-wifes email address was still registered to his bank account. He believes his 
account has been fraudulently accessed as a result.
Mr B has also raised that Santander were rude to him when he phoned them in 2019.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. She said she wasnt persuaded Mr Bs ex-
wife had access to the account as a result of the email address being registered to it. She 
said she had seen no information to persuade her Santander had told him his ex-wife could 
access the account  or that any signs of fraud had occurred.
Mr B disagreed with our investigator. So, the matter has now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Santander hasnt been able to trace a call with Mr B from 2019. And its provided 
sufficient evidence it has attempted to locate it. Ive seen nothing in the account 
notes to suggest Santander was rude to Mr B in any of its interactions with him, so 
based on the limited information provided by both parties, Im not persuaded it was.
Santander has provided confirmation that all other previous accounts had been 
closed and one other was in Mr Bs name solely.
Santander have said the email address belonging to Mr Bs ex-wife had been present 
since the accounts opening. 
Having reviewed all the information available I cant see anything that persuades me 
Mr Bs ex-wife would have access to his account. Or that Santander advised Mr B 
that she could.
An email address alone wouldnt usually be enough for someone to gain access to 
an account, and Ive not seen anything that persuades me this was the case here. 
And Ive not seen any other information that persuades me fraudulent activity has 
taken place on the account.
So, for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman