DRN-1704845
 
complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in connection with a mortgage in 1997. 
background
The complaint was looked at by an adjudicator who didnt think that the complaint should be 
upheld. Mr W didnt agree with the adjudicators findings. So the complaint has been passed 
to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about PPI on our website, and Ive used this approach in this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I explain why below.
Its not straightforward trying to decide on cases when neither party has been able to provide 
much from the time of the sale. And its maybe not surprising thats the case as these events 
happened over 22 years ago. Where there isnt much evidence for me to consider, I need to 
make my decision based on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider what I do 
have, look at what both sides have said, and make a decision based on what I think most 
likely happened. 
Mr W says he felt that he had to take the PPI to get the mortgage. Lloyds has provided the 
mortgage application form but its almost unreadable. However, it does look as if Mr W was 
presented with a choice of Yes and No for the cover and selected to have it. And I've seen 
no evidence to support the idea that Lloyds didn't make it clear that the PPI was optional. 
So, even if I discount the mortgage application form because of the difficulty in reading it,  
given the length of time since the sale, I havent seen sufficient evidence to be able to 
uphold the complaint on this point. So, I think its more likely that Lloyds wouldve made Mr 
W aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it, even though Mr W may not 
remember that now, many years later. 
Ive not been provided a policy document from the time of the sale, but Lloyds has given us a 
policy document from soon after the time of sale. Having thought carefully about this, I think 
its most likely that the terms and conditions of this policy are broadly similar to the one sold 
to Mr W. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI, so it had to check that the PPI was right for Mr W  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
I say this because I think its most likely that Mr W was eligible for the policy and wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions from or limitations to the PPI cover. Whilst Mr W was self-employed at the time of the sale, the terms that most likely applied to him were not onerous, 
So, I dont think this made the policy unsuitable for him. 
And Mr W seems to have had a need for the cover. Mr W told us that he would have 
received no sick pay if he was off work through ill health, as he was self-employed. And Mr 
W told us he had no savings he could have relied on in that event or if his work stopped. The 
PPI policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if he was unable to work because of 
accident or sickness, or if his business stopped. So I think he wouldve found the PPI useful.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But for the same reasons that I think the policy was suitable, I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Ive carefully reviewed all of the information provided to me. As a result Im not persuaded, 
for the reasons given above, that the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman