DRN-2057782
The complaint
Miss S complains about the service she received from Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as 
Virgin Money (Virgin). She asked for further information about transactions shed made 
using her current account.
What happened
Miss S has a current account with Virgin. She wrote to Virgin on 15 January 2020 and asked 
it to provide more detailed information about some transactions shed made.
 
When Virgin responded, it said the information Miss S asked for was shown on her 
statement. But this wasnt the case. Miss S had asked for specifics, such as the exchange 
rate, and information about any fees or charges that were applied. Such details arent 
available on her statement so, because shed been incorrectly advised, she complained to 
Virgin on 5 February 2020.
 
Virgin replied on 13 February 2020. In its final response letter, it acknowledged that its 
advisor  who initially replied to Miss S  shouldve realised she was asking for more 
detailed information. It apologised for the oversight, said it would arrange to provide the 
information Miss S had asked for and it sent her a cheque for £40 to recognise the distress 
and inconvenience it had caused.
 
Miss S remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to this service. An investigator here 
thought about what had happened, but she didnt think Virgin needed to do anything more. 
She agreed Virgin had made a mistake, but it had apologised and arranged to provide the 
information, which she thought, along with the £40 compensation offer, was a fair resolution 
in the circumstances.
 
Miss S didnt agree. She said that £75 would be more appropriate compensation because 
shed suffered consequential losses, such as postage costs.
 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Virgin needs to do anything more. Ill explain why.
 
Its not in dispute that Virgin made a mistake. Its said as much in the final response letter 
and has apologised for the oversight. What Im considering here is the impact to Miss S. 
After Miss S complained, Virgin replied within a few days. It said it had arranged to provide 
the information she asked for and had given feedback to its staff. Virgin also provided a copy 
of a previous statement which Miss S said she didnt receive.
 
It shouldnt have been necessary for Miss S to complain in order to obtain the information 
she wanted but, having said that, I dont think Virgin intentionally failed to provide it. Rather, 
Im persuaded this was simply a mistake. One that was quickly rectified. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that Miss S incurred excessive costs as a result of Virgins mistake.
 
I accept that Virgins mistake frustrated Miss S and resulted in the inconvenience of her 
having to send a complaint letter. But, taking everything into account, Im satisfied £40 is fair 
in the circumstances. So I dont think Virgin needs to increase its offer.
 
As part of her complaint, Miss S said she would like this service to comment specifically on 
how Virgin communicated with her. Ive already considered this in a separate decision, so I 
wont make any further comment here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman