DRN-3489433
The complaint
Mr G complains that a van supplied by BNP Paribas Leasing Solutions Limited (BNP) was 
not of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In February 2021 Mr G entered into a hire agreement with BNP for a new van for his 
business. He paid a deposit of £1,200 and was then to make a minimum of 60 monthly 
payments of £274.85 and a balloon payment of £6,144. After that Minimum Period, he could 
continue to make payments of £480 a month.
The hire agreement was regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and included printed 
terms and conditions. Clause 6 of those terms and conditions was headed Exclusion of 
Liability. That clause said, in summary:
Mr G had selected the van himself and had obtained from the manufacturer any 
guarantee he required.
It was agreed that BNP had given no warranty, condition or undertaking about the 
goods, except as expressly set out in the agreement.
Mr G would not be entitled to any rebate of rentals if the van was defective or 
unusable.
BNP would not be liable for any claim for loss, including consequential loss, or 
expense arsing in connection with the goods.
BNP would provide reasonable assistance in extending to Mr G the benefit of any 
manufacturers guarantee.
Mr G says that, soon after he acquired the van, he started to experience problems with it. In 
particular, he says that the media unit does not work properly and that the stop/start function 
is not operating. He has been back to the dealership on several occasions, but it has been 
unable to resolve the issues. He complained to BNP.
BNP said that it was not responsible for the faults with the van. It said that the dealership 
had carried out one repair and that the other issues Mr G had described were the result of 
software updates, not faults. Mr G referred the matter to this service, where one of our 
investigators considered what had happened. He recommended that BNP accept the return 
of the van, refund the deposit on a pro-rata basis, refund 10% of the monthly payments 
made from May 2021 and pay Mr G £200 in recognition of the inconvenience to which he 
had been put.
Neither Mr G nor BNP accepted the investigators view. Mr G thought he should receive a 
full refund of all the payments he had made. BNP said that the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
did not apply to the hire contract and so it had no responsibility for the quality of the van. The 
case was therefore passed to me to review.
Because I thought it likely that I would reach a different conclusion from that reached by the 
investigator, I issued a provisional decision. In that decision, I said:
Mr G needed the van for his business and entered into the hire agreement for that reason. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 covers contracts entered into by a consumer, which is 
defined at section 2(3) as  an individual acting for purposes that are wholly or mainly 
outside that individuals trade, business, craft or profession. Mr G was not therefore acting 
as a consumer and the Consumer Rights Act does not apply here.
Where the Consumer Rights Act applies, it implies into contracts for the supply of goods a 
term that the goods will be of satisfactory quality. It also includes provisions limiting the 
extent to which a supplier can exclude liability to a consumer. But, because he was acting for 
business purposes in hiring the van, Mr G was not a consumer and does not therefore have 
the benefit of those protections.
I must therefore consider what obligations BNP did have in respect of the quality of the van. 
As I have noted above, the hire contract included a fairly extensive set of exclusions. 
Amongst other things, they sought to place liability for any defects on the manufacturer  by 
ensuring that Mr G had a manufacturers warranty.
For the purposes of this provisional decision, I have assumed that the van did have the 
defects Mr G has alleged. I note however that BNP does not accept that. But, even if the van 
was faulty in the way Mr G has described, I think the exclusions in clause 6 of the hire 
agreement are wide enough to cover the faults. That is, they are drafted so as to mean that 
BNP is not responsible for any faults.
In deciding what I consider to be fair and reasonable, I must have regard to any relevant law. 
That includes the provisions of the hire agreement. I have indicated what I consider the legal 
effect of the agreement to be, but I must also consider whether the outcome is fair and 
reasonable.
In my view, clause 6 was not seeking to deprive Mr G of any remedy if the van was faulty. 
Rather, it was making clear that BNP entered into the agreement on the basis that he had 
obtained a manufacturers warranty or, if not, that he had made a conscious decision not to 
obtain one. And, had BNP intended to accept responsibility for the quality of the van, I have 
no doubt that other provisions of the hire agreement (the monthly payments, for example) 
would have been different. In my view, it was not unreasonable for BNP to seek to exclude 
liability for any defects. Mr G had other remedies available to him.
BNP said it had nothing to add. Mr G said however that he has since had further problems 
with the van, including additional damage caused by the manufacturers franchise which was 
trying to repair it.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I have not changed my view from that set out in my provisional 
decision. As I said, I have approached this case on the basis that the van was defective as 
alleged by Mr G. My provisional conclusion was however that, given the express terms of the 
hire agreement, it would not be fair to hold BNP liable for those defects. As Mr G was not 
acting as a consumer (as defined in the Consumer Rights Act 2015), he did not have the 
protection of that and similar legislation. Any further defects which have become apparent since my provisional decision or any problems with remedying the problems do not change 
my view on that.    
My final decision
For these reasons, as well as those set out in my provisional decision, my final decision is 
that I do not require BNP Paribas Leasing Solutions Limited to do anything more to resolve 
Mr Gs complaint.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman