DRN-2860777
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with Close 
Brothers Limited wasnt of a satisfactory quality.
What happened
On 25 November 2020 Mr N was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale 
agreement with Close Brothers. He paid a deposit of £525 and the agreement was for just 
under £6,000 with 15 monthly repayments of £364.77. At the time, the car was thirteen years 
old and had done more than 135,000 miles.
Mr N said the car had numerous faults including the central locking system not working 
properly, worn brakes, no wheel nut key, the wheels werent aligned, and the gearbox wasnt 
working properly.
He complained to the dealer and to Close Brothers. He said the dealer took the car back for 
inspection on 29 November 2020 and he was told they couldnt find any faults.
He said he exercised his right to withdraw from the agreement within the 14-day period in 
the agreement as he didnt want to pay for a car with several faults. He said Close Brothers 
wrote to him on 3 February 2021 declining his request to reject as theyd found no evidence 
of any faults. He was unhappy theyd never asked him to supply the evidence he had of the 
faults.
Hes shown us photographs of warning lights on the dashboard.
He was also unhappy that Close Brothers repossessed the car in March 2021, and were 
chasing him for an outstanding balance of £3,100.
Close Brothers said Mr N hadnt provided any evidence the car was faulty when he asked to 
exercise his short term right to reject it. They said they arranged for an independent 
inspection, and this found no faults with the car. Close Brothers didnt uphold his complaint 
so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator considered all of the evidence, and felt that when considering the age, 
mileage and condition of the car, it was more likely than not to be of a satisfactory quality. 
She didnt think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Close Brothers to unwind the 
agreement. 
Mr N disagreed and ask for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. He didnt think it was fair to require him to pay for a car hed had for only a few 
days before faults appeared making it unsafe and unable to drive.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding this complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr N was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Close 
Brothers are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other relevant circumstances. In 
a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale; and 
the vehicles history.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Close Brothers can show otherwise. So, if I thought the car was 
faulty when Mr N took possession of it, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd 
be fair and reasonable to ask Close Brothers to put this right.
The car was more than 13 years old, and had travelled more than 135,00 miles when it was 
supplied to Mr N. And its reasonable to expect to have to repair or replace some parts on 
high mileage, older vehicles.
It's clear from the evidence that Mr N was complaining about having problems with the car 
since it was provided to him. He provided photographs of warning lights on the dashboard. 
Close Brothers said the dealer told them it had tested the car and it could find no faults. 
Where there are contradictory opinions, as we had here, its helpful to have an independent 
inspection, and thats what Close Brothers arranged.
The independent engineer carried out a visual inspection and a road test. They reported 
that:
no evident faults to be found with the vehicles transmission or the way that the 
transmission functioned. The vehicle was cycled through all of its automatic functions 
and again no fault could be found with the vehicle; and
no evident fault to be found with the vehicles transmission performance or the 
vehicles performance at the time of our inspection.
They also carried out a diagnostic scan, and found no faults codes stored or pending in the 
cars engine management system.
They did report that the tyre pressure warning light came on and confirmed this was related 
to one of the tyres being flat at the time.
They said the car required no repairs and was in a condition commensurate to its age and 
recorded mileage.Its reasonable for Close Brothers to rely on the findings of the independent engineer. The 
report makes clear that the engineers duty is that of an expert to help the court. The 
engineer is independent of Close Brothers, the supplying dealer, and Mr N. Because of this, 
its reasonable for Close Brothers to rely on the contents of this report, regardless of the 
outcome.
Mr N said he was denied his right to withdraw from the agreement. The conditional sale 
agreement he entered into does give him a right of withdrawal  but this is for the credit only. 
It wouldnt have allowed him to return the car. 
He also had a short term right to reject the car under the CRA. This would give him 30 days 
to reject goods that are of unsatisfactory quality. But as Ive explained above, theres no 
evidence the car was faulty, so the right to reject does not apply here. 
So Im satisfied the car was of a satisfactory quality when supplied to Mr N, and that Close 
Brother doesnt need to do anything more.
And so its reasonable for Close Brothers to expect Mr N to make the payments under the 
conditional sale agreement, and for them to enforce the relevant terms in the agreement if 
payments arent made. If Mr N is in financial difficulty, I expect Close Brothers to treat him 
positively and sympathetically and do what they can to help him pay what he owes.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint against Close Brothers 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman