DRN-3770354
The complaint
Mr P complains about the time taken by Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) to transfer his 
Personal Retirement Plan to a new provider. Mr P says Phoenix delayed matters by making 
several unnecessary requests for information. 
What happened
On 17 March 2020 Mr Ps new provider submitted a transfer request to Phoenix via an 
electronic system. Phoenix received the request on 19 March 2020.
Phoenixs initial checks flagged an issue with the new provider, so Phoenix asked its 
technical department for further advice. 
On 26 March 2020 that department advised that further information should be sought from 
the new provider and a pension transfer questionnaire should be sent to Mr P. 
On 8 April 2020 Phoenix issued the questionnaire and sent an information request to the 
new provider. 
Those documents were received by Mr P and the new provider on 13 and 14 April 
respectively. 
On 16 April 2020 Phoenix received the information from Mr P and the new provider. 
Following advice from its technical department, Phoenix wrote to Mr P on 28 April 2020 and 
asked him to get in contact to discuss the transfer.
Mr P contacted Phoenix on 1 May 2020 and answered a number of questions about the 
transfer.  
On 13 May 2020 Phoenix sent Mr P a summary of that conversation for Mr P to check and 
sign. 
The summary was signed by Mr P and witnessed on 18 May 2020. It was received by 
Phoenix on 20 May 2020. 
In May 2020 Mr P made a complaint about the delay in administering the transfer. 
Phoenix then contacted the new provider on 3 June 2020 to ask it to re-send the transfer 
request. It was re-sent on 4 June 2020.
On 11 June 2020 Phoenix tried to contact Mr P. Mr P called back on 12 June 2020 and 
Phoenix asked him about a loyalty bonus provided by his existing plan, which he would lose 
if he transferred before a certain date. Mr P confirmed he was happy to go ahead with the 
transfer despite losing the bonus. 
The payment was processed on 12 June 2020 and the proceeds were received on 23 June 
2020.  
Phoenix didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. In summary it didnt accept that it had caused any 
delay in processing the pension transfer. It said that it adhered to the Industry Code of Good 
Practice which required it to put in robust standards for pension transfers.  
Phoenix said it had processed the transfer within normal timescales. It noted that the Origo 
system was intended to facilitate efficient transfers, but Phoenix said it still had legal, 
regulatory, and statutory obligations to complete appropriate due diligence checks prior to 
completing a transfer request. 
Mr P disagreed and referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered Mr Ps complaint and concluded it should be upheld. He noted 
the relevant guidance and considered that the pension transfer had taken too long. He also 
took into account the difficulties caused by the pandemic, but he still felt that the delays 
incurred by Mr P were unnecessary and avoidable. 
The investigator agreed that Phoenix was entitled to carry out due diligence, but he said this 
had to be carried out appropriately and proportionately and weighed against its obligations to 
Mr P to carry out his transfer request in a timely manner. 
The investigator noted what Phoenix had said about protecting Mr P against the risk of 
pension liberation or fraud, but felt it ought to have been clear on receipt of the pension 
questionnaire that these risks werent present.
The investigator noted this wasnt a transfer of safeguarded benefits, so no financial advice 
was necessary. He said it was reasonable that Mr P would feel comfortable executing this 
switch of providers without advice from another party and it should have been clear that Mr P 
possessed a higher degree of financial awareness than the average consumer.
The investigator said it should have been possible for Phoenix to confirm the scheme 
administrator was a large UK based financial services firm authorised by the FCA, and that 
the intended investment was also a UK based FCA authorised firm. He said there was no 
need for Phoenix to engage with these other businesses to establish this as the information 
was freely available via the FCA register.
The investigator considered the additional checks carried out after receipt of the pension 
questionnaire were more about protecting Phoenixs position than Mr P. So, he said Mr P 
shouldnt be disadvantaged if these checks couldnt be carried out within a reasonable 
timeframe.
The investigator noted that each time Phoenix made a request of Mr P he responded 
immediately, but he said each response led to a further request. He said this process 
wouldve been far more efficient if it had been conducted via a telephone conversation.
The investigator said in his view the questionnaire and information requests should have 
been sent within 48 hours of the first ORIGO communication being transmitted on 19 March 
2020. He said Phoenix would have been in receipt of the information necessary to process 
the transfer six working days later, on 27 March. The investigator said assuming it took a 
further 48 hours to finalise the transfer the funds would have been transmitted on 31 March. 
He said allowing four days for the bank transfer to complete, the funds would have been with 
the new provider on 5 April 2020.
Phoenix disagreed and said it had completed the transfer within its turnaround time. It also 
said it had increased its turnaround times in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Phoenix said it had the right to carry out full due diligence on any transfer requests that it 
received and it would be inappropriate for it to engage with other providers in respect of 
possible concerns, until it had been able to identify what its concerns were. It said this had 
been achieved by carrying out its full due diligence process.
Phoenix said where any concerns were raised that related to an individuals transfer journey 
or to the scheme they were transferring to, it carried out a full due diligence process. It said 
this involved asking the customer questions which were based on the guidance issued by 
the FCA, TPR, the Pensions Ombudsman and the industrys Code of Practice.
Phoenix said it had received the new transfer request on 4 June and processed the transfer 
on 12 June. It also pointed out that, pursuant to section 99(2) of the Pensions Schemes Act 1993, it had six months from the date the written transfer request was received, in which to 
process the transfer.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was referred to me for review.  
I issued a provisional decision where I upheld Mr Ps complaint in part. I provisionally 
concluded that Phoenix should compare the transfer value he received, with the value Mr P 
wouldve received if his transfer had been processed at an earlier date, in April. I said if there 
was any financial loss, then that amount should be paid into Mr Ps new pension plan. I also 
said Phoenix should pay Mr P £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delay. 
The following represents an extract from my provisional decision, and forms part of this final 
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P wanted to transfer his pension plan to a new provider. That process started on 17
March 2020 but unfortunately wasnt concluded until 23 June 2020 when the proceeds were
received by his new provider. So, I can understand why Mr P was frustrated that he had to
wait several months for his transfer to be completed. And I also appreciate that he was
disappointed and concerned that he wasnt able to benefit from the investment return on his
new pension plan during that time. I have to consider therefore whether Phoenix caused any
unnecessary delays during this process and whether it acted within a timely manner.
As the investigator has already explained, the Association of British Insurers (ABI) statement
of good practice from June 2006 states that requests relating to pension transfers should be
completed within 10 working days.
However, the time it takes to complete a pension transfer will depend on the particular
circumstances of that transfer. There may be transfers that can take place more quickly and
conversely more complex cases, where understandably it will take longer.
I also note there is guidance issued by the Pension Scams Industry Group (PSIG) which
advises providers on how to approach transfer requests and in particular how they should
proceed where there are some concerns or flags raised, in relation to the transfer in general,
or in respect of the receiving party.
In Mr Ps case Phoenixs system identified a potential concern with the receiving provider
when the transfer request was made. So, it asked for some advice from its technical
department, which then led to it requesting further information from that provider, and from
Mr P in the form of a pension transfer questionnaire.
To recap, the information requested by Phoenix was received on 16 April 2020. It appears
that the information sent from the new provider was satisfactory as no further information
was requested. And, we know the new provider was an FCA authorised firm.
However, as Mr P had indicated in his questionnaire that he hadnt received any financial
advice in respect of the transfer, a further letter was sent to Mr P asking him to contact 
Phoenix to discuss his transfer request.
As the investigator has identified, because the transfer was less than £30,000 and didnt
relate to safeguarded benefits, there wasnt a legal requirement for advice to be obtained.
And it should also be noted that Mr P had indicated in his response to Phoenix that he was
an independent financial adviser. I think the relevance of that was that Mr P didnt appear tomeet any of the criteria for vulnerability set out in the guidance.
However, that is not to say that someone with financial knowledge and experience cant be
the subject of a scam and it was noted by Phoenix, at the time, that Mr P wasnt authorised
to give advice on pension transfers. So, there was nothing to indicate that he had specialist
knowledge of pensions as opposed to general financial knowledge.
I dont think by that point there were any obvious or compelling concerns which needed to be
addressed. But, I also dont think it was unreasonable for Phoenix to want to speak to Mr P
to clarify the answers he had given in his questionnaire and make sure it understood the
motivation for transferring his plan, and to also ensure he hadnt been given incorrect or
misleading information or put under any pressure to transfer. It has explained it took this
approach where any concerns had been raised. And I also dont think it was unreasonable
for Phoenix to be cautious in its approach, given the potential ramifications for both it and
Mr P if the transfer wasnt legitimate or suitable.
Having said that, I also consider Phoenix had to be proportionate in the way it dealt with the
transfer given the circumstances. Just because the Pensions Schemes Act set out that such
transfers might take up to six months, this doesnt mean it had to take that long or that it
should take longer than was necessary in the circumstances. This wouldnt be treating Mr P
fairly, and I dont think Phoenix itself would assert that it would expect its customers to wait
six months to complete such transfers.
And I note the matter didnt end with the discussion with Mr P because after Phoenix had
clarified those issues, it then wrote to Mr P asking him to sign a summary document of what
was discussed.
I appreciate that Phoenix wanted a written record of the conversation it had with Mr P to
demonstrate that it had raised its concerns with Mr P, but this added several days to the
process. I think if Phoenix felt this was necessary then it should have ensured that the
summary was sent out promptly to avoid unnecessary delay. I dont think it was, because it
was sent some 12 days after the conversation took place.
In addition, Phoenix contacted Mr P in June to ask whether he was aware he would lose his
2% loyalty bonus. I think that was a valid question, but I agree with the investigator that the
issue of the loyalty bonus shouldve been raised much earlier, at around the time Phoenix
sent the pension transfer questionnaire. And I consider raising this later on delayed the
transfer process unnecessarily.
Overall, I consider that the transfer process here took longer than it should have done.
Time taken to process the transfer request
As the investigator has indicated, the 2016 consultation paper issued by The Transfers and
Re-registration Industry Group (TRIG) suggests a 48-hour (business day) standard for
completing each step of a transfer.
That is guidance which I do take into account but clearly there will be occasions where the
steps cannot be completed in those time frames. And I think I should also take into account
that this transfer process took place in the early stages of the pandemic. This caused
widespread difficulties with businesses receiving and responding to post because employees
werent in their offices for a significant period of time. But that has to be balanced against the
providers obligation to carry out the transfer in a timely manner.
I dont think it would be right for me to prescribe how long a pension transfer should take ingeneral. There will be different issues which may impact how fast various steps can take
place, hence why there is guidance in place rather than a prescribed time limit.
However, looking at this particular transfer I consider that overall, it took too long in the
circumstances, notwithstanding that I think it was reasonable for Phoenix to seek further
information and clarification. But I have come to a different conclusion to the investigator on
what I consider is a reasonable timeframe overall, taking into account the particular
circumstances of this case.
Relevant steps and timeframe
The transfer request was received on 19 March 2020 and I consider, broadly, it would have
been reasonable in the circumstances for Phoenix to take about four working days to seek
and receive advice and then send the request for information to the new provider and to
Mr P.
Looking at what then happened it would have then taken a further six working days for
Phoenix to receive that information from Mr P and the new provider.
Again, broadly, I think up to a further four working days to seek advice and issue a letter
asking for contact from Mr P would have been reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr P responded three working days after the letter was sent and contacted Phoenix to
discuss the transfer. I think the summary document couldve then been sent out within two
working days. So, I think it is reasonable to assume, taking into account how long it actually
took at the time, that it wouldve then been back with Phoenix within five working days.
I also think it is more likely than not that with this shorter time frame there would have been
no need to re-send the request which also delayed matters.
So, overall I think this particular transfer could have been administered within 24 working
days, which by my calculation means 24 April 2020 is the date the transfer would have been
processed with the funds then being transferred in the same timescale as then actually
occurred.
Putting things right
I consider a comparison should be carried out using the notional value of Mr Ps replacement
pension arrangements, as at the date of any final decision along these lines, had Mr Ps
pension transfer been processed on 24 April 2020 and comparing it to the actual current
value of his replacement arrangement.
If theres a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Ps current
pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr P as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mr P hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from his plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free
and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss
adequately reflects this.I also think Mr P was caused distress and inconvenience by the delay in administering his
pension transfer. However, I dont consider the delay was as long as concluded by the
investigator. So, I think Phoenix should also pay £150 to Mr P for the distress and
inconvenience caused.
Both parties were given an opportunity to respond to the provisional decision with any further 
representations they may wish to make.
Mr P acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision and in summary he said the following:
Mr P reiterated his view that there had been a duplication of forms and phone calls to 
discuss the same points on several occasions. 
He said the original form he returned to Phoenix clearly stated that he was an 
independent financial adviser, that his provider was a FCA regulated UK pension 
provider and that the fund value was under £30,000. He said those three factors 
shouldve been identified by Phoenix and allowed matters to run more smoothly than 
they did.
Mr P also said he believed the forms he completed and returned were submitted 
online, so he said it wasnt necessary to allow several days for posting in the 
timeframe.
Phoenix also made further representations in response. In summary it said:
It felt the turnaround times I had used in my provisional decision were unrealistic, 
because at several points during the transfer process it had to refer to other areas 
within its organisation, and it noted this all took place during the start of the 
pandemic.
It said its turnaround times were increased as a result of the pandemic and it felt     
Mr Ps transfer was processed in a reasonable time considering the circumstances. 
It agreed that it could have sought clarification in relation to the loyalty bonus earlier 
but said that it had no impact on the length of time taken to process the transfer 
because it was processed on 12 June 2020, the same day it received the response 
from Mr P on this issue.  
It noted that the transfer value of the pension plan was about £8,600, whereas if it 
had transferred with effect from 24 April 2020, as I had specified, a smaller amount 
would have been transferred - about £7,800. So, it said, in effect that there had been 
no financial loss as a result of the later transfer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and noting the representations made by both parties, my decision remains 
the same as set out in my provisional decision, which is reproduced above and forms part of 
this decision.  However, I acknowledge the points made by Mr P and Phoenix - and address 
them below. 
Issues raised by Mr P
Mr P has said there was some duplication of forms and of questions he was asked by 
Phoenix. He has also said that at least some of the communication took place online, so no 
posting time was required. I note the comments made by Mr P but the timeline I have outlined sets out (in broad terms) 
how long his transfer shouldve reasonably taken in the circumstances as they were then. In 
that outline I havent included any duplication. However, I have concluded that Phoenix was 
entitled to check certain issues and as I have said, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to 
take a cautious approach. 
I also note Mr Ps comments about correspondence being communicated online.  However, I 
have based my timings on what actually happened when Phoenix contacted Mr P or the new 
provider, and the length of time taken before his, or the new providers communication in 
response, was received (whether that was by letter or otherwise). So, I have said that 
Phoenix shouldve acted more promptly, whatever form of communication was used, and I 
have then applied the time it actually took Mr P and his new provider. 
Mr P has also said that there were issues, such as the value of the transfer, that should have 
made it clear to Phoenix that the transfer could proceed smoothly. I have referred to these 
issues in my provisional decision. As I said in that decision, I think Phoenix was entitled to 
clarify any issues of concern, but it had to act in a proportionate way and that shouldve been 
reflected in the time it took to address those issues of concern. 
Issues raised by Phoenix
Ive taken into account that this transfer request was started during the early stages of the 
pandemic and this had a knock-on impact on Phoenixs ability to carry out its administrative 
functions. I have acknowledged this was a difficult time for businesses, which is why I felt 
some extra time had to be built in to allow for that impact and that the 48-hour (business 
day) standard was likely unrealistic here. 
However, I dont think 24 working days, more than a calendar month, is unrealistic given the 
lack of issues of concern after the initial phase, when further clarification was sought. As, I 
have said in my provisional decision, I think Phoenix had to take a proportionate response, 
taking into account all the factors involved here.   
Loyalty bonus issue
I can see from the case notes that work was completed over a couple of days in June 2020 
to check whether there was a loyalty bonus and then to contact Mr P to ask to discuss this 
point with him, with Mr P calling back the next day. 
The case notes refer to the case being suspended for one day, which I think would suggest 
some delay. However, it is not entirely clear whether this impacted the processing date as it 
appears it was set up on the basis that the transfer would go forward if this wasnt an issue.  
In any event, I dont think this really matters for the purposes of calculating redress as the 
timeframes I have identified look at what reasonably should have happened, rather than 
deducting days from the actual processing date in June 2020.  I havent deducted any time 
from the timeline for this specific issue. Instead I have looked at the timeframe overall and 
actions that I considered couldve been progressed more promptly.
Putting things right
Phoenix has explained that if the transfer of the pension plan had been processed at the 
earlier date of 24 April, Mr P wouldve received a lower transfer value. So it has said, in 
effect, that the delay hasnt caused any financial loss. 
However, I consider it should still formally carry out the comparison, as set out in my 
provisional decision, to confirm whether or not there is any financial loss and provide those 
calculations to Mr P for his information. Of course, if there is any loss that should be paid to 
Mr P as set out in my provisional decision.
In any event, Phoenix should pay Mr P £150 for the inconvenience caused as I set out in my 
provisional decision. My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Ps complaint against Phoenix Life Limited is upheld in part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman