DRN-3206494
The complaint
Mr D, through his representative, says TFS Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr D took out a 60-month loan for £3,000 from TFS in August 2013. The monthly repayment 
was £149.96 and the total repayable was £8,997.60. Mr D says TFS didnt carry out proper 
affordability checks or consider his overall level of indebtedness. 
Our investigator said the complaint should be upheld. He found that TFS knew from the
credit check it carried out that Mr D previously had problems managing his money and was
also showing signs of current financial difficulty.
TFS disagreed saying whilst there was adverse information on Mr Ds credit file it was
historic, and it had asked about the cause of the defaults. All his active accounts were well 
maintained and if the loan wasnt affordable it would have seen missed payments very early 
into the loan term.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Office of Fair Trading (OFT) was the regulator when Mr D borrowed from TFS. The
relevant rules and guidance set out by the OFT in its Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG)
said that the lender needed to check that Mr D could afford to meet his repayments in a
sustainable manner. This meant Mr D being able to meet his repayments out of his normal
income without having to go without or borrow further.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So TFS had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr D. In
other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr D.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (eg. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for. In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is
required to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing to
lend to Mr D, and have considered the following questions:
did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ds loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did TFS make a fair lending decision?
did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
TFS asked for some information from Mr D before it approved the loan. It asked for details
of his income and checked this on recent bank statements, his monthly housing costs and 
his existing credit commitments. It checked his credit file to understand his credit history. It 
also asked about the purpose of the loan which was to repay a credit card. From these 
checks combined TFS concluded Mr D would have around £427.01 of monthly disposable 
income after making the repayment and so the loan was affordable.
Im not persuaded the checks TFS carried out were proportionate given it needed to be sure
Mr D would be able to sustainably repay the loan for a five-year period. I cant see it
considered his living costs at all (apart from housing), and it was aware he had defaulted on 
a number of accounts in 2011 and had a County Court Judgement (CCJ) for over £7,500 
registered against him in 2012. So it ought to have taken steps to make sure it had a fuller 
understanding of his actual finances before lending. But I wont comment further on this as 
even based on the information it gathered I dont think it made a fair lending decision.
There was significant adverse data on the credit check TFS carried out for Mr D. TFS
argues it was historic and that it asked about the cause of his financial difficulties in 2011. 
But it could see Mr D had defaulted on more than ten different accounts only around two 
years ago. And in many instances he had not managed to settle the defaulted balance or 
make notable inroads into reducing those balances. At the time of this application he still 
owed over £29,500 on accounts that had defaulted. I think this ought to have concerned TFS 
as it indicated his financial position had possibly not improved in the way it assumed.
The fact Mr D had entered into an arrangement to pay on his mortgage, a priority debt, as 
recently as July 2013 should have reinforced this concern.
Mr D also had £18,000 of active debt. Whilst it was currently up-to-date, giving this loan 
meant Mr D would need to use an even more significant proportion of his income to service 
his debt and based on this I think TFS ought to have realised the loan would likely not be 
sustainably affordable. Whilst Mr D was settling some of his existing debt it was a credit card 
and so would not make a significant reduction to his monthly outgoings. He would still be 
spending around 65% of his income on credit commitments. .
Overall, given Mr Ds credit history and amount of salary that would be needed to manage 
his debt, I dont think its fair and reasonable for TFS to say that it lent to Mr D in the 
knowledge that doing so carried no risk of causing him financial harm in some way. TFS 
argues that it didnt see problems with repayments in the early life of the loan, but it does not 
know how Mr D met his repayments so this cannot be used as evidence that the loan was 
sustainably affordable.
It follows I think TFS was wrong to lend to Mr D.
I havent found any evidence that TFS acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way 
towards Mr D.
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mr D to have repaid the capital amount that he borrowed as he had
the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been given to him. So he has lost out and TFS needs to put things right.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments
Mr D made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ds loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then TFS should refund these overpayments
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the
overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Ds loan account results in there being an outstanding capital 
balance, TFS must work with Mr D to agree an affordable repayment plan.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to deduct tax from this interest. TFS should give Mr D a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ds complaint. TFS Loans Limited must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman