DRN-3720606
The complaint
Miss R complains ACI-UK Limited applied a credit to an account they shouldnt have, and 
shes unhappy they havent refunded her this money when they said they would.
Another company was involved in this complaint, but as ACI are responsible for it, Ive just 
referred to them in this decision.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements of this below, and they form part of this final decision.
Miss R says on 22 October 2021 she was told she was due a refund. She says this led her 
to look at her accounts and found out a payment of £65.49 had been claimed by ACI which 
she said shouldnt have been. So, she complained. 
ACI said they were responsible for two accounts. One against a company Ill call F which 
was assigned in February 2019 with a balance of £186.20, and another against a company 
Ill call U in July 2019 with a balance of £200. ACI said as part of their investigation they 
found the account against F was closed off in February 2020.
Also in February 2020, ACI said they started receiving payments from a debt charity 
supporting Miss R, who Ill call S. They were quoting the account details for F  the account 
that had been settled. ACI did a review of payments received from companies like S, and 
found £65.49 had been overpaid. The intention initially was to refund this amount to S, but 
when ACI discovered Miss R held a second account, the money was transferred to this 
account. ACI said there is no evidence they told Miss R this at the time.
Following Miss R getting in touch to find out where her refund was, the issue was referred to 
the complaints department. ACI said this resulted in some issues, where the £65.49 was 
added to Miss Rs balance, instead of being deducted  along with another £6.97 which had 
been received from S. ACI said this should have resulted in the balance reducing to 
£127.54. ACI accepted they hadnt handled things well, and said to recognise their errors 
they wrote off Miss Rs outstanding debt with U.
Miss R said the information ACI had provided was incorrect and unacceptable. She said on 
looking at her online portal the refund of £65.49 isnt shown as credited to her accounts. 
Miss R said ACI should still refund the £65.49 to S, and that theyd fraudulently transferred 
funds without her knowledge or permission. 
In later conversations, ACI said theyd refund the money to S, close down Miss Rs accounts 
so she no longer had any open with them and would pay her £50 compensation. Miss R 
wasnt happy with this, saying the refund to S hadnt happened. So, she asked us to look 
into things.
One of our Investigators overall felt ACI had acted fairly in closing down Miss Rs account 
and paying £50 compensation.
Miss R though felt ACI should still pay the £65.49 back to S, so the complaints been passed 
to me to decide. 
Following some discussions with ACI, the refund of £65.49 was eventually made back to S. 
We asked Miss R if this resolved her complaint, and she said it didnt as she felt she 
deserved more compensation.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss R has said the reason shes not satisfied with the outcome is because ACI lied about 
having refunded the payment of £65.49 to S  so to resolve matters shed like another £50.
I think its helpful to explain at this point my role is to decide things on a fair and reasonable 
basis  taking into account everything thats happened.
There isnt any question that ACI havent handled things well with Miss Rs accounts, or in 
her complaint. The key issues being they credited an account they shouldnt have without 
telling Miss R this, added money to a debt when they should have been reducing it, and 
saying theyd refunded the £65.49 when they hadnt.
But I also cant ignore the steps ACI have taken to try and put matters right. During the 
complaint they have:
Written off the account with U  which was for £200
Paid Miss R £50 compensation
Refunded the £65.49
I do appreciate the refund of the £65.49 has taken far longer than it should, but I cant agree 
with Miss R that ACI have lied about refunding the payment. Ive seen a number of their 
internal emails saying theyve asked for the payment to be sent, and then querying things 
when Miss R has got in touch. So, I think they did try to do the refund as they said, and 
genuinely believed it had gone through. Why it didnt I dont know, but I understand it has 
now been refunded.
I do think its disappointing its taken our service to get involved in order to ensure this 
money is refunded. But Miss R has overall benefitted by no longer having to repay a £200 
debt, and by having £50 compensation paid to her  as well as the refund now having been 
made. Although I understand she feels a further £50 would be fair  I think what ACI have 
done now is sufficient to compensate for the errors they made. So, I dont plan on requiring 
them to pay anything further.
Responses to my provisional decision
ACI replied and said they had nothing further to add.
Miss R didnt reply by the deadline of the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As ACI accepted my outcome, and Miss R didnt reply, Ive seen no reason to change the 
outcome I reached in my provisional decision. I dont require ACI to pay Miss R any further 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above ACI-UK Limited doesnt need to do anything further to 
settle the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman