DRN-3386773
The complaint
Mr B complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he made 
under sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a 
solar panel system he says was misrepresented to his wife by the supplier.
Mr B is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around September 2017, Mrs B was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs B decided to purchase the system 
and finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. Mr B signed the 
loan agreement; his wife did not. The system was subsequently installed.
In November 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Bs behalf under section 75 
of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mrs B to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on his electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. However it 
offered £200 compensation for its delay in responding to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr B and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
Ps quote did not reflect what the salesman had said at the sales meeting;
the salesman had never shown Mr and Mrs B the whole of the quote on which the 
adjudicator had relied, only the parts which said he would make a profit;
Mr and Mrs B had never had the opportunity to read all of it;
other customers have reported similar sales tactics, so Mr and Mrs Bs claims were 
credible;
where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact that they could 
have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not a defence in law.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the CMC relies on sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Act. The relevant law 
also includes sections 11, 12, 19 and 140C of the Act, as these affect when sections 56, 75 
and 140A apply.
In this case I dont think sections 56 or 75 assist Mr B. I will explain why.
In certain circumstances, section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services 
bought using credit. As Mr B paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, 
Shawbrook agreed that section 75 applies to this transaction. But section 75, where it 
applies, only gives the debtor the right to bring a claim against the creditor for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract if he could have brought a like claim against the 
supplier of the goods or services. And Mr B does not appear to have been a party to the 
contract to buy the system. The quote only names his wife as Ps customer, and the FIT 
payments were made to her solely in her name. So only Mrs B could bring a claim against P 
for misrepresentation. But as she was not a party to the loan agreement, she cannot bring a 
like claim against Shawbrook under section 75. Section 75 assists neither of them.
Section 56, where it applies, says that any negotiations between the debtor and the supplier 
are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of the creditor. That would 
make Shawbrook liable for anything Ps salesman said to Mr B. But having regard to 
sections 11 and 12 of the Act, I dont think that section 56 applies to Mr Bs loan agreement 
or to the negotiations which led up to it. That is because the loan was not to finance a 
transaction between Mr B and P; it was to finance a transaction between his wife and P. (For 
the same reason, I also think that section 75 doesnt apply either, as the scope of that 
section is also limited by sections 11 and 12.)
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system. Having regard to 
sections 19(1)(c) and (2)(c) and 140C(4)(b), I am satisfied that section 140A does apply to 
Mr Bs loan agreement. That is because section 140A applies more broadly than sections 56 
and 75. It applies to a loan agreement and also to any linked transaction entered into by the 
debtor  or a relative of his. Here, the purchase of the system by his wife counts as such a 
linked transaction. Section 140A says that Mr Bs relationship with Shawbrook arising out of 
his loan agreement, taken with his wifes purchase of the system, may be unfair to Mr B 
because of anything that was done on Shawbrooks behalf. That may include a 
misrepresentation made by the salesman who suggested to Mrs B that she buy the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr B says that during a sales meeting his wife was told that the system would be entirely 
self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered 
these, along with Mr and Mrs Bs testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide 
on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mrs B, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to him agreeing to enter into the contract. Mrs B has signed it.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr and 
Mrs Bs version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
FIT payments and savings
Mr and Mrs B have said that they were told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, 
or self-funded by the FIT payments and the savings on their energy bills. Ive considered 
the quote that was provided by P as well as Mr and Mrs Bs recollections of their meeting 
with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mrs B could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mrs B could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £232.98, which results in an average monthly income of about £20. 
Im satisfied that the same document set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment 
due of £92.05. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Mrs B was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT payments alone.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs B could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings are £215.98 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mrs B, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £699.88. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr B entered into with Shawbrook. But since the table for 120 months 
has been highlighted, I will also consider that one, in case it was discussed, and also 
because the eye is drawn to it and so Mrs B may have focused on that one.
Ill start with the table for 180 months. This table shows the loan as repayable in 180 monthly 
payments of £92.05. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement gives the correct monthly figure 
of £91.39, but the difference  66p  is too small to affect the following observations by 
much.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the 
system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the monthly loan 
repayment, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the system and 
the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure for the first nine years 
of the loan, meaning that the system would not begin to make enough money to cover the 
loan payments until year ten. (Actually this is a year too long; if the correct monthly payment 
of £91.39 is used then there is a shortfall for only eight years.)
The highlighted table shows 120 payments of £113.37. This table shows a shortfall in every 
year.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mrs B could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. (This supports my finding 
above that Mrs B wasnt told that the FIT payments alone would cover the loan repayments.) 
Ive carefully thought about Mr and Mrs Bs version of events. However, as Ive found that 
the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at 
the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that they were told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings.
I am reinforced in my view by this graph, on page 6 of the quote, which plainly showed that 
the system would not be enough to cover the loan payments.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mrs B that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the 66p discrepancy 
in the monthly payments). That section of the quote has been signed by Mrs B, so Im 
satisfied that P did enough to bring it to her attention. On balance Im also satisfied that the 
salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mrs B was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote states in large font that it would take ten years for the 
overall benefits that Mr B could expect to receive to match the cash price of the system.
I think the ten-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on 
page 2, and so I dont consider that it needed further explaining. This figure also appears in 
the Putting it all together section.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
25 years. This too shows that during year 10 the overall benefits that Mrs B could expect to 
receive would reach the cash price of the system, £8,715.
So Im satisfied that P told Mrs B that the system would pay for its cash price in ten years, as 
supported by the graph and the table above, which were included in the quote. If that were 
an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the 
contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount to a 
misrepresentation. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether 
this is in line with the contract between P and Mrs B.
Performance
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 3,576 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mr Bs FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 3,544 kWh a year. This is almost exactly as estimated by P at the point of sale, so 
Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected, in terms of energy generation, if not 
financially. So the reason Mrs B has not seen the expected financial returns is not because 
the system is defective, but for some other cause.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mrs B hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mrs B could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mrs B entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs B to enter 
into the contract for the system, or induced Mr B to enter into the loan agreement, and 
therefore there are no grounds for finding that an unfair relationship exists between Mr B and 
Shawbrook. I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Mr B to decide whether to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for its 
delay in responding to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman