DRN-1590157
 
The complaint
Ms H complains through her representative, that James Hay Pension Trustees Limited 
(James Hay Partnership), incorrectly paid her original financial adviser £15,900 from her Self 
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), upon receipt of her Pension Sharing Order (PSO) funds
What happened
In October 2017, Ms H instructed an independent financial adviser (IFA) firm 
(Tinley Financial Planning) to provide her with advice in relation to her pension and financial 
matters relating to her divorce. This included establishing a SIPP with 
James Hay Partnership. Upon instructing Tinley Financial Planning, Ms H signed James Hay 
Partnerships adviser charges form, thereby instructing James Hay Partnership to pay Tinley 
Financial Planning an adviser fee of £15,900 for the establishment of the SIPP. The fee 
would be paid from the SIPP once it had sufficient funds. 
About six months later, the IFA working with Ms H left Tinley Financial Planning and began 
working for Lockhart Capital Management. Ms H then switched to Lockhart Capital 
Management and her original adviser continued to act for her. The adviser (now acting for 
Lockhart Capital Management) then wrote to James Hay Partnership and asked that Ms Hs 
client file be added to their online access portal. They also asked for an update on the PSO. 
In addition, they asked that any previous investment instructions be cancelled, and that 
James Hay Partnership confirm any ongoing adviser charging  seeking confirmation of 
what would happen to it. 
Accompanying this letter was a signed and dated written notification from Ms H. This 
confirmed to James Hay Partnership that she wanted full details of her SIPP to be shared 
with Lockhart Capital Management.
James Hay Partnership received this signed written notification and amended their records 
accordingly towards the end of May 2018. 
The PSO funds were received by James Hay Partnership in mid-September 2018. As 
Ms Hs SIPP now had adequate liquidity, they then paid the adviser fee of £15,900 to 
Tinley Financial Planning, a few days later.  
Believing this payment was made in error, Ms H raised a complaint with 
James Hay Partnership in October. They explained that they had not received anything in 
writing to say no payment should be made to Tinley Financial Planning. That said, in an 
attempt to assist Ms H, they wrote to Tinley Financial Planning twice, who then 
corresponded with Ms H directly. 
James Hay Partnership informed Ms H in early 2019, that they had asked 
Tinley Financial Planning for the money back. But explained that they did not agree the 
payment had been made in error. Aware that Ms H was now corresponding directly with Tinley Financial Planning about the payment, James Hay Partnership decided it was a third-
party dispute and felt they couldnt do anything further to assist Ms H with the matter.
Unhappy with this, Ms H brought the complaint to us. She stated: 
James Hay Partnership were notified in May 2018 as to the change in IFA and it was 
requested at that time that all fees were to be redirected to 
Lockhart Capital Management 
James Hay Partnership failed to tell her or Lockhart Capital Management there was a 
fee on her SIPP to be paid to Tinley Financial Planning and states that if she had 
known she would have cancelled it
There was no way she or Lockhart Capital Management could have known the 
previous payment instruction hadnt been cancelled as it didnt show on 
James Hay Partnerships client portal information
She feels James Hay Partnership have washed their hands of the matter, which is 
not what she would expect from a pension trustee
 
Lockhart Capital Management has told us that they do not want the fee payment, but instead 
to remedy the matter, they want it returned to Ms Hs SIPP. Therefore, Ms H has asked for 
the £15,900 to be returned to her SIPP, plus compensation for the lost investment growth 
and acknowledgement of the stress this situation has caused her.
James Hay Partnership told us that they believe the fee was paid to 
Tinley Financial Planning correctly as per the signed instruction they received in October 
2017. They have explained that this wasnt paid sooner as they were waiting for the PSO 
funds; and have stressed that the lack of liquidity or the un-appointment of 
Tinley Financial Planning, does not obviate the contract or debt owed. 
One of our investigators concluded that the letter in May 2018 asked 
James Hay Partnership to:
Cancel previous investment instructions;
Provide an update on the ongoing PSO; and
Confirm whether there were any ongoing adviser fees
 
They explained that as James Hay Partnership were not informed there was a dispute about 
paying Tinley Financial Planning and they were not told not to make the payment, they need 
not do anything further.
Ms H disagrees with this and maintains that if she was aware the previous payment 
instruction hadnt been cancelled, she would have cancelled it  as permitted by 
James Hay Partnerships terms and conditions. She feels that James Hay Partnership made 
a fundamental error and she therefore wants an Ombudsman to review her complaint. As a 
result, this has been passed to me for a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H has provided us with information regarding the service she has received from 
Tinley Financial Planning pertaining to this matter. I would like to be clear that this 
information has not been considered as part of this complaint. Tinley Financial Planning is a separate entity to James Hay Partnership and as such it would not be fair for me to consider 
this information as part of this complaint. That said, the outcome of this decision does not 
preclude Ms H from following our process for any other complaint she may have.
The adviser charges form signed by Ms H in October 2017, clearly sets out that 
James Hay Partnership will automatically pay £15,900 from Ms Hs SIPP, to 
Tinley Financial Planning once funds are available. 
The declaration under section 2 of the same form specifically states: 
I authorise James Hay Partnership to pay adviser charges to my Financial Adviser as 
detailed in this form. I confirm that my Financial Adviser has provided me with a key features 
illustration in respect of these charges. I agree that it is my responsibility to inform you in 
writing if I wish these payments to stop or if I change or remove my Financial Adviser.
By signing this, Ms H agreed that it was for her to notify James Hay Partnership of any 
changes to her instruction to them. 
James Hay Partnership have said that whilst they received the signed mandate in May 2018, 
no correspondence was sent stating the payment instruction previously set up should be 
disregarded or that there was a dispute. Having reviewed the content of the signed written 
notification from Ms H, I would agree that no request was made to stop the payment. 
Specifically, the signed notification says:
I hereby authorise Lockhart Capital Management to act on my behalf as my Independent 
Financial Adviser. Would you please arrange for full details of the above policy(s) to include 
all applicable fund and administration charges to be forwarded to Lockhart Capital 
Management.
Applicable fund and administrative charges are not the same as adviser fees. 
We have been told that the existence of the pre-existing fee agreement was not made 
available to Lockhart Capital Management on the online portal and therefore was not shared 
with them. If this information wasnt shared, it wouldnt change my thoughts for the following 
reason. Whilst it is true that Ms H had changed IFA firms, it cannot be ignored that her IFA 
had remained the same. With that in mind, the existence of the fee agreement would have 
been known by the IFA, as she set it up whilst working for Tinley Financial Planning. 
In addition to this, the covering letter from Lockhart Capital Management asked 
James Hay Partnership to confirm any ongoing adviser charging and further asks what 
would happen to them, if there were any. Ongoing adviser charging is different to a pre 
agreed, one-off adviser charge that was agreed to be paid before Lockhart Capital 
Management was appointed. 
I would agree with James Hay Partnership in that the lack of liquidity (which was the reason 
for Tinley Financial Planning not being paid sooner) or the un-appointment of 
Tinley Financial Planning, does not obviate the contract or debt owed. Therefore, if Ms H no 
longer wanted to pay Tinley Financial Planning, this should have been communicated to 
James Hay Partnership.  Her adviser knew this agreement existed as she had arranged it 
whilst working for Tinley Financial Planning and should have cancelled it if this is what the 
adviser thought should have happened.
Ms H had the opportunity to give the written instruction required to cancel the fee agreement. 
This opportunity did not disappear when she switched to Lockhart Capital Management. 
Whilst I do think it is more likely than not Ms H would have cancelled this agreement if she had realised it hadnt been cancelled previously, it doesnt follow that James Hay Partnership 
acted unfairly. They cannot be expected to have carried out an instruction, they were never 
asked to carry out; in that they were never asked to cancel the fee agreement.  
As a result, I do not think it would be fair or reasonable to direct James Hay Partnership to 
do anything further in this instance
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17July 2020.
Chantelle Findlow
Ombudsman