DRN-2329703
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1992. Mr M says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ms. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Bank of Scotland made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out. I say this because Mr M wrote YES in a box on the application form 
to specifically indicate that he wanted the policy.
Bank of Scotland didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M - so it didnt have to check that the 
PPI was right or suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr M enough clear and timely 
information so he could decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr M. Although 
Mr M says he had a medical condition when the PPI was taken out I dont think better 
information about the existing medical condition exclusion wouldve caused him to 
change his mind about taking out the policy. I say this because hes had the condition a 
few years and it appeared to be under control  so he probably wouldnt have been too 
worried about it causing him to have time off work. There were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems. It also looks like it was 
affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. 
Because of this I dont think Mr M would have declined the cover had Bank of Scotland 
done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr M would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely he thought he was getting, and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Bank of Scotland should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ms particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means Bank of Scotland doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman