Complaint
Mrs R complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) incorrectly duplicated 
payments from her account and it caused her financial hardship and stress.
Background
Mrs R transferred her account to Nationwide and in the process it duplicated various 
standing orders and direct debits. This went unnoticed for some months and Mrs R funded 
the account from her savings to keep it in credit. 
Mrs R then visited her branch to understand why she was experiencing financial problems, 
when it was discovered that various payments had been duplicated from her account 
following its switch from her previous bank. Nationwide admitted to their error and refunded 
all charges and interest caused by this and returned to her account the duplicated payments.
Mrs R wasnt happy with the service she had received and complained to Nationwide who 
upheld her complaint and offered £250 by way of apology for the inconvenience caused. 
They also offered to reimburse Mrs R any interest she may have lost on her savings account 
as a result of their error, once Mrs R provided the necessary evidence. 
Mrs R didnt feel this went far enough and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator gathered the necessary information to consider this complaint and whilst 
she agreed Nationwide had made errors, she felt that it had put matters right and adequately 
compensated Mrs R for this.  Mrs R didnt agree and asked for this to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available information, evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and will explain the 
reason for my decision. 
When looking at this complaint I have considered if Nationwide acted fairly when 
compensating Mrs R for the errors it made on her account and if they took the right steps to 
see that she wasnt financially disadvantaged as a result of this. 
Mrs R is unhappy because Nationwide duplicated her payments, she has been financially 
disadvantaged, her credit rating has been affected and it has caused her stress and 
inconvenience.
DRN-1315597I can see that it must have been upsetting for Mrs R not understanding why she was 
experiencing financial problems and needed to use her savings to support her finances. 
Nationwide were at fault in duplicating these payments and it is right that Mrs R be put back 
into the same financial position she would have been in if this hadnt had happened. 
Mrs R feels that Nationwide should have noticed this sooner and in hindsight Nationwide had 
the opportunity to investigate why Mrs R was having items returned unpaid on her account. 
Similarly, Mrs R also received regular account statements that show the duplicated 
payments  and I feel it is reasonable to expect that customers check their own bank 
statements. 
That said, while earlier detection of the duplicated payments would have been in every ones 
interest, I am satisfied this alone hasnt contributed to Mrs Rs current financial situation, 
given the necessary refunds have been made and compensation has been paid to her.
 It follows, I am satisfied that Nationwide have correctly reversed the duplicated payments, 
as agreed with Mrs R following her meeting with a Nationwide staff member.  
Mrs R says Nationwides mistakes resulted in her credit rating being affected and her 
financial position made worse. I have considered this and I have seen a copy of her credit 
report but I cannot see any evidence from this report to suggest her credit rating has been 
adversely affected.
Nationwide have also confirmed that any negative credit marks on her credit file would be 
removed. I am satisfied her credit rating hasnt been unduly harmed as a result of the 
duplicated payments. 
Mrs R says she was refused a loan since, but other considerations are taken into account 
when banks considered borrowing requests and Im satisfied that the errors made by 
Nationwide didnt contribute to this loan being declined for the reasons I have mentioned. 
As far as being financially disadvantaged by the mistakes made by Nationwide, I can see 
that it made the adjustments necessary to put this right and corrected any charges or 
interest charged to her account. One of the corrections was to Mrs Rs credit card and in line 
with Mrs Rs approval the duplicated credits paid to that card were reversed. This would 
affect the borrowing on the card, but it is worth mentioning Mrs Rs credit card account had 
previously benefited from the duplicated payments which would have reduced any borrowing 
and subsequent interest costs over this period. Nationwide have not asked for this to be 
taken into account when it agreed to the charges and interest refunded- this is fair and 
reasonable given the circumstances. 
I was sorry to learn that Mrs R is currently experiencing financial difficulties but I cant see 
that this is a direct result of the duplicated payments as she has been put back to the 
financial position she would have been if this hadnt happened.
Nationwide has paid £250 in compensation for the inconvenience caused and it offered to 
refund any interest lost on Mrs Rs saving account, as a result of the duplicated payments. 
This is what I would expect to see here and I am satisfied this represents a fair outcome for 
the inconvenience and upset caused. Whilst Mrs R will be disappointed with my decision, I 
wont be asking Nationwide to do anymore.
 
 My Final Decision 
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14July2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman