DRN-3580813
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with the way China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd has handled a 
claim they made on their home insurance policy. 
Any reference to China Taiping includes anything said or done by its agents and 
representatives.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ive summarised whats happened.  
In August 2019, following a fire, Mr and Mrs G contacted China Taiping to make a 
claim on their home insurance policy. 
Mr and Mrs G contracted their own loss assessor to assist with the claim - who Ill 
refer to as Y. Reference to Y also includes its agents. 
China Taiping instructed a loss adjuster to handle the claim on its behalf. 
Due to the extent of the damage, Mr and Mrs G moved out of the property into 
alternative accommodation. 
On their return, they say the heating system wasnt working properly and there were 
outstanding issues with the repairs which had been carried out so far.  
In the end, Mr and Mrs G arranged for the boiler to be replaced at their own expense. 
They believe the damage to the boiler  namely debris and sludge build up  was 
caused by the contractor whod downed tools and left the boiler exposed for a few 
months. And as Mr and Mrs G consider the contractor (who Ill refer to as S) to be 
an agent of China Taiping, they think China Taiping should cover the cost of 
replacing the boiler. 
Mr and Mrs G also received letters from S solicitors which threatened legal action for 
non-payment of services. Mr and Mrs G say it was China Taipings responsibility to 
pay S, not theirs. So, they say theyve suffered additional stress because of China 
Taipings inaction. 
When Mr and Mrs G complained to China Taiping, it said it wasnt responsible for the 
actions of S because theyd been put forward by Mr and Mrs Gs loss assessor  it 
said it had no control over the quality of the works undertaken by the S . 
Mr and Mrs G strongly refute this. They say S were one of three contractors put 
forward for tender but that ultimately China Taiping made the decision as to who 
would complete the works. 
Mr and Mrs G brought a complaint to this Service. Our investigator considered it. 
Initially he thought the contractor was working on behalf of China Taiping and so said 
it was responsible for covering the cost of the new boiler. But subsequent new 
information  including confirmation from the S that they took instructions from Mr 
and Mrs G or their loss assessor - persuaded him S werent working on behalf of 
China Taiping. 
Because Mr and Mrs G remained unhappy the complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about China Taiping and any acts or omissions its responsible for as an 
insurer. Whilst I will comment on Y as they had a significant role in the claim, this complaint 
isnt about them. So, I wont be able to make any findings about any acts or omissions they 
were responsible for in their role representing Mr and Mrs G and assisting them with their 
claim.
Its not in dispute that China Taiping accepted the claim for fire damage was covered by the 
policy and has made payments to settle it. This complaint is about the way the claim was 
handled in relation to the boiler and heating system; snagging issues  including electrical 
issues; and late payments to S. 
Boiler and heating system
Its accepted that the boiler and heating system wasnt working properly when Mr and Mrs G 
returned to their property.
Mr and Mrs G arranged for the boiler to be checked by an independent engineer who said 
debris in the system  which most likely occurred during the renovations  was the probable 
cause of the heating problems. 
Mr and Mrs G say S were responsible for the issues with the boiler due to inadequate repairs 
and having not looked after it properly during the renovations. And so, they consider it China 
Taipings responsibility to pay the cost of doing so. China Taiping disagree. And its this 
issue  namely who is responsible for the Ss actions  which is at the centre of this 
complaint.
Ive seen that Y introduced S to the tendering process. Ive looked at the tendering appraisal 
completed by Y, and note it says, Y have a working relationship with [S]. It goes on to say: 
Following the thorough inspection and analysis, [S] are deemed the most 
competitive. It would therefore, be our recommendation to arrange a pre-contract 
meeting with the client, the chosen contractor and Y to discuss the project further 
with the intention of instructing the contractor to proceed [].
So, I think its clear the loss assessor both introduced and recommended S. Whilst China 
Taiping ultimately approved the loss assessors choice of contractor and made payments for 
the works, that doesnt mean it assumed responsibility for Ss work. So, it appears from the 
above that China Taiping werent working closely with the contractor from the outset as they 
werent privy to the pre-contract meeting between Y, S and Mr and Mrs G where the works 
were discussed. 
Insurers are entitled to a degree of negotiation and so querying costs doesnt mean 
responsibility has switched from the loss assessor to the loss adjuster and I havent seen 
evidence which persuades me that China Taipings involvement went beyond that. I can see 
China Taiping did say the quote provided by S to flush out the system was too high and so 
asked for further estimates. But Im not persuaded this means China Taiping can be 
considered to have changed the scope of the works to such a degree they stepped into the shoes of the loss assessor and would therefore, be responsible for the costs to replace the 
boiler.
China Taiping has explained that S bills were sent to Y who once approved forwarded them 
on to China Taiping for payment. Ive not seen evidence to the contrary and so, I think its 
most likely Y was overseeing the standard and completion of works, and that China 
Taipings responsible was limited to settling invoices. 
Ive thought about whether despite the poor workmanship, the boiler might have needed 
replacing anyway and would therefore, be considered part of the costs China Taiping would 
have had to pay under the claim. I acknowledge that Mrs G has said the boiler company 
(from whom she purchased the replacement boiler) said that as her original boiler had 
suffered fire and smoke damage it should be condemned, but I havent been provided with 
evidence to support this. So, Im not persuaded the boiler needed replacing regardless of the 
contractors alleged poor workmanship. 
Ultimately, Im satisfied that it was Mr and Mrs Gs loss assessor who appointed S. And 
based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded China Taiping is required to cover the cost of 
replacing the boiler.  
Snagging issues
For the same reasons explained above, Im not persuaded S was working on behalf of China 
Taiping, and so, I dont consider it to be responsible for the snagging issues which existed 
following Mr and Mrs Gs return to their property. So, I wont be directing China Taiping to 
take any action in respect of this.
Late payments
I dont doubt it would have been stressful for Mr and Mrs G to receive letters threatening 
legal action because S hadnt been paid. Mr and Mrs G assumed that China Taiping were 
responsible for paying S directly, and so were understandably shocked to have been the 
recipient of such letters. 
Its not clear from the file whether China Taiping was paying the contractor directly or 
whether it was making payment to Y - who was then responsible for paying the contractors. 
But either way, Ive looked at the file to see whether China Taiping caused any avoidable 
delays in making payment and could therefore, be deemed responsible for the distress Mr 
and Mrs G received. 
It would be unreasonable to expect payments to be made instantaneously after an invoice is 
submitted. There will of course be checks and balances in place. I havent been provided 
with evidence which shows that China Taiping delayed making payments and so, I cant see 
that it has caused avoidable distress to Mr and Mrs G in respect of this. 
I know my decision will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs G, but I hope for the reasons set out 
above, they understand why I havent upheld their complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman