DRN-1891163
The complaint
Mr A complains about the quality of a car he acquired under a hire purchase (HP) 
agreement with Blue Motor Finance Ltd (Blue Motor).
What happened
In February 2018 Mr A acquired a car that was approximately six years old and which had 
covered approximately 42,000 miles. The cash price of the car was £6,499.
Mr A financed the acquisition of the car by way of an HP agreement with Blue Motor which, 
everything else being equal, required him to make 60 payments of £143.51 (excluding fees 
totalling £303.51).
In April 2018 Mr A complained to the supplying dealership and Blue Motor about a number of 
issues with the car, including problems he was experiencing with the gearbox.
The supplying dealership inspected the car and concluded there was no issue with the 
gearbox. It also outlined to Mr A what it was and wasnt prepared to do in respect of the 
other issues raised by him and why.
In May 2018 Blue Motor issued Mr A with a final response letter (FRL). In this FRL it said 
that as Mr A had confirmed repairs had been carried out and that he wanted his complaint 
closed, it had done so.
In July 2019 Mr A complained to Blue Motor that he was again experiencing problems with 
the gearbox and that he had been required to replace, since acquisition, two tyres and two 
brake discs and that he would like to be compensated for the same.
In August 2019 Blue Motor issued Mr A with a FRL. In this FRL it said that it wasnt 
upholding Mr As complaint because it didnt believe there was a problem with the gearbox at 
the point Mr A acquired the car and that normal wear and tear was responsible for the brake 
discs needing to be replaced.
Mr As complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that the 
car was of satisfactory quality when acquired by Mr A.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary he said:
there was a problem with the gearbox from the outset
other issues with the car were not fixed in April/May 2018
he was never advised he could purchase an extended warranty
Blue Motor acted unprofessionally in advising the supplying dealership not to 
entertain any complaint from him
he hasnt had sight of the inspection reports carried out in April/May 2018 in respect 
of the gearbox
he had incurred delivery and pick up costs
he had been overcharged for the alloy wheel refurbishment
The investigator considered Mr As response to his view but wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. Therefore the complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr A has very strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided detailed 
submissions in support of his view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr A will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
I would also like to point out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I make my decision on the balance of probabilities - that is, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened given the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
extended warranty
Mr A says he was never advised by the supplying dealership that he could buy an extended 
warranty. But in my view this isnt something that I could fairly or reasonably hold Blue Motor 
liable for under our rules. However, as pointed out be the investigator, this might be 
something that Mr A can refer to the motor ombudsman.
Therefore I dont uphold this aspect of Mr As complaint.
Blue Motor advising the supplying dealership not to entertain any complaint from Mr A
I accept that the supplying dealership said to Mr A that Blue Motor had told it not to 
entertain any of the cosmetic issues and not to offer any contribution [towards these 
cosmetic issues] But this isnt the same as saying it shouldnt entertain any complaint 
from Mr A. 
But even had Blue Motor done so, and for the avoidance of doubt I make no finding on this 
point, I cant see that this has, in itself, caused Mr A any prejudice or financial loss. 
Therefore I dont uphold this aspect of Mr As complaint.
alloy wheel refurbishment
Mr A says that he was advised by the supplying dealership that it would arrange for all four 
alloy wheels to be refurbished at a cost of £140 (a 50% reduction on the normal price). But 
on reflection he doesnt think the normal price was £280.
Now I accept I cant say for certain what the normal price for refurbishing Mr As four alloy 
wheels would have been, but Ive seen no evidence that persuades me it wasnt at, or in the 
region of, £280. Im also not persuaded that it was necessary for the supplying dealership to offer anything by 
way of a discount on the refurbishment given that Ive seen nothing to persuade me that the 
condition of the alloys, bearing in mind the cars age and mileage, was beyond what would 
have been expected.
Therefore I dont uphold this aspect of Mr As complaint.
other issues  excluding the gearbox/brakes/tyres
Mr A says there were a number of issues that were not fixed in April/May 2018. But given 
that Mr A asked for his complaint in this respect to be closed in May 2018 Im satisfied, on 
the balance of probabilities, that these issues were either fixed by the supplying dealership 
or accepted by Mr A as either not being present or simply commensurate with the age and 
mileage of the car. 
Therefore I dont uphold this aspect of Mr s complaint.
brakes/tyres
I appreciate that Mr A says he was required to replace two tyres and two brake discs shortly 
after taking acquisition of the car. But given that the car had passed an MOT shortly before 
Mr A acquired it, and how long after acquiring it that Mr A had the brake discs replaced, Im 
satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that these items simply needed replacing because 
of wear and tear. 
Therefore I dont uphold this aspect of Mr As complaint.
gearbox
Mr A says he should be compensated for the failed gearbox because it was faulty at the time 
he acquired the car making the car of unsatisfactory quality. And his submission in this 
respect is supported by how quickly he complained about the gearbox to both Blue Motor 
and the supplying dealership.
Now I accept that Mr A complained about issues he believed he was experiencing with the 
gearbox very shortly after acquiring the car. But this needs to be balanced against the fact 
that the supplying dealership was unable to find any fault with it in April/May 2018. And that 
Mr A appears to have accepted this and didnt raise the same concern again until over a 
year later and after he had travelled a further 10,000 miles or so. 
Therefore I dont uphold this aspect of Mr s complaint.
I would also add that Ive also not seen the reports Mr A has requested sight of. But for the 
avoidance of doubt Ive not placed any weight on these reports in concluding that this aspect 
of Mr As complaint shouldnt be upheld.
other
I accept that Mr A might have incurred costs whilst the car was with the supplying dealership 
in April/May 2018. But taking everything into account, including that Im satisfied that the 
supplying dealership contributed at least something towards the alloy wheel refurbishment 
which in my view it didnt need to and given that the supplying dealership says it incurred 
some diagnostic costs, Im not persuaded it would be either fair or reasonable to make an 
award in Mr As favour in this respect.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. However, I would remind Blue Motor 
Finance Ltd of its obligations to treat Mr A positively and sympathetically if he is now in 
financial difficulties.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman