DRN-3081908
The complaint
Mr E complains that Vanquis Bank Limited irresponsibly increased the credit limit on his 
credit card account to unaffordable levels.
What happened
Mr E says he opened the Vanquis account in 2018 and accepts the initial lending decision 
was appropriate and not unaffordable. But he says the credit limit increases over £1,000 
were unaffordable and irresponsible. Mr E would like interest charged over that limit 
refunded and interest paid on that refund to him at 8%. He says Vanquis didnt carry out 
appropriate checks before increasing the credit limit and says it mis-calculated or didnt take 
into account all of his debts.
Vanquis says it did carry out appropriate checks on the credit limit increases and says Mr E 
was in employment with a good credit history. It says it carried out checks on his debts at the 
time of the credit limit increases which were within its lending policy. Vanquis says Mr E 
managed his account appropriately throughout.
Mr E brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Vanquis had carried out appropriate checks on the credit limit increases and didnt 
think there was any adverse information on Mr Es credit file. The investigator also thought 
Mr E managed his account appropriately and that Vanquis did calculate Mr Es external debt. 
She thought Vanquis asked Mr E to complete income and expenditure forms for the last two 
increases and that it could only consider the information available to it about Mr Es debt.
Mr E doesnt accept that view and says some of the payments he made were due to 
additional borrowing and says Vanquis didnt carry out appropriate checks as it would have 
seen his debt was higher than it calculated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr E will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
lending or credit application as well as on any subsequent credit limit increases. Those 
checks will of course vary depending on the type and amount of the lending. This was a 
credit facility rather than for example a mortgage and so I wouldnt have expected Vanquiss 
checks to have been as detailed as for that type of lending.
There is no dispute here that the original lending was affordable. I can see that Mr E was in 
employment and that his salary increased from the time the account opened until the last 
credit limit increase from about £16,500 to more than £20,000. I can also see from Vanquiss 
records that it did carry out detailed affordability checks before the credit limit increases and 
that it was entitled to consider the lack of any adverse information on Mr Es credit file as 
well as what I think was appropriate account management by Mr E throughout the time 
period.
So, Im satisfied that Vanquis carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on each of 
the credit limit increases and that there wasnt anything it could have known that would have 
suggested the lending was unaffordable. I dont think Vanquis could reasonably have known 
the source of Mr Es money when for example he repaid a large part of his debt which he 
says was from an inheritance 
I appreciate Mr E says Vanquis didnt calculate his external debt correctly and that it didnt 
consider some of his debts. But I have made clear that I find Vanquis did carry out checks 
and that it cant take into account matters that it has no knowledge of. I cant fairly hold 
Vanquis responsible for any debt not recorded by the Credit Reference Agencies it uses to 
assess affordability. And I also think that Mr E could have rejected the credit limit increases if 
he wished as he was aware of the true position of his debts.
Overall, Im satisfied that Vanquis did carry out appropriate checks before increasing Mr Es 
credit limit and was fairly entitled to consider the factors it did in deciding those increases 
were affordable. For those reasons I cant fairly order Vanquis refund any interest as Mr E 
would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman