DRN-2930181
The complaint
Mr Q complains Everyday Lending Limited trading as Trusttwo irresponsibly approved him 
for a loan.
Mr Q is represented by a claims management company. For ease Ill refer to all submissions 
as if they were made directly by him.
What happened
Trusttwo approved Mr Q for a £6,000 in April 2018. The term of the loan was 48 months; 
with repayments of approximately £255. Mr Q says the loan was irresponsibly lent; as 
Trusttwo did not complete reasonable and proportionate checks. He says had Trusttwo done 
this it wouldve seen the loan was unaffordable to him and not approved it. 
Our investigator considered Mr Qs complaint but did not recommend it be upheld. She felt 
Trusttwo had completed reasonable and proportionate checks; and it had made a fair 
decision to lend. In coming to this conclusion she said:
Trusttwo had verified Mr Qs income via payslips and a third party online tool;
Mr Q had explained this loan was consolidating his existing debts. Trusttwo had 
searched Mr Qs credit file and confirmed details of his existing debts; and was 
entitled to rely on this information;
When taking the above into consideration; the checks showed Mr Q would likely be 
able to afford the loan whilst consolidating his existing debts.
Mr Q disagreed. He remained of the view that Trusttwo shouldve completed further checks; 
and had it done so it wouldve seen he was spending large amounts of money on gambling. 
He says the loan was unaffordable and Trusttwos decision to lend was unfair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.   
Trusttwo needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly lent to Mr Q. The relevant 
rules, regulations and guidance at the time Trusttwo lent required it to carry out reasonable 
and proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess Mr Qs ability to afford the loan 
and repay it sustainably over its term without causing him financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers circumstances. 
I agree with our investigator that in this instance Trusttwo completed proportionate checks. 
Mr Q declared that this application was for debt consolidation; including an existing high cost 
guarantor loan. Trusttwo sought to verify Mr Qs income via copies of his payslips; and using 
a third party online tool to verify this amount. It also completed a search of Mr Qs credit file; 
and established Mr Qs existing credit commitments; including the debts he was seeking to 
consolidate. It also asked Mr Q to provide information about his other regular outgoings and 
spending. 
The checks Trusttwo demonstrated that Mr Q earnt between £1,300 and £1,400 monthly. 
Trusttwo used the lower figure to conduct Mr Qs affordability assessment. 
The search of Mr Qs credit file showed that his total existing credit balance was around 
£5,300. This was made up largely with an existing guarantor loan that he was looking to 
consolidate with the Trusttwo loan. The credit search did show that Mr Q had issues 
managing his credit in the past (but necessarily recently); and that he had some existing 
defaults. The amounts being paid towards these were nominal; and the Trusttwo loan was 
also being used to consolidate some if not all of these. 
Trusttwo also took details of Mr Qs other expenses; including his living costs. Mr Q declared 
he was living at home with family; and not paying rent or mortgage. 
Considering that these checks gave Trusttwo a good understanding of Mr Qs financial 
circumstances (and importantly included verification of his income and a good awareness of 
the debt he was seeking to consolidate); Im satisfied the checks were proportionate in this 
instance. 
Based on the information that Trusttwo gathered Im also satisfied that it made a fair decision 
to lend in this instance.
Trusttwos calculations show that after taking into consideration the consolidation that Mr Q 
was seeking to complete; he would be left with sufficient disposable income to meet this 
commitment sustainably. Im satisfied that Trusttwo was entitled to rely on the information   
Mr Q provided; and the fact that he was intending to use this loan to consolidate his existing 
debts. I also note that the loan which Trusttwo was providing had a likely lower interest rate 
than that of the existing guarantor loan Mr Q had. So it was providing a loan that appeared 
affordable to him; and at better rates. Considering this; Im persuaded in this instance that 
Trusttwo made a fair decision to lend. 
Mr Q says his outgoings were higher than those declared; and this was because he was 
gambling. Whilst Ive no reason to doubt Mr Q; Ive explained above that Im satisfied the 
checks Trusttwo completed in this instance were proportionate; and importantly they did not 
show signs that Mr Qs declared information was incorrect or unreliable. This means Im 
satisfied it did not need to get further information from him before proceeding to agree the 
loan. Ive also not been provided information from Mr Q which demonstrates that he made 
Trusttwo aware his outgoings were higher than those he mentioned. Trusttwo is entitled to 
rely on the information which was provided by Mr Q. And for the reasons Ive set out above 
Im satisfied that in this instance Trusttwo made a fair decision to lend.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Everyday Lending Limited trading as Trusttwo. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman