The complaint
Mrs B and Mr Z complain they had difficulties getting in touch with 
Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) when Mr Z fell ill abroad. And they say this caused 
them distress. 
Mrs B brings the complaint on behalf of herself and Mr Z, so Ill refer to all submissions as 
having been made by her. 
What happened
Mr Z held a travel insurance policy with URV. And Mrs B is insured under the same policy. 
Mrs B and Mr Z travelled abroad with their family, and while they were away, Mr Z became 
unwell with shivers, aches and his hands and feet turning blue. Mrs B said she tried to get in 
contact with URV by calling its emergency assistance helpline, but couldnt get through. She 
sent a message to URV via its website, but didnt receive a response until three days later, 
which was when they were travelling home. 
Mrs B said Mr Z was taken to hospital where he underwent blood tests, but no cause for his 
symptoms was identified. She said he was recommended to return to his holiday 
accommodation and to rest. 
Mrs B complained about the lack of support shed received from URV while on holiday. She 
said being unable to get in touch with her insurer was very distressing as she had to seek 
medical treatment for Mr Z abroad. 
URV apologised to Mrs B and Mr Z for the poor service theyd received. It said its helpline 
had been extremely busy due to the summer holiday season. And it offered to pay Mrs B 
and Mr Z £100 to recognise the distress and inconvenience that had been caused. URV also 
invited them to make a claim for any medical expenses they had incurred, and sent them a 
claim form.
Unhappy with URVs response, Mrs B brought the complaint to this service. She said the 
£100 URV had paid wasnt enough to recognise the distress she and Mr Z had been caused. 
An investigator here looked into what had happened. He said he thought it would have been 
stressful for Mrs B and Mr Z to have been unable to access support from URV when Mr Z 
was unwell abroad. However, he thought URV had done enough to put things right. 
URV didnt respond to the investigators view. Mrs B said she didnt agree. She said it had 
been a very stressful experience, and didnt think £100 was enough to recognise this. She 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. And so the case has been passed to me.
DRN-1595239What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the information URV and Mrs B have provided, Im unable to determine exactly 
why Mrs B was unable to get through to URV when she called. URV said there were no 
technical faults with its line at the time. However, it has also said it was experiencing a high 
volume of consumer contacts when Mrs B was trying to get in touch. So it seems most likely 
that this was the reason for the problem in making contact by phone. 
Mrs B sent a message to URV via its website, after being unable to get through on the 
phone. And based on the information she gave in the message, I think its reasonable to 
expect URV should have attempted to contact her or Mr Z within a day or so of receiving the 
email, to find out if they needed any support. 
URV acknowledged it didnt provide an acceptable level of service to Mrs B and Mr Z. It 
apologised and paid them £100 in compensation. And I think thats enough to put things 
right. I say this because the difficulties getting in touch with URV didnt prevent Mr Z 
receiving medical attention. I appreciate being unable to speak to URV must have been 
distressing at what would already have been a difficult time, in terms of falling ill abroad. 
However, I think once Mr Z was assessed in hospital, this distress wouldn't have prolonged. 
I would think differently if Mr Z had been in a critical condition, but in the circumstances of 
this case, I think £100 is a reasonable amount of compensation. 
My final decision
Im aware that Union Reiseversicherung AG has made an offer to pay £100. I conclude that 
such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So my decision is that 
Union Reiseversicherung AG should pay Mrs B and Mr Z £100 if it already hasnt done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman