DRN-2898969
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the service he received from UK Insurance Limited, trading as 
NIG Insurance, (UKI), during a claim he made for damage to his van.
What happened
Mr B bought a commercial motor insurance policy, for a van, with UKI in August 2020. In 
January 2021 Mr B made an adjustment to the policy because he realised hed inadvertently 
insured the wrong van. The correct van was placed on cover at this point.
A few days after this, Mr B made a claim with UKI because his van had been damaged by an 
infestation of rodents. He discovered this because the van had been losing power, so he 
took it to a garage.
UKI initially declined the claim because it said the damage predated the van being placed on 
cover in January 2021. But it later reconsidered its decision and agreed to settle the claim as 
a total loss. The amount paid in settlement of the claim isnt in dispute.
Mr B is unhappy with the time it took for his claim to be accepted, and with the general 
service he received. He says he was without his van for six weeks and so needed to use an 
alternative vehicle with a higher fuel cost. He complained to UKI about this and it paid him 
£100 compensation. But Mr B doesnt feel this is sufficient. To resolve things, he wants UKI 
to reimburse the excess fee he paid.
One of our investigators considered Mr Bs complaint. She said Mr B would have always 
been without the van because it was a total loss. She also said that some of the delays were 
caused by COVID restrictions and so unavoidable. Ultimately, she thought the decision to 
settle the claim, coupled with the £100 compensation was enough to fairly resolve the 
complaint.
Mr B didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, because no agreement has been reached, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Mr B has complained about the length of time UKI took to accept and settle his claim. UKI 
has accepted responsibility for some of this and has paid £100 compensation. So, what I 
need to decide is whether this amount is sufficient to fairly compensate Mr B for the impact 
of the issues which were solely caused by UKI.
I should first explain that I think UKIs initial decision to decline the claim was reasonable, 
based on the information immediately available. This is because the date that Mr Bs correct 
van was placed on cover was so near to the date of the claim, and the engineers opinion 
was that the damage was clearly older than this. 
Ive thought about Mr Bs concerns that the engineer didnt carry out an in-person inspection. 
But desk-top assessments arent particularly unusual. Especially in light of the situation with 
COVID at the time. In the circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for the engineer 
to carry out a desk-top inspection in this case. 
Following Mr Bs complaint, UKI referred information to its underwriting department, and 
reached the decision to accept and settle Mr Bs claim. This was because it accepted that 
Mr B had made a genuine mistake insuring the wrong van, which meant he had intended to 
have the correct van on cover since August 2020. I think the position UKI reached here was 
fair and reasonable, taking into account the specific circumstances of this case.
Mr Bs concerns with the overall service are that he had to chase UKI to progress the claim 
and that UKIs communication was poor. Hes also unhappy that he was without his van for 
six weeks which meant he had to pay higher fuel costs to get around in his 4x4.
UKI has argued that Mr B was working from home at the time, and so would have been 
using the van  or his 4x4  less than he would have ordinarily been. UKI accepts the level 
of service it provided during the claim wasnt as good as it ought to have been and has 
offered £100 compensation. But Mr B wants it to waive the £400 excess he was charged.
Ive thought carefully about everything both sides have said and provided about this point. 
Its important to note that, in the event of a successful claim, Mr B is contracted to pay the 
excess under the terms of the policy, so I wont be directing UKI to waive or refund the 
excess. Instead, as Ive already mentioned, Ill be deciding whether the £100 compensation 
is enough to fairly reflect the impact of the issues which UKI is solely responsible.
Mr B was without his van for six weeks. But this doesnt mean that UKI caused six weeks 
worth of delays. The claim would have always taken some time to be validated, assessed 
and settled  which isnt unreasonable. The issue with the wrong van being insured clearly 
contributed to the time this took too  which isnt UKIs fault either. And ultimately, the van 
was declared a total loss, which means there would always have been a period of time 
where Mr B was without his van and needing to use a separate vehicle.
Looking at everything that happened, UKI accepted and settled the claim in just over one 
month. So, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that it caused significant delays. However, 
I can see that Mr B needed to chase UKI for updates on the progress of his claim, which I 
agree would be frustrating.
Taking everything into account, I think the £100 UKI has offered is enough to fairly reflect the 
impact of the errors which it is solely responsible for. So, Im not directing it to pay anything 
more than it has already offered to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
UK Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that UK Insurance Limited should pay £100.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman