DRN-1647150
The complaint
Mrs F has complained about the standard of repairs carried out when she made a claim 
under her car insurance policy with Aviva Insurance Limited. 
What happened
In September 2019 Mrs Fs car was damaged in an incident and she made a claim to her 
insurer, Aviva. Aviva instructed an engineer to inspect the damage to Mrs Fs car and repairs 
were carried out.
 
Mrs F made a series of complaints to Aviva about the repairs. Her car was returned for 
rectification works a number of times. 
In December 2019 Mrs F noticed a knocking sound coming from the front of the car when 
driving. The problem was investigated by a dealership garage. They reported that the drive 
shaft was loose, and the gearbox would need to be removed and stripped down to inspect 
further. The dealership garage reported that it suspected the gearbox had been removed 
previously.
In January 2020 Avivas engineer test drove Mrs Fs car and identified the knocking noise. 
He researched the fault and said that it was a known issue with cars like Mrs Fs. He didnt 
think it was incident related. 
Aviva said it wouldnt pay for the costs to have the gearbox removed. However, if the 
problem was shown to be incident related damage, it would consider the matter again. It 
upheld Mrs Fs complaint about the poor service she received relating to repairs and 
rectification repairs. For the distress and inconvenience caused by not having a replacement 
car and the poor repairs, Aviva paid Mrs F total compensation of £400. 
Aviva established with the garages it used for the repairs that neither removed the gearbox 
as it wasnt necessary. 
Mrs F advised that her preferred garage had carried out repairs to replace the clutch and 
dual mass flywheel in August 2019. The mechanic told her there were no issues with the 
work theyd done. He was of the view that the damage was impact related from the incident. 
Our investigator discussed the dealership garages report with them. They told him that its 
more likely that the issue arose from the gearbox being removed and not reinstalled 
properly. They thought if the drive shaft had been removed and put back, but the bolts 
werent tight enough, they could come loose over time. The dealership garage thought the 
incident might have caused the bolts to loosen more, which had led to the problem.
So on balance, the investigator thought Aviva hadnt acted unreasonably by not agreeing to 
cover the costs to have the gearbox removed and stripped. 
Mrs F didnt agree. She trusts her preferred mechanic who she has used for years and never 
had a problem with. She had numerous problems with the repairs carried out by Avivas 
approved repairers. She said her car was running fine before the incident. 
So Mrs F wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained, we are not mechanics. But we can look at all of the available 
evidence and decide if Aviva has treated Mrs F fairly and dealt with her complaint in a 
reasonable way. 
Theres no dispute that the service Mrs F received from Avivas approved repairer was very 
poor. Having to go back and forth on a number of occasions to have her car repaired has no 
doubt caused much inconvenience, time and trouble for Mrs F. Aviva accepts that it failed to 
provide the level of service Mrs F should expect. For this its paid a total of £400 
compensation which I think is reasonable and in line with awards we give in similar cases.
The remaining issue is whether Avivas decision not to cover the costs to investigate the 
knocking sound is reasonable. 
I know Mrs F feels the dealership garage isnt in a place to offer a diagnosis. I dont think it 
has. Until the gearbox is removed and stripped, a diagnosis isnt available. So until then, we 
have the opinion of Mrs Fs garage, the dealership garage and Avivas engineer. 
Theres nothing to suggest that the opinion offered by the dealership garage isnt an 
independent one. I understand Mrs F asked the investigator to contact another dealership 
garage that operated further away. But I think its fair to give consideration to their view along 
with the views of Mrs Fs mechanic and Avivas engineer  as all three have inspected Mrs 
Fs car for the knocking problem. Based on all of the information available, there are two 
professional opinions that the knocking noise isnt likely to be related to the incident, and 
more likely to be related to the repairs carried out in August 2019. One other professional 
opinion is from the mechanic who carried out the repairs in August 2019. So I think on 
balance Avivas decision not to agree to cover the costs to investigate the knocking problem 
was fair and reasonable. 
However, if Mrs F obtains a report of equal weight which clearly shows that the knocking 
noise is due to incident related damage, Id expect Aviva to meet both the costs of the 
repairs and the costs of the report. And given the previous poor service, Id expect Aviva to 
ensure Mrs F had a replacement car for the duration of any further incident related repairs. 
Mrs F has new issues of concern about her car. She will need to raise these new issues with 
Aviva as they dont form part of the complaint Im deciding on here. 
I understand Mrs F will be very disappointed with my decision. But I dont think theres 
enough evidence to say that Aviva needs to pay for the costs to investigate the knocking 
noise as incident related damage. So I think Aviva has dealt with Mrs Fs complaint in a 
reasonable way. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman