DRN-2336794
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that his property was damaged by an escape of water after British Gas 
Insurance Limited (BG) attended to a repair.
 
What happened
Mr P had Landlords home emergency cover with BG. He booked an appointment for BG to 
attend to a hot water fault. After three failed appointments, BG investigated the problem and 
ordered parts for the immersion heater.
The tenants went on holiday and when Mr P checked on the property around 10 days later, 
he found water had leaked from the boiler damaging his property. Mr P reported the damage 
to BG, which attended to the leak and completed the immersion heater repair.
Mr P complained that BG mustve caused the leak when it first attended, and he asked it to 
cover the damage. He also complained about the missed appointments and poor service 
hed received over the phone. BG paid Mr P £30 for one missed appointment and 
apologised for the poor service. However, its engineers hadnt done anything other than 
photograph the immersion elements so that it could order the parts. It refused to cover the 
damage caused by the leak.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ps complaint. He thought that as BG reported tightening the 
connections around the tank, it was more likely than not that the leak was caused by its 
actions. Our investigator proposed that BG should reimburse Mr P for the reinstatement 
works following the leak, plus 8% simple interest. He also thought BG should pay Mr P £50 
compensation for the poor service he received.
 
BG didnt agree. It said no tightening of components was logged for the first appointment 
and the notes related to the appointment after Mr P reported the leak. BG didnt think there 
was any evidence that its engineer had caused a leak.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill 
explain.
Firstly, there are two customer service issues  three failed appointments and Mr Ps 
complaint about the way BG handled a phone call. BGs job records show that there was no 
answer when it attended the first appointment; it failed to record the second appointment 
properly and missed it, and Mr P rescheduled the third appointment. I have no reason to 
doubt the accuracy of the records BG made at the time of the events. So, for that reason I 
think BG was at fault for one missed appointment. It has already paid Mr P £30 by way of 
apology for failing to attend and I think thats fair in the circumstances.
BG also apologised to Mr P for his dissatisfaction with the way it handled his call but made 
no further mention of it. Our investigator proposed a payment of £50 by way of apology for 
the service shortfall. Again, I think its a fair sum to address this issue and Im satisfied that 
its warranted.
Moving on to the main issue of complaint, Mr P thinks BGs engineer did something to his 
boiler which resulted in a leak. BG doesnt think theres any evidence of that. This is a 
difficult matter to prove either way. Its not possible or fair to ask BG to prove it didnt cause 
the leak; equally, its not possible for Mr P to prove it did. So, Ive looked at the evidence 
available and reached my decision based on the balance of probability  whats most likely 
to have happened.
When BG inspected the boiler, it said the immersion heater cover had already been removed 
and it just took photos of the parts it needed to order. Mr P says the engineer removed the 
cover. I dont think this point really matters, but Im inclined to think BGs account is accurate. 
Thats because Mr P wasnt at the appointment, so he relied on his letting agents version of 
events. I think its entirely possible that the letting agent wouldnt have placed any 
importance on whether the cover was already off. Also, I understand that Mr P had let BG 
know which parts he thought he needed after running through troubleshooting steps with his 
tenants. So, I think theres a good chance someone (perhaps the tenant) removed the cover 
beforehand in order to find out that information. But, as I said, I dont think its particularly 
relevant here. Thats because its evident BG inspected the immersion heater without the 
cover on anyway.
Ive looked at the notes BG provided for the first visit, which say:
Fault - Carried over fromwhich was attended on 
Previous job engineer notes:
boiler not heating up suspeted (sic) emersion heat broken pictures sent
Original job notes:
No hot water at all in the property, missed appointment recently for the same issue which the 
customer was not happy with.
Repair - Plumbing - retightened all connections around tank no leaks.
BG says the final note isnt about that first appointment. However, as it didnt attend any 
before this one, and the next appointment was to attend to the reported leak as well as 
replace the broken parts mentioned in this note, I cant see what other appointment it would 
relate to. Ive already said, when addressing the issue of missed appointments, that I have 
no reason to doubt the accuracy of BGs notes. So, I see no reason to doubt them on this 
occasion, especially as logic suggests that the note cant be for a different appointment. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that BGs engineer tightened the connections on the tank during the 
appointment before the leak was noticed.
The next time Mr P went to his property, it had been damaged by water leaking from the 
system. He says the engineer was the last person to touch the system and BG says its 
engineer didnt do anything to the system that mightve caused a leak. I think its unlikely Mr 
P wouldve done anything to the system after the engineer left. I see no benefit in doing that. 
Ive thought more about part of the note from the appointment:retightened all connections around tank no leaks. 
This indicates to me that the engineer thought it was worth checking there were no leaks 
after tightening the connections, meaning its possible that doing so could cause a leak. So, 
on balance, I think its more likely that something the engineer did  probably when 
tightening the connections - caused a knock-on effect which started a leak. I think thats 
more likely to have happened than the timing of the leak being entirely coincidental.
As Ive decided that its more likely something BGs engineer did that resulted in the system 
leaking and damaging Mr Ps property, I think its fair for BG to reimburse Mr P for the 
reinstatement cost, plus 8% simple interest. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and British Gas 
Insurance Limited must:
pay Mr P £50 by way of apology for the service shortfall he experienced during his 
call with the business;
reimburse Mr P for the reinstatement cost incurred following the leak from his 
immersion heater, and
pay interest* on the reinstatement cost from the date that Mr P paid for the repairs to 
the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
*If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr P a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman