DRN-2614386
The complaint
Ms R complains that Mortgages Plc hasnt treated her fairly following the repossession of her 
property. And she complains about the sale of the mortgage and the valuation of the 
property.
What happened
Ms R took out an interest only mortgage in 2006 with Mortgages Plc. She was re-mortgaging 
from another lender, and did so on the advice of a broker. She says the mortgage was 
mis-sold because it was lent on the basis of her salary, even though she was caring for her 
family and not working at the time. And she says the broker inflated the property valuation to 
increase the mortgage balance. She says Mortgages Plc should have picked this up at the 
time but it failed to carry out its own valuation.
Shortly after the mortgage was taken out, Ms R says she suffered family bereavements and 
she was unable to work. The mortgage fell into arrears and Mortgages Plc obtained a 
suspended possession order.
Eventually, Ms R says she decided she couldnt go on and handed the property over to 
Mortgages Plc in 2017. Over a year later, Mortgages Plc got in touch to demand she pay a 
£96,000 shortfall in the mortgage balance following the sale of the property. 
Ms R says Mortgages Plc didnt sell the property for the best price. The stress of everything 
thats happened, including its attempts to collect the shortfall, has had a serious impact on 
her health. 
Ms R says shes now found another job, but her employer is some distance from where she 
lives so she needs a car to get to work. But she cant get car finance because of markers 
Mortgages Plc has left on her credit file. She has explained her situation to other creditors, 
who have agreed to remove their markers from her credit file  but Mortgages Plc wont. Ms 
R is concerned that without a car she will lose her job when she has to return to the office 
after lockdown. She says Mortgages Plc only recorded the default on her credit file in 2020, 
despite the mortgage ending in 2017.
Mortgages Plc didnt agree the mortgage was mis-sold. It said it was sold by a broker  
which was therefore responsible for the sale. It said Ms R applied for a self-certification 
mortgage of £152,000, which was affordable on her declared income of £55,000. It said it 
appointed an independent surveyor to value the property. It said the property sold with a 
significant shortfall, which it was entitled to try and collect. It had tried to contact Ms R 
between 2018 and 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage was sold by a broker, on a self-certification basis. This means that the broker 
is responsible for the sale. But Mortgages Plc was required to lend responsibly. At the time, 
self-certification mortgages  in which the borrower doesnt provide any evidence of income 
 were permitted. In lending on this basis, a lender was entitled to rely on what they were 
told unless there was a reason to question it.
The application form describes Ms R as a self-employed solicitor earning £55,000. Thats not 
implausible. Ms R signed the form to confirm her income. Mortgages Plc were entitled to rely 
on what she said, and the mortgage balance  including fees, around £160,000  appeared 
affordable based on Ms Rs declared income. Theres nothing on the form to suggest that 
she wasnt actually working at the time, and if the lender was misled that might be something 
to take up with the broker. In fact, Ms R has written on the application form that while she 
had previously taken time off work following her fathers death in December 2005 to care for 
her mother, I am now working to my full potential and can meet my financial commitments. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Mortgages Plc to have relied on this.
While Ms Rs application does show that she had had financial problems in the past, she has 
explained those on the application form and this mortgage was aimed at borrowers with past 
financial problems. 
Ive seen the valuation report from when the mortgage was lent. Although it has a Mortgages 
Plc heading, the valuation was carried out by an independent qualified surveyor. Its not 
uncommon for valuations to have the heading of the instructed lender on the document, in 
my experience. The valuation shows that the surveyor was qualified and a member of the 
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS), as Id expect. He said that the property 
represented good security for the loan, and was worth £190,000.
Ms R disputes the accuracy of the valuation, and says that the comparable properties the 
valuer used werent genuinely comparable. And the valuation was much higher than the 
price she originally paid for the property a few years earlier, again suggesting it must be 
wrong. Its not possible now for me to check the accuracy of the valuation fifteen years ago, 
and in any case I dont think the evidence of current property prices Ms R has provided is 
relevant to prices at the time. Im satisfied that Mortgages Plc instructed an independent 
qualified surveyor and it was reasonable to rely on his opinion. 
Although Ms R borrowed around £150,000, by the time the loan came to be redeemed in 
2018 the balance was £235,000. I havent seen a full transaction history for the whole life of 
the loan, but the balance went up from £200,000 in 2014 because of additional interest on 
missed payments, legal and other fees, and the costs of selling the property.
The property was sold for £140,000 and the loan balance at that point was £236,000, leaving 
a shortfall of £96,000.
Ms R says that it cant be right that the property was sold in 2018 for less than it was valued 
for in 2007  even though she carried out various home improvements in the meantime. 
When a property is taken into possession, interest continues to be charged until the property 
is sold. A lender has an obligation to sell a property for the best price  but also to sell it 
promptly to stop the debt increasing. Theres therefore a balance to be struck; the lender 
should get the best price, but not hold out for a high price unreasonably.
In marketing a property in possession, the lender should get at least two valuations  one 
from a surveyor and one from a local estate agent  and market the property at the price 
advised.
In this case, Mortgages Plc received the following valuations: £135,000 with an asking price of £140,000 from a local estate agent;
£135,000 with an asking price of £137,500 from a surveyor; and
£133,333 with an asking price of £140,000 from another estate agent
Im therefore satisfied that Mortgages Plc obtained the independent valuations it was 
required to do. And in marketing the property at £140,000, it followed their advice.
Ive looked at the history of the sale. I can see that the property sold for £140,000  but there 
were at least two offers received before the eventual purchasers offer. Both these earlier 
buyers pulled out, at least one doing so following adverse advice on their survey. There were 
several other offers below the asking price which Mortgages Plc rejected. Im satisfied 
Mortgages Plc sold the property for the best price it could get in the circumstances. 
Mortgages Plcs contact notes show that, following the sale of the property, it spoke to Ms R 
several times before sending the letter in 2020 which prompted this complaint. In June 2018, 
Ms R gave it her new address and updated Mortgages Plc on her situation. In November 
2018, she offered to pay £100 per month to the shortfall. Mortgages Plc attempted to contact 
her several times in 2019 before sending out a letter in 2020. Ms R was therefore aware of 
the shortfall outstanding.
Ms R says that Mortgages Plc only recently recorded a default on her credit file. Mortgages 
Plc says it reported the default at the time. Ms R hasnt given us a copy of her credit file 
showing a default reported in 2020 by Mortgages Plc. And she told our investigator during a 
phone conversation that when she checked her credit file, it showed a default in 2017 not in 
2020. She said she hadnt seen it there before so it must have been added retrospectively.
I think its likely Ms R is mistaken about that. When she checked her credit file in 
conversation with our investigator, it showed a default recorded in 2017. Mortgages Plc says 
thats when it recorded the default. So I think thats what happened. Ive seen no evidence of 
it recording a default at a later date and then later amending it.
Ms R also says that Mortgages Plc shouldnt record a default at all. She says it defaulted the 
loan when it took her to court in around 2012. And legally it cant default the same debt twice 
without the permission of the courts.
I dont think thats what happened. Ive seen no evidence of a default recorded on Ms Rs 
credit file in 2012, or at any point before 2017, by Mortgages Plc.
Mortgages arent like unsecured personal loans or credit cards. A court order for possession, 
or a money judgment for payment of the debt, doesnt trigger a formal default recorded on a 
credit file. Nor does the sending of a letter warning of a default or of impending court 
proceedings.
In 2012, the court made a suspended possession order. That didnt bring the mortgage to an 
end  it expressly allowed it to continue, as long as Ms R made the payments set out in the 
order. That is not an event which entitled Mortgages Plc to record a default on Ms Rs credit 
file, and Ive seen no evidence that it did so. And mortgage possession is exempt from being 
recorded in the register of County Court judgments  so it wouldnt show as a CCJ on her 
credit file either.
Whats supposed to happen is that the default is recorded when the property is taken into 
possession. And then when the property is sold, the default is recorded as satisfied  if 
(unlike this case) the property sale is enough to clear the mortgage.
I dont agree with Ms R that the fact that the shortfall debt remains unresolved means that Mortgages Plc shouldnt yet record anything on her credit file. It accurately recorded that her 
mortgage defaulted with a shortfall in 2017. If it takes further action to recover the shortfall 
debt in the future, that may also be recorded  for example if it returns to court to recover the 
debt and obtains a CCJ.
Therefore Im satisfied that it was correct for Mortgages Plc to record that Ms Rs mortgage 
defaulted in 2017, and that a £96,000 shortfall resulted.
Credit files need to be an accurate record of someones credit history. This protects future 
lenders by ensuring they can make fully informed lending decisions. And it protects 
borrowers from taking on further debts that might be a problem. Removing a default thats 
accurately recorded puts future lenders in the position of making lending decisions without 
full information.
I do understand Ms Rs concerns. The impact of being refused car finance is, she says, very 
severe for her. Im sympathetic to that. I havent seen the lending decision the car finance 
company made  but to the extent it took into account the mortgage default in making that 
decision, that doesnt mean it was unfair for Mortgages Plc to have recorded the default. 
Rather, it meant Ms Rs credit file worked as it should  with future creditors being fully 
aware of her past credit history. Its unfortunate that this means that, so far, she hasnt been 
able to find car finance. Im sorry to hear of the impact this will have on her, and I hope shes 
able to find another way of buying a car or travelling to work. But I dont think it was unfair for 
Mortgages Plc to record the default, and I cant fairly ask for it to be removed as its an 
accurate representation of what happened with her mortgage.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman