DRN-4340297
The complaint
Mrs K complains about the service she received from One Insurance Limited after she made 
a claim under her home emergency policy.
One Insurance is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint 
concerns the actions of its agent. As One Insurance has accepted it is accountable for the 
actions of the agent, in my decision, any reference to One Insurance includes the actions of 
the agent.
 
What happened
In December 2022, Mrs K contacted One Insurance because her boiler wasnt working, 
resulting in a loss of hot water and heating. An engineer attended the following day and 
found that the boiler had low pressure. 
The engineer managed to get the boiler working again after topping up the pressure. He also 
cleaned the condensate pipe, which had been blocked. 
Two days later, Mrs K called One Insurance and said the boiler had stopped working again. 
One Insurance said it would contact the engineer who had previously attended and would 
get back in touch with her. However, Mrs K says she didnt hear back from One Insurance. 
In the meantime, she arranged for her boiler to be replaced.
Mrs K raised a complaint with One Insurance who said the engineer had confirmed that as 
the pressure had dropped so quickly, it would indicate a leak, which was an exclusion in her 
home emergency policy. It said that due to this, its agent had informed Mrs K she would 
need to contact her home insurance to investigate and repair.
Mrs K remained unhappy and asked our service to consider the matter. Our investigator 
thought Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld. He thought One Insurance should have 
arranged for a second engineer to visit Mrs Ks property as the policy had unlimited call outs. 
He recommended it pay Mrs K £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
One Insurance didnt accept our investigators recommendation. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
The policys terms and conditions say:
We will pay a combined total of £750.00 (including VAT) for labour, advice, parts and 
materials to cover an emergency for insured events during the period of insurance, per 
claim.
Boilers  emergency repairs after an emergency involving your home that leads to 
the main source of heating failing
Unlimited call outs
Ive listened to the call where Mrs K advised One Insurances agent that her boiler had 
stopped working again, two days after the engineer had visited. The agent said he would 
contact the engineer who had attended previously. He said her home emergency policy only 
covered restarting her facilities and suggested Mrs K might also want to speak to her home 
insurance about a full repair.
The agent suggested that the drop in pressure could indicate a leak or could be another 
issue with the boiler. He said he would speak to the engineer to get further information and 
would get back in touch with Mrs K to advise her.
According to One Insurances notes, an email was sent to the engineer the same day and 
the engineer responded a week later saying:
It could be the damaged control nobs [sic] but the boiler is old & it could have damaged the 
PCB as they fee directly into the front of it.
Otherwise it would be a new call out to investigate and Diagnosis [sic] issues, this may need 
Trace and Access as could be a leaking pipe under floor.
In its response to Mrs Ks complaint, One Insurance said the pressure dropping so quickly 
would indicate a leak, which was an exclusion under the policy. However, this contradicts the 
information from the engineer who suggested that there might be another issue, aside from a 
leaking pipe. And One Insurance has since acknowledged to our service that it would have 
been reasonable to have arranged a repeat call out to identify the issue.
Mrs K says she didnt hear back from One Insurance and had to buy a new heater and 
boiler. One Insurance has noted attempting to call Mrs K but there was no answer. Theres 
nothing to suggest it made any further attempts to contact her. 
I dont have evidence to show me that One Insurance would have been able to fix the boiler 
if one of its engineers had returned to Mrs Ks property. And the cost of a new boiler isnt 
covered by the policy. So, I dont think it would be fair to tell One Insurance to pay towards 
the cost of Mrs Ks replacement boiler. 
However, I think One Insurance should have done more to investigate the issue and its 
communication with Mrs K should have been better. I think the poor service from One 
Insurance is likely to have led to some delay in Mrs K having her heating reinstated. Mrs K 
and her family were left in a cold home, which was particularly upsetting as they had a 
newborn baby. So, I think it would be fair for One Insurance to pay Mrs K £200 for distress 
and inconvenience.
Putting things right
One Insurance should pay Mrs K £200 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ks complaint and direct One Insurance Limited 
to put things right by doing as Ive said above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman