DRN-3239123
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the way AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) 
handled a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
 
What happened
In August 2020 Mr R was in an accident when the other driver (the third party) crashed into 
him. Mr R was taken to hospital in an ambulance and didn't get the third partys details at the 
scene. AA settled Mr Rs claim for the damage to his car but he had to pay his £350 excess.
AA said that as it didn't have the third partys details it couldn't pursue their insurer to recover 
its outlay (what it had paid out to settle the claim). AA applied to the police for their report of 
the accident, which would have the third partys details. It paid the appropriate fee to the 
police for them to provide their report. On several occasions the police said that it couldn't 
locate the fee payment and wouldn't provide the report without being able to do so.
Mr R was unhappy with AAs progress and complained. In its reply, dated 24 March 2021, 
AA explained that it was waiting for the police report in order to try to recover its outlay from 
the third party insurer. But AA accepted it had caused confusion and delays throughout the 
claim journey and could have been more proactive in chasing and obtaining the third partys 
details. To address the impact of that it offered Mr R £50 compensation.
Mr R brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. In his most recent 
assessment of the complaint our investigator explained that he was only looking at Mr Rs 
concerns up to 24 March 2021 when AA issued its final response. He didn't think AA had 
dealt with Mr R fairly. So he said it should pay him a further £150 to bring the total 
compensation up to £200. AA didn't agree with our investigator's assessment of the 
complaint so its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it. 
Im aware Mr R has ongoing complaints about the AA concerning events that happened after 
24 March 2021. But, in this decision I'm only looking at matters up to and including that date.
Mr Rs told AA that he received notification that the third party had been prosecuted for a 
driving offence for their part in the accident. So it seems most likely that the third party would 
be held at fault for the accident. But that doesn't mean that Mr R shouldn't have to pay his 
excess. 
It might help if I explain that an insurance excess is payable when a claim is made 
irrespective of whos at fault. Its a cost Mr R agreed to pay when he took out his policy with 
AA in the event of a claim. For this reason, the excess is classed as an uninsured loss. 
Where liability isn't disputed and theres no question the third party is covered, some 
insurers won't charge an excess at all but theyre under no obligation to do so. But, most 
insurers will charge an excess. And, as its an uninsured loss its technically not covered by 
the policy. But generally insurers will ask the third party insurer to refund the excess as part 
of its settlement and, where liability isnt disputed, its usually paid without quibble. However, 
in this case, AA don't yet have the third partys details. So it can't try to recover its outlay or 
Mr Rs excess. That means Mr R remains out of pocket. 
AA has acknowledged that it could have handled things better and its accepted it made 
mistakes and could have been more proactive in chasing the third partys details. So Ive 
thought very carefully about whether or not AA has done enough to put things right. 
In its complaint response AA said it caused a short delay when Mr R first claimed. It also 
said it had proven difficult to obtain information from the police. So I've looked carefully at 
whether or not AA handled its request for a police report reasonably.
AA first contacted the police on 30 September 2020 with a request for the third partys 
details. The police responded advising how AA could go about applying for a report  
including paying a fee  that would provide those details. AA then appropriately applied for 
the police report on 6 October 2020. But, as of March 2021 the police still hadn't provided 
the report. Clearly, AA isn't responsible for any delays caused by the police. And I'm aware 
that the police often take many months to provide their reports, but in this case I don't think 
AA have done all that they could to speed matters up.
When AA applied for the police report it appears to have done everything the police required, 
including making the appropriate payment. But for reasons that aren't clear the police 
couldn't locate the payment so didn't go ahead with processing AAs request. I don't think AA 
was in any way at fault for the initial delay. However, on 9 December 2020 the police told AA 
that in order to trace the payment it needed AAs payment reference number and set out the 
format that reference number would have. The police said that to avoid delays AA should 
ask its finance team to provide the reference number required. 
AA didn't provide the police with that reference number. Instead on at least three more 
occasions between December 2020 and March 2021 AA simply re-sent the information to 
the police it had already provided. Given that the police had said they couldn't move forward 
without the specific payment reference number I don't think that was a reasonable approach 
for AA to take. As a result it meant the case didn't move forwards at all during that period. 
I note that in its complaint response AA told Mr R that it was frequently chasing the police 
for third party information. But I think it should have identified that simply sending the police 
the same information on multiple occasions wouldn't help them to identify the missing 
payment when they said they needed a specific reference number. So AAs activities here, 
when frequently chasing, were essentially pointless and simply added to the delays. Mr R 
told us that he wasn't happy with AAs handling of the claim, and I think this unwarranted 
delay would only have added to that unhappiness.
AAs told us that the reference number the police wanted is restricted and so isn't available 
on its claim handling system. That might be the case. But the police couldn't identify the 
payment without that reference number and wouldn't move forward without it. So AA should 
have done what it could to provide it at an early juncture. And its worthwhile noting that the 
police suggested at an early stage that AA should contact its finance team in order to find 
the reference number. But Ive seen no evidence AA did so at that time, or, if it did it didn't 
provide the appropriate reference number to the police in order to move things on. Ill add that I'm aware AA did provide the police with the appropriate reference number in 
September 2021 but they still haven't supplied their report. So I can't say for certain that if 
AA had given the police the number sooner that would undoubtedly have allowed AA to 
identify the third party insurer. But I can be certain that AA didn't handle this point reasonably 
and as a result the claim was essentially stagnant for over three months, when  at the very 
least  AA could have known it had done all it could do obtain the police report. But that 
wasn't the case. That unwarranted delay added to Mr Rs unhappiness for the period 
concerned. So, given the protracted delay I don't think £50 compensation is enough to put 
things right. Instead I think a sum of £200 compensation in total is fair and reasonable.    
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mr R £200 compensation in total for his distress and 
inconvenience for his complaint up to 24 March 2021. If AA has already paid Mr R £50 
compensation then it need only pay him a further £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman