DRN-3628231
The complaint
Mrs B, on behalf of the estate of Mr B, complains that The Prudential Assurance Company 
Limited (Prudential) mis-sold two annuities to her late husband.
What happened
Mr B secured two annuities with Prudential. Both annuities were secured on a non-advised, 
level, single life basis and included a 10-year guarantee period, as follows:
Annuity started Tax-free cash sum 
paid to Mr BAnnual gross income 
paid to Mr B 
August 2003 £2,088.55 £331.68
March 2012 £22,521.89 £4,637.16
In April and July 2019, Prudential wrote to Mr B about his annuity that started in March 2012. 
The letters explained that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had asked it, along with 
other pension providers, to review certain non-advised annuity sales from 1 July 2008 
onwards to establish if policyholders, like Mr B, couldve shopped around on the open 
market and obtained enhanced annuity income due to certain medical or lifestyle conditions. 
It invited Mr B to provide information to enable it to carry out a review to determine if he had 
suffered a financial loss. Prudential closed its review at that time because Mr B didnt 
respond to its contact.
In July 2021, Mr B passed away. Mrs B contacted Prudential to establish the benefits 
available under the annuities. Prudential confirmed that both annuities had been set up on a 
single life basis with no provision for a spouses pension. It also confirmed that the 10-year 
guarantee periods ran from the date the annuities started.  This meant that the income 
provided by the 2003 annuity ceased on Mr Bs death (because the 10-year guarantee 
period expired in 2013) and that the income provided by the 2012 annuity would only paid to 
Mrs B until February 2022 (when the 10-year guarantee period would expire).
Mrs B thought the 10-year guarantee period started from the date of Mr Bs death rather than 
the start date of the annuities and that the income would therefore continue to be paid until 
at least July 2031. So she was upset to discover that the income would stop sooner than she 
thought, especially since she was reliant on it to support her standard of living. This led to 
her believing that the annuities had been mis-sold to Mr B. She complained to Prudential.
This complaint
In September 2021, Prudential issued its final response letter to this complaint. It didnt 
agree that the two annuities had been mis-sold to Mr B. It confirmed that both had been 
secured on a non-advised basis. And that it was satisfied it had provided sufficient 
information about the features of the annuities selected by Mr B at the time to enable him to 
make an informed decision about whether they were right for him. It confirmed that when the 
annuities started, Mr B had a 30-day cancellation period to change his mind if he wished. But 
he didnt cancel, implying that he was content with the arrangements he had put in place. 
Prudential acknowledged that it had failed to provide a final response to Mrs Bs complaint 
within the eight-week timescale stipulated by the FCA. It apologised for this and paid £200 
compensation to her in recognition of the poor level of service provided.
Shortly after issuing its final response letter to this complaint, Prudential issued a further 
letter to Mrs B. This was in connection with the FCA-instigated review into historic annuity 
sales from 1 July 2008 onwards. It confirmed it had completed its review into the sale of                 
Mr Bs annuity that started in March 2012 and concluded it may not have made him aware 
he couldve obtained enhanced annuity income due to certain medical or lifestyle conditions. 
However, its calculations indicated that there was no financial loss. The letter stated the 
assumptions Prudential used to assess financial loss  it invited Mrs B to send additional 
information if she believed the assumptions used didnt accurately reflect Mr Bs medical and 
lifestyle conditions at the time the annuity was secured.
Mrs B didnt accept the responses received by Prudential. She continued to believe that the 
annuities had been mis-sold. And she didnt agree with the assumptions used by Prudential 
in its loss assessment calculation in connection with the FCA-instigated review. This was 
because the review outcome letter confirmed the underlying calculation assumed that Mr B 
was a non-smoker and had Type 2 Diabetes but these didnt apply. She referred the matter 
to this service.
Our investigators assessment
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
that the documentary evidence showed Mr B had selected annuities on a level, single life 
basis with a 10-year guarantee period. And that Mr B had considered a joint life annuity 
before making his decision to proceed on a single life basis. The investigator was satisfied 
that Mr B had been provided adequate information to enable him to make an informed 
decision. In addition, she noted that Mr B had been provided policy documentation after the 
annuities had been set up which showed the same information and confirmed there was no 
provision for a spouses pension. Since Mr B didnt cancel the annuities within the 30-day 
cancellation, it was reasonable to conclude that they were set up in line with his intentions.
With regard to the FCA-instigated review, the investigator recommended that Mrs B 
complete a medical questionnaire about Mr Bs medical and lifestyle circumstances in 2012 
and provide this to Prudential to enable it to complete a revised loss assessment calculation 
to determine whether any compensation was payable. She also recommended that 
Prudential ensure it follows its bereavement procedures when communicating with Mrs B 
and provide the outcome of the revised review to her as soon as possible.
Mrs B didnt accept our investigators assessment. She said that that there several 
inaccuracies in her assessment. She wanted to know why compensation hadnt been offered 
on the grounds that Prudential staff were incentivised to sell potentially inappropriate 
annuities to customers which led to the FCA-instigated review. And she remained concerned 
that Prudential didnt ask Mr B about his medical conditions or tell him to shop around. She 
subsequently provided medical information about Mr B to Prudential. But this didnt change 
the no loss outcome. Mrs B wasnt satisfied with this outcome because it was based on 
information she had provided rather than on Mr Bs actual medical records held by his GP.
Our investigator considered Mrs Bs comments but wasnt persuaded to change her opinion. 
Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been referred to me for review.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards,
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Before going into my findings, Id like to offer my sincere condolences to Mrs B and her 
family for their loss.
The purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single point raised by 
Prudential and Mrs B. So if I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. In my view, theres two key questions to 
this complaint that I need to consider and decide upon, as follows: 
Did Mr B intend to secure single life rather than joint life annuities and was he 
provided clear, fair and not misleading information before he made his decision?; and
Is the no loss outcome under the FCA-instigated review correct?
Ive considered these points under separate headings below.
Single life annuities 
Mr B secured two annuities in 2003 and 2012. Both annuities were sold on a non-advised 
basis. This meant that Prudential didnt advise Mr B to secure the annuities and it wasnt 
responsible for assessing the suitability of these or questioning whether he shouldve 
included certain options such as a spouses pension. But Prudential did have a responsibility 
to provide clear and accurate information to Mr B about the terms of the proposed annuities 
so that he could make an informed decision before going ahead and securing them.
Having considered the evidence, Ive concluded that Mr B intended to secure single life 
rather than joint life annuities. Im satisfied that Prudential provided clear and consistent 
information to Mr B that both annuities would be set up on a level, single life basis and 
include a 10-year guarantee period. The evidence shows that before securing the annuity in 
2012, Mr B had asked for more information about a spouses pension which Prudential 
provided. Following receipt of this, he decided to secure the annuity on a single life basis 
and was provided an illustration on that basis. The reason why Mr B chose single life 
annuities isnt recorded and I wouldnt expect it to be given these were non-advised sales.
However, generally speaking, a single life annuity pays a higher level of income than a joint 
life annuity  this is because for joint life annuities the annuity provider will take into account 
the likelihood that income will continue to be paid to a spouse after the annuitants death, 
meaning income would likely need to be paid for a longer period of time. So the higher level 
of income may have been the reason why Mr B ultimately decided to secure single life 
annuities. Whatever his reasoning, Im satisfied that Mr B made an informed decision based 
on accurate information provided by Prudential. 
As for the 10-year guarantee period, this always runs from start date of the annuity. The 
guarantee is designed to provide a return of some of the money (to beneficiaries) used to 
secure the annuity in the event the annuitant dies soon after starting the annuity. The information provided to Mr B made clear that the 10-year guarantee period ran from the start 
date of the annuities. Theres nothing to suggest that he was misled to believe the guarantee 
periods would start on death.
Based on the above considerations, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to direct Prudential to unwind the annuities and pay compensation to 
Mrs B on the basis that Mr B had secured joint life annuities when its clear that he made an 
informed decision to secure single life annuities. The guarantee periods under both annuities 
have now expired, in line with the terms of the contracts.
Enhanced annuity terms
Mr B didnt respond to Prudentials contact in 2019 about the FCA-instigated review into 
certain non-advised annuity sales from 1 July 2008 onwards. Following Mrs Bs complaint, it 
carried out a review and concluded that there was no financial loss. Mrs B subsequently 
provided medical information about Mr B and provided this to Prudential. But this didnt 
change the no loss outcome. This is because Prudential calculated that in 2012 Mr B 
couldve secured gross annual annuity income of £4,148.24 taking into account his medical 
and lifestyle conditions. This compared to the gross annual annuity income of £4,637.16                   
Mr B secured through Prudential. 
Our investigator asked Prudential on what basis was the comparative annual annuity of 
£4,148.24 was calculated. It confirmed that its calculation took into account the whole of the 
market when calculating any redress due. Therefore, in other words, had Mr B tried in 2012 
to source an alternative annuity provider on the open market, he wouldnt have been able to 
secure a higher level of annual income than the £4,637.16 he secured through Prudential. 
Ive looked at the detail of Prudentials calculations and am satisfied that the no loss 
outcome is correct. Its worth noting here that Mr Bs Prudential pension plan was set up to 
provide a minimum guaranteed basic annuity. This is the reason why the level of income 
provided was higher than could be secured on the open market, even taking into account               
Mr Bs medical and lifestyle conditions.
Mrs B has asked why Prudential hasnt offered compensation on the grounds that its staff 
were incentivised to sell potentially inappropriate annuities to customers which led to the 
FCA-instigated review. Compensation would only be payable if it was shown that Mr B had 
suffered a financial loss. As explained above, its been established that Mr B didnt suffer a 
financial loss in connection with the annuity he secured in March 2012.
Other issues
Prudential apologised to Mrs B for the delay in responding to this complaint and, in 
recognition of this, paid her £200 compensation. I think an apology and payment of £200 
compensation seems fair in the circumstances. Because of this, I dont consider it would be 
fair or reasonable for me to require Prudential to pay additional compensation to Mrs B in 
connection with its handling of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and the 
estate of Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2022. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman