DRN-3576690
The complaint
The estate of Mrs P (the estate) complain about the actions taken by Interactive Investor 
Services Limited on Mrs Ps account after she passed away.
What happened
The late Mrs P held an ISA and investment account with Interactive Investor. This complaint 
is about the actions Interactive Investor took after Mrs P sadly passed away in 
January 2021. 
The estate, represented by the executor Mrs B, complains that Interactive Investor:
 
disabled the dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) on Mrs Ps account despite agreeing 
in March 2021 that it would remain in place; and 
liquidated the shares in Mrs Ps account without the estates knowledge, and despite 
telling Mrs B it would be possible to influence the timing of the liquidation.
After Mrs Ps account had been liquidated in November 2021, Interactive Investor told the 
estate it would receive payments of £365,683.50 and £77,084.92. The estate estimates that 
it has incurred losses of about £20,000 by not being able to sell the shares when it would 
have chosen. The estate has said it would have held on to the portfolio of shares and 
liquidated them at a price equal to or better than the portfolio value on the day Mrs P passed 
away in January 2021. 
In response to the estates complaint, Interactive Investor said:
In general, it is not possible for the DRIP to continue after an account holder has 
passed away. They have no record that they agreed to something different in the 
case of Mrs Ps account.
Mrs B, on behalf of the estate, submitted an executor instruction form on 9 November 
2021 along with a copy of the grant of probate. In line with the instructions on the 
form, Mrs Ps shares were sold on 15 November with settlement on 17 November. 
They followed the instructions they were given and so do not agree that they made 
an error.
  
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He also said that Interactive Investor had not 
provided a good service to the estate, but that the Financial Ombudsman Service is unable 
to make recommendations for compensation on the grounds of distress and inconvenience 
caused to an executor.    
The estate disagrees with our investigators view and has asked for an ombudsman to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Dividend reinvestment plan
The estate has said that during a phone call with Mrs B in March 2021, Interactive Investor 
agreed that the DRIP on Mrs Ps account would remain in place, and that no further monthly 
fees would be charged.
Interactive Investor have said that in general it is not possible for the DRIP to continue in 
place after an account holder has passed away. They say they have no record that they 
agreed to it doing so in the case of Mrs Ps account. They have been unable to provide a 
recording of the phone call that Mrs B has referred to.
I dont doubt that Mrs B has provided her best recollection of the phone call she has referred 
to. But, without a recording or anything in writing, I cant be sure what was said to her. 
And overall, I dont think Ive got enough evidence to say that Interactive Investor have done 
something wrong. I think it was fair and reasonable for them to apply their normal policy that 
the DRIP cannot continue after an account holder has passed away. 
I note that Interactive Investor agreed to refund seven months of account fees as a gesture 
of goodwill and that no further fees were charged from that point. I wont be asking them to 
do anything further in relation to this point. 
 
Sale of shares
Mrs B has said that throughout the process of dealing with Mrs Ps account, the estate had 
been concerned about the timing of the sale of her shares. She says Interactive Investor 
only told her the estate could influence the timing of the sale on 19 November 2021 and by 
then the shares had already been sold. If they had told her sooner, then the estate would 
have requested that the shares be sold at a more favourable time. 
Interactive Investor have said they usually aim to carry out an executors instructions to sell 
within 14 days of the instruction being received. In this case, they received an instruction 
from the estate on 9 November 2021 and completed the sale on 17 November 2021. 
They have said they could have looked to sell at a time convenient to the estate if Mrs B had 
communicated the estates wishes to them. 
Both parties have provided detailed information in support of their case. Ive looked carefully 
at all the evidence but concentrated my findings on what I consider to be the key factors in 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome. The main questions I need to decide are whether 
Interactive Investor did anything wrong; and, if they did, whether the estate has lost out as a 
result and what Interactive Investor should do to put things right.      
Ive seen emails from Mrs B in August and September 2021 in which she asked Interactive 
Investor what date would be used to price and execute any liquidation of Mrs Ps shares. 
In response, Interactive Investor said in an email dated 7 September 2021 that if they 
received an instruction to liquidate the portfolio:
all investments would be sold at market best. This would get the best possible price 
on the market at the time of the instruction.In an email on 10 September 2021, Mrs B asked Interactive Investor how long she should 
expect any liquidation to take after she had submitted the necessary documents. From what 
Ive seen, I dont think Interactive Investor gave Mrs B an answer to that question.  
On 9 November 2021, Mrs B emailed Interactive Investor to confirm she had submitted the
executor instruction form, and a copy of the grant of probate. She said the estates direction 
was to sell all stock and withdraw the proceeds together with cash. She also asked 
Interactive Investor to confirm when the estate could expect the sale of the stock to be 
executed and the proceeds to be deposited. 
On the executor instruction form, the estate selected the option to sell all stocks and 
withdraw the proceeds together with any cash held on the estate. The form said that sales 
would be placed on a best endeavours basis.
Mrs B emailed Interactive Investor on 11 November 2021 to tell them she had uploaded the 
grant of probate again because of a problem with the earlier submission. She confirmed that 
the executor instruction form had been submitted on 9 November 2021 and that the 
instruction was to sell all stock. She asked Interactive Investor to confirm the next steps with 
the liquidation process and did so again on 12 November 2021. 
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Interactive Investor answered Mrs Bs question about 
how long the liquidation would take before they went ahead and sold the shares on 15 
November 2021. But, although Mrs B had asked about the timetable, she had given no 
indication that the estate wanted to specify when the shares should be sold. 
By submitting the form and grant of probate, the estate had given Interactive Investor a clear 
instruction to sell Mrs Ps shares on a best endeavours basis. And I dont think Interactive 
Investor did anything wrong by going ahead and acting on that instruction. So, I wont be 
holding Interactive Investor responsible for any losses the estate claims because of the 
timing of the sale. 
Ive also looked at the exchanges between Mrs B and Interactive Investor after the estate 
gave the instruction to sell. The estate has complained that the communications from 
Interactive Investor were unclear and misleading. 
In an email on 12 November 2021, Interactive Investor confirmed receipt of the documents 
from the estate and said, The current timescale for this process is 14 working days. 
The estate has said that email led it to believe that the process would take until 28 
November 2021, but it was completed sooner than that. 
Interactive Investor have said they aim to complete the sale process within 14 days and that 
was the message they intended to convey. Although the email could have been clearer, 
I dont think it is unusual for a business to explain the timescale for a process involving the 
sale or transfer of shares in that way. I dont think the reference to 14 days was intended to 
provide a specific date on which the sale of shares would take place.   
I note too that on 16 November 2021 Mrs B received an email from Interactive Investor 
saying they were dealing with a high volume of instructions relating to deceased customers. 
The estate complain that they took this to mean the processing of their instructions would be 
delayed when the shares had been sold the previous day. I can understand why the estate 
might have understood the email in the way they did, but I dont think I can say Interactive 
Investor did anything wrong by sending what was likely a standard email that had gone to all 
deceased customer accounts. Mrs B called Interactive Investor on 19 November 2021 and I know that the estate is very 
unhappy that Interactive Investor have not been able to provide a recording of the call. 
I agree that it is unfortunate that Interactive Investor have been unable to locate a recording 
of a call that took place less than a year ago. But Im satisfied I have enough evidence to 
make my findings from what the two parties on the call  Mrs B and the Interactive Investor 
representative  have said.
During the call, Mrs B was told the estate could specify the date on which it wanted to sell 
Mrs Ps shares and that a note would be placed on Mrs Ps account to that effect. It appears 
the Interactive Investor representative gave that advice without checking Mrs Ps account 
and it was only after Mrs B had given her instruction that the representative saw that the 
shares had already been sold. That information was then passed on to Mrs B.
So, I think the estate was given incorrect information during that call, although it was 
corrected promptly by Interactive Investor. I dont think the estate has suffered a financial 
loss because of that as the sale of shares had already gone through in line with the 
instruction given by the estate. 
I accept that the incorrect information given in that call caused distress and inconvenience to 
Mrs B. That must have been very frustrating, at an already difficult time, for the family of the 
late Mrs P.
But under the rules governing our service, we can only tell a business to pay compensation 
for distress and inconvenience experienced by their customer, not by a third party. So, we 
cant award compensation for distress and inconvenience to executors who have brought a 
complaint on behalf of an estate.
Interactive Investor have accepted that their communication in this case was poor. I cannot 
tell them to make an award for the inconvenience caused to Mrs B and the estate, but that is 
something they may want to consider further. The estate would need to follow that up with 
Interactive Investor directly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold the estate of Mrs Ps 
complaint against Interactive Investor Services Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs P 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman