DRN-4047498
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) have failed to refund money that Mr D lost 
as part of an investment scam.
 What happened
Mr D saw on a social media platform that a friend of his was making substantial profits 
investing in crypto. The trades shown on the social media platform looked professional and 
believable to Mr D. Mr D contacted his friend who put him in touch with the scammer that I 
will call B.
B explained that Mr D would need to purchase crypto via two crypto exchanges and the 
funds would then be sent to B. The first four transactions were debit card payments the final 
one was a bank transfer.
The transactions made were as follows;
Transaction 
NumberDate Merchant Amount Running Total
1 17/01/2022 HFinance_Simplex £500 £500
2 17/01/2022 HFinance_Simplex £500 £1000
3 17/01/2022 HFinance_Simplex £1,250 £2,250
4 17/01/2022 HFinance_Simplex £2,250 £4,500
5 19/01/2022 Cro £1,923.48 £6,423.48
After seeing his balance with B increase Mr D was told by B that he had to make a further 
payment to cover taxes on the profits that he had made.
Mr D, after checking with his friend, made a payment of £3,000 from a different account to a 
crypto exchange which was then forwarded on to B.
After this point he was told by B that he had to make further payments to cover costs. During 
this back and forth Mr D says he discovered that his friends account had been hacked and 
he had in fact been conversing with B from the start and he been scammed.
Mr D raised a complaint with Lloyds as he believed that Lloyds should have stopped him 
from making the payments in question.
One of our investigators looked into this matter and they decided that the transactions were 
not sufficiently out of character to warrant an intervention by Lloyds and that there was no 
other means of Lloyds recovering the funds.
Mr D did not agree with this and therefore his complaint was passed to me to issue a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr D authorised the disputed payments he made, firstly to the crypto 
exchanges (where his funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammers from his 
crypto wallet). The payments were requested by him using his legitimate security credentials 
provided by Lloyds, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions 
given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Lloyds should have done more to prevent Mr D from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, 
if it was particularly out of character. However, having taken Mr Ds account activity and 
payment history into account, I do not think the payments he is disputing should have been 
regarded as particularly unusual.
The payments were not of such a large amount that they would represent a significant 
deviation from what would be considered as usual activity. I say this because I can see 
some large transfers from Mr Ds account prior to the scam transactions, such as over 
£7,000 in December 2021, and a transaction of £3,000 just before the transactions in 
question.
So, having considered the payments Mr D made, Im not persuaded there was anything that 
ought reasonably to have triggered Lloydss fraud monitoring systems or that would have 
indicated he was in the process of being scammed. I therefore do not consider there to have 
been any obligation on Lloyds to have intervened any further.
I do note that the first fours transactions did trigger Lloyds to confirm that the transactions 
were genuine but given the overall circumstances of this complaint I dont think that it 
needed to do any more than this.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds did enough to attempt to recover the money Mr D 
lost. In relation to the first four payments as this was made with a debit card there are some 
circumstances where a chargeback would be successful.
But in this case, I do not believe that a chargeback would have been successful, as the 
payments were made to purchase crypto which he received.
In relation to the transfer the Contingency Reimbursement Model (CRM) does not apply to 
transfers made to an account in the customers own name and in this instance Mr D was 
transferring funds to an account that was in his own name.I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr D, and Im sorry to hear he has been 
the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Lloyds can fairly or reasonably 
be held liable for his loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman