DRN-3666429
The complaint
Mr F complains about the advice given by Inspiration Financial Management Ltd to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal 
pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial 
loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Fs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr F began working for his employer in 1978 at the age of 17 and was a member of the 
BSPS DB scheme for 38 years and 9 months from August 1978 to the end of May 2016. 
After the DB scheme closed to new accruals in March 2017, Mr F joined his employers 
Defined Contribution (DC) scheme.
Mr F was introduced to IFM at the end of June 2017 by his financial adviser (Firm E). As 
Firm E didnt hold the relevant permission from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to 
advise on the transfer of his DB scheme, it told Mr F it was referring him to IFM to discuss 
his pension and retirement needs. At this point Mr F was aged 56, and his wife was 55, and 
he had been thinking about early retirement for a couple of years. In June 2016 hed 
received a projection of his benefits from the DB scheme which he didnt take up. In July 
2017 Mr F received a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) from the DB scheme of 
£558,100.04, valid for 3 months. The CETV was a significant increase from the CETV of 
£276,400 provided to Mr F when the scheme closed in 2016.
IFM completed a fact-find in early August 2017 to gather information about Mr Fs 
circumstances and objectives. His circumstances at the time were noted as follows: 
He was married with two grown up children who were not living with him and his wife.
He was employed as a team leader earning £38,673.
Mrs F was a manageress earning £23,232.
Their approximate monthly disposable income was £1,500.
Their house was valued at £120,000 and had no mortgage.
No other investments were recorded except for approximately £50,000 they had in an 
ISA.
He was recorded as being a member of his employers DC scheme, making 
contributions of £350 per month with employer contributions of £150 per month. The 
total fund value at the time of the advice was £4,000. Mrs F had a belonged to a DC 
scheme currently valued at £11,000 and a had a deferred DB pension with an annual 
income of £5,400 at age 65.
Both Mr and Mrs F were both in good health and planned to do a lot of walking for 
the next 10 -15 years. They felt with the onset of older age their health might 
deteriorate. 
IFM also carried out an assessment of Mr Fs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be low. It 
also thought his capacity for loss was such that he was able to accept the risk of transferring 
his pension given the size of the CETV and the potential investment timescale. 
On 11 August 2017 IFM provided Mr F with its suitability report and advised him to transfer 
his pension benefits into a personal pension and invest the proceeds with a provider (P) in 
with profits cautious and growth funds. The suitability report said the reasons for this 
recommendation were, in summary: 
To provide greater flexibility in retirement when drawing benefits.
Mr F wanted to retire soon and questioned whether the pension offered by the BSPS 
scheme would be sufficient to allow him to do so.
That Mr F doubted that the fixed, inflexible nature of the BSPS pension was best 
suited to his retirement needs and his wish to have control of his pension wealth. He 
thought he would need a larger income in the earlier years of his retirement which 
would decrease as he aged so he questioned whether the fixed nature of the BSPS 
scheme could deliver this.
The ability to pass his pension fund on to his family in the event of his death.
Mr F accepted the recommendation and signed the transfer forms and a client agreement on 
7 August 2017. The forms were submitted to P on 21 August 2017, Mr F signed a 
declaration on 9 September to say that he had received and read the suitability report and 
on 11 October 2017 £576,298.96 was received into the personal pension. IFM received an 
initial advice fee of £5,750. The servicing of Mr Ds pension was transferred to Firm E, who 
took a 1% annual fee to provide ongoing advice.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the option to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
In October 2017, Mr F accessed £40,000 of his tax-free cash (TFC) to buy a new car, help 
his children and go on holiday. In April 2018 Mrs F sadly and unexpectedly passed away. 
Mr F retired in March 2019.
In June 2020, Mr F approached another financial adviser because hed noticed his personal 
pension with P had decreased in value significantly. He was also unhappy with Ps charging 
structure and wanted to move to a lower cost plan with a wide range of investments that 
would allow him to switch funds. Mr F was, at that point, living on his savings as he wanted 
his plan to recover. Mr F was advised to transfer his personal pension from P to another 
provider (R) which he did in August 2020 at which point he started to drawdown on his fund.
In October 2020 Mr F complained to IFM that the advice hed been given to transfer out of 
his DB scheme had been unsuitable and that the transfer shouldnt have been 
recommended in his circumstances as they were at the time. He said that the nature of the 
benefits which could have been carried forward into the BSPS2 scheme were highly unlikely 
to be matched through the personal pension IFM arranged for Mr F. 
IFM looked into Mr Fs complaint but didnt agree that it should be upheld. It said Mr F had a 
strong and clear objective at the time of the advice of retiring early which the transfer enabled him to meet. It said this, taken with the concerns about the long-term prospects of 
the scheme gave him good reason to for considering the transfer and having the freedom to 
control his own pension outweighed the guarantees associated with the DB scheme. IFM 
said that other ways of meeting Mr Fs needs were explored but it was clear that they could 
not be met by remaining in the scheme and moving into the PPF or opting to join BSPS2. 
Unhappy with the outcome of IFMs investigation, Mr F complained to this service. Our 
investigator looked into Mr Fs complaint and recommended that it was upheld. He said he 
thought that the recommendation made by IFM that Mr F transfer his benefits was 
unsuitable. He noted that Mr F was clearly looking to retire early and, given his 
circumstances at the time he was deciding what to do, our investigator thought the benefits 
offered by the PPF would have been more favourable and should have been used by IFM for 
comparison purposes when advising Mr F. Our investigator recommended that IFM should 
compensate Mr F for the losses he incurred by transferring his DB pension and that 
compensation should be based on him having opted to join the PPF.
 
Mr Fs representative responded and made the following comments: 
Mr F had no pressing need to access his personal pension for a lump sum or to enter 
drawdown and could have used his ISA savings to provide any additional sums he 
needed.
If Mr F had remained in the BSPS (and transferred to the PPF) he would not have 
accessed his BSPS benefits as early as he did. 
People behave differently when they have a personal pension to when they belong to 
a DB scheme so it would be wrong to assume that had IFM advised Mr F against 
transferring then he would still have acted in the same way by accessing TFC early 
and entering drawdown for non-essential reasons. Consequently Mr Fs losses 
should be calculated to age 65.
That Mr Fs losses should be calculated as though IFM had recommended he 
transfer to BSPS2 and not the PPF and that whichever of the two calculations 
showed the greater loss should be used as the basis for compensating Mr F. 
If it is shown that the PPF shows the greater loss, IFM should carry out a further loss 
calculation. This additional calculation should reflect the fact that the BSPS trustees 
bought an insurance policy as part of the process of the scheme exiting its PPF 
assessment and completing its buy-out. It said the buy-out was due to be finalised 
later this year and had Mr F been a member of the PPF he wouldve benefitted from 
the expected increases as a result of the buy-out. Consequently Mr Fs 
representative said two more calculations should be carried out; the first that IFM 
calculates and pays compensation now comparing his existing benefits with the PPF 
and second once the buy-out is completed, and its known how the PPF benefits will 
increase, IFM should do a second calculation in line with the latest FCA guidance on 
DB transfer redress applicable at the time and base the calculations on the benefits 
Mr F would have been entitled to after the buy-out. If the second calculation results in 
lower, or the same, redress than the first, no further action should be taken. 
IFM disagreed with our investigators assessment and responded making the following 
points: 
That despite accepting that Mr F intended to retire in the short-term we had failed to 
recognise that the only way he would be able to reach this clearly stated objective 
was to transfer his pension.
If Mr F had transferred to BSPS2, or remained with BSPS and moved to the PPF, 
then early retirement would not have been affordable. It disputed that it hadnt properly demonstrated Mr Fs income needs and referred to 
the detail included on the fact-find it had completed. None of the outgoings listed 
there were ones that would cease in retirement. 
That Mr Fs statement in the fact-find that his income needs would decrease after 10- 
years wasnt unsubstantiated because it was apparent from the fact-find that Mrs Fs 
pension of £5,400 would become payable when she reached 65 along with his own 
state pension when he reached 67. It said by this point, Mr Fs income needs would 
largely be being met from sources other than his personal pension.
Our investigators findings that Mr F could meet his income needs from the lower 
benefits available under BSPS2 or the PPF were wrong.
That our investigators comment that Mr Fs preference for a fixed income casted 
doubt over his real desire for flexibility failed to recognise that Mr F had said on the 
fact-find that his second highest priority was flexibility and control of income in 
retirement. IFM said that there was no inconsistency between this statement and 
Mr Fs desire for a fixed rather than a variable income. It said it was important to 
remember that Mr F needed flexibility in the way he drew his pension in order to 
achieve the fixed and steady income he anticipated he would need throughout his 
retirement. This would not have been possible through BSPS2 or the PPF. 
Our investigator suggested Mr F was risk adverse based on certain answers given in 
the fact-find but failed to consider other answers given by Mr F. Mr F was a low-risk 
investor and was fully advised on, understood and accepted, the risks associated 
with the transfer which were risks he was willing to take in order to achieve his 
objectives. 
Whilst early retirement was an option for those entering the PPF it wasnt a viable 
option for Mr F.
The terms of BSPS2 werent known at the time but it was known they were intended 
to be less generous than the original scheme and given Mr F couldnt afford to retire 
early under the original scheme then he clearly wouldnt be able to afford to retire 
under BSPS2.
It accepted there was an error in the suitability report where it indicated there was no 
lump sum payable on death before retirement within the BSPS when, in fact, Mrs F 
would have been entitled to a return of Mr Fs member contributions of just over 
£66,500 if he had died before retirement. Whilst the error was regrettable, IFM said it 
doesnt consider that it was a relevant factor in Mr Fs decision making because 
death benefits pre-retirement werent a priority for Mr F given that he intended to 
retire imminently anyway. If they had been a priority it is clear that Mrs F would have 
been significantly worse off by Mr F remaining in the scheme.
IFM disagreed that the advice it gave Mr F was unsuitable or that if hed been 
advised differently that he would have elected to have moved to the PPF.
Our investigator considered what both Mr F and IFM had said in response to his view but 
wasnt persuaded to change his mind about Mr Fs complaint. Whilst the complaint was 
waiting to be allocated to an ombudsman, Mr Fs representative confirmed that he accepted 
our investigators view regarding how compensation should be calculated (i.e. based on him 
having opted to join the PPF). IFM also replied to say that our investigator hadnt properly 
considered its further comments so it still did not accept his view that the complaint should 
be upheld. It made some further comments which it asked the ombudsman to take into 
account when considering the complaint.
The complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of IFMs actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, IFM should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Fs 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
IFM carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Fs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). This analysis was based on his existing BSPS 
scheme benefits, but Mr D didnt have the option to remain in the BSPS; he either needed to 
opt into BSPS2 or move with the existing BSPS scheme to the PPF. 
IFM has argued that at the time it was advising Mr F, the terms of the BSPS2 scheme 
werent known aside from the fact they were predicted to be less favourable than the existing 
scheme. Whilst the full details of what BSPS2 would entail werent known, the terms were 
about to be imminently announced. But I cant see that IFM cautioned Mr F about 
transferring ahead of knowing what those terms were. I think IFM should have advised Mr F 
to wait and see what the terms of BSPS2 were when they were announced so that he could 
see if retirement under the new scheme was affordable or not and so he could make a fully 
informed choice about what action was in his best interests.
According to the fact-find and the suitability report Mr F wanted to retire early  even as early 
as immediately if transfer figures are OK (there is no information about what OK transfer figures actually looked like to Mr F). IFM says the only way for Mr F to achieve this objective 
was to transfer his scheme to a personal pension; Im unable to agree. 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Despite Mr F saying that he was interested at retiring immediately, or if later around age 60, 
the suitability report only set out the relevant critical yields for retirement at age 65; which 
were 9.9% in order to match the benefits from Mr Fs existing DB scheme and 3.9% to match 
the benefits under the PPF at the same retirement date. Given that the funds would be 
invested for less time and would be required to pay income for longer, I think the relevant 
critical yields at age 60 were likely to be higher than this. The transfer value analysis didnt 
provide the critical yields for taking a reduced pension and TFC either under the BSPS or the 
PPF. 
The critical yield of 9.9% per year at age 65 compares with the discount rate of 3.5% per 
year for 8 years to retirement in this case. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2%. I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount 
rate, Mr Fs attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. Mr F was assessed as having a 
low attitude to risk; given he wanted to retire imminently, Mr F had no time or capacity to 
build up his fund or tolerate any losses. So I think that assessment was reasonable.
There would be little point in Mr F giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, 
given the discount rate of 3.5% and the regulators lower projection rate of 2%, I think that 
Mr F was most likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than those provided by the 
PPF (and potentially the BSPS2) by transferring his DB scheme to a personal pension as a 
result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
I dont consider it to be unreasonable to refer to the discount rate in my findings. Although 
taking this into account was not required by the regulator when giving advice, its important 
to note that I havent based my findings on this. But I do think it a reasonable additional 
consideration when seeking to determine what level of growth was reasonably achievable at 
the time of the advice. Under COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses to compare the 
benefits likely to be paid under a DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension 
by using reasonable assumptions. So, businesses were free to use the discount rate as this 
would be considered a reasonable assumption of the likely returns. And in any event, this 
has been considered in tandem with the regulators published projection rates, which 
providers were required to refer to. And it is this combination, along with Mr Fs attitude to 
risk, which leads me to be believe hed likely be worse off in retirement if he transferred out 
of the DB scheme.
IFM says that the critical yield is of limited relevance because it is based on the growth 
required to produce a fund large enough to purchase an annuity on the same basis as the 
benefits provided by the DB scheme. IFM says Mr F didnt want an annuity, it said he wanted 
to take his benefits flexibly and it said he wanted to take full advantage of the pension 
freedoms so any transfer value analysis was largely irrelevant. But the regulator required 
IFM to consider the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the 
benefits being given up. So, it needed to provide an analysis based on the critical yield so I do think it is a relevant consideration here, particularly as Mr F said in the fact-find that he 
would prefer [a] fixed income. 
IFM has provided cashflow models which it says shows the viability of the transfer. The most 
accurate cashflow model that reflects Mr F actual objectives and circumstances is the one in 
the suitability report which is based on Mr F taking £40,000 as TFC immediately upon 
retirement and a monthly income thereafter of £2,000 (not index linked to inflation). But this 
model, based on the regulators lowest projection rate, shows that Mr Fs pension fund would 
run out by the time he was aged 79. If Mr D been advised to remain in BSPS and transfer to 
the PPF however, his pension would never have run out, regardless of how long he lived. 
And I consider the regulators lowest projection rate to be the most relevant given Mr Fs 
attitude to risk. 
While IFM has referred to the past performance of the funds it recommended to him, as IFM 
will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I consider the 
discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in this regard in 
the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over such a long 
period of time. And I note that Mr F ticked the fact-find statement, Low Risk  I am a 
conservative investor who requires limited exposure to the equity market. I am willing to 
accept growth in line with inflation. 
In summary, even if the BSPS had moved to the PPF and Mr Fs benefits were reduced as a 
result, he would have still been very unlikely to match, let alone exceed, those benefits by 
transferring to a personal pension. By transferring his pension I think it was highly likely that 
Mr F would be financially worse off in retirement. 
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Fs best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, There might 
be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
It seems one of the main reasons that IFM recommended this transfer was for the flexibility 
and control it offered Mr F. Having considered the evidence, I dont think Mr F needed to 
transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension so he could have flexibility in retirement.
I think its important to note here that Mr F did not have concrete plans to retire immediately. 
Mr F was taking advice because he needed to make a decision about his future benefits and 
I think it is very clear from the fact-find that Mr F wanted to understand whether he could 
afford to retire immediately. If not, the fact-find demonstrates he was prepared to wait and 
access his deferred benefits closer to age 60. Crucially, he required advice as to what was in 
his best interests. 
It's evident that Mr F could not take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. Although he could 
choose to take TFC and a reduced annual pension, Mr F had to take those benefits at the 
same time. But Im not persuaded that Mr D had any concrete need to take TFC and defer 
taking his income, or to vary his income throughout retirement. To my mind this seems more 
of a nice to have rather than a genuine objective. And an advisers job isnt to simply 
facilitate a customers wants. Any objectives should be thoroughly interrogated to determine 
if they are realistic or not or achievable through other means. And ultimately the adviser had 
to determine whether giving up the secure, guaranteed benefits of available through the 
BSPS (and then the PPF) was in Mr Fs best interests. I dont think Mr F had a genuine need to access his TFC early so I think he could have left 
his funds invested until a later date, or until he was ready to draw his pension. I say this 
because it is clear from the fact-find that Mr F was, at the time of the advice, entirely debt 
free. He and Mrs F had a monthly disposable income, after all outgoings, of £1,500. They 
also had accessible savings of £50,000. The fact-find asked Mr F what capital expenditure 
he expected to use his TFC for and he noted £10,000 for a new car, £20,000 to gift his 
daughters, £15,000 on home improvements £10,000 on travel (so in all £55,000). Mr F said 
he anticipated expending these sums in the next year. 
But I cant see that IFM explored other means of Mr F paying for his intended capital 
expenditure or that it investigated with him the real timetable for needing the sums he cited. 
And given Mr Fs monthly available disposable income there seems to be no exploration of 
whether some of that could be utilised in some way to achieve the capital expenditure he 
had identified. Overall I don think that Mr Fs desire for the capital items he listed was a 
good enough reason for him to be giving up a secure, guaranteed, escalating pension 
income in retirement. I think, given Mr Fs financial situation at the time, the financial 
objectives for transferring his pension to access the TFC arent justified, particularly when he 
couldve used his savings  which were likely to be achieving minimal returns at the time  to 
pay for the vast majority of the things he wanted to spend the money on.
Mr Fs full DB pension (if he took no TFC) at normal retirement age of 65 was forecast to be 
£23,609 per year. If he took early retirement this figure was subject to a downward 
adjustment of 30% if retiring at 55 or 18% if retiring at 60. Whilst IFM didnt obtain an early 
retirement quote for Mr F from the scheme, it noted in the suitability report that if he drew his 
DB pension at that point (at age 56), it estimated that it would give him an annual pension of 
£17,230 per year or £1,435 per month. It also estimated that if Mr F chose to take the TFC 
he was entitled to from the scheme at that point it would give him about £81,300 and he 
would receive an estimated reduced pension of £12,200 per year or £1,016 per month. 
Of course, all these figures are moot given that the scheme they were based on was going 
to move into the PPF. But if IFM wanted to discharge its regulatory obligations to Mr F 
properly then it should have conducted its analysis based on the scheme moving to the PPF 
(because that was certain to happen) which would have allowed Mr F to make a proper 
comparison. That way he could have seen what benefits he would have been entitled to if 
taking immediate retirement. All I do know is that at 65, Mr F couldve taken an income of 
£18,887 under the PPF. Analysing a scheme that was about to cease to exist in its current 
state wasnt having due regard to Mr Fs information needs. And its worth noting that the 
early retirement factors under the PPF were more favourable than the existing scheme. 
Ive seen no evidence that IFM explored Mr Fs retirement objectives with him. Most people, 
if asked, say that they would want to retire as early as possible. But if IFM had had full 
regard to Mr Fs information and communication needs I think it should have explored his 
actual retirement plans and what was important to him. And it should have provided him with 
more information about the PPF, and its associated guarantees, and what he could expect 
by way of a pension at certain ages, so that Mr F could make an informed choice. But 
without this information, Mr F chose to transfer his scheme in part because (as noted on the 
fact-find) he had concerns about the PPF. But I cant see evidence of any explanation or 
reassurance given to him by IFM about the benefits it offered. 
And rather misleadingly, IFM told Mr F that the PPF wouldnt let him retire early when the 
very opposite is true. Knowing that Mr F wanted to retire soon, IFM should have known that 
moving to the PPF might be in Mr Fs best interests and advise him about it accordingly  
but it didnt. I also cant see evidence that Mr F had a strong need for variable income throughout his 
retirement. Whilst Mr F said he thought he needed £2,000 per month in retirement and IFM 
said he could drawdown this amount for about the next 10 years until he received his state 
pension and Mrs Fs pension could be taken I cant see there was any interrogation of Mr F 
about why hed selected this figure. It follows that I dont agree with IFMs statement that 
moving to the PPF would have made early retirement unaffordable for Mr F. That simply isnt 
known because it didnt look into his circumstances forensically enough. Mr and Mrs Fs 
monthly outgoings were £1,855 of which Mrs F was contributing £1,520. There was no 
inference that Mrs F intended to retire before her normal retirement age of 65 so her income 
would continue for about another ten years. As I have already said, after all their joint 
outgoings, there was £1,500 per month left over. 
So, IFM should have investigated Mr Fs financial retirement needs in greater depth and 
provided him with forecasts for what a PPF pension and TFC would look like at certain ages. 
Whilst Mr F said he would have liked to retire immediately it is possible that he might have 
found retiring under the PPF to have been favourable enough to have met his needs (not to 
mention that it would be index linked). And when Mr Fs state pension became payable it 
would have been in addition to his monthly pension and would not need to be used to reduce 
drawdown. A pension from the PPF would also have been for life, unlike Mr Fs personal 
pension which could well have run out before he died. But the information Mr F received 
from IFM was incomplete such that he was unable to make an informed decision. In the end 
Mr F retired at age 58 and didnt start drawing his pension until he was 59. 
While I dont know what income or TFC Mr F wouldve been entitled to under that age 
through the PPF, I dont think that it wouldve been substantially less than the sum available 
to him through the BSPS because of the favourable early retirement and commutation 
factors under the PPF.
So, I think its likely Mr F could have met his income needs in retirement by remaining in the 
DB scheme (and transferring to the PPF). Im not persuaded, because the evidence doesn't 
support it, that Mr F did need an income of £2,000 per month but even if he did, I think its 
likely that he could have bridged the gap between the income provided by his DB 
scheme/PPF by relying on Mrs Fs income, his ISA savings and using some of his TFC to 
live on until his state pension age. 
Death benefits
According to the fact-find, Mr F said he would like the ability to leave any remaining pension 
funds to his wife or his daughters. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr F. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr F might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr F about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think IFM explored to what extent Mr F 
was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
This complaint is concerned with the advice Mr F received in August 2017 when it wasnt 
known that Mrs F would suddenly be taken ill and pass away less than a year later. It is 
worth mentioning here that my findings are based on what IFM should have recommended 
to Mr F in August 2017 and not what he should have done in hindsight. With this in mind, I think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were 
underplayed at the time of the advice. Mr F was married and so the spouses pension 
provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful to his wife if Mr F predeceased her. I dont 
think IFM made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr F. This was guaranteed and it 
escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining 
on death in a personal pension was. And as the cashflow analysis shows, there may not 
have been a large sum left/the fund may have been depleted particularly if Mr F lived a long 
life.  In any event, IFM should not have encouraged Mr F to prioritise the potential for higher 
death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr F genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse and children, which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, 
I think IFM shouldve instead explored life insurance. Its possible this may not have been 
affordable given Mr Fs age, but it should have been explored regardless.
In any event, whilst death benefits might be important for consumer, there generally 
shouldnt be a disproportionate emphasis on this compared to their own retirement needs. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr F. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr Fs desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr F was not an 
experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able 
to manage his pension funds on their own. It appears to me that the concept of control to 
Mr F was related to the security of his pension due to workplace rumours about what was 
happening to the scheme. So, I dont think that control of his pension was a genuine 
objective for Mr F it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
I dont doubt that Mr F was concerned about his pension. Lots of his colleagues at the time 
were transferring out of the scheme and he was worried his pension would end up in the 
PPF. He said this is why he wanted to move the pension into his control. So its quite 
possible that Mr F was leaning towards the decision to transfer. However, it was IFMs 
obligation to give Mr F an objective picture and recommend what was in his best interest. 
Mr F was particularly concerned about BSPS moving to the PPF. But from what Ive seen, 
IFM didnt provide Mr F with an objective picture about the PPF and what this might mean for 
him specifically. Mr F was clearly interested in retiring early and early retirement reductions 
were in fact lower in the PPF than in the BSPS  he would most likely meet his retirement 
needs by moving to the PPF  but this wasnt shared with Mr F. And IFM shouldve 
explained to Mr F he was still unlikely to exceed the benefits available to him through the 
PPF if he transferred out. Overall, I dont think IFM did much to alleviate Mr Fs concerns and 
fears. Instead, it appears to have used these concerns to justify the transfer.
Summary
I accept that Mr F was attracted by the idea of transferring. He might have heard from 
colleagues that this is what they were doing. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and 
potential for higher death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have sounded 
like attractive features to Mr F. But IFM wasnt there to just transact what Mr F might have 
thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr F needed and 
recommend what was in his best interests.Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr F was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr F was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. I think Mr F could have met his objectives by not 
transferring his DB benefits. He could have likely covered his income needs at age 59 
through the PPF and he would have been entitled to a guaranteed and secure income which 
continuously increased. And I dont think he had any immediate need to access his TFC. 
Instead, if he wished to make use of a lump sum I think he shouldve been advised to 
withdraw funds from his ISA instead
I appreciate that at the time the advice was given there was a lot of uncertainty around the 
pension scheme and Ive fully taken into account that Mr F was likely keen to transfer out as 
he was worried about his pension and colleagues were telling him this was a good idea. 
However, it was the advisers responsibility to objectively weigh up the options for Mr F. He 
should have advised him what was best for his circumstances and explained what he was 
giving up in the BSPS and that moving to the PPF was not as concerning as he thought. For 
the reasons given above, I think this advice should have been to remain in the BSPS and 
move with the scheme to the PPF.
On balance I think Mr F would have listened to the adviser and followed their advice. Mr F 
was an inexperienced investor and he was concerned about the security of his pension. This 
pension made up a significant part of his retirement provision, and I dont think he wouldve 
wanted to take any unnecessary risk with it. So, if IFM had provided him with clear advice 
against transferring out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice.
If Mr F had stayed in BSPS, he would have shortly after had the choice to move to the PPF 
or transfer to a new scheme, the BSPS2. I carefully considered what Mr F likely would have 
done and on balance I think he would have opted to move to the PPF. I say this because at 
the time Mr F wanted to retire early. The BSPS2 wouldnt have decreased Mr Fs initial 
entitlement by 10% like the PPF and some of his benefits would have had potentially higher 
increases in BSPS2. However, early retirement factors in the PPF were lower and 
commutation factors for the TFC entitlement were more favourable under the PPF. So 
overall, its likely Mr Fs income and TFC entitlement would have been higher in the PPF. 
Under BSPS2, the spouses pension would be set at 50% of Mr Fs pension at the date of 
death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement. So the 
spouses pension would likely be lower in the PPF. However, Mrs F had her own DB 
pension. And I think on balance Mr Fs own benefits and higher TFC which he and his wife 
could benefit from earlier in retirement would have been more important to him. 
So, I think IFM should compensate Mr F for the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's 
defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And its the benefits offered by the 
PPF at age 58 which should be used for comparison purposes. This is because I know that 
Mr F actually retired at this age and I think he wouldve taken his benefits from the PPF at 
that point. 
Im not going to comment here on Mr Fs representatives submission regarding the 
calculation of compensation made in response to our investigators view. Thats because 
Mr Fs representative subsequently confirmed that he accepted our investigators view 
regarding how compensation should be calculated (i.e. based on him having opted to join 
the PPF).Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr F whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for any new guidance /rules to be published. Mr F didnt make 
a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait for any 
new guidance. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr F. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr F, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for IFMs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr F would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr F retired at age 58, so this should be the basis for the calculations.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Fs acceptance of the decision.
IFM may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Fs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Fs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Fs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr F as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his/her/their likely 
income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr F within 90 days of the date IFM receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes IFM to pay Mr F.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
In October 2020, due to an improved funding position, the BSPS trustees bought an 
insurance policy as part of the process of the pension scheme exiting its PPF assessment 
and completing a buy-out. Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) will become responsible 
for paying benefits directly to members. The process of the buy-out was expected to be
completed by late summer 2022.
It's been announced that:
When the buy-out happens all members whose PPF benefits are less than their full Scheme 
benefits (i.e. the amount they would be if the Scheme were not in a PPF assessment period) 
will see an increase to their benefits. All other members will see no change as a result of the 
buy-out.
For most members, PPF level benefits are less than full Scheme benefits. When the buyout 
happens, these members will see an increase to their current level of benefits so they will 
receive more than PPF levels. All other members will see no change to their current level of
benefits as a result of the buy-out.
Mr F retired at age 58 and I think he would have done the same if he had gone into the PPF. 
Due to the lower early retirement reduction factor which would have applied in the PPF, I 
think (albeit without certainty in advance of knowing the detailed terms of the buy-out) that 
entry into the PPF would have produced an overall better outcome for Mr F. As such, I think 
its more likely the case that there would be no deficit in the PPF benefits which could be 
made up by the buy-out process.
For this reason I require IFM to undertake a redress calculation on the current known basis, 
rather than wait for the terms of any future buy-out to be confirmed. This is in order to 
provide a resolution as swiftly as possible for both parties, and bring finality to proceedings.
If Mr F accepts my final decision, he will be doing so on the basis of my understanding as
set out above. Its important that Mr F is aware that, once any final decision has been issued, 
if accepted, it cannot be amended or revisited in the future.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect IFM to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus anyinterest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
IFM should also pay Mr F compensation of £300 for the distress and inconvenience its 
unsuitable advice caused him. He is now drawing his benefits yet has experienced 
uncertainty about what benefits will be available to him in the future. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to pay Mr F the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr F any interest on that amount in full, as set 
out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr F any interest as set out above on the 
sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr F the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr F.
If Mr F accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr F can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr F may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman