DRN-3430968
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds handling of their claim on their 
legal expenses insurance concerning their damaged fence.
References to Fairmead include its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Bs representative contacted Fairmead in the Summer of 2019 to enquire about 
cover for damage to their fence caused by their neighbours. Fairmead accepted the claim 
and solicitors were appointed to handle the case in September 2019. Mr and Mrs Bs 
representative was asked to provide quotes for replacing or repairing the fence. 
The solicitors told Fairmead theyd closed the case in April 2020 as theyd not heard from 
Mr and Mrs B. 
Fairmead has confirmed the case was reopened in August 2020 after Mr and Mrs Bs 
representative contacted it. 
Fairmead say two quotes were provided to the solicitors one for £1,150 and the other for 
£1,200. These quotes were provided in April 2021.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative says a third quote was provided; this was for £1,500.
Mr and Mrs Bs neighbours said they were only willing to pay £500.
The solicitors wrote to Fairmead to ask if it would consider paying £650 (so that together with 
the £500 the neighbours had agreed to pay, Mr and Mrs B would have a sum equal to the 
lowest quote.) At the same time the solicitors warned against court proceedings as the costs 
would be disproportionate to the claim.
Fairmead agreed to pay £700. This meant that together with the £500 offered by 
Mr and Mrs Bs neighbour Mr and Mrs B would receive an amount equal to £1,200 (and the 
higher of the two quotes Fairmead says were provided).
Mr and Mrs Bs representative said that they wouldnt accept £1,200 and wanted £1,500. 
Mr and Mrs Bs representative made a complaint.
In its final response letter Fairmead explained that it was entitled to withdraw cover if Mr and 
Mrs B declined a reasonable offer.
Mr and Mrs B then accepted the offer of £700 but felt threatened into doing so and their 
representative says that some of the language used to explain what was happening was 
unclear. Fairmead has confirmed that the £700 payment has been sent. It has also said that 
it will chase the solicitors to ensure the £500 payment is sent.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said she would not expect 
a payment to be made for an amount higher than the quotes supplied by Mr and Mrs Bs 
representative. Any amount over this would be seen as betterment and therefore it would be 
unfair to expect Fairmead to pay. She thought that the policy was clear in allowing an offer to 
pay a reasonable amount for the claim instead of continuing with legal action. As Mr and Mrs 
Bs neighbour offered £500 and Fairmead offered to pay the remainder of the higher quote 
she thought this was fair. The investigator agreed some of the language used by Fairmead 
was legal jargon, but she thought when Mr and Mrs Bs representative raised questions 
Fairmead provided a clear explanation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B have made three separate complaints to the Financial Ombudsman. This 
decision only relates to the claim on Mr and Mrs Bs legal expenses insurance following 
damage to their fence by the trees belonging to their neighbour.
Mr and Mrs B have also made a separate complaint to the Legal Ombudsman about the 
conduct of the solicitors. I do not have jurisdiction to look into a complaint about the solicitors 
and will be making no findings about their conduct.
In common with many legal expenses policies, Mr and Mrs Bs insurance policy provides: 
The administrator may decide to pay you the reasonable value of your claim, instead of 
starting or continuing legal action. I dont think this is unreasonable. I wouldnt expect an 
insurer to pursue a claim where the likely costs of the pursuit outweighed the amount in 
dispute. So, the insurer making a payment to the insured in these circumstances is 
reasonable. And I think it is reasonable for it to take into account any sum offered by the 
neighbour when calculating what it would offer. 
Mr and Mrs Bs representative says they felt threatened into accepting the £700 offer. Ive 
read the final response letter. I dont think it was threatening. I think it set out the insurers 
position and, whilst I understand that was a position Mr and Mrs B didnt like, I dont think it 
was threatening and for reasons I will explain I dont think it was unreasonable either. I also 
think the final response letter was clear and any confusion Mr and Mrs B may previously 
have had regarding legal jargon should have been resolved.
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that they havent received a sum which together with the £500 
from their neighbour would be equal to the highest quote they provided. They feel that the 
higher sum would ensure a better quality of work. 
I think it is most likely that Mr and Mrs B did provide three quotes, probably one initially for 
£1,500 and then the other two later. I havent seen the quotes and dont know if they were 
quoting for exactly the same things. I havent investigated further because it doesnt change 
my view of what happened. I think even if there were three quotes and all three were quoting 
for the same thing it wouldnt be unreasonable for Fairmeads offer to be based on the 
middle quote. A consumer getting three quotes for the same thing would not generally 
accept the highest quote. And I dont expect an insurer to accept the highest quote in these 
circumstances either. If the highest quote was for replacement of the fence and the other two 
quotes were for repair then  as the legal proceedings would have been for rectifying the 
damage not for replacement  then I dont think it would be unreasonable for the insurer to 
make its payment based on the quotations for repair. So, either way I think using the £1,200 
quote as the basis for the offer to Mr and Mrs B was fair.Mr and Mrs Bs representative clearly feels very let down by the process. She says: We have 
been made to feel small and insignificant harassed and threatened especially by [the 
solicitors]. She feels that they have had very poor customer service and that a lot of their 
time has been taken up. I am sorry they feel this way. As I have said I cant comment on 
either the actions of the solicitors or on how their other claims with Fairmead were handled. I 
think Fairmead made them a reasonable offer. In its final response letter, it set things out 
clearly and any prior confusion should have been cleared up. Insurance claims can be 
stressful particularly where they involve claims against neighbours, and they can take up 
time. But in relation to the legal expenses claim for the fence I dont see anything that would 
make me think it was fair to award compensation due to the conduct of Fairmead.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman