DRN-2259236
The complaint
Mr B complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called Novaloans 
Limited, trading at the time as Cash4UNow. Mr B says he was lent to irresponsibly and the 
loans caused him financial problems.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Cash4UNow throughout this decision.
What happened
We now know that Mr B took out 6 loans from Cash4UNow between July 2016 and 
September 2018. Ive enclosed a summary of his borrowing based on the information 
provided to us: 
Loan Date Taken Out Date Repaid Type of Loan Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 13/07/2016 23/09/2016 Payday £300 £134.13
2 25/09/2016 30/01/2017 Instalment £400 £166.76
3 26/01/2017 unknown Instalment £300 £123.55
4 26/06/2017 12/01/2018 Instalment £350 £107.90
5 21/05/2018 06/09/2018 Instalment £250 £100.57
6 06/09/2018 14/09/2018 Instalment £300 £86.03
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and said they thought it should be upheld 
from the point of loan number 2 onwards. Cash4UNow said it only agreed to settle in respect 
of loan number 3, so the complaint has come to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr Bs complaint.
Cash4UNow needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to ensure that Mr B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to have taken into 
account a range of different factors, such as the amount being lent, the total repayment 
amount and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Cash4UNow should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So Cash4UNow was required to establish 
whether Mr B could sustainably repay the loans, not just whether the repayments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan repayments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr 
B could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the 
case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Cash4UNow said it carried out certain checks before agreeing to lend to Mr B, including 
assessing his income, expenditure and his creditworthiness. It says that all this information 
showed that he would be able to make the repayments he was committing to.  
Bearing in mind what Ive said above, about the length of the lending relationship, I think the 
financial checks Cash4UNow was obliged to carry out would initially have been quite basic 
ones. I also see that the first loan was a fairly moderate one, and Ive got no available 
evidence to think that given what Mr B had said about his income and expenses at that time, 
he wouldnt have been able to afford the repayments. I therefore dont have evidence to 
uphold the complaint about loan number 1.
From that point onwards, however, I think any reasonable assessment of Mr Bs 
circumstances would have identified that lending to him was increasingly risky. It can be 
seen, for example, that the credit history information Cash4UNow itself gathered prior to 
providing loan number 2 clearly showed Mr B was having problems managing money. At this 
point, he had 3 other active short-term loans outstanding elsewhere. 
Having decided to make certain background checks about Mr B at that point, Cash4UNow 
should have taken note of what was actually being revealed by those checks. It ought to 
have realised it was unlikely hed be able to sustainably repay this loan as he had other 
loans outstanding at the same time. And the repayments these loans all collectively 
demanded were problematic for Mr B - because he simply couldnt afford them all in a 
sustainable way. 
The same situation, in my view, arises in respect of loans 3, 4 and 5 as all these loans put 
Mr Bs income under so much pressure as to make them unsustainable. Loans 2  5 should 
therefore not have been advanced because Mr B was having obvious problems in managing 
his financial affairs.
By loan number 6, the point had been reached where the emerging pattern of repeated 
lending should have caused Cash4UNow to see Mr B wasnt merely borrowing to deal with 
short-term cash-flow problems; he was borrowing regularly to address shortfalls in his 
income and to meet an ongoing need. Loan 6, for example, was taken out after 26 months of continual borrowing. In my view, it was obvious he was having to consistently take out high 
interest, short-term lending over a sustained period and the indebtedness caused by this 
type of borrowing was harmful. Im therefore also upholding Mr Bs complaint for this 
additional failure in respect of loan 6. Cash4UNow repeatedly lent to Mr B in an 
unsustainable manner because:
 
this final loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging his indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use, over an extended time period; and
the length of time over which Mr B borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on his ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market 
for these high-cost loans.  
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr B Cash4UNow should:
refund all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans 2 - 6;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation to loans 2, 
3, 4 and 5.
loan 6 means any information recorded about it is adverse. So all entries about loan 
6 should be completely removed from Mr Bs credit file;
if Cash4UNow has sold any debt it should attempt to buy it back or otherwise ensure 
these directions are strictly complied with.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cash4UNow to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr B a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr Bs complaint and I direct Novaloans Limited to put things right for Mr B 
as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman