DRN-3982801
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund transactions he says he didnt 
make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In May 2022, Mr K opened a Lloyds account. He was sent his card, PIN, and online banking 
details separately by post to his registered address.
In June 2022, Mr K made a series of online payments in and out of his account. Then shortly 
after his last payment, a series of cash withdrawals were made using his card and PIN over 
the course of a little over a week, at an ATM near his address.
Mr K said hed not made the withdrawals. He explained hed received his online banking 
details, but not the card or PIN. He explained his post was delivered to a private letterbox 
through his front door which only he and his family had access to. He confirmed it was a safe 
place to deliver to and he hadnt had issues receiving post more widely. He said hed 
stopped checking his online banking because his phone was currently broken.
Lloyds held Mr K liable for the payments in dispute, as they didnt see a likely way that the 
withdrawals were made without Mr Ks permission.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr K 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Broadly speaking, Lloyds could hold Mr K liable for the payments in dispute if the evidence 
suggests that he authorised them. They were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that the payments were authorised  its based on whats most likely.
Im satisfied from Lloydss technical evidence that the withdrawals in dispute used Mr Ks 
genuine card, and the correct PIN. So I can see that these transactions were properly 
authenticated. The question, then, is whether the evidence suggests that its most likely Mr K 
consented to the transactions, or not.
The card and PIN were produced separately, on different days, and were sent from different 
departments for security. It would not have been obvious that either envelope contained a 
card or PIN, and a thief wouldve had no reasonable way of knowing that Mr K was even 
expecting a card and PIN. And they would need to have intercepted both envelopes in order 
to make these transactions. Whats more, its unclear how they could have accessed Mr Ks 
post, as it was sent to a safe, private letterbox that only he and his family had access to. And 
Mr K hadnt had wider issues with his post  indeed, he received the online banking details 
which Lloyds sent around the same time. So while there have been cases of cards and PINs 
being intercepted  e.g. when sent to a shared, public mailroom  it does not seem likely or 
plausible that someone would have intercepted both envelopes in Mr Ks particular case.
The person using the card and PIN did not check the balance before starting the disputed 
payments. Yet they appeared to know the balance, as they waited until Mr K credited the 
account and then withdrew the maximum amount until the account dropped below the daily 
limit, at which point they checked and took the exact remainder. Similarly, they appear to 
have known the withdrawal limit without checking  and Mr Ks account did not have the 
most common limit. It is not likely or plausible that a fraudster would know Mr Ks balance 
and limit beforehand without checking, but it would make sense if the withdrawals were 
made with Mr Ks consent.
The card and PIN were produced in late May, and would have arrived within a few days. But 
the card and PIN were not used at all until mid-June. If someone were trying to defraud 
Mr K, Id expect them to have used his card as quickly as possible before he noticed it hadnt 
arrived and blocked it. But the person using the card didnt even check the balance. They 
waited weeks, then appear to have known when Mr K would credit the account, as they only 
started making payments just after that. Again, this makes it seem very unlikely that a thief 
took Mr Ks card, but it does fit well with the possibility that the withdrawals were authorised.
Similarly, the person using the card did not use it as quickly as they could have, and only 
made ATM withdrawals, rather than trying other payments. But again, Id expect a fraudster 
to try to use the card as quickly as possible before Mr K noticed things were wrong and 
blocked it. So again, it doesnt seem very likely that this was done by a fraudster.
In the lead-up to the disputed payments, Mr K was checking his online banking often  up to 
several times a day. Then he stopped checking it entirely just after making a large credit and 
just before the disputed payments started. And he only resumed checking it after the 
payments finished. It doesnt seem likely that Mr K would only happen to stop all his online 
banking activity during the period of the disputed payments. When Mr K called Lloyds, he 
said he couldnt check his online banking because his phone was currently broken. But I can 
see that on that same day, he checked his online banking from his usual device at his usual 
IP address, and he called Lloyds from his registered phone number. So it appears that his 
phone was not broken when he said it was.
It's notable that while the disputed payments were going on, and it had been weeks since 
Mr K had ordered his card and PIN, he paid further money into the account. He did this at 
the point where his account was nearly out of funds. This then enabled further disputed 
withdrawals to be made. It doesnt seem likely that this was just a coincidence, but it does fit 
well with the possibility that the payments were made with Mr Ks consent.
Similarly, Mr K waited a month to tell Lloyds he hadnt got his card or PIN. Thats an 
unusually long time, not least as hed been paying large amounts of money into this account, 
and it was not a savings account where Id expect the funds to sit unused for a long time.Lastly, Ive not seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Mr K 
couldve authorised these payments or given someone else permission to make them.
In summary, Im satisfied that Mr Ks genuine card and PIN were used. Based on the 
evidence, there isnt a likely or plausible way that someone did this without Mr Ks 
permission. But it does seem both likely and plausible that the disputed payments were 
made with Mr Ks consent. So I think its fair that Lloyds declined a refund here. This is a 
difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr K to receive. But 
given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach 
any other conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman