DRN-3687966
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Legal & General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) unfairly declined a 
critical illness claim and cancelled her policies. Shes also unhappy about the amount of time 
L&G took to consider her claim. 
Mrs J is being supported by a representative, but for ease, Ill refer to Mrs J throughout this 
decision. 
What happened
On 7 August 2020 Mrs J attended a routine mammogram. On 11 August 2020 she was sent 
a letter with an appointment for 18 August 2020 for further investigations. By Mrs Js 
account, she didnt receive this letter until 17 August 2020. 
On 14 August 2020 Mrs J applied for mortgage decreasing life insurance and mortgage 
critical illness cover with L&G. Both policies were offered on standard terms and were due to 
run for 15 years from 14 August 2020. They provided cover of £120,000 and £35,000 
respectively. 
On 17 August 2020 Mrs J completed the check your details form confirming all the 
information shed provided on the application was correct. 
On 18 August 2020 Mrs J underwent a further mammogram and a biopsy. Her breast cancer 
diagnosis was confirmed on 1 September 2020 and in December 2020 Mrs J submitted a 
critical illness claim to L&G. 
L&G declined the claim. It said Mrs J hadnt provided correct information on the application 
form about her medical history. Specifically, about the routine mammogram shed had just 
before the policies were taken out. L&G said if it had known this information at the point of 
application, cover wouldve been postponed until the results of the mammogram were 
known. At which point the breast cancer diagnosis wouldve been given and cover wouldve 
been declined. It considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, which 
entitled it to decline the claim, treat the policies as if they were never in place and return the 
premiums paid. 
Mrs J complained to L&G and asked it to reconsider its decision. She said she hadnt told 
L&G about the mammogram as this was a routine screening test. And she didnt get the 
letter inviting her for further tests until after shed completed the application. Mrs J was also 
unhappy with the way L&G had handled her claim and her complaint.
L&G accepted its handling of the claim and complaint couldve been better and paid Mrs J 
£450 by way of an apology. But it maintained its decision to decline her claim and cancel the 
policies. 
Mrs J brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. She thought it was contrary to 
industry practice for an insurer to ask an applicant about routine screening for a healthy 
individual with no symptoms. And that a reasonable person wouldnt think it necessary to 
discloses this information. Mrs J also didnt think the question L&G asked was clear in this 
regard  given it asked about being referred to a hospital. She didnt consider that a routine 
mammogram should be categorised in this way - comparing it to routine eye or dental 
checks. And given the number of routine screening programs in place  Mrs J felt L&G 
shouldve included a specific question about those programs on the application if it felt such 
information was relevant to its underwriting.
Mrs J also said she didnt receive the follow up letter until after the policy started. And so, 
she said she answered the question to the best of her knowledge at the time of the 
application. Mrs J said she did disclose other information about her health, and any omission 
around the mammogram should be considered innocent. 
Our Investigator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said L&G had asked a clear 
question that Mrs J had answered incorrectly. She thought L&G acted fairly by declining the 
claim, cancelling the policies, and returning the premiums. Our Investigator also thought the 
£450 paid by L&G for its poor handling was fair. 
Mrs J doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision.  She 
said shed answered all the questions on the application truthfully  and that L&G had the 
opportunity to question her further before putting the policy in place. She also questioned 
why the omission hadnt been classified as innocent in the circumstances  and the claim 
paid. 
Mrs J maintained that at the point of application, shed not been referred for any 
investigations. Nor did she have any symptoms that required further investigation. She also 
believed it was unfair of L&G to rely on the letter asking her to attend a follow up 
appointment  as she had no knowledge of this until after the application was made and 
cover was in place. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I want to assure Mrs J that I didnt take this decision lightly. I understand this 
has been an incredibly difficult time for her, and I dont want to add to her distress. But I cant 
say L&G has treated her unfairly. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome. 
Mrs J hasnt disagreed with our Investigators findings in terms of L&Gs handling of her 
claim and complaint. And on considering this point myself, I think the £450 L&G has paid by 
way of any apology is reasonable and in line with what I would expect to see in similar 
cases. And so, I wont consider that point further  instead focusing on Mrs Js substantive 
complaint about L&Gs claim decision. 
Did Mrs J take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation?
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
L&G thinks Mrs J failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
completed the application form on 14 August 2020. 
Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs J she was asked, and what shes said about why 
she gave the answer she did. Ive also taken account of the supporting evidence. 
Ive looked at the question Mrs J was asked when she applied for the policies. It said:
When answering the following questions, if you're unsure whether to tell us about a 
medical condition, please tell us anyway.
Apart from anything else youve already told us about in this application, during the 
last 12 months have you:
 been referred to or had any investigations in hospital, for example biopsy, scan, 
ECG? Please ignore investigations relating to pregnancy or infertility where the results have 
been confirmed as normal.
Mrs J answered yes to this question in respect of a hospital referral for Labyrinthitis. But 
didnt disclose the mammogram shed had on 7 August 2020. 
Mrs J has argued that she wasnt referred for any investigations and had no concerns or 
symptoms  with the mammogram simply being part of a routine screening program. And 
that she didnt know she needed further investigations until after shed applied for the 
policies. 
The question is, I think, clear and unambiguous. Aside from the been referred element, it 
clearly asks if an applicant has had any investigations in the last 12 months. There is no 
suggestion that the underlying reason for the investigation must have come about because 
of a referral or because of any symptoms or concerns  nor does it differentiate between 
types of investigations (ongoing or routine). I appreciate that Mrs J might not have 
considered a routine mammogram as part of an NHS screening program to be information 
L&G would want to know about. But thats not relevant for the purposes of this question, 
which is clearly asking about any investigations thatve taken place in the last 12 months, 
regardless of the reason. 
As in Mrs Js case, any recent investigations can result in a diagnosis which an insurer 
would want to be aware of when assessing the risks of offering critical illness cover. Mrs J 
has said L&G couldve contacted her about her application before setting up the policy if it 
wanted more information. But that isnt how the application process works. L&G, and other 
insurers assess the risks associated with insuring an applicant based on what they declare 
on the application. The responses given might prompt further questions or require the need for manual underwriting. But an insurer wouldnt routinely contact an applicant to check the 
information was correct. That responsibility lies with the applicant. 
In Mrs Js case, the routine mammogram resulted in more tests and her eventual diagnosis. I 
dont dispute her testimony that at the time she applied for the policies, she wasnt aware of 
the need for further investigations  having not received the letter sent on 11 August 2020. 
But Mrs J was aware that shed had an investigation (a mammogram - the results of which 
she was yet to receive) at the time of the application. And as stated on the application, if 
Mrs J was unsure whether the mammogram was of relevance to L&G  she shouldve 
disclosed it anyway. 
And so, I think its reasonable L&G has said Mrs J shouldve disclosed the routine 
mammogram in response to the above question. 
Mrs J says that she did take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation and as such 
any omission was an innocent mistake, so the claim should be paid. 
Whilst its clear to me Mrs J answered the question incorrectly  I appreciate she may not 
have intended to do so. But that doesnt mean theres no fault on her part. So, in line with 
CIDRA, I must decide if Mrs J took reasonable care when answering the question not to 
make a misrepresentation. 
As Ive mentioned above, I think the question was clear and unambiguous. Mrs J mightve 
interpreted the question more narrowly than its been written, by thinking a routine 
mammogram wasnt relevant. But that, is itself, not taking reasonable care to provide L&G 
with the information it requested. I must also bear in mind that the mammogram took place 
just a week before Mrs J applied for the policy. So, I think this information was recent 
enough for her to remember when completing the application. 
Mrs J was also reminded of the importance of providing accurate information, and the 
possible implications of not doing so. This was noted on both the application form, and when 
she was asked to check the details shed provided.  
So, taking everything into account, I dont think Mrs J took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. 
Did the misrepresentation make a difference?
I can see from L&Gs underwriting criteria from the time of the application that if 
Mrs J had disclosed the mammogram, L&G wouldve postponed the application until the 
outcome of that was known. I can see from L&Gs claim records that it accepted Mrs Js 
testimony that she wasnt aware that she had been called back for further tests at the point 
she applied, having not received the appointment letter  and so L&G hasnt relied on that 
information in deciding if the misrepresentation occurred. Rather its focus has been on the 
mammogram itself, which was known to Mrs J at the time of the application.
On postponing the application, L&G wouldve found out about the need for further tests 
and the eventual breast cancer diagnosis. At which point L&Gs underwriting confirms the 
life and critical illness cover wouldve been declined. This means Im satisfied Mrs Js 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. Innocent misrepresentation isnt 
an option under CIDRA.  L&G has treated Mrs Js misrepresentation as careless. CIDRA sets out that where a 
consumer makes a careless misrepresentation the insurer can take whatever action it 
wouldve taken had the relevant information been disclosed at the outset. This could mean 
altering the terms of the policy, reducing the sum assured if a higher premium would have 
been charged, or, as L&G did, avoiding the policies if cover would never have been offered. 
This means the policies were looked upon as if they never existed, the claim was declined, 
and all the premiums were refunded. 
Mrs J was asymptomatic when she applied for the policies and was of breast screening age 
 making the mammogram a routine procedure that she wasnt concerned about. She also 
didnt completely disregard the medical questions by disclosing her labyrinthitis.  And so, I 
agree with L&G that the misrepresentation should be treated as careless. 
Taking everything into account, I think L&Gs decision to decline Mrs Js claim, cancelling the 
policies and returning the premiums was fair and reasonable. So, I wont be asking it to take 
any action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman