DRN-2735534
The complaint
Mr B has complained about loan accounts held with HSBC UK Bank Plc. After receiving a 
letter from HSBC in November 2019 about a refund on one of his 13 loan accounts, Mr B 
told HSBC that he believed refunds should be made on other accounts, due to what he says 
is HSBCs failure to comply with legislation. Mr B says HSBC has refused to review his other 
12 accounts. He would like the bank to do so and to pay him any refunds due on those 
accounts.
What happened
Mr B has 13 loan accounts with HSBC, either residential buy-to-let loans or loans secured on 
commercial properties. Some are interest-only, some are capital repayment. In 2019, after 
carrying out a remediation exercise, HSBC identified an area of non-compliance with the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to some of its loan book, which included one of 
Mr Bs loans. The bank wrote to Mr B about this loan, explaining that he was due a refund of 
interest, and gave the reasons for this.
After receiving the letter Mr B contacted HSBC because he wanted the bank to investigate 
all the loans hed had with it based on what he claimed was HSBCs failure to comply with 
legislation. HSBC confirmed that no loan other than the one on which the refund had been 
made had been affected.
Dissatisfied with HSBCs response, Mr B complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that HSBC had acted fairly, and had offered Mr B a refund of interest based on a technicality 
which had been identified on a single account. The investigator noted that HSBC had not 
identified any other account on which a refund was due, nor had Mr B been able to provide 
specific details of any actions on his other accounts which had caused him any detriment.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators findings. He has made some further points, which I 
summarise below:
the loans taken out were concurrent and were all for the same, property-related, 
reasons;
they were taken out in the same branch, sometimes with the same manager;
he wasnt provided with paperwork on any of the loans;
the loans were mis-sold, causing distress, financial loss and inconvenience;
in 2012 and 2013 he made a material loss;
HSBC has made mistakes on his accounts in the past;
HSBC has a poor record of compliance in the UK, the United States and elsewhere;
HSBC has an obligation to look into the other accounts;
it is his intention to ask HSBC to look at each account that the bank hasnt investigated, 
and he intends to approach the bank about this after my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied HSBC isnt required to do anything further in relation to 
reviewing Mr Bs accounts. These are my reasons.
The review conducted by HSBC which identified one account of Mr Bs as being non-
compliant with the CCA was a remediation exercise relating to a specific issue (which the 
bank explained in its letter sent in November 2019). I think its likely that if HSBC had 
identified any other accounts which didnt comply with the CCA, refunds would have been 
made on those accounts too.
Naturally,  having received a letter about one of his accounts, Mr Bs suspicions were raised 
that HSBC might have made errors on his other accounts. But hes been unable to identify 
any errors and instead wants HSBC to carry out a review of all his accounts and tell him if 
there have been any mistakes and put them right. 
I dont think this is reasonable. The bank doesnt provide an auditing service for its 
customers and so there is no basis on which I think it would be fair to expect HSBC to review 
Mr Bs accounts where he himself has been unable to identify an error.
Likewise, the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt provide an auditing service or carry out 
a forensic analysis of customer accounts to identify errors. Of course, its open to Mr B to 
instruct an independent qualified professional such as an accountant or actuary to audit his 
accounts to see if they are subject to the same CCA breach. But that would have to be at his 
expense  though if errors were found to his detriment, he could complain about them and 
his costs in discovering them could be taken into account in putting matters right. However, 
as things stand, Im satisfied HSBC isnt required to review Mr Bs accounts where no 
specific issues have been raised.
In response to the investigators findings, Mr B raised a number of issues about his loans 
with which he says he is dissatisfied  mis-sale of the loans, the fact that they were arranged 
in the same branch of HSBC, failure to provide him with documentation about the loans, and 
financial losses in 2012 and 2013. 
These are new issues, unconnected with the reason for Mr B bringing this current complaint 
 which is that Mr B believed he was due a refund due to HSBCs failure to comply with 
legislation. 
I cant investigate new issues raised during the course of a complaint, and I see Mr B has 
noted this, saying he will raise these matters with the bank after this final decision. As I 
understand the loans were taken out in about 2005 and Mr B is complaining about financial 
losses he suffered in 2012 and 2013, it may well be that Mr B has left it too late to complain 
about those matters, but that is not for me to decide here. 
Mr B is free to raise his concerns with HSBC about allegations of mis-sale or 
mismanagement of his loan accounts, and the bank will provide its response. If Mr B 
remains dissatisfied with HSBCs response, he can bring a new complaint to us.
But in relation to this current complaint, Im satisfied with the banks explanation that none of 
Mr Bs other loans were subject to the very specific area of non-compliance with the CCA 
which led to him being offered a refund on one of his loans in November 2019. I appreciate 
Mr B will not agree, but he is under no obligation to accept this decision. As Ive said above, Mr B can, if he wishes, have his own audit carried out to ascertain if any 
of those accounts are subject to the same CCA breach that led to him being offered a refund 
on one account in November 2019. But Im satisfied HSBC isnt required to do this for him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman