DRN-4421097
The complaint
Mr B complains that Monzo Bank Ltd did not refund £6,200 that he lost as part of a scam.
What happened
Mr B found an advert on a social media platform for an investment company. He looked 
them up online and thought he was dealing with someone connected to a genuine 
cryptocurrency platform. Unfortunately, a scammer had created an e-mail that appeared to 
be linked, but they were not actually representing the genuine company.
Mr B was encouraged to open accounts with two different e-money providers, Monzo and a 
provider Ill call X. He opened the Monzo account on 17 October 2022. He began making 
payments to the cryptocurrency wallet through X from his primary bank account and the 
Monzo account. He made a payment of £6,200 from his Monzo account to his account with 
X, which was then moved on to the cryptocurrency wallet. Eventually, the scammer started 
to ask for tax payments up front for the returns he had accumulated. At that point, Mr B 
contacted the genuine cryptocurrency platform and realised he had been dealing with a 
scammer. 
Mr B raised a fraud claim through a representative and Monzo responded explaining it did 
not agree it had made an error when processing the payment.  Mr B referred the complaint 
to our service and our Investigator looked into it. They explained the payment did not fall 
under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code, as the payment had gone 
between two accounts in Mr Bs name which were under his control. They felt that as the 
Monzo account was new and there had been no previous debits on the account, there was 
no comparable activity to say the payment of £6,200 was unusual enough to have warranted 
intervention from Monzo. So, they didnt think Monzo missed an opportunity to reveal the 
scam and didnt recommend a refund.
Mr B did not accept the view as he felt the payment was suspicious due to its high value and 
the fact it was to a new payee. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Mr B has been the victim of a cruel investment scam. As has been 
explained, the payment does not fall under the CRM code, so Mr Bs case does not fall 
under the same level of protection as one under the CRM would. However, Monzo does still 
have a basic duty of care to its customers.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Broadly speaking, the starting position in law is that an account provider is expected to 
process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the account. And a customer will then be responsible for the 
transactions that they have authorised.
Its not in dispute here that Mr B authorised the payment of £6,200 as he was moving it on to 
his account with X, so it could be utilized for what he thought was a genuine investment.  So, 
while I recognise that Mr B didnt intend the money to go to eventually go to scammers, the 
starting position in law is that Monzo was obliged to follow Mr Bs instruction and process the 
payment. Because of this, he is not automatically entitled to a refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for 
account providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes 
monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of 
financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent 
customers falling victims to scams. So, Ive also thought about whether Monzo did enough to 
try to keep Mr Bs account safe.
Ive looked at Mr Bs statements, so see if the payment of £6,200 was particularly unusual or 
out of character when compared to his normal account activity. As has already been 
highlighted, this was the first debit from the account, so there is nothing to compare the 
payment to. I can see the account was opened on 17 October, a credit to the account of 
£1,000 happened on 18 October, a further credit of £5,500 happened on 24 October and the 
transfer of £6,200 happened the same day.  
While the value of the transaction is not insignificant, I dont agree that the value alone is 
enough to have warranted intervention by Monzo. Ive gone on to consider the pattern of the 
account usage. The account was opened a week prior to the transaction and the credits for 
the payment happened in that week. While I recognise the majority was credited on the 
same day as the payment in question, I dont think this pattern is unusual enough to give 
cause for concern. I say this because there was some time between the account opening 
and it being used for the transfer, and there was still £300 remaining in the account, meaning 
it wasnt drained as a result. Considering all of this as a whole, I dont agree that the 
transaction warranted intervention by Monzo prior to it being processed. So, I dont think 
they missed an opportunity to reveal the scam.
I can see Monzo did provide some generic warnings prior to the payment being processed, 
but these werent specific to the type of scam Mr B was a victim of. However, as the 
payment was being made to an account in Mr Bs own name with another e-money provider, 
I dont think Monzo could reasonably have been aware the payment was going to be used 
for an investment. So, I dont think Monzo needed to provide a more specific warning in this 
case. 
As the funds went to another account in Mr Bs name before being moved to a 
cryptocurrency wallet, there was nothing further Monzo could do to retrieve them once they 
were aware of the scam. So, I dont think they could have done anything to help M B recover 
the money. Having carefully considered everything available to me, I dont think Monzo 
reasonably missed an opportunity to reveal the scam, so I dont direct them to refund the 
£6,200 to Mr B.    My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman