DRN-3519041
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited handled and settled 
a claim against her buildings insurance. 
Mr G  Mrs Gs representative  has brought the complaint on her behalf. For ease of 
reading Ill refer to them as Mrs G throughout, unless stated otherwise. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties, so I wont repeat it here. In my 
decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
Mrs G reported a claim to Lloyds in December 2020 after a car and caravan caught fire 
opposite her home. Lloyds accepted the claim and cash settled it based on Mrs Gs own 
contractors quote. But they removed some repairs from the quote they say werent claim-
related. 
Mrs G wasnt happy. She says Lloyds failed to assess the heat damage caused to the roof, 
chimney, and side elevation render. She also says they caused nine months delay despite 
knowing about her health circumstances. So, she complained. 
Lloyds say they asked Mrs Gs contractor to comment on what caused the damage to these 
areas, but they declined to do so. They did, however, provide photos which Lloyds relied on 
to remove several repairs from the cash settlement. They responded to the complaint in 
February 2022 maintaining their position on the claim, but paid Mrs G £100 compensation 
for delays caused. Mrs G remained unhappy and approached our service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought Lloyds settled the claim 
fairly but recommended they pay Mrs G a further £150 compensation for the delays caused. 
Neither party accepted the investigators view, so the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whether Lloyds settled the claim fairly 
Lloyds liability was limited to cash settling the repairs to damage caused by the fire. And the 
question I must answer here is whether I think Lloyds assessed and settled the claim fairly. 
I accept Lloyds didnt reattend following their July 2021 letter saying they would. Although its 
disputed, the claim notes suggest Mrs G requested a visit twice  the first she cancelled due 
to her health, and on the second occasion the surveyor wasnt available. Repairs were later 
completed  which included the areas not yet validated  around October 2021. 
It's unclear why Mrs Gs own contractor declined to provide Lloyds with information 
regarding the areas repaired that hadnt been validated. I agree it would have been helpful 
for Lloyds to have reattended, and its not quite clear why that didnt take place. But, in any 
event, Ive gone on to consider what happened next. 
Lloyds passed Mrs Gs contractors photos to an in-house surveyor. Its not uncommon for 
aspects of a claim to be validated by photos, provided the photos are clear  which I think 
they are in this case. The surveyor commented on the photos, and said, amongst other 
things, that: 
There is no evidence of any smoke or heat damage [bold added for emphasis by 
ombudsman] from the fire in the street We must not overlook that for a long time the 
chimney brickwork has been transporting smoke quite normally and naturally away from the 
interior when solid fires were lit. The chimney construction is very resilient to the affects of 
heat. 
So, whilst a reattendance didnt take place, Im satisfied Lloyds acted reasonably when 
relying on their in-house surveyors comments based on the photos provided by the repairing 
contractor. I note Mrs G says Lloyds only considered the smoke damage, but its clear from 
the above extract (Ive highlighted in bold) that heat damage was also considered. 
They also reviewed photos of Mrs Gs house dating back to 2009 using an online maps 
service. They say the photos from 2009 and those provided by the contractor show the 
cement pointing had eroded in some areas with minor cracking showing, and re-pointing was 
required because of gradual weathering and erosion  not the 2020 claim incident. They also 
make the same remarks regarding the side elevation render, where they say the same 
cracks can be seen in photos dating back to 2009, prior to the claim incident. 
And whilst there were no photos of the hip and ridge tiles, they say its unlikely fire damage 
was the cause, as these are the surfaces most vulnerable to weathering as they are the 
most exposed feature of the roof. And fire and smoke damage on such a surface, given 
smoke was travelling quickly upwards, would be unlikely that the hip and ridge tiles required 
re-bedding due to the claim incident. 
Ive seen Mrs G feels strongly these areas were damaged by intense heat, and her 
representative has shared his views. Ive seen the video clip online of the fire, so I 
understand why they think intense heat was the cause. But, Im not a surveyor and must 
base my decision on all the information available to me, including expert opinions. And in 
this case, I havent been persuaded by Mrs G theres strong supporting evidence to 
challenge Lloyds surveyors comments, or that demonstrates they failed to assess the claim 
and settle it fairly. So, I wont be requiring Lloyds to do anything further in respect of the 
claim. 
Ive also seen Mr G says the scaffolding Lloyds erected caused damage to a property next 
door which they had to pay for. Within Lloyds final response letter, they requested Mrs G 
forwards any costs so they could be considered further, which was the right thing to do. Mrs 
G should forward the costs and relevant information to Lloyds if she hasnt yet done so. 
Delays and compensation 
I was sorry to read of Mrs Gs health circumstances. She says Lloyds delayed the claim by 
nine months despite being aware of this. She also says she saved Lloyds a significant 
amount of money by staying with her representative  Mr G  throughout the claim, rather 
than using the alternative accommodation section of the policy. Like our investigator, Ive also created an approximate timeline of events to decide whether I 
think Lloyds caused any avoidable delays. And, having done so, I cannot agree Lloyds were 
responsible for nine months worth of delays. I can appreciate things took longer than all 
parties might have anticipated, but Im mindful this was a rather complex claim. Ive seen 
from the initial February 2021 report, the surveyor says the property next door  also 
impacted by the fire  had repairs already underway at this point, so, I do appreciate Mrs G 
would have been frustrated with progress. 
But, Ive seen most of the delays are accounted for where surveyors and quotes were being 
arranged, and Lloyds then challenged aspects of this which they were within their right to do 
 particularly given Im satisfied some aspects didnt fall within their liability.  
There were some delays I think could have been avoided, or at least shortened, early in the 
claim. Lloyds accepted this and paid Mrs G £100 compensation. Im in agreement, however, 
with our investigator that the £100 compensation payment from Lloyds doesnt go far enough 
to recognise the impact this had on Mrs G, particularly given her health circumstances and 
she was out of her home. So, Ill be directing Lloyds to pay Mrs G an additional £150 
compensation. 
Whilst Mrs G was away from her home and had the benefit of alternative accommodation, 
she stayed with her representative, Mr G, and Ive seen Lloyds paid her an allowance of £25 
to help with utility bills, amongst other things. Whilst I accept Lloyds would have been 
required to cover a higher amount had Mrs G decided to use the alternative accommodation 
benefit, she didnt. So, I wouldnt expect this section of the policy to respond retrospectively. 
Summary 
This was a complex claim and things didnt go as smoothly as all parties would have liked. 
But, in answer to the question I set out earlier in my decision, Im satisfied Lloyds assessed 
and settled the claim fairly in line with the policy terms. 
I do, however, think things could have been handled better. Whilst I dont agree Lloyds 
caused nine months worth of delays, there were avoidable delays during the earlier stages 
of the claim Ive no doubt would have caused Mrs G to experience a level of distress and 
inconvenience  over and above whats naturally expected following a fire claim  
particularly given her health circumstances. So, Ill be directing Lloyds to pay Mrs G £150 
compensation. 
Putting things right
Lloyds must now pay Mrs G £150 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold it. I now require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to pay 
Mrs G £150 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman