DRN-3273787
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) dealt with 
a claim under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M contacted Lloyds to make a claim for a water leak in her home. Lloyds arranged for 
trace and access to take place. However, Mrs M later contacted Lloyds to say the trace and 
access hadnt been dealt with and raised a complaint about the poor communication related 
to this. When Lloyds replied, it accepted there had been issues with communication.
A few months later, Mrs M contacted Lloyds again because she said she had been trying to 
contact the loss adjuster but he wasnt replying. She wanted her claim to progress and was 
unhappy about the communication issues. When Lloyds replied, it accepted there had been 
communication issues and that this had impacted the claim.
Mrs M contacted our service. Lloyds then reviewed the complaint and offered £600 
compensation for the issues raised. Mrs M didnt accept the compensation. Our investigator 
then reviewed the complaint. She said the £600 offered was fair in the circumstances.
As Mrs M didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M contacted Lloyds because she said the trace and access hadnt been dealt with. 
Lloyds told her its records showed the trace and access was complete. Mrs M explained it 
wasnt complete and that she had already spoken to Lloyds about this and no-one had then 
followed this up. I can understand that Mrs M would have been concerned and frustrated by 
the trace and access not being completed and that even though she had already told Lloyds 
this, the issue remained unresolved.
Mrs M then complained again because there were further communication issues. Mrs M told 
the loss adjuster she had concerns about the builders who were due to carry out the work 
and had lost trust in them. She also said she needed timescales and a plan because she 
had a disabled son who would need to be out of the house while the works took place. The 
loss adjuster offered to cash settle the claim so that Mrs M could arrange the work herself. 
Mrs M didnt think the amount offered was enough to carry out the work and after some 
further discussion, Lloyds increased its offer, which Mrs M accepted. However, I can see 
there were times when the loss adjuster didnt reply to emails and that Mrs M then seemed 
to have to ask for replies in order to try and agree the cash settlement.
So, Ive thought about compensation. Lloyds has now offered £600. Thinking about 
everything that happened, including the amount of time it took to progress the claim, the 
reasons for these delays, Mrs Ms need to make plans for her son, the poor communication 
and Mrs M having to chase for responses and progress, I think the amount offered by Lloyds 
is reasonable in response to the issues raised.
Im aware that Mrs M has said she wants more compensation, including because she said 
she had to pay huge extra costs and that she had to move to other accommodation while the 
works were being carried out. However, I havent seen evidence that Mrs M has complained 
to Lloyds about these issues. On the same day Lloyds issued its response to her second 
complaint, Mrs M accepted the cash settlement. If Mrs M has now found further damage or 
that the cash settlement wasnt enough for the damage already identified, she would need to 
raise this with Lloyds so it is able to consider this.
But for the issues Ive considered, I think the £600 offered by Lloyds was reasonable and I 
require it to pay this to Mrs M.
Putting things right
Lloyds should pay Mrs M a total of £600 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited to pay Mrs M a total of £600 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman