DRN-3677691
The complaint
Ms C complains that BUPA Insurance Limited wouldnt reinstate her private medical 
insurance policy.
What happened
Ms C had a private medical insurance policy with BUPA which was renewable annually. She 
paid the policy premiums by monthly direct debit. On 2 December 2021 Ms Cs bank told 
BUPA her direct debit had been cancelled. BUPA didnt receive the December 2021 
premium so on 20 December 2021 it wrote to Ms C saying cover under the policy had 
ended.
On 4 January 2022 Ms C called BUPA about her policy. She said shed been informed her 
policy had ended because of the non-payment in December. BUPA told Ms C the policy 
lapsed on 3 December 2021 so there would no cover after that date. It also told Ms C that no 
cover applied to the consultation and tests it had previously pre-authorised if the procedure 
hadnt occurred before 3 December 2021. BUPA told Ms C she had three months from 
4 December 2021 to pay the missed payments and reinstate the policy.
On 7 March 2022 Ms C phoned BUPA and said shed found out BUPA hadnt paid for her 
consultation and tests pre-authorised before she ended her policy. She told BUPA shed 
been led to believe the costs would be paid. BUPA told Ms C that as the procedure 
happened after the policy ended on 3 December 2021 it wasnt covered. Ms C also said 
shed received an email saying if she re-joined BUPA shed get one months free cover and if 
she paid the outstanding premiums there would be no gap in cover. BUPA told Ms C she 
was now outside the three months reinstatement period.
Ms C complained that shed contacted BUPA only a few days after the three months 
reinstatement period. She wanted it to reinstate the policy on the same terms without a gap 
in cover.
BUPA said it had clearly told Ms C the deadline to reinstate the policy. Its marketing email to 
Ms C offering for her to re-join with one months free premium was dated 2 February 2022. 
So Ms C wouldnt have had to pay the first month (December 2021) but would have still 
needed to pay for the months afterwards to reinstate the policy.
Ms C complained to us. She said:
She hadnt cancelled her direct debit in December 2021, she was abroad when the 
payment didnt go through and only realised later. BUPA hadnt told her the 
December payment hadnt been received.
Although in the January 2022 call BUPA had offered to take the outstanding 
payments she didnt pay then as she wanted to return to the UK and check with her 
bank to see if the payments had gone out.
When BUPA told her she had until the 4 March 2022 to reinstate the lapsed policy 
she told it she would reinstate by then. She tried to call the policy reinstatement team 
on 3 and 4 March 2022 but she wasnt able to get through on the specific number 
shed been given. It was only when she called BUPAs general number on the 
7 March that she spoke to someone. 
She taken out a new policy with BUPA in May 2022 but she wanted her old policy 
reinstated without gaps in cover which is what BUPA had said would happen.
Our investigator said BUPA had acted fairly. 
Ms C disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms C says shes still waiting for further information she asked from BUPA. Were past the 
date our investigator gave Ms C to respond to us and as I have enough evidence to make a 
decision I think its reasonable for me to do so.
I have to decide whether BUPA acted fairly and reasonably, and I think it did. Ill explain why. 
The policy sets out the terms of the contract of insurance between Ms C and BUPA. Under 
the heading 'Cover for your and your dependants' at page 34 the policy says:
Your cover, and that of all your Dependants, will automatically end if you do not pay 
your subscriptions, or any other payment you have to make in respect of the cover, 
on or before the date they are due. In the event of your membership terminating as a 
result of your failing to pay subscriptions in respect of your membership, on the due 
date, we may at our sole discretion permit your membership and that of your 
Dependants to continue, on condition that the overdue subscriptions payable in 
respect of your membership are received by us within 30 days of the due date.
So under the strict policy terms, if BUPA doesnt receive the policy premiums the policy ends 
but BUPA has a discretion to continue the policy if it receives the overdue premium within 30 
days of the date the premium was due. BUPA acted over and above the policy terms in 
saying to Ms C that she could reinstate the policy within three months by paying all the 
outstanding premiums by 4 March 2022.
Ms C says she didnt cancel the December direct debit with her bank, but even if thats 
correct it doesnt matter as the issue is that BUPA didnt receive the premium. 
Ms C also says BUPA didnt tell her in December 2021 that the premium hadnt been paid. 
Ive seen a copy of the letter BUPA sent to Ms C on 20 December 2021 which says her 
policy had ended and to reinstate the cover on the same terms the outstanding premiums 
had to be paid within three months. I appreciate Ms C might not have seen the letter at the 
time if she was travelling. But it contained the same information BUPA gave her in the 
January 2022 call.
Im satisfied that in the January 2022 call BUPA was very clear to Ms C that she had until 
4 March 2022 to pay the outstanding premiums to reinstate the policy. In that call BUPA 
offered to take the two premiums that were outstanding at that point but Ms C declined. 
I understand she wanted to check with her bank what happened about the non-payments. 
But she still had a clear deadline, which was reasonable, in which to make the payment to 
BUPA to reinstate the policy.BUPAs 2 February 2022 email to Ms C says if she wanted to come back to the policy she 
had three months from the policy end date to make the missing payments (with one month 
free) and policy cover would then continue with no gaps. BUPA had already told Ms C the 
policy cover had ended on 3 December 2021 so when she got that email she still had time to 
make the payment to reinstate the policy by 4 March, which she didnt do.
I havent seen any evidence that Ms C tried to call BUPA on 3 or 4 March. But even if she 
had such evidence it wouldnt change my mind as to whats a fair and reasonable outcome. 
She could have used the alternative number for BUPA she used for the 7 March 2022 call 
and/or contacted BUPA using another method. 
Im satisfied that BUPA acted over and above the policy terms and fairly when it gave Ms C 
three months to pay the outstanding premiums to reinstate the policy. As she didnt do so 
BUPA acted fairly and reasonably in not reinstating the policy.
Ive also listened to Ms Cs call to BUPA of 7 March 2022. She started the call by saying she 
had terminated her policy and her concern was that BUPA hadnt paid the invoices for her 
consultation and tests it had pre-authorised before 3 December 2021. Ms Cs comment to 
BUPA that she terminated her policy is contrary to what shes said about trying to reinstate 
the policy. But putting that aside Im satisfied BUPA acted in line with the policy terms and 
fairly in not paying the invoices. 
I say that because the policy states on page 33:
We only pay Benefits for Treatment you receive while you are covered under the 
policy and we only pay Benefits in accordance with the cover that applies to you on 
the date the Treatment takes place. We do not pay for any Treatment, including any 
Treatment we have pre-authorised, that takes place on or after the date your cover 
ends.
The policy is clear BUPA wouldnt pay for treatment/procedures which took place after the 
cover ended on 3 December 2021 even if it had pre-authorised before the cover ended. 
BUPA also clearly gave that information to Ms C in the January 2022 call so she was aware 
of the situation during the three months period she could have reinstated the policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman