DRN-3709356
The complaint
Mr Q complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) wont refund money he lost after 
he fell victim to an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The circumstances which led to this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont 
repeat them in detail here. But, in summary, I understand them to be as follows.
In March 2020, Mr Q made a connection with a person through a well-known social media 
platform, who Ill refer to as M. They began messaging each other and, on the first day they 
started messaging, M told Mr Q that she needed money for bills and he sent her the money. 
Over the course of the next ten months or so, believing M was his girlfriend, Mr Q made 157 
payments, totalling just under £16,000 to M. Hes explained that M asked for payments for a 
number of different reasons, including for bills, rent, food and to pay for her grandmothers 
funeral.
Mr Q has told us that he arranged to meet M on a number of occasions, but each time he 
went to visit, M made excuses and he never met them face to face. Mr Q has said that his 
friends tried to stop him, but he didnt listen to them. He added that he works for a financial 
institution and tells people not to do this and that he gives scam advice every day, yet fell 
victim himself.
In December 2020, Mr Q sent M (through an account he was told belonged to a friend of M) 
£1,000 believing Ms friend would return the money, but when the money wasnt returned    
Mr Q has said that it was at this point he realised he was being scammed and told his family 
what was happening.
Mr Q has said he continued to communicate with M, but only remained in contact as he 
wanted to get his money back. But Mr Q did go on to make a couple of further payments to 
M when she asked for them, with the final payment being made in January 2021.
Mr Q contacted the bank to report what had happened and to log a scam claim. RBS logged 
the matter and contacted the beneficiary banks (the banks where Mr Q had paid his funds 
to) but it was unable to recover any funds. RBS also considered whether Mr Q was due a 
refund of the monies he had lost. RBS considered the case under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code). This is a voluntary code which RBS is a 
signatory of. The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.
Having looked into the complaint, RBS issued its final response on 13 September 2021 not 
upholding it. In summary this was because it didnt think there was a bank error. The bank 
has added that due to the payments being low in value, they didnt flag up on its systems, 
and apart from the first payment they were all to a registered payee, so it didnt consider the 
payments suspicious. But nevertheless, it said that each time Mr Q made a payment he 
would have been presented with a warning, which it said he ignored.
Alongside this RBS said that, given Mr Q works for a bank, there was an argument for him to 
perhaps have known better as he should be aware of the prevalence, and damage, that 
these scams can cause.
Unhappy with the response from RBS, Mr Q then brought his complaint to this service. One 
of our Investigators looked into things and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary, due to the value of the payments he didnt think RBS were required to provide    
Mr Q with an effective warning. Our Investigator also thought Mr Q could have done more to 
question M and to satisfy himself that she was genuine, before sending money. He said this 
because he thought it ought to have concerned Mr Q that M asked to borrow money on the 
first day he started to talk to her. Our Investigator added that as the scam developed it 
became increasingly implausible, as M would make repeated excuses for not meeting him 
and he never received money back that he was promised.
Mr Q didnt agree with our Investigators view, so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mr Q has referred to another case, where he said RBS had refunded a 
consumer who had fallen to a scam that Mr Q believes was similar to what happened to him. 
But I would point out that, while on the surface complaints may seem quite similar, each 
complaint is determined by its own individual circumstances. Here, as Im required to do, Ive 
looked at the individual circumstances of Mr Qs complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr Q, and I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly that this money should be returned to him. But having thought very carefully about 
RBSs actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing these transactions to be 
made. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly say 
RBS should reimburse Mr Q the money he has sadly lost. Ill explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them, even though they 
authorised the payment.When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether RBS 
should reimburse some or all of the money Mr Q lost in line with the provisions of the CRM 
Code it is a signatory of. As well as this, Ive thought about whether it ought to have done 
more to protect Mr Q from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Mr Q does not dispute that he made the payments. This means they were authorised by him 
and the starting point under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 is that it is Mr Q, rather 
than RBS that is responsible for them.
But the starting point under the CRM code is that RBS should pay Mr Q a refund, unless one 
of the exceptions applies. In this instance, RBS would be justified in not paying him a full 
refund if it could establish that:
- the customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning; or
- where in all the circumstances, the customer made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was 
expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services, and/or that the 
person or business with whom they transacted with was legitimate.
Im persuaded one of the listed exceptions to reimbursement under the provisions of the 
CRM Code applies in the circumstances of this case. From what I have seen, I dont think  
Mr Q had a reasonable basis for believing the person he was sending money to was 
legitimate. I say that because the situation seems to have escalated quickly. From what     
Mr Q has told us, he first sent money to M on the same day that they started speaking. But 
Ive not seen evidence to suggest that Mr Q had built significant enough trust in M before he 
started to make payments to them and he hadnt been provided any evidence to show that 
they were potentially in a position to be able to return the amounts paid as promised.
Im also mindful that Mr Q continued to send money to M, despite not having any funds 
returned to him. And that despite going to visit M on numerous occasions, Mr Q had been 
given different reasons for why the meetings couldnt take place, so Mr Q had never met M 
face to face. Im also mindful that Mr Q has said that he was told by his friends to stop 
making payments, but he didnt take on board their advice. I also think its important, in the 
specific circumstances of this case, that Mr Q has told this service that in his line of work, he 
talks to customers on a daily basis about scams  so I think its reasonable, that Mr Qs 
personal circumstances, would reasonably have made him more aware of how scams of this 
type will typically play out.
I think there was enough going on that Mr Q should have had significant concerns about the 
payments he was making. There were red flags about Ms intentions from the outset and Im 
persuaded it ought reasonably to have led Mr Q to take a more cautious approach. By not 
doing so, I dont think he has proceeded to make the payments with a reasonable basis for 
believing the person he was transacting with was legitimate.
Overall, Mr Q has lost a considerable amount of money as a result of this scam. But when 
looking at each individual payment, I dont think they stood out enough so that RBS should 
have identified a scam risk and provided an effective warning. This means I dont need to 
consider whether the information RBS showed Mr Q at the time he made the payments 
meets the standards required by the CRM code.
Im mindful Mr Q has said RBS ought to have known this was a scam and done more to 
protect him. As Mr Q authorised these payments, RBS had an obligation to follow his 
instructions. But, alongside the provisions of the CRM code, there are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the 
transfer - as a matter of good practice RBS shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and 
out of character transactions.
RBS has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual activity 
or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. But on balance, for 
reasons Ive explained above, in the circumstances of this case I cant fairly say that the 
transactions were so unusual or suspicious, that they ought to have alerted RBS that Mr Q 
was at risk of financial harm. As a result, I dont think RBS acted unreasonably in not making 
enquiries about the payments before processing them. There isnt enough here for me to 
think RBS should have suspected Mr Q might be the victim of a potential scam.
Notwithstanding that, even if I were to find RBS ought to have intervened at some point, 
which for the avoidance of doubt and for reasons explained I dont, this in itself wouldnt be 
enough for me to say that RBS should refund the money Mr Q lost. I would also need to be 
persuaded that its intervention would have made a difference and prevented the payments 
from being made. I have to base my findings on the balance of probability  that is, what I 
think is more likely to have happened, taking into account what I know.
From what Ive seen, I dont think an intervention would have made a difference. I say this 
because if RBS had contacted Mr Q, before allowing the payments to be progressed, Id 
have expected it to ask some proportionate questions about the payments. But Im 
persuaded its more likely than not Mr Q would have been able to give plausible and 
persuasive answers to the bank. I say that as Mr Q thought he was in a genuine relationship 
with this person and its notable in the circumstances of this case, that he hadnt taken heed 
of the advice of friends, nor paused for thought despite his own knowledge of scams, which 
hes said he spoke to customers about on a daily basis. Overall, Im not persuaded that I can 
fairly or reasonably say RBS would have been able to have foreseen that Mr Q was falling 
victim to a scam.
Finally, Ive looked at the steps RBS took when it found out about the scam. The evidence 
Ive seen shows that RBS did contact the beneficiary banks to try and recover the money   
Mr Q had lost. Unfortunately, it is common for fraudsters to withdraw or move the money on 
as quickly as possible. RBS received a response from the beneficiary banks advising no 
funds remained that could be recovered. Im satisfied RBS did what was required of it here.
Its very unfortunate Mr Q has lost this money to what is a cruel scam, and I understand the 
whole experience will have been frustrating and upsetting for him. I am sorry to have to 
deliver this news to Mr Q. I know this wasnt the answer he was hoping for. But, for the 
reasons I have explained, I cannot fairly say that RBS should fairly and reasonably be held 
responsible for the loss Mr Q has sadly suffered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman