DRN-2244252
The complaint
Mr H says The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as Britannia) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium PPI policy taken out in connection with a 
mortgage in 2003.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Hs signed mortgage application form. It includes a section on 
PPI. Theres a brief description of the purpose of the cover. And theres a space to fill in 
the type of protection required, with an instruction to complete the declaration printed 
below if no cover is required. Accident, sickness & Unemployment is typed in as the 
type of cover Mr H required. I think it was clear from the way the form was set out that 
PPI was optional. 
In the event, Co-ops records show that Mr H didnt take out the PPI straight away. He 
took it out around five months after the mortgage started. I dont know why this was, but 
Im satisfied that Mr H would have known that he had a choice about whether to take the 
cover.
Co-op says it didnt give Mr H advice about the PPI. But Mr H says it strongly 
recommended the cover to him. If Co-op did recommend the cover to Mr H, it had a 
responsibility to check that it was suitable for him. But it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time.
Mr H has told us that hed have been entitled to six months full pay, followed by six 
months half pay from his employer at the time if hed been off sick. But if hed made a 
successful unemployment claim on the policy, it would have paid out for up to 
12 months. And it would have paid the same benefit if Mr H had made a successful 
unemployment claim. Whats more, the PPI would have paid out in addition to any 
payments Mr H received from his employer. So he could have used those to meet other 
day-to-day expenses. And he wouldnt have had to use his savings to make his 
mortgage payments.
I acknowledge that Mr H has told us his wife would have helped him financially if he was 
unable to work. But circumstances can change, and I cant be sure Mr Hs wife would 
have been in a position to help if the need had arisen. 
Ive also borne in mind that the mortgage was a significant long-term financial 
commitment, secured on Mr Hs home, and the consequences of falling behind with his 
mortgage payments could have been serious. Taking everything into account, I think the 
policy would have provided Mr H with valuable peace of mind that his monthly mortgage 
payments would continue to be made if he was off sick, or if he lost his job.
Its possible the information Co-op gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied that Mr H chose to take out the policy. So 
I think he wanted this type cover, even if hes understandably forgotten this now. Based 
on what hes told us about his circumstances at the time, Mr H wasnt affected by any of 
the main things the policy didnt cover (for example, unusual working arrangements, or 
existing medical conditions). So I think it unlikely Mr H would have made a different 
decision even if better information had been provided. On balance, I think hed still have 
taken out the policy.
It may be that Co-op could have given Mr H clearer information about the cost of the 
policy. But it was competitively priced, and Ive seen nothing to make me think Mr H 
couldnt afford it. So I dont think clearer information about the cost of the policy would 
have put Mr H off taking it out.
Ive taken into account all Mr Hs comments, including what hes said about having felt 
pressured into taking the PPI. But while I accept that Co-op may have recommended the PPI 
to Mr H, pressure is a different matter. I cant fairly conclude that Co-op put unfair pressure 
on Mr H to take the PPI, based purely on his memory of events that took place so long ago. 
As Ive explained, Im satisfied that Mr H would have known the PPI was optional. I think it 
could have been useful to him, and since he was paying for the policy monthly, he could 
have cancelled it at any time with no further cost if his circumstances changed, or if he 
decided he no longer wanted the cover. So this doesnt change my view that the PPI wasnt 
mis-sold.
This means Co-op doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But Co-op has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:
When the policy was sold, Co-op expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  so it should have told Mr H about 
that. Because Co-op didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair.
To put that right, Co-op has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think thats fair in this case.
My final decision
My decision is that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. So The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as 
Britannia) does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But The Co-operative Bank (trading as Britannia) does have to pay back to Mr H any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman