DRN-1715610
The complaint
Mr P complains about UK Insurance Limited (UKI) over buildings insurance he purchased 
from them over a number of years. He believes he was mis-sold each years policy and that 
he wasnt made aware that the policy was not suitable for his situation. 
What happened
Mr P has owned a second property for around 25 years. He has never lived in the property 
but has been consistently attending the property while carrying out renovation works. 
In 1994, Mr P took out buildings insurance for the property with a company, P.  
He renewed his policy every year automatically. 
Around 2005, Mr Ps policy underwriter changed from the company P to UKI. Thereafter UKI 
managed Mr Ps policies and renewals, although correspondence was still headed by P.
Mr P states that throughout the period since 1994 he has regularly made his insurer aware 
that he was not living at the property.  
In mid-2019, Mr P suffered a break in at his property. The boiler and some pipes were 
removed and walls sustained damage. Door handles were also taken from the property, 
along with some possessions. 
Mr P submitted a claim under his buildings insurance. 
UKI considered his claim and declined the claim, relying on policy wording which set out, in 
relation to theft and vandalism claims, that:
We wont pay:
For loss or damage when it has been more than 60 days since you last slept at your 
home on a regular basis (which doesnt include occasional visits or stays).
UKI then cancelled Mr Ps policy going forward. 
Mr P was unhappy and complained to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and has set out his view to the parties.
This was that UKI had acted fairly in declining the claim, under the terms of the policy. He 
did not consider that UKI had mis-sold the policy to Mr P at each annual renewal since they 
had taken over the policy. He did not consider that UKI had done anything wrong and did not 
uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Mr P did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. He made points that 
UKI had been made aware that he did not live at the property and so he believes he should 
have been made aware that the policy was not suitable for his needs.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ps upset at having his claim rejected. Having held a policy for so long a 
period, only to then learn that it did not cover him when he experienced a break-in must have 
been very frustrating and upsetting.   
I note that Mr P considers that he was initially mis-sold the policy, and that he believes that it 
was subsequently mis-sold every year at renewal. He states that he has made clear to UKI 
throughout that he did not live in the insured property, in part by requesting his 
correspondence to his residential address rather than the insured property, and also that it 
has been mentioned during contacts. He therefore thinks that it was inappropriate to offer 
renewal cover which had exclusions for uninhabited properties. 
I have not seen details of the sale of the first policy in 1994, and so cannot say what Mr P 
was or was not advised about the appropriateness of this policy. Since that time, however, I 
have not seen evidence that Mr P was actively sold renewals, or that he had discussions 
with UKI agents about the policy cover. His renewals have been based on an invitation to 
renew, and automatic renewal when Mr P did not decline the invitation.
Mr P has indicated that he received and retained every renewal invitation over the years and 
that he believes that any substantive changes in the policy cover ought to have been flagged 
with him at the time. He also believes that had it been made clear to him that the underwriter 
had changed then he would have looked at the policy wording and would have seen that it 
was not suitable. 
Whilst I appreciate that this may be Mr Ps approach to checking his cover, I do not think it 
would be reasonable to expect UKI to bear all responsibility for the ongoing appropriateness 
of Mr Ps policy. They wrote to him giving details of his cover and giving him the opportunity 
to continue or cancel his cover.   
I have seen an example of the renewal information that UKI sent out, and this sets out the 
summary of cover but also refers across to the policy wording for further explanation. 
I do not doubt that the format of the renewal letter and the accompanying policy wording will 
have changed over the years. This is not unusual and policy cover may change frequently, 
as businesses refine or adapt their products. I would not expect a business to flag every 
change to a consumer, and it is reasonable to expect a consumer to look at details of cover 
when renewing their insurance and to decide if it is still suitable. 
I have seen iterations of the policy wording from 2005 and from more recently, and both 
include exclusions of some types of cover for properties which are unoccupied or 
uninhabited for long periods. In 2005, this was set at 30 days and more recently at 60 days. 
These exclusions are clearly worded and unambiguous.  
The example renewal invitation also makes clear that it is important for the consumer to 
check that their cover is still appropriate, and it makes clear that the consumer may be able 
to obtain cheaper, or otherwise more appropriate cover elsewhere.
Overall, whilst I understand Mr Ps upset, I do not think UKI has acted unreasonably and I 
agree with the investigators view. Consequently, I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint and do not ask UK Insurance 
Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman