DRN-3238092
The complaint
Mr R complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco Bank) reported a missed
payment on his credit card, following the bereavement of a close family member. 
What happened
Mr R has a credit card account with Tesco Bank. In February 2021 Mr R sadly lost a close
family member, in what he described as an unexpected and lifechanging event. When
Tesco Bank didnt receive a payment on the account by 17 February 2021 it notified the
Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs)  and a missed payment marker was recorded. Mr R
eventually made the payment for February two and half weeks late, on 6 March 2021.
Mr R was declined for a re-mortgage with some additional borrowing at the end of March
2021. It was at that point Mr R realised a missed payment on his credit card had been
reported, so he contacted Tesco Bank to explain what had happened and ask for it to be
removed. As a gesture of goodwill Tesco Bank refunded two late payment fees and
reinstated the 0% interest rate on the card. But it said it wouldnt remove the adverse credit
file data as it had a duty to report factually to the CRAs. Mr R raised a complaint about the
marker, but Tesco Bank didnt change its stance.
The complaint was referred to our service for review, and an investigator here thought Tesco
Bank should remove the adverse entry. In the investigators view the late payment for
February 2021 could be explained by the exceptional circumstances involved, so the marker
wasnt a fair reflection of how the account had been maintained. Tesco Bank didnt agree
and asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision on the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision that said Tesco Bank hadnt treated Mr R fairly, and that I 
planned to award compensation to address the impact of the mistake. Ive included below 
the part of that provisional decision which explained my rationale:
Tesco Bank says it is relying on guidance from the Information Commissioners Office (ICO)
to explain why it shouldnt remove the missed payment marker. Specifically the first two
Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference
Agencies. Those say: data that is reported on your credit file must be fair, accurate,
consistent, complete and up to date, and also should a payment not be made as expected,
information to reflect this will be recorded on your credit file. The guidance under the second
principle goes on to clarify that If you do not make your regular expected payment by the
agreed time and/or for the agreed amount according to your terms and conditions, the
account may be reported to the CRAs as being in arrears.
The ICO guidance indicates there is some discretion on the part of the lender in what it
records when it says payments not made as expected may be reported as being in arrears.
The guidance also specifies that any data reported must be fair. Tesco Bank was made
aware of the circumstances surrounding the bereavement, and how shocking and
unexpected they were. It was entirely understandable that in the aftermath of those events
Mr R was focused on other things, causing him to be late making a payment on his credit
card. I appreciate Tesco Bank wasnt aware of what had happened at the time it recorded
the data on Mr Rs credit file, and I accept it had a duty to report accurately to the CRAs how
an account is managed. But the ICO guidance is just that  guidance: it cant cover every
scenario. Tesco Bank also had an overarching responsibility to treat its customer fairly, and
that meant taking account of the circumstances involved. There were clearly exceptional
reasons that explained why the payment was missed initially, and Mr R made the required
payment soon after. So I dont consider it to be a fair reflection of how Mr R has managed
the account overall. That means I find Tesco Bank didnt treat him fairly or reasonably when
it decided not to remove the entry.
As it isnt fair in this case for Tesco Bank to record adverse data on Mr Rs credit file in
relation to the period immediately following the bereavement, Im directing it to remove the
missed payment marker. If that means the payment is recorded as having been made on
time, then thats the fairest option in the circumstances.
Mr R has told us the marker meant he was declined for additional borrowing with his
mortgage provider. I spoke to that lender, and it wasnt able to confirm the adverse credit file
data recorded by Tesco Bank was the reason his application was declined. It provided
several reasons why the lending might not have been approved  and based on the
evidence Ive reviewed, Im not satisfied this marker was the deciding factor. Mr R explained
that because of the declined application he didnt want to risk being turned down by other
lenders, due to the impact further declines might have on his credit file. Thats why he has
since run up balances on his credit cards.
Other cheaper lending could have been available to Mr R  but I can understand why he
didnt want to take the risk of applying again elsewhere before this complaint was resolved.
Mr R has said utilising the credit limits on his cards could reduce his options for lending now,
even after the late payment marker is removed, due to how lenders might view the
proportion of his available credit used. I dont consider Tesco Banks error was the sole
reason behind the declined application with the mortgage provider, so I dont think it would
be fair to hold it liable for the additional costs incurred by borrowing on credit cards. But I do
think the adverse data caused Mr R to borrow in a way that put added strain on his finances,
as he needed to pay higher monthly amounts on the credit cards to stem the interest
accruing. I also agree it could make getting the lending he needs now more difficult.
This situation has been hanging over Mr R for a long time, and Tesco Bank didnt treat him
fairly at an already stressful time. So Im persuaded the mistake has caused Mr R significant
distress and worry over a sustained period. Taking into account all the above, I consider a
compensation payment of £750 is warranted in the circumstances.
Mr R responded to say the amount of compensation Id provisionally decided Tesco should 
pay wouldnt put him back in the position he would have been, but for the mistake. He 
reiterated that when he and his wife applied for a mortgage with additional borrowing in 
March 2021 they had passed the initial affordability checks but was declined on the final 
credit scoring check. So Mr R still believes the missed payment marker was the reason the 
lending didnt go ahead. He told us that since then the couples credit card utilisation would 
mean theyd now face paying higher rates of interest. As I appeared to agree the adverse 
data had caused the couple to borrow that way, Mr R felt that £12,000 (which hed used to 
clear their credit card balances) would be fairer compensation in the circumstances.
Tesco also didnt agree with my provisional findings. It said our service had repeatedly told it 
the contents of the ICOs guidance on reporting arrears constituted good industry practice. 
As Tesco had followed that guidance, saying it had acted unfairly in this case by doing so 
would be an absurd conclusion. It argued very strongly there was no discretion within the 
guidelines  and that it isnt up to a lender to pick and choose what it reports. Tesco said that 
me telling it to knowingly report incorrectly and inaccurately was concerning. So it considered a notice of correction would be more appropriate in the circumstances. Lastly, 
Tesco raised that it didnt think our service would normally award compensation in scenarios 
where a bank had followed a technically correct process, but we still determine it should've 
done something different. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully reviewed the responses and know both parties feel very strongly about the 
issues involved. But having considered everything, Im still upholding this complaint  and for 
the same reasons I gave in my provisional decision. Im also not deviating from what I said 
was needed to put things right  and Ill explain why. Before I do, Im acutely aware that my 
decision is likely to disappoint both sides, so I want to reassure Mr R and Tesco that I 
havent reached it lightly. 
The ICOs guidance does constitute industry best practice  and it is something that financial 
businesses should refer to when making decisions about how to report arrears. But the 
ICOs guidance doesnt tell businesses what to do in specific scenarios or make decisions 
for them. They are principles to help guide decisions. Tesco has argued that it followed that 
guidance, so it cant have treated Mr R unfairly. I dont agree that reporting a missed 
payment, given the exceptional circumstances behind why it was late, did represent a fair, 
accurate, consistent reflection of how Mr R had managed his account. I also dont consider 
Tesco treated Mr R fairly or reasonably by recording adverse data on his credit file in those 
circumstances. 
I understand Tesco followed its process, and reported things literally, but in my view the 
mistake was not deviating from that process when presented with reasons that would have 
meant it was appropriate to do so. Our approach, where theres been a mistake, is to try and 
redress the impact resulting from it  and here the best way for me to do that is by awarding 
compensation. I have to be fair to both sides, though, and the rest of this decision explains 
the award Im making.
Mr R is seeking a much higher award, and I dont doubt anything hes told us about how 
hard things will be going forward  or that £750 compensation wont put him back in the 
position he was prior to the missed payment marker being recorded. Its worth reiterating 
that only Mr R is Tescos customer in the context of this complaint. So while I accept this 
situation has also affected his wife, and I was very sorry to learn of her recent health 
struggles, I can only make an award to him. 
I also want to clarify that while I understand why Mr R decided to borrow on credit cards 
following the decline, I also have to acknowledge that was a choice. Cheaper ways of 
borrowing were likely available, as having one missed payment on someones credit file 
wouldnt be a barrier to all lending. Ultimately, Ive decided, on balance, the missed payment 
marker wasnt the overriding reason for the declined mortgage application  and I have to be 
proportionate when reaching my decision. Im in no way intending to lay any blame at Mr Rs 
door for the choices made. But if Tesco didnt cause the decline, then its responsibility for 
what happened after that must, out of fairness, be limited. 
I do think compensation is warranted though, as not treating Mr R fairly at an already 
extremely distressing time wouldve had a particularly acute impact on him. This situation 
has also been hanging over him a very long time now, and hes had to expend considerable 
effort in trying to get it resolved. Taking account of all the above, I consider £750 compensation fairly reflects the significant distress and inconvenience caused by Tescos 
error.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Rs complaint about Tesco Personal Finance PLC, and direct 
the lender to:
remove the late payment marker, relating to the February 2021 payment, from his 
credit file; and
pay him £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman