DRN-2497992
The complaint
Mr M has made a complaint against NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua for how they have 
administered his account. 
What happened
In September 2018 Aqua wrote to Mr M as they were concerned he may be in persistent 
debt. The letter detailed actions he could take such as making boosted payments but also 
detailed actions which they could take if this wasnt brought under control such as collecting 
a recommended extra payment. The letter also informed him that they would monitor the 
account and if he was still in persistent debt in a further 18 months that they were required 
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to take further action.
Aqua requested recommended extra payments which increased Mr Ms monthly repayment. 
In January and February 2020 they wrote to him and informed him that if his account was 
still in persistent debt by March 2020 they would move him to a four-year paydown plan 
which aimed to pay off the debt far quicker than if he just made his contractual minimum 
payment each month.
In March 2020, Aqua moved Mr M to the paydown plan and reduced his credit limit to ensure 
payments remained affordable. 
Mr M complained to Aqua as he felt it was unfair for them to reduce his credit limit, putting 
him on a payment plan and poor customer service. He also added that due to personal 
circumstances he sometimes needs to put certain expenditure on his card and wanted his 
credit limit to go back to the limit previously. Aqua apologised for perceived staffing issues 
and confirmed they had responded to earlier queries by email. 
They credited his account with £30 as they said they had no reason to doubt what he was 
saying about the service provided but explained that they were following guidelines from the 
FCA to help customers get out of persistent debt and did not increase his credit limit.
Mr M did not agree with the outcome and brought the complaint to our service where our 
investigator did not uphold his complaint. She said that Aqua were required by the FCA to 
help customers out of persistent debt and they followed the correct guidelines. She also said 
Aqua can, based on the terms and conditions, alter the credit limit without giving notice.
Mr M asked for his complaint to go to an Ombudsman as he did not feel our investigator had 
reviewed all of the points he raised. He also raised further issues such as an incorrect phone 
number being held by Aqua and recent payment/cheque issues.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by saying that Mr M has raised a number of points during us looking into this 
complaint that werent a part of the original complaint he brought to us around Aquas 
handling of his credit card and its actions relating to persistent debt. Aqua has responded to 
those issues separately as new complaints and so our investigator has explained that Mr M 
will need to raise those issues separately. Ill just be focusing on the original complaint he 
referred to us here.
A business like Aqua has to follow rules set out by the FCA to try and help customers get out 
of persistent debt. I can see from the letter they sent in September 2018 that they have 
outlined how they would do so. I have also looked at further correspondence such as in June 
2019 where Aqua say that they could request extra repayments and the reasons why. 
I think Aqua were right to do this, as this follows how the FCA want companies to treat 
customers who pay more in fees, interest and charges than capital repayment over a set 
period of time. As Mr Ms position did not improve significantly, even though on occasion he 
made higher than the contractual minimum monthly payment to March 2020, I think they 
were clear in further letters in January and February 2020 that a paydown plan would start in 
March 2020 and this is what happened here.
While I know Mr M has personal circumstances which mean he uses his Aqua card to 
purchase items, ultimately Aqua are able to amend the credit limit on his card as confirmed 
in their terms and conditions.  And here, they did so as a step to help Mr M get out of 
persistent debt, which I think is fair.
I can understand Mr Ms frustration regarding time spent communicating with Aqua and 
delays on receiving correspondence but I think they have been fair in crediting his account 
with £30 to compensate him for these issues. While I know Mr M thinks this wasnt enough I 
think this was a fair and reasonable payment.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman