DRN-3920659
The complaint
Mrs H complained about what happened when she asked National Westminster Bank Plc to 
transfer some money from her account, to a different account she used more often.
What happened
Mrs H told us that she was trying to buy a property, and took some money out of
investments. Mrs H then found out that the investment company had paid the money into an
old account with NatWest that she no longer used.
Because Mrs H hadnt been using the account, she had difficulties passing through
NatWests security. She could provide all the personal details NatWest wanted, but not
details of this or other accounts. When she did manage to discuss the account, NatWest just
told her it couldnt make a transfer for her. NatWest said its staff were obeying the rules
around why they couldn't establish Mrs Hs identity, and that the problem was Mrs H hadn't
registered to do telephone banking.
Mrs H said NatWest repeatedly told her that she would have to go into a branch if she
wanted the money transferred out of her NatWest account. But Mrs H couldnt do that, she
was shielding to protect herself and a close family member.
Mrs H said she did eventually talk to someone at NatWest who was able to do everything
over the phone for her. She didnt understand why this hadnt been done at the start. And
she said that because of the delays in releasing her money, she had missed the chance to
buy the home she wanted. Any alternative would cost much more  house prices were
rising, and shed missed out on the stamp duty holiday.
NatWest said it had tried to help Mrs H. But it said she wasnt living at the address it held for
her, she hadnt used the account for many years, and all her contact details were out of date.
It said it understood her frustrations at not being able to access her money, but its staff do
have to follow its security checks. Those checks are there to keep customers money safe.
NatWest initially said that it had tried to help Mrs H in a number of ways. It said it had sent
Mrs H a link for an online ID verification system. And it also said it referred her to its
community protection team.
NatWest said it was sorry that Mrs Hs house purchase had fallen through, but it didnt think
this was its fault. It said she did now have telephone banking, her address details had been
updated, and shed written a cheque to take the money out of her account.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He thought NatWest had tried
to help Mrs H, but she just hadnt been able to pass security, and wasnt willing to go into a
branch.
Mrs H didnt agree. She stressed that NatWest had agreed to issue a chequebook to her
home address in early May, but this never arrived. And after this, she said she simply
couldnt find anyone who was trying to be helpful. She kept trying for around two months,
until she finally came across someone who was actively trying to help, and then suddenly
she was able to access her money.
Mrs H wanted an ombudsman to consider her complaint, so it was passed to me for a final
decision. I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
Id like to start by setting out that its clearly not NatWests fault that a large sum of 
money was paid into an account that Mrs H hadnt used for some time. Nor is it 
NatWests fault that when Mrs H became, effectively, unexpectedly stranded at a 
relatives house during the pandemic, she hadnt brought with her full details of this 
account, which she hadnt used for some time, and didnt expect to use while she was 
away from home.
But I do think Mrs H then explained her situation to NatWest, including that it wasnt her 
fault her contact details werent up to date. She hadnt intended to move out of her 
home, which I note she still owns now. And, importantly, Mrs H also explained the 
constraints on what she was able to do. She couldnt go into a branch. I think this was a 
reasonable decision for Mrs H to have taken, at the time, and particularly so given the 
circumstances in her home (which I know she explained to NatWest too).
So I think its unfortunate that NatWest repeatedly suggested to her that she should go 
into a branch, as a way to solve the problem. Its also unfortunate that NatWest appears, 
on at least some occasions, to have suggested this was the only way forward.
It also seems as if, when NatWest did offer alternative suggestions to Mrs H, those were 
often unhelpful, both in that NatWest appears to have failed to follow through on some 
of these, and in that they were unlikely to be successful.
For example, Mrs H initially suggested that she might write a cheque. The agent she 
spoke to then confirmed that this would solve the problem, and agreed to send a 
chequebook to her home address, from where it could be forwarded to her. When Mrs H 
mentioned this again on a later call, the agent then simply gave a longer arrival time for 
chequebooks. He didnt check whether one had actually been ordered for her. It hadnt.
Mrs H wasnt actually sent a chequebook until mid-June. And NatWest has confirmed 
that this wouldnt have solved her problem in early May, because Mrs H wouldnt have 
been able to write herself a cheque for the full amount in her accounts, without triggering 
security checks. Those checks would have been conducted over the phone, and it 
seems most likely that NatWest wouldnt have been able to contact Mrs H to carry out 
those checks, as it hadnt updated her details.
Mrs H was also told she could ask the sender to recall the payment. Mrs H apparently 
tried this, and was told it wasnt possible. I wouldnt expect a sender to be able to recall 
a payment in this way, so I think this was always unlikely to assist Mrs H.
Finally, Mrs H was told she could send a fax, to request a CHAPS payment. NatWest 
also says that it never sent any such payment, because that also requires additional 
security, and Mrs H again wasnt able to get through those checks.So it seems likely that Mrs H wasted a considerable amount of time trying to follow up 
on a number of suggestions made by NatWest, which were unlikely to assist her.
I should also note that in late June, NatWest did manage to assist Mrs H over the 
phone, and she was finally able to access her money. NatWest doesnt appear to have 
explained why, if this was possible in late June, it wasnt also possible in early May.
I think NatWests actions, not just in failing to assist Mrs H over the phone in early May 
in the way it later did at the end of June, but also in offering suggestions which were 
simply unlikely to succeed, mean it has provided Mrs H with poor service.
Mrs H says this cost her a very considerable amount of money. She says she paid 
solicitors fees of just under £1,000. She lost the house she wanted to buy, and the next 
option was considerably more expensive, by tens of thousands of pounds. She also 
missed out on the stamp duty holiday, which she said cost her around £20,000.
I understand that Mrs H was buying in an area where competition for properties is high 
and supply is limited. But I dont think that its NatWests fault that the next suitable 
property for Mrs H ended up costing her rather more.
I also dont think NatWest has to refund Mrs H for the stamp duty she ended up paying. 
As it appears that Mrs H already owned one home, it seems likely that she would always 
have had to pay stamp duty, as the holiday didnt waive this tax entirely for those who 
already own one property. And of course, although I know Mrs H says she was 
confident that this purchase would have completed within the stamp duty window, I 
cannot be sure either that Mrs H would actually have been successful in her purchase, 
or that this would have all been completed before the stamp duty window closed.
But because I do think that NatWests actions contributed to Mrs H losing the property, I 
do think it should make some contributions to the costs she faced because of this. I 
think its fair, in this case, to ask NatWest to reimburse the solicitors costs Mrs H paid, 
of £976.70. I understand that these costs were incurred solely in regard to Mrs Hs failed 
purchase, as she hasnt sold her other home. Mrs H hasnt yet sent our service 
evidence of these charges, so I would ask her to do that in response to my provisional 
decision, otherwise I shall amend the award below to make it contingent on her 
providing this evidence to NatWest.
Mrs H has also told us how frustrating and upsetting it was not to be able to access her 
own money. Shes described the impact of losing the house that she and her late 
husband had decided together to purchase. And, because I think that NatWest provided 
Mrs H with poor service when she was trying to release her funds, and that this poor 
service contributed to her losing this property, I also think that NatWest should pay Mrs 
H £500 in compensation.
I think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
I received two letters from Mrs H, the first of which I think may have crossed with my 
provisional decision, the second of which replied to that provisional decision. NatWest didnt 
reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H said she was ready to complete her purchase well before the money from NatWest 
finally arrived. But she said that after the money did finally arrive, when her solicitor was 
trying to make the arrangements for the purchase, the seller pulled out, saying that hed 
grown tired of waiting for Mrs H, and had received a better offer. Mrs H said she hadnt 
known the property was still being marketed.
I understand why Mrs H would blame NatWest for the loss of this property, as she may well 
take the view that if NatWest had paid the money earlier, her purchase would have been 
completed well before the seller got this other offer. But unfortunately, I still dont think we 
can be sure that Mrs Hs purchase would have completed, if the money had been received 
earlier. 
Ultimately, Mrs Hs purchase fell through because the seller decided someone else would 
pay more for the property. And although Mrs H told us the seller blamed the delays for this 
change of heart, we simply dont know when he decided he might not go through with his 
sale to Mrs H, because he felt he could get more elsewhere. He may have reached that 
decision quite some time earlier, and only told Mrs H about this when she tried to complete 
the purchase. So, because I dont think its possible to place all the blame on NatWest for 
this sale falling through, I dont think NatWest has to pay all the costs that Mrs H told us she 
faced as a result of this failed purchase.
When Mrs H replied to my provisional decision, she indicated that she particularly wanted 
me to consider refunding the stamp duty which shed paid, because she wasnt able to buy a 
home during the stamp duty holiday. She said that although she did own another property 
then, she had planned to sell this within the following six months, and she understood she 
could have recovered the stamp duty paid, if shed done so. 
I dont think Mrs Hs other property has yet been sold. And, although I realise that a stamp 
duty refund on that sale may have given her more room for manoeuvre on price, again, we 
simply cannot be sure that if the money had all been available to Mrs H more promptly, that 
things would have unfolded as she would wish. So I dont think that NatWest has to pay Mrs 
H the stamp duty charge she paid on her recent purchase.
However, I do still think that theres a chance Mrs H could have completed her first, intended 
purchase, if her money had been transferred sooner. And to reflect that Mrs H missed out on 
this chance, I still think that NatWest should pay the costs of her solicitor. I have now 
received evidence of these costs, so I will, as I set out in my provisional decision, ask 
NatWest to pay the amount of £976.70 which I can see on this invoice.
Mrs H also thanked me for considering the impact on her of the stress of these events. She 
said she felt the stress was worth even more, and NatWest had failed completely to look 
after her as a customer. She said this has had a lasting effect on her health.
I appreciate that Mrs H feels very let down by NatWest, and deeply disappointed that the 
help she finally received wasnt simply provided to her much earlier. I did take this into 
account in my provisional decision. I also have to bear in mind that Mrs H was having a very 
difficult time in her life, more widely, at around this point, including the very serious illness of 
someone very close to her. So its hard to separate out the impact of what NatWest did, from 
the other stressful events at the time. But I can only fairly hold NatWest responsible for the 
impact of the mistakes it made. And, bearing that in mind, I do still think that a payment of 
£500 is appropriate in this case.For these reasons, I havent changed my mind. I still think NatWest should pay £500 in 
compensation, and it should pay Mrs Hs solicitors costs in addition.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc must pay Mrs H £500 in 
compensation. National Westminster Bank Plc must also refund the solicitors costs of  
£976.70 which Mrs H paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman