DRN-3075324
The complaint
Mr S complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted him a 
loan he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In April 2015, Mr S acquired a car and financed it through a regulated a consumer credit 
agreement with Moneybarn. Mr S was required to make 60 monthly repayments of £378.81.  
The total repayable under the agreement was £24,884.79 towards which Mr S paid a deposit 
of £2,535.
Mr S says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a review of Mr Ss credit file and a 
validation of his income.  
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. She thought Moneybarn didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr S didnt agree. He explained that he was unable to get bank statements from that period 
but said he was paying child maintenance of £365 per month and other car finance of £246 
per month. He said he was several months in arrears on that payment and that Moneybarn 
would have been able to see that from his credit file. He also noted that Moneybarn hadnt 
asked about his food, fuel, and other expenses. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
The credit check Moneybarn completed would have shown some previous defaults and they 
clarified Mr Ss income at about £1,515.31. The payments under this new agreement would 
therefore have been for a significant proportion of Mr Ss income and I think that ought to 
have indicated that Mr S might struggle with repayments. It would therefore have been 
proportionate for Moneybarn to have got a more thorough understanding of Mr Ss financial 
circumstances before lending.
Ive considered what Moneybarn would likely have found out if it had completed reasonable 
and proportionate affordability checks. Weve asked Mr S to provide us with evidence of his 
financial circumstances at the time the lending was taken out. However, he hasnt given us 
enough information to fairly determine what proportionate checks would likely have shown. 
Mr S has documented expenditure of about £500 and has explained that he had further 
expenses for things like rent and food. But in the absence of bank statements from the time 
to show what these were it wouldnt be fair to suggest there is sufficient evidence that the 
loan wasnt affordable for him.
Im therefore not persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman