DRN-3424292
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy Starling Bank Limited (Starling) wont reimburse her for the money she 
lost when she fell victim to an authorised push payment (APP) rental accommodation 
scam.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. 
In summary, on 7 November 2021, Mrs W transferred €2,250 from her Euro account with 
Starling for what she believed was genuine accommodation that she had found on a       
well-known rental accommodation website. Unfortunately it was a scam and Mrs W had in 
fact paid money to a fraudster.
On 3 December 2021 Mrs W, after discovering she had been the victim of a scam, contacted 
Starling to see if it could help recover her funds. Starling reached out to the beneficiary bank 
but didnt receive a response. Starling informed Mrs W of this on 15 December 2021.
Unhappy, Mrs W referred the matter to our service. Our service informed Starling of Mrs Ws 
concerns and Starling then formally looked into the matter. On 4 March 2022, it issued its 
final response to Mrs W. It didnt uphold her complaint. 
Our investigator then reviewed everything and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
They didnt think Starling ought to have done more to identify the payment as potentially 
fraudulent in the circumstances or have a cause for concern that Mrs W was at risk of 
financial harm or was falling victim to a scam. They also considered that Starling had 
attempted to recover the funds but couldnt do more as it hadnt received a response from 
the beneficiary bank.
  
Mrs W disagreed with the investigators opinion. So, as the matter hasnt been resolved, its 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint. I know this outcome will disappoint 
Mrs W but ll explain my reasoning why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. 
It is the case that Mrs W authorised the payment in dispute  and thats accepted by all 
parties. And under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant 
regulations in place here) that means Mrs W is responsible for the payment. That remains 
the case even though Mrs W was the unfortunate victim of a scam.
There are times when I might expect a bank to question a transaction or payment, even 
though it may have been properly authorised. Broadly speaking, firms like Starling have 
certain obligations to protect customers from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Starling acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mrs W when she made the payment, or whether it should have done more than it did.
Ive thought about this carefully. From what Ive seen, there isnt anything unusual or 
remarkable about the payment or the amount that ought to have alerted Starling to the 
possibility Mrs W was being scammed. Banks process a high volume of transfers and 
transactions each day. And a bank has to strike a balance as to when it should possibly 
intervene on a payment against not holding up or delaying its customers requests. 
Im also mindful that there were also enough funds in Mrs Ws account and the payment 
wasnt clearing or emptying Mrs Ws account, which can often be an indicator of a scam. So 
I dont think there were grounds for Starling to be suspicious Mrs W may be a victim of fraud 
when she made the payment. All things considered, I think the fact that Starling didnt flag 
the payment as suspicious was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I have also gone on to look at whether Starling acted promptly and in a timely manner in 
trying to seek to recover the funds once it was notified of the scam. Starling contacted the 
beneficiary bank, but it never received a response. Starling arent responsible for the 
beneficiary bank not responding, but importantly Starling had attempted to recover Mrs Ws 
funds  so had met its obligations. 
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mrs W. She sent her money in good faith and did not 
receive anything in return for it. But overall, while I appreciate Mrs Ws been the unfortunate 
victim of a scam, I think Starlings decision not to refund her in this instance was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I say this because it followed Mrs Ws instructions to make 
the payment and I havent seen any reason why it shouldnt have done this. And 
unfortunately, it wasnt able to recover the funds or do anything to help Mrs W further.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Matthew HornerOmbudsman