DRN-3585102
The complaint
Mr P complains about the actions of Handelsbanken plc following its decision to call in his 
facility loan secured against one of his buy-to-let properties. This decision arose from a 
restraint order against Mr P pursuant to a criminal investigation.
What happened
The background and circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties and 
have taken place over a number of years. Instead Ill summarise the main facts that I 
consider to be fundamental to the outcome and focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
Also, as the matter of this compliant is linked to criminal proceedings, I must ensure I dont 
include any detailed information that might identify Mr P when my decision is published.
Mr P took a facility loan with Handelsbanken plc in 2011. In 2014, Handelsbanken learnt of a 
restraint order against Mr P pursuant to a criminal investigation. Due to the nature of the 
offenses, Handelsbanken exercised a break clause included in the contract which allowed it 
to call in the loan after three years if it wished to.
Ongoing negotiations took place between the parties about the repayment of the loan. 
During that time Handelsbanken continued to accept quarterly payments toward the loan. 
However, in 2018 it learned that Mr P had been convicted of offences. Handelsbanken 
stopped accepting capital repayments towards the loan  around the time it appointed Law 
of Property Act (LPA) receivers to assist with possession and sale of the property.
Mr P complained that Handelsbanken had acted unfairly when appointing the LPA receivers. 
A final decision was issued by an ombudsman at our service in February 2020. It was 
decided that Handelsbanken was within its right to require full repayment of the debt  
through the appointment of LPA receivers. The LPA receivers were not required to enter into 
settlement negotiations with Mr P in exchange for possession of the property.  
In March 2020, the courts advised Handelsbanken that the sale of the property may be in 
breach of the restraint order. As such the LPA receivers withdrew the property from auction 
sale. 
Soon after, Mr P made a payment proposal to repay the debt. Handelsbanken says in line 
with the restraint order, it needed the crown prosecution services (CPS) approval or a 
variation of the order before accepting such proposal. Neither was obtained so the proposal 
was refused.  As such capital repayments still werent accepted. 
In June 2021 Mr P raised another complaint with Handelsbanken. A final response letter was 
issued in July 2021 not upholding the complaint points raised by Mr P, which Ive 
summarised as:
Handelsbanken wont accept payments towards the loan.
There have been conflicts of interest (with the LPA receivers) and conduct issues on 
the banks part.  
How the LPA receivers have collected and used rental income from the property.
Handelsbanken should have sought a variation order before appointing the LPA 
receivers, not later during the sale process.
Unhappy with the response, Mr P brought his complaint to our service. During our 
investigation there were some further developments.
In March 2022 Mr P and Handelsbanken entered a settlement deed for repayment of the 
loan. This followed Mr P becoming unrestrained in February 2022. As such the loan has 
been redeemed.
Around this time Mr P raised a further complaint about excessive legal expenses being 
passed on to him. Handelsbanken didnt uphold the complaint in its final response letter of 
March 2022.
Although one of the conditions of the settlement deed was that no further complaints could 
be raised by Mr P, Handelsbanken consented to our service considering the complaints set 
out above only. 
The complaints were considered by an investigator at our service and not upheld. She 
further explained why she was unable to consider any other complaint points raised outside 
of the two final response letters quoted above  because these had not been responded to 
by Handelsbanken. And in any event, she also referred Mr P to the settlement deed agreed 
by the parties. Included was a reduction in the settlement figure. Both parties accepted the 
terms of the deed in full and final settlement of all and any claims/complaints against each 
other (clause 8.1). The complaints considered in this decision were excluded.
Mr P didnt accept our investigators response to his complaint about the loan repayments 
and the legal expenses incurred. He asked for these matters to be referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Handelsbanken plc wouldnt accept repayments towards the loan 
Mr P complains about Handelsbankens acceptance of payments towards the loan following 
the restraint order against him. In short, his interpretation of the order is that capital 
repayments should have been allowed for the duration. Handelsbanken thinks differently. 
In its final response letter, Handelsbanken gave its reasoning for not accepting capital 
repayments during the period in question. I dont think its necessary for me to repeat the 
content here. Mr P isnt disputing that he doesnt understand Handelsbankens position, 
rather he is presenting a different interpretation of the order, including challenging that some 
of Handelsbankens actions contradict its position. For example, accepting payments 
between 2014 to 2018, which was after the loan was called in but before the appointment of 
the LPA receivers  contrary to what Handelsbanken says it was able to collect in 
accordance with the order.
Im not able to decide what a court order says where the interpretation of it is disputed. Im 
satisfied it was reasonable for Handelsbanken to rely on its own legal advice about what was 
permitted. If Mr P didnt agree he ought to have gone to court to get clarification.In any event Mr P hasnt lost out by any potential payments being accepted prior to the LPA 
receivers being appointed. So, I wont be asking Handelsbanken to take any action in 
relation to this point.
Excessive legal expenses added to the loan, and therefore passed on to Mr P
The circumstances surrounding Mr Ps criminal conviction and the impact this had on his 
facility agreement involved complex and uncommon matters that Handelsbanken had to 
respond to with legal assistance over several years. 
The costs that Mr P is challenging relate to legal costs incurred by the need to appoint 
external solicitors to assist with all matters relating to the enforcement of Handelsbankens 
security, compliance with the orders imposed on him and to provide ongoing legal advice 
during the process, often in response to the nature of Mr Ps engagement. In the 
circumstances I think it was fair and reasonable for Handelsbanken to instruct solicitors to 
assist with these matters.
Clause 20.2 of the facility letter states that Handelsbanken is entitled to be indemnified for all 
costs and expenses incurred in the preservation or enforcement of its security. So, it was 
entitled to pass these costs incurred on to Mr P as in accordance with the facility terms.
Handelsbanken has provided copies of the invoices served by its legal representatives. So, 
Im able to see that the costs passed on to Mr P were incurred as part of the legal services 
provided in his case. 
I appreciate Mr P feels the solicitors costs are excessive, but I should remind him of the 
large extent of work required by Handelsbankens solicitors over many years. In any event, 
our service doesnt have the jurisdiction to look into complaints against solicitors, so Im 
unable to make any finding here. If Mr P is unhappy with the quality of the legal services 
provided by the solicitors or the fees its charged, then he may need to consider taking legal 
action with the assistance of his own legal advice on this matter. 
Whilst Mr P has only referred to these two complaint points as outstanding matters that he 
seeks a resolution on. Id like to take this opportunity to reassure him that Ive also 
considered the other points addressed by our investigator and agree with her response to 
those matters. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman