DRN-3775291
The complaint
Miss M complains HSBC UK Bank Plc gave her incorrect information about charges
applicable to the use of her credit card account abroad.
What happened
Shortly before leaving for a holiday in November 2021, Miss M called HSBC to find out if
there would be any charges for using her credit card while she was abroad. Miss M was told
there wouldnt be.
A few days later Miss M did use her card to make an international transaction and was
charged a fee for doing so. So she complained. Miss M said had she been given the correct
information when she called, she would have made other arrangements for her holiday and 
so wouldnt have been charged any fees.
HSBC considered Miss Ms complaint. They accepted theyd given Miss M the wrong
information when she phoned them, they apologised for the inconvenience caused, offered
her £30 in recognition of the worry and inconvenience and also refunded the fee shed been
charged.
Miss M wasnt happy with this and referred her complaint to our service. An Investigator
considered Miss Ms complaint. In summary he said, HSBC had given Miss M incorrect
information but he felt what theyd already offered to do to put things right was fair and
reasonable in the circumstances. He also thought Miss M had sounded surprised when the
bank told her no fees would apply.
Miss M didnt agree. She said although she had been surprised to hear there wouldnt be 
fees applicable when she called, she didnt think this mattered  as the bank had still given 
her the wrong information during her call.
As Miss M didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision. Ive included my findings again below and they form part of 
this decision. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties agree that Miss M was given wrong information when she called HSBC  and Ive
listened to the call where the incorrect information was given. So what remains for me to
consider is what HSBC should do to put things right.
Miss M says the incorrect information impacted her holiday and her finances. She says this
because the trip was supposed to be a surprise for a family member but she felt forced to tell
them about it in advance  ruining the surprise. And says if shed been told the correct
information, she would have ordered a card from another financial business, which doesnt
apply fees for use abroad.
Ive thought carefully about what Miss M has said. Im sorry to hear that the surprise was
ruined for her family member. But I can only consider the impact on Miss M, as shes
HSBCs customer in the context of this complaint. Miss M was only charged one transaction
fee after the incorrect information was given (before the correct position was explained) and
this was refunded straight away.
Although Miss M has said she wouldve made other arrangements if shed been given the
correct information, given that she called to ask HSBC about the charges about four working
days before leaving for her trip  theres no guarantee she wouldve been able to make
those arrangements in time.
So, for these reasons, I provisionally find £30 and the refunded fee to be fair and reasonable
in all the circumstances of Miss Ms complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss M did not respond by the deadline.
 
HSBC accepted my provisional decision and provided a screenshot showing they had 
already paid Miss M the £30. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided anything else for me to consider, I see no need to depart from my 
provisional findings.
 
My decision remains HSBCs offer to refund Miss M the transaction fee and pay her £30 is 
fair and reasonable. I understand both have been paid.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I find HSBC UK Bank Plcs offer fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ms complaint. 
As the fee was refunded straight away and Miss M has already been paid the £30, I dont 
require them to do anything else. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman