DRN-1716235
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr H took out the PPI during the same meeting in branch in which he applied for the credit 
card in 2001. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr H says he doesnt recollect any discussion about PPI or being asked if he wanted it.
Ive seen a copy of the application form that Mr H completed. Looking at the form, there is a 
separate section for PPI with yes and no options to either request or decline the PPI. Mr H 
has ticked the yes box to agree to PPI. He could have ticked the no box if he hadnt 
wanted the policy. Im satisfied that, from the wording and layout of the form, Mr H would 
have known that he had a choice about buying the PPI.
The sale happened a very long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Hs 
recollection of events has faded. From the available evidence, I think that Mr H decided to 
buy the PPI, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
Barclays advised Mr H to take out the PPI. That means that, in recommending it to him, it 
needed to ensure that it met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Hs circumstances at the 
time, the policy was suitable for him.
Mr H would have received some sick pay from his employer. But the policy would have paid 
out in addition to this and potentially for longer than Mr H would have received full pay for. 
And he didnt have any other means, such as savings, to fall back on. Mr H has mentioned 
other benefits and policies that he had  but these were all taken out after the sale of the PPI 
in June 2001. Overall, the policy could have provided a useful benefit at what would have 
been a difficult time. So I consider it was reasonable of Barclays to advise Mr H to buy it.
Barclays also needed to provide Mr H with enough information for him to make an informed 
choice about whether or not it was right for him. I think that Mr H would have known 
something about the policy  that it would cover his repayments if he was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  because I dont think hed have decided to buy 
it without knowing anything at all about it. 
Its possible that Barclays didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr H wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think that Mr H had an interest in the cover and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information would have caused him to change his mind. So he is no worse 
off as a result of anything that Barclays may have done wrong, so there is nothing that 
Barclays needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman