DRN-4155517
The complaint
Mr D complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) irresponsibly gave him two credit card account 
facilities that he couldnt afford.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr D applied for and was given a credit card account with NewDay with 
an initial credit limit of £300, under the Aqua trading name. This was followed by two 
credit limit increases. 
In June 2021, Mr D applied for and was given a second credit card account with NewDay 
with an opening credit limit of £450, under the trading name of Marbles. There were no 
further credit limit increases for this card. 
NewDay gave Mr D two payment holidays to his Aqua account in 2022 and one for his 
Marbles account, after he contacted them about the financial difficulties he was 
experiencing. 
Mr D complained to NewDay to say that the two accounts shouldnt have been opened 
for him because they werent affordable and so NewDay ought to have made a better 
effort to understand his financial circumstances before increasing his credit. He also says 
NewDay ought not to have granted him the second card given that hed used up his 
credit limit on the first one. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
As Mr D didnt agree, his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NewDay will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about 
our approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Ill look at each of the two cards in turn:
Aqua Card 
Before opening the Aqua account, I think NewDay gathered a reasonable amount of 
evidence and information from Mr D about his ability to repay. I say this because it relied on 
information set out in Mr Ds application about his earnings, existing credit and residential 
status  which was stated to be living with parents. But NewDay also completed its own 
credit checks that showed he had a minimal level of unsecured debt at that point, had taken 
out one pay day loan and had no arrears. NewDay also saw that that hed previously had 
seven defaults, with the most recent being 19 months earlier. Hed also had two county court 
judgments against him, again the most recent having been entered 19 months previously. To 
summarise, Mr D had no current arrears or adverse markings on his credit record and had 
confirmed he was receiving regular earnings at a reasonable level. However, just because 
I think NewDay carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt automatically mean it made a fair 
lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence and information showed. 
Ive reviewed the information and evidence NewDay gathered. Having done so Im satisfied 
that the checks that were completed showed that the Aqua agreement was likely to be 
affordable to him. I say this especially given that he was earning a reasonable salary in 
relation to the relatively modest credit limit hed been granted and his low level of existing 
unsecured and short term borrowing. I therefore havent seen enough to make me think that 
Mr D might have been in getting into financial difficulty at that point. So I dont think NewDay 
acted unfairly when approving the finance application.
Mr D was granted his first credit limit increase in August 2020. By that time I can see Mr D 
had been managing his account reasonably well and been making payments each month 
that were generally above the minimal level required. Our adjudicator noted that Mr D had 
taken on a mortgage in June 2020, so its likely his level of committed expenditure had 
increased. But given his account management so far and his previous credit history, I cant 
say that this first credit limit increase was unaffordable. 
By the time of the second credit limit increase, in early June 2021, Ive seen that Mr D had 
incurred three overlimit fees and taken cash advances on three occasions. So I dont 
consider that this further credit limit increase, being a moderate increase of £200, was 
necessarily unfairly granted if Mr D was continuing to meet his monthly repayments. 
Marbles Card
I dont think there was anything new or significant in Mr Ds credit history that might have 
discouraged New Day from providing the opening credit limit for the Marbles card, which 
was opened at the end of June 2021. Mr D now had a combined credit limit with NewDay 
of £1,950. Mr D told NewDay in his application that his salary had gone up, whilst his 
level of unsecured debt had also increased, to £4,400. Hed also taken on a mortgage. 
I think it would have been proportionate for NewDay to have taken steps to have verified Mr 
Ds financial circumstances in some way. In the absence of anything else, Ive reviewed 
three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. I think this gives a good 
indication of what NewDay would likely have discovered if it had taken steps to verify Mr Ds 
expenditure. 
The statements show  and Mr D has confirmed  that aside from his existing credit 
commitments, his other monthly committed expenditure averaged out at around £1,700 per 
month  although he has pointed out this didnt include some items, such as food. It included 
his rent, priority bills and expenses. Ive also seen that Mr D was paying on average around 
£300 in credit card payments per month. Given that Mr Ds average income was around 
£2,500, its likely that hed still have enough disposable income to cover other regular 
expenditure such as food and to make regular, sustainable repayments towards his new 
card. I say this making the assumption that Mr D would eventually be using the full credit 
limit and would wish to make sustainable monthly payments. So I also think its likely that 
had NewDay completed proportionate checks, it would have discovered this too. It therefore 
didnt act unfairly by granting Mr D the new card with an available credit of £450. 
Mr D says NewDay ought not to have granted him the new credit given that hed exceeded 
his credit limit on his Aqua card. I dont think that alone is enough to show that he ought not to have been granted further credit. And based on what Ive seen about Mr Ds financial 
circumstances at the time, it doesnt seem that the relatively low opening credit limit was 
unreasonable.
I know that Mr D will be disappointed by my decision. But I have noted all the submissions 
he has made in his complaint and looked at all the evidence hes sent us. Having done so, I 
have not found sufficient evidence to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman