DRN-3167145
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Everyday Lending Limited (EDL) lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr M was given a loan of £3,200 by EDL in January 2018. The loan was repayable in 36 
monthly instalments of about £175. The total amount payable, including interest was just 
over £6,305.  I understand the loan is still outstanding.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and thought that EDL had been wrong to 
provide Mr M with the loan. EDL didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. As the 
complaint hasnt been settled, it has been passed to me to resolve the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Ms complaint.
I think there are some overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did EDL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable 
and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Ultimately, did EDL make a fair lending decision? 
Did EDL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
EDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr M irresponsibly. The 
lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment or affordability check 
each time. The checks had to be borrower focussed  so EDL had to think about whether 
repaying the loans sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr M. 
EDL had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M would 
be able repay his loans sustainably. There was no set list of checks that EDL had to do, but 
it could take into account a number of different things such as the loan amount, the length of 
the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall financial circumstances.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for any particular application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether EDL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr M.
EDL asked Mr M for information about his income and it acquired a credit report and bank 
statements. EDL allowed around 35% of Mr Ms monthly income for regular living expenses 
and it calculated his commitment to outstanding creditors. From what Ive seen, I think the 
checks that EDL carried out before it agreed to lend to Mr M were reasonable and 
proportionate, in the circumstances.
However, I dont think that EDL made a fair lending decision on this occasion and I will 
explain why.
EDL says the loan was being used to consolidate some of Mr Ms existing credit 
commitments and that by lending to him EDL would be putting Mr M in a much better 
position. 
However, I think EDL focussed its calculation of whether the loan was affordable for Mr M on 
a pounds and pence basis. But as Ive already explained, the lender was required to 
establish whether the borrower could sustainably meet the loan repayments  not just 
whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
EDL calculated that Mr Ms average net monthly income was around £3,034. The one-month 
payslip that Mr M provided showed net income of around £2, 500 after all deductions. Mr M 
had a significant loan balance outstanding including a substantial HP commitment; he was 
very near his credit card limit and was regularly and substantially overdrawn. EDL says its 
loan would consolidate at least four high cost loans in full and enable Mr M to reduce and 
stop his overdraft with the disposable income it says would have been available to him each 
month, after taking into account his remaining credit commitments and his EDL loan 
repayments. EDL says it does not think Mr M was paying a substantial amount of his 
monthly income on credit repayments, especially considering he was young free and single 
with no dependants.
But on balance, from the information gathered, I think EDL ought reasonably to have been 
aware that Mr M would most likely continue to struggle financially, despite the partial debt 
consolidation. I think EDL ought reasonably and fairly to have realised that Mr M would 
continue to pay a substantial amount of his monthly income on his credit commitments, and it was unlikely that he would have sufficient disposable income to make real inroads into his 
existing overdraft or other outstanding debt.  Mr M was taking a substantial high cost loan, 
repayable over an extended three period. Overall, I think EDL ought reasonably to have 
realised that even with partial debt consolidation, its loan was likely to leave Mr M in an 
unsustainable position whereby he would most likely struggle to meet his loan repayments 
sustainably over the whole loan term without borrowing further. I think in these particular 
circumstances, EDL should reasonably have concluded that it was not appropriate to provide 
the loan to Mr M.
I havent seen anything which makes me think that EDL acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr M in some other way. But on balance, I dont think EDL ought to have lent to 
him. So I am upholding this complaint and directing EDL to put things right.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr M to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he has had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest and charges on 
lending that shouldnt have been provided to him. 
EDL should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments Mr 
M made as payments towards the capital. 
If reworking Mr Ms loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then EDL should refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
 If an outstanding balance remains, then EDL should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr M.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires EDL to deduct tax from this interest. EDL should give Mr 
M a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman