DRN-3282148
The complaint
Mr W complains Match The Cash Limited trading as Guarantormyloan.tv unfairly arranged 
three unaffordable loans for him.
Mr W is represented by a claims management company  but for ease Ill refer to all 
submissions as if they were Mr Ws own.
What happened
Match The Cash arranged three guarantor loans for Mr W via its electronic lending system:
Loan details Capital 
AmountTerm Monthly 
repayments
(approx.)Total repayable 
value
(approx.)
November 2014 £4,000 48 months £169 £8,131
December 2016 £5,500 36 months £266 £9,581
December 2018 £5,000 36 months £242 £8,710
Our investigator reviewed Mr Ws complaint and didnt uphold it. He said Match The Cash 
hadnt completed reasonable and proportionate enquiries when arranging loan one. He 
asked Mr W to provide evidence of his financial circumstances around the time; but Mr W 
wasnt able to provide legible information. As such our investigator said there was no 
evidence to suggest Match The Cash shouldnt have brought about this loan. 
In relation to loans two and three, our investigator said Match The Cash had completed 
reasonable and proportionate enquiries; and based on the information it had it fairly 
proceeded to bring about the loans. 
Match The Cash didnt respond to our investigators conclusions. Mr W disagreed and asked 
for an ombudsman to review the complaint; but provided no further details. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Match The Cash is aware that the relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time it 
brought about these peer to peer (P2P) agreements required it to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks or enquires to assess Mr Ws ability to sustainably afford to repay the 
loans over their terms, without causing him financial difficulties or financial harm.  
There isnt a set list of enquiries Match The Cash needed to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the 
credit, as well as the borrowers individual circumstances. 
It isnt enough for Match The Cash to just complete proportionate enquiries  it must also 
carefully consider the information it obtains from these enquiries to go on and make a fair 
decision in bringing about the loans.
Ill deal with each loan in turn.
Loan One
Match the Cash has said it completed an income and expenditure assessment with Mr W 
and discussed this with him during calls before arranging the loan. It says it completed a 
credit file check and obtained Mr Ws bank statements covering a period of two months 
before the lending to verify the information it had obtained. Match The Cash says it 
completed reasonable and proportionate enquiries which led to it being satisfied the loan 
was sustainably affordable for Mr W; and it says it made a fair decision when bringing about 
the loan.
Ive reviewed the details Match The Cash obtained as part of the affordability enquiries it 
completed to decide whether I consider it did complete reasonable and proportionate 
enquiries to satisfy itself Mr W would be able to sustainably repayment the agreement . 
The credit file Match the Cash obtained showed some recent signs of financial distress. 
There was a mail order account opened two months before this loan which appeared to be in 
arrears; and one of Mr Ws credit cards was slightly over its limit  and had been a number 
of times across the recent months. Mr W had also used the credit card for a cash advance in 
the previous month. Ive also seen that Mr W hadnt met his payments towards his gas and 
electricity utilities the month before this loan. And although the credit check doesnt appear 
to show an overdraft facility on Mr Ws current account, from the statements Match The 
Cash obtained it could see Mr W had an overdraft facility  and was using it across the two-
month period. 
So, while the credit file check Match the Cash obtained showed recent signs of financial 
distress, it went on to verify Mr Ws financial situation by obtaining his bank statements. 
The bank statements Match The Cash has provided this service from the time are largely 
illegible, but I can see they cover a period of October and November 2014. 
So, I consider Match The Cash did make reasonable and proportionate enquiries to satisfy 
itself whether Mr W could afford to sustainably repay the loan. Ive therefore gone on to 
consider if Match The Cash fairly brought about this loan based on those enquiries. 
Our investigator asked Mr W to provide three months worth of statements in the run up to 
loan one; in order to obtain a full understanding of his financial situation and satisfy himself 
Match the Cash fairly brought about this loan. Mr W was only able to provide part statements 
across this period, and much of these were illegible or didnt include dates. Mr W has said he 
cant provide anything further. 
I consider the details that are legible, and that I can see where available to Match The Cash 
at the time, appear largely consistent with the information it used within its income and 
expenditure assessment. Match The Cash took account of Mr Ws income including benefits 
and it itemised his essential expenditure, including payments towards his existing credit 
commitments. These enquires led Match The Cash to identify Mr W had a monthly 
disposable income of around £630, after taking into account the proposed payments towards 
loan one. And before this loan was arranged Mr Ws total active credit was around £15,000, 
not including mortgages. Mr W says further checks wouldve shown that it was not suitable for further credit to be 
provided to him; and that he was reliant on tax credits to help afford the repayments. While I 
acknowledge his argument based on the information he provided at the time  and as part of 
this complaint process  I cant see there are suggestions that this lending was 
unsustainable. I can see Mr W was in receipt of tax credit, but I cant conclude he was reliant 
on it. To the contrary, as outline above, the information suggested he had the necessary 
income to meet his outgoings and this commitment. 
Therefore, I consider Match The Cashs enquiries reasonably satisfied it that the loan was 
sustainably affordable to Mr W; and I dont consider Match The Cash unfairly brought about 
this loan. 
Loan two
Loan two was brought about in December 2016 and some of the funds were used to settle 
loan one.
Match The Cash has said it completed the same enquiries into Mr W at loan two as it did at 
loan one. It has said its enquiries showed Mr W could sustainably afford loan two and its 
decision to arrange the lending was reasonable. 
Match The Cash has completed a detailed income and expenditure check. Its provided the 
bank statements it obtained from Mr W to verify his income and expenditure. On the whole 
these statements are legible; but there are some pages that cant be read due to the image 
quality. 
Although Match The Cash has said it completed a credit file check, it hasnt provided the 
original results. But it has provided a summary of the open lines of credit Mr W had at the 
time. Ive reviewed this together with the credit report Mr W provided our service; to identify 
what information was likely available to Match The Cash within the credit check it obtained at 
the time. 
Mr Ws active credit excluding mortgages appears to have increased significantly to around 
£24,300 by the point of loan two. And while Mr Ws income has also increased, I consider 
reasonable and proportionate enquiries ought to have led Match The Cash to verify Mr Ws 
income and expenditure  to ensure it had a full understanding of his financial situation. It did 
this by obtaining copies of Mr Ws bank statements in the months preceding this loan. 
I therefore consider the enquires Match The Cash made at loan two to be reasonable and 
proportionate to satisfy itself whether Mr W would be able to sustainably afford to repay the 
loan. So, Ive gone on to consider if it fairly brought about loan two based on these enquiries. 
Match The Cash obtained Mr Ws bank statements for a period of three months leading up 
to this loan. Having reviewed the bank statements Match The Cash obtained at the time, and 
having checked these against the bank statements Mr W provided our service as part of his 
complaint, I consider the loan does appear to have been sustainably affordable to Mr W. 
I say this because Match The Cash completed a thorough review of Mr Ws income and 
expenditure based on his declarations and the evidence it obtained from its credit check and 
the bank statements. The information within Mr Ws credit report appears to show he was 
managing his existing credit well at the point he applied for loan two. The open lines of credit 
appear to be up to date and the recent history shows no signs of any arrears. I consider this 
is more likely to have been what Match The Cash identified from the credit check it 
completed at the time. 
 Mr Ws income is around £3,400 per month which is made up of a salary and tax credits. 
Match the Cash has accounted for Mr Ws expenses and his existing credit commitments. 
The information Ive seen within the bank statements I have is largely in line with the 
information Match The Cash used in its affordability calculations. It calculated Mr W would 
be left with around £500 per month after taking into account all income and outgoings, 
including the monthly payment towards this loan. 
Mr W has said had Match the Cash completed further it wouldnt have provided him with 
further lending. And hes said he was reliant on tax credits to help afford the repayments. 
Similar to loan one; whilst I acknowledge his argument, Im not persuaded the evidence 
demonstrates that is the case. The information Match The Cash gathered suggested he had 
sufficient disposable income to meet his outgoings and this repayment sustainably. 
Ive considered if by arranging this lending Match The Cash was increasing Mr Ws 
indebtedness in an unsustainable or otherwise harmful way. But I dont consider it was. I say 
this because while Mr Ws active level of credit had increased, his income to debt ratio was 
around 55% not including mortgages; and as Ive said from review of the credit report Mr W 
provided this service, it appears he was maintaining payments well to all of these lines of 
credit. He still had a reasonably high level of disposable income after taking into account the 
payments towards this loan. So, I dont consider there was anything within the information 
Match The Cash obtained that ought to have led it to conclude this loan would be 
unsustainable or harmful to Mr W. 
As such, I dont consider Match The Cash unfairly brought about loan two. 
Loan three
Loan three was arranged in December 2018 and was in part used to settle loan two. 
Match The Cash has said it completed the same enquiries at loan three as it did at loans one 
and two. It says these enquiries showed Mr W could sustainably afford loan three and its 
decision to arrange the lending was reasonable. 
Mr Ws financial situation on paper appears to have been much the same as at loan two  if 
not slightly improved. The credit file check Match The Cash completed showed Mr Ws total 
active credit excluding mortgages had reduced. And Mr Ws bank statements show his 
income including benefits had increased slightly. The credit check also showed that on the 
whole Mr W appeared to have been managing his finances well. All accounts except one 
mail order were up to date  which had been in arrears across six of the previous 24 months.
I think reasonable and proportionate enquiries would have led Match The Cash to verify the 
information it was being provided by Mr W. I say this because this was the third time Mr W 
was approaching Match The Cash for finance within around four years. And although Mr Ws 
overall active credit had slightly reduced, there were signs he hadnt met repayments to one 
of his credit accounts across the past 24 months. 
Match The Cash has provided details of Mr Ws bank statements in the three months leading 
up to this loan. It also produced a report categorising Mr Ws income and expenditure into 
categories to better allow it to identify Mr Ws financial situation. 
As with the previous two loans, Match The Cash verified Mr Ws financial situation by way of 
reviewing his bank statements. As such, Im satisfied Match The Cash did complete 
reasonable and proportionate enquiries to satisfy itself whether Mr W could sustainably 
afford to repay loan three. So, Ive gone on to consider if Match the Cash acted fairly when 
bringing about this loan.Match The Cashs income and expenditure check is largely in line with the information it 
obtained within the bank statements and had available to it within the credit check. It was 
able to verify Mr Ws income and his expenses, as well as his credit commitments. It 
concluded Mr W had a disposable income of around £770 after taking into account the 
payment towards this loan. And having reviewed the information I consider the loan does 
appear to be affordable to Mr W on a strictly pounds and pence basis. 
Ive gone on to consider if this further lending increased Mr Ws indebtedness in an 
unaffordable or harmful way. And having done so, I dont think it did. 
I say this because Mr W had reduced his total active credit since loan two; and his income 
had increased. Loan three wasnt largely increasing Mr Ws total available credit beyond 
60% of his income  a similar position at the point loan two was approved. While his credit 
file showed a number of missed payments to a mail order account, on the whole Mr W was 
maintaining his other lines of credit well. He wasnt utilising all limits available to him and his 
bank statements show across each month his account fluctuated between a credit and an 
overdrawn position. 
I dont consider there was anything within the enquiries Match the Cash completed that 
ought reasonably to have led to it identifying it was further increasing Mr Ws indebtedness in 
an unaffordable or otherwise harmful way.
As such, I dont consider Match The Cash unfairly arranged loan three for Mr W. 
Did Match The Cash act unfairly or unreasonably in any other way?
Ive not seen anything to suggest Match The Cash acted unfairly or unreasonably in any 
other way in its dealings with Mr W.
As I dont consider Match The Cash unfairly brought about any of Mr Ws loans, Im satisfied 
it doesnt need to take any further action in resolution of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint about Match The Cash 
Limited trading as Guarantormyloan.tv.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman