DRN-2115741
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with how Advantage Insurance Company Limited dealt with a theft claim 
against his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ss car was stolen in June 2019 and recovered three days later. At the time of the theft 
the car was just over 4 years old and had done almost 48,000 miles. The car had been 
damaged by the thieves, and Advantage arranged for it to be repaired. Mr S was unhappy 
with the repairs; specifically there were problems with the clutch and suspension, and there 
was staining on the seats. Advantage arranged for the clutch to be replaced, but they said 
the suspension was a wear and tear issue, so they didnt repair this. Advantage also 
arranged for the seats to be valeted as a goodwill gesture.
Mr S complained about the repairs to his car. As these ended up costing more than the 
value of his car, he thinks Advantage shouldve written the car off. Mr S has also complained 
about the courtesy car; it was collected from his place of work and this left him without a car.
Advantage acknowledged they couldve done better, and they paid Mr S £250 compensation 
for the poor service they provided. But Mr S didnt think theyd done enough, and he wanted 
Advantage to pay his finance agreement payments for the four months he was without his 
car. So hes brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said Advantage acknowledged there were some delays and communication 
issues. She also said that they cant say why the clutch issue wasnt picked up on the initial 
inspection. But she did say that that, after already having carried out the initial repairs, it was 
reasonable for Advantage to spend more money in fixing the clutch rather than writing the 
car off at this point.
She said shed seen no evidence that the suspension issues or the seat staining was as a 
result of the theft. So she thought Advantage had acted reasonably by not repairing the 
suspension and by valeting the seats as a gesture of goodwill. 
The investigator also said that Advantage had provided a courtesy car in line with Mr Ss 
policy, and he had access to a vehicle for most of the time his car was being repaired. So 
she didnt think Advantage needed to pay Mr Ss car finance payments. She thought that the 
£250 Advantage had paid was reasonable compensation for how theyd handled the claim. 
So she didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. He said that, given the age of the car and his driving 
style (my gentle driving was in the high 90% area according to a driving app linked to the 
car), the suspension issues were caused by the aggressive driving that took place while his 
car was stolen. Hes also said that Advantage breached their own policy by leaving him 
without a courtesy car. And he had to make several long phone calls to sort this out. So hes 
asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
Firstly, I want to recognise the upset this has caused Mr S. Ive no doubt this has been a 
stressful situation for him. But for me to agree that Advantage should pay for the repairs to 
the suspension, and reupholster the seats on the car, Id need to be satisfied that these were 
damaged as a direct result of the theft. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Its not disputed that Advantage couldve done better when dealing with Mr Ss claim. In their 
complaint response letter of 25 October 2019, they say there were delays in repairing Mr Ss 
car, and their communication was poor. They also said there was a communication issue 
which meant the courtesy car was collected when it shouldnt have been. So they paid Mr S 
£250 to compensate him for the inconvenience and distress he was caused.
Advantage instructed an independent engineer to assess the theft related damage to Mr Ss 
car in July 2019. The engineer initially said Mr Ss car was worth £9,400 and the cost of 
repairing the theft related damage was £5,672.92. Based on these figures, I dont think 
Advantage acted unreasonably by choosing to repair the car.
But Ive seen that, by September 2019, the cost of repairs had increased. And the issue with 
the clutch that wasnt picked up until after the initial repairs had been completed - the repairs 
to the clutch (and a media upgrade to sort out the problems with the Bluetooth on the car) 
cost an additional £1,589.90.
Had the clutch problem been identified from the outset, Advantage may have written off Mr 
Ss car. But, because the clutch problem wasnt initially identified, I dont think Advantage 
acted unreasonably by choosing to pay the additional costs for these repairs, given that 
theyd already spent a substantial amount repairing the car.
Mr S has also said there was a problem with the suspension. And he believes that, given 
how he drove the car, and its age and its mileage, this mustve been something that was 
damaged during the theft. And, because the problems with the clutch were initially missed, I 
can understand why he feels this is the case.
But Ive seen the report from the independent engineers, dated 24 September 2019, where 
the clutch, Bluetooth and suspension issues were considered. This said the clutch needed 
replacing, and the Bluetooth software needed updating, as a direct result of the theft. It also 
said it is not uncommon for suspension components with nylon/rubber bushes to creak 
through wear and tear and the garage have reported there are no abnormal sounds from 
the suspension. The engineer also said that the garage had recommended replacing the 
suspensions arms.
The independent engineer has said the noises Mr S heard were normal in a car of his age 
and mileage. And the recommendation to replace the suspension arms is normal when worn 
out bushes are replaced. But, as Mr S has said, his car hadnt done enough mileage for the 
bushes to be worn out. And a short period of very aggressive driving when the car was 
stolen wouldnt be enough to add thousands of miles worth or wear to the suspension. So, as Ive seen nothing to show me that the suspension suffered any damaged because of the 
theft, I dont think Advantage did anything wrong by not replacing the suspension
I also havent seen anything that shows me the staining to the car seats was caused as a 
direct result of the theft - Mr S didnt have any photos of the car seats from before the theft, 
but I wouldnt expect him to. Given this, and that Mr S has now sold the car, I think 
Advantage getting the seats valeted was a reasonable resolution in the circumstances.
Finally, Ive seen a copy of the terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy with Advantage. These 
say a courtesy car is only available while a car is being repaired, and the courtesy car will 
usually be a group A vehicle, such as a Ford Ka. So I dont think Advantage have done 
anything wrong by providing Mr S with a car that was a lower spec than his car. And I agree 
with that Mr S shouldve been provided with a courtesy car for the entire time his car was 
being repaired. But he wasnt  he only had a courtesy car for most of the time when his car 
was being repaired.
Advantage have already acknowledged this, and the £250 they paid him was (in part) to 
recognise the courtesy car issue. I think this was a fair payment, and in line with what Id 
direct in similar circumstances. And because Mr S had a courtesy car for most of the time he 
shouldve, I wont be asking Advantage to pay anything towards his finance agreement.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman