DRN-1744475
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc did not call him back when their phone call was cut 
off.
What happened
In 2019 Mr T was on a phone call with HSBC when the call was disconnected. He 
complained that HSBC did not call him back, causing him the inconvenience of calling the 
bank himself. He also argued that the phone call would never have been necessary in the 
first place, but for the complaint the phone call was about.
HSBC said that the phone call had been with a call centre which can only deal with incoming 
calls, and so the call handler would not have been able to call Mr T back. Our investigator 
accepted this explanation, so she did not uphold this complaint. She added that the 
complaint the phone call had been about has already been dealt with by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, so she would not comment on it again.
Mr T asked for an ombudsman to review his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not clear why the call was disconnected, so I cannot say that this was HSBCs fault. 
I appreciate that Mr T expected the bank to call him back once this happened, and I think 
that is a reasonable thing to expect. But since the department he had been speaking to is 
unable to make calls, only to receive them, that was not possible. I accept that explanation. 
I also do not think the inconvenience resulting from Mr T having to call HSBC again reaches 
a level which merits compensation.
Although the phone calls would not have been necessary if Mr T had not been complaining 
about the subject matter of the calls, I have already dealt with that complaint in my final 
decision dared 3 April 2019, so I will not consider that again.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
