DRN-4384924
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Interactive Investor Services Limited accumulated unpaid fees 
against his ISA without him being made aware of this.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision, which I issued last month. 
My provisional decisional said:
What happened
Mr H opened a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with Interactive Investor Services 
Limited (II) in October 2018. He then opened an ISA with II in May 2019.
II took all fees for both Mr Hs ISA and SIPP accounts from his ISA. In October 2019 Mr H 
emailed II to ask if all fees for his II account could be drawn from the cash balance held in 
his SIPP, and not from his ISA.
II replied to Mr H to say that this wasnt possible as his ISA was linked to his SIPP. II further 
explained that fees could only be taken from the SIPP if the SIPP was a stand-alone 
account.
Mr H asked II if this was a regulatory or a platform constraint and was told by II that it was a 
platform constraint. II also told Mr H: You could open up a linked trading account at no extra 
cost to pay the fees from, this would stop any fees being taken from the ISA or, alternatively 
you could set up a direct debit.
In December 2019 Mr H withdrew all monies from his ISA. Mr H says that he did this so that 
all future fees would be taken from his SIPP.
In July 2021 Mr H deposited £5,000 into his II ISA. Mr H had £519.81 deducted from this 
deposit by II to pay for outstanding fees that had accumulated on his account. 
When Mr H queried this with II he was told that even though he had withdrawn all of the cash 
held in his ISA in December 2019, he hadnt instructed II to close his ISA. Therefore, his ISA 
had remained open, even though there were no monies invested in it.
As Mr H had retained an open ISA with II, which was still linked to his SIPP, then II had not 
been able to take fees from the SIPP, so instead fees had been building up as a debt 
against Mr Hs ISA. When Mr H paid money into his ISA in July 2021 the outstanding fees 
were collected by II.
Mr H complained to II as he said that he wasnt aware that outstanding fees were building up 
as a debt on his ISA and he had wanted fees to be taken from his SIPP, not his ISA. II 
replied to Mr Hs complaint in December 2011. They said that they had informed Mr H that 
he was accumulating outstanding fees in his ISA and therefore didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr H wasnt happy with IIs response, so he referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
An Investigator within the Financial Ombudsman Service reviewed Mr Hs complaint. Their 
view was that II hadnt done enough to tell Mr H that outstanding fees were building up as a 
debt on his ISA. The Investigator therefore upheld Mr Hs complaint and said that II should 
refund some of Mr Hs ISA fees and also pay him £100 to cover the distress and 
inconvenience that hed suffered.
II didnt agree with the Investigators view so Mr Hs complaint has been brought to an 
Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H took monies out of his ISA in December 2019 and then paid cash back into his ISA in 
July 2021, from which II deducted outstanding fees of £519.81. Unpaid fees had 
accumulated against Mr Hs ISA between January 2020 and July 2021 inclusive. 
In June 2019 II changed their fee structure, II sent an email to Mr H on 18 April 2019 to tell 
him about this fee change. This message was sent before Mr H had opened his ISA, but the 
new fee structure came into force after Mr H had opened his ISA. 
II told Mr H that under the new fee structure they moved him to their Super Investor 
service. II say they did this because of the amount of activity on Mr Hs account. The fee for 
the Super Investor service was a plan fee of £19.99 per month plus a SIPP fee of £10 a 
month, so a total of £29.99 a month. This service gave Mr H two free trades a month with 
trades in UK shares and ETFs and funds and investment trusts then charged at £3.99.
However, before IIs new fee structure came into force in June 2019, II say that Mr H 
instructed that his account be downgraded from the Super Investor service to their 
Investor service. The cost for the Investor service was a plan fee of £9.99 together with a 
SIPP fee of £10, so a total of £19.99 a month. This service entitled Mr H to one free trade a 
month. All other trades in UK shares and ETFs and funds and investment trusts were 
charged at £7.99.
II has also said that between the May and June 2020 fee payment dates Mr H instructed 
them to upgrade his account to the Super Investor service. This meant that after the 
upgrade Mr Hs monthly II fee increased from £19.99 to £29.99. 
Both the Investor and Super Investor service plans gave Mr H access to a Stocks and 
Shares ISA and a General Trading Account.Therefore, for the period between January 2020 and July 2021, when Mr H was 
accumulating unpaid fees as a debt on his ISA, II applied monthly fees of £19.99 from 
January 2020 to May 2020 inclusive, and then £29.99 a month from June 2020 to July 2021 
inclusive. These unpaid fees total £519.81.
II have said we charge a service plan fee which would cover as many accounts opened by a 
customer, providing they are linked under the same customer. So 1 service plan fee covered 
features of Mr Hs ISA and SIPP. As he held a SIPP, for which there is an additional charge 
he paid £19.99 in total. He upgraded to our Super Investor plan totalling £29.99. He then 
downgraded to his original service plan and has been charged £19.99 ever since. Had he 
closed his ISA in December 2019, he would still have paid a service plan fee and SIPP fee 
on either of the service plans available.
I think that II are saying that regardless of whether Mr H had closed his ISA or not in 
December 2019, he would still have paid monthly fees of £19.99 for the Investor service 
and £29.99 for the Super Investor for his II SIPP account. This would mean that Mr H didnt 
pay any extra fee each month because he kept his ISA open between January 2020 and 
July 2021 inclusive. 
On 9 December 2019 Mr H emailed II again to say: One last question, if there is no cash in 
my ISA would it take cash available from my pension or sell units in investments in isa to 
fund the charges? Looks currently like I have no alternative but to remove my funds from the 
ii Isa to ensure the charges are taken direct from the pension fund.
On 10 December 2019 II replied to Mr H to say: Unfortunately, the fees will have to come 
out of the cash balance in the ISA. Fees are unable to be taken from a SIPP when there is a 
linked ISA. I have spoken to Payments who have advised that we would never take fees 
from the SIPP even if there was no money in the ISA. If fees were outstanding on the 
account for long periods of time our Credit department could look into selling units in your 
SIPP investments. You would always be notified of this.  
I think that in their reply II said that fees would never be taken from Mr Hs SIPP, even if 
there was no cash in his ISA. But II go on to say that if fees are outstanding for a long period 
of time then they could take fees from the SIPP by selling investments if fees are 
outstanding on Mr Hs account for long periods of time. 
Fees on Mr Hs II account were outstanding for 18 months and had built up to over £500. I 
think it reasonable for this time period to be considered long periods of time. 
On 28 January 2020 II sent a secure message to Mr H to tell him that hed accrued unpaid 
fees on his account and to explain what he needed to do to correct this. In this message II 
said: We're getting in touch to let you know that there is a balance outstanding on your 
account in relation to unpaid account administration fees.
Mr H has said that he did read this message at the time but he understood that the charge 
would come off my SIPP as he had cash in that account and thought that his ISA was 
closed.  
Mr H has also said he did look at the monthly transaction charge on his ISA and saw the fee 
of £19.99 being both debited and the re-credited. Mr H says that there was nothing visible on 
the account to show accumulated outstanding fees. He has also said that he thought that the 
monthly debit and credit of fees was an attempt to take the same £19.99 fee. 
In relation to fees being debited and re-credited on Mr Hs ISA, II has said: Regarding the 
ISA balance, the account fee was taken from the ISA but as there was no cash balance available, and as because an ISA cannot be in state of negative balance, the fee is returned 
to the account while the debt is recorded elsewhere internally. The customer can see what 
fees have bounced on their transaction history and outstanding fees are also visible on their 
online account under service plan details. 
I have seen a screenshot of Mr Hs ISA account balance for July 2021, provided by II. From 
this I can see the monthly fee as both a debit and a credit, so that a net running balance of 
zero is shown. 
Mr H has said that there was nothing visible on his account to show an accumulation of 
charges. I think it is reasonable that Mr H wouldve seen a net running balance of zero, 
which would I think would have indicated to him that there wasnt a debt on his ISA account.
II have also said that outstanding fees are also visible on their online account under service 
plan details. But I think that this meant that Mr H wouldve needed to click onto a different 
screen to see his service plan details, to then look at his online account.
Mr H has said his online account page showed the monthly cost for his plan, with a button to 
click to view plan. Mr H has said that he saw no reason to click the view plan button.
 
II had told Mr H in January 2020 by email that he had outstanding fees on his account and 
explained what action he needed to take to correct this. But II then didnt contact Mr H about 
outstanding fees during the whole period that unpaid fees were accumulating on his ISA.
 
II have also said: As a self-managed investor, it is your responsibility to keep track of your 
outstanding account fees and investments, including any cash you may be holding. It is not 
part of our service to actively contact customers, reminding them of any assets they hold, 
customers are expected to keep track of their own accounts.
Whilst I understand that Mr H was a self-managed investor, I dont think that it would have 
been unreasonable for II to have contacted Mr H more than once between January 2020 and 
July 2021 to tell him that he was continuing to accumulate unpaid fees on his account. I think 
that II would have been aware that Mr H hadnt taken any action following their email of 
January 2020 and that more and more unpaid fees were accumulating on his ISA.
On balance, therefore, I therefore think that it would have been fair and reasonable for II to 
have contacted Mr H again, after January 2020, to tell him that he was continuing to 
accumulate unpaid fees on his ISA and to inform him of the outstanding balance. As II only 
contacted Mr H once to tell him that he had outstanding fees on his account, then in spite of 
IIs comments above, I dont think that II made adequate efforts to make Mr H aware of these 
outstanding fees, and that the outstanding fees were increasing month by month.
I also think that had II contacted Mr H again after January 2020 to tell him that he was 
accumulating unpaid fees on his ISA, as his ISA was still open, then its likely that Mr H 
wouldve closed his II ISA.
I say this because Mr H then had no money in his ISA, and he wanted fees to be taken from 
his SIPP. I dont think that there was any benefit to Mr H in him keeping his ISA open 
between January 2020 and July 2021, and I therefore think he would have closed it if hed 
known that unpaid fees were accumulating within his ISA instead of being taken from his 
SIPP.
If Mr H had closed his ISA, then, as Ive said above, he would not have reduced the monthly 
fee that he was paying to II. This is because II have said that Mr Hs monthly fee would have 
been the same, whether the ISA was closed or not.However, if Mr H had closed his ISA then his monthly fees could have been taken from his 
SIPP, which is what Mr H had told II he wanted.
II have said that Mr H has always known he is obligated to pay a fee for the services they 
provided to him and that they communicated correctly with Mr H about the changes to their 
fee structure in 2019. 
I think that this is right and I dont think it unreasonable that Mr H should pay fees to II for the 
services that he received between January 2020 and July 2021 inclusive.
 
This is because Mr H had full use of his SIPP throughout this period and II were providing 
safe custody for Mr Hs SIPP assets. Mr H also changed his II account to the Super 
Investor service in May 2020, so made the decision to upgrade his II account at that time. 
Also Mr H didnt pay any extra fee to II because he kept his ISA open.
I therefore dont think that it would be fair and reasonable for II to refund any fees to Mr H. 
However, because I dont think that II made adequate efforts to make Mr H aware of his 
outstanding fees I think that Mr H wasnt able to have his fees taken from his SIPP, as he 
wanted, and he had outstanding fees unexpectedly deducted from the monies that he paid 
into his ISA in July 2021.
I therefore think it fair and reasonable that II should compensate Mr H for the inconvenience 
that hes suffered as a result.
I am therefore upholding Mr Hs complaint as I think that II should have taken more action 
than they did to tell him that he was continuing to accumulate unpaid fees as a debt on his 
ISA.
  
Putting Things Right
 
As Ive explained above I think that Mr H suffered the distress and inconvenience of 
unexpectedly having unpaid fees being deducted from his ISA payment in July 2021 and 
being unable to have his monthly fees deducted from his SIPP, as hed told II he wanted. 
I therefore think that II should now pay Mr H £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience that hes suffered.
 
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint against Interactive Investor 
Services Limited and that Interactive Investor Services Limited now compensate Mr H as 
detailed above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr H and Interactive Investor Services Limited (II) have responded to my provisional 
decision. 
II has said that when Mr H asked if they could deduct fees from his SIPP, and not his ISA, 
they explained to him that as long he held a linked ISA then fees will come from the ISA. II 
have also said that when Mr H asked if fees would come from his SIPP if he withdrew the 
balance from his ISA, they explained that fees would still be deducted from his ISA.II have also said that when Mr H withdrew cash from his ISA then his intention was to force 
them to deduct fees from his SIPP, but they had already told him that this wouldnt lead to 
the outcome he wanted. II have added that the reason they deduct fees in this way is not a 
constraint of their platform but is instead their service offering. 
II have gone on to say that only as an absolute last resort would they look to sell assets in an 
ISA or SIPP. II have further said But if there was no cash balance, in either, this would be 
our only option.
II have also said that Mr H has admitted that he was aware of the fees being owed and that 
when they contacted Mr H to advise him of the debt Mr H still took no action to ensure he 
was fulfilling his obligations. 
II have also said a customer can view various pieces of information on their website and that 
they dont think it unreasonable to expect a customer to navigate through their menus to 
access this information. II have added In this case, each screen takes two clicks to show 
the information required for Mr H to view his unpaid fees.
II have said that Mr H read correspondence advising him of unpaid fees and took no action 
to remedy the situation. II have also said that they dont agree that Mr H was unaware that 
he had debt accumulating against him or that the numerous times he was advised of 
potential and actual debt, were unreasonable. II say that they further advised that fees 
would remain outstanding until such time that they contacted him to advise that they would 
sell his assets if he continued to refuse to pay his fees.  
I have considered all of the points made by II in their response. In my provisional decision Id 
set out details of the email exchange between Mr H and II in 2019 when Mr H had enquired 
about having monthly fees deducted from his SIPP. However, in my provisional decision Id 
said that I didnt think that II had taken sufficient action to tell Mr H about the unpaid fees that 
he was accumulating on his ISA after these unpaid fees had started to accumulate. Unpaid 
fees accumulated between January 2020 and July 2021 inclusive.
II have said that they dont think it unreasonable for Mr H to have navigated their online 
system to have seen information about outstanding fees. But Mr H has said that he didnt do 
this because when he looked at his ISA he saw a net running balance of zero. 
In my provisional decision Id said that I thought it was reasonable that as Mr H wouldve 
seen a net running balance of zero this indicated to him that there wasnt a debt on his ISA.
II had also said that outstanding fees are also visible on their online account under service 
plan details. But as Id said in my provisional decision, I think that this meant that Mr H 
wouldve needed to click onto a different screen to see his service plan details, to then look 
at his online account. But Mr H had said that his online account page showed the monthly 
cost for his plan, with a button to click to view plan. Mr H has said that he saw no reason to 
click the view plan button.
  
II have said in their response to my provisional decision that each screen takes two 
clicks to show the information required for Mr H to view his unpaid fees. But as Mr H has 
said, he saw no reason to click to see the relevant page. As Mr Hs ISA was showing a net 
zero balance then I dont think that this was unreasonable.
 
If, however, II had contacted Mr H after January 2020 to make him aware that outstanding 
fees were continuing to accumulate on his account, then on balance I think it likely that Mr H 
wouldve checked further on his account to understand what fees were outstanding.II have said that when Mr H withdrew cash from his ISA this was because he wanted fees 
taken from his SIPP. I think that this is correct, as I think that Mr H explained in his emails 
sent in 2019 that he wanted fees to be applied to his SIPP. In 2019 II told Mr H that they 
couldnt take fees from Mr Hs SIPP if there was a linked ISA because of a platform 
constraint. However, in their response to my provisional decision II have said that this was 
because it was their service offering. 
 
II have said that they would sell assets in Mr Hs account to pay fees if he refused to pay his 
outstanding fees. But I have not seen any evidence to show that Mr H was refusing to pay 
his fees. Mr H has said that he expected to pay fees on his II account. 
II have also said that Mr H was aware that he was accumulating unpaid fees on his account, 
but again Ive not seen any evidence to show that he was aware of his outstanding fees. As 
Ive said above, Mr H has said that he didnt log onto the relevant page on his II account to 
see details of the unpaid fees that were accumulating. Mr H has also said that when he saw 
the net balance of zero on his ISA then he also thought that no fees were outstanding.
II have also pointed out that they did message Mr H in January 2020 to tell him that his 
January fee was outstanding. Mr H has said that he did read this message at the time, but 
he understood that the fee would come off my SIPP as he had cash in that account and 
thought that his ISA was closed.  
Mr H has also said he did look at the monthly transaction charge on his ISA and saw the fee 
of £19.99 being both debited and the re-credited. Mr H says that there was nothing visible on 
the account to show accumulated outstanding fees. He has also said that he thought that the 
monthly debit and credit of fees was an attempt to take the same £19.99 fee. I think that this 
meant that Mr H didnt see anything on his account to show that his monthly fees were 
outstanding. 
II also told Mr H: If fees were outstanding on the account for long periods of time our Credit 
department could look into selling units in your SIPP investments. You would always be 
notified of this.  As Ive also said above, I think that II were saying that they would sell 
assets in Mr Hs SIPP if fees had been outstanding for a long period of time. I said in my 
provisional decision that I think the period of 18 months over which Mr H accumulated 
unpaid fees could reasonably be considered to be a long period of time. 
In their response to my provisional decision II also said Regarding the selling of assets, only 
as an absolute last resort would we look to sell assets in an ISA or SIPP. But if there was no 
cash balance, in either, this would be our only option. But Mr H has said that he did have a 
cash balance in his SIPP.  
Mr H has also responded to my provisional decision. In his response, Mr H has questioned 
whether he would have paid the same level of monthly fee between January 2000 and July 
2021 if he had closed his ISA in December 2019, as Id said in my provisional decision. 
However, when asked if Mr H wouldve paid the same monthly fee as he did between 
January 2020 and July 2021 if hed closed his ISA in December 2019, II answered, as Ive 
set out above, Had he closed his ISA in December 2019, he would still have paid a service 
plan fee and SIPP fee on either of the service plans available.
I am satisfied by IIs response that Mr H did not pay any additional fee between January 
2020 and July 2021 because his ISA remained open.
As I said in my provisional decision, I think that it would have been fair and reasonable for II 
to have contacted Mr H again, after January 2020, to tell him that he was continuing to accumulate unpaid fees on his ISA and to inform him of the outstanding balance. Id also 
said in my provisional decision that I didnt think that II made adequate efforts to make Mr H 
aware of these outstanding fees, and that the outstanding fees were increasing month by 
month until July 2021.
Id also said in my provisional decision that had II contacted Mr H again after January 2020 
to tell him that he was accumulating unpaid fees on his ISA, as his ISA was still open, then I 
think its likely that Mr H wouldve closed his II ISA.
Ive carefully considered all of the points made by II in their response to my provisional 
decision, but I have not seen any additional evidence or information that has persuaded me 
that I should change my view.
 
I have also carefully considered the points raised by Mr H. As Ive said above, I dont think 
that Mr H paid any extra fee to II between January 2020 and July 2021 because his ISA 
remained open. Ive also not seen any evidence to show why Mr H should not pay fees for 
the services he received from II between January 2020 and July 2021 inclusive, as Id said in 
my provisional decision.
 
I am therefore upholding Mr Hs complaint against II for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision and II should now compensate Mr H for the distress and inconvenience that he 
suffered as a result of their actions.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision Id said that II should pay Mr H £200 as compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience that hed suffered. Id also set out details of the distress and 
inconvenience that I think Mr H suffered. But Mr H has responded to my provisional decision 
to say he thinks that the distress and inconvenience award of £200 undervalues the 
inconvenience that hes suffered. Mr H therefore thinks that the award should be much 
higher than the amount that I had recommended.
For me to consider a level of award in line with the amount that Mr H has said would be 
appropriate, I think that II would have needed to have caused Mr H sustained distress, 
potentially affecting his health, or severe disruption to his daily life typically lasting more than 
a year. I have not seen any evidence that this is the case.
I think that instead Mr H has suffered distress and inconvenience as a result of IIs actions, 
as Id described in my provisional decision. I therefore think that compensation of £200 is fair 
and reasonable for the level of distress and inconvenience suffered by Mr H.
I therefore think that II should now pay Mr H £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience that hes suffered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint against Interactive Investor Services 
Limited and Interactive Investor Services Limited should compensate Mr H as I have set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Ian BartonOmbudsman