DRN-2957959
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited didnt check an 
income protection policy he held with it remained suitable for him. 
What happened
In 1992 Mr B took out a life assurance policy with Royal London which also included income 
protection. In 2019 Mr B became unwell and was unable to work. He made a claim under 
his employers group income protection policy which was accepted. But as that didnt pay his 
full salary he made a claim under his personal policy. That policy said his entitlement would 
be reduced by the amount he received from his company policy. As the amount payable 
under the company policy exceeded his entitlement under his personal policy then nothing 
was paid by Royal London. 
Mr B thought Royal London should have carried out a review every five years as to whether 
the personal policy remained suitable for him (in line with the policy terms). If that had been 
done it would have established in 1997 the policy was no longer right for him and so he 
thought it should refund the premiums hed paid from that date. 
Royal London said the plan reviews werent to assess suitability but whether the premiums 
being paid were sufficient to maintain the cover. And it didnt offer financial advice. It also 
said it didnt think we could consider the complaint as it had been brought out of time. 
Our investigator said she thought Mr B would only reasonably have been aware of the issue 
giving rise to his complaint when his claim was turned down in 2019. So she thought the 
claim had been brought in time. She went on to consider the merits and agreed the reviews 
werent to assess suitability and didnt think Royal London had done anything wrong. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said the policy didnt say the reviews only covered whether premiums 
were sufficient. He thought Royal London had a duty of care to review the suitability of the 
policy and argued the only reason this hadnt taken place was because its sales force had 
been disbanded in 1996. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First Ive looked at the terms of Mr Bs personal policy and Im satisfied Royal London has 
correctly decided that Mr B isnt entitled to any benefit. Thats because the amount hes 
receiving from his employers policy exceeds his entitlement under his personal policy. 
I understand Mr B accepts thats the case. His argument is his personal policy should have 
been reviewed every five years and if Royal London had done that it would have realised the 
policy was no longer suitable for him. 
Ive looked at the terms of his policy from 1992. Mr B is right to say these do make provision 
for a Plan Review. The terms set out a number of circumstances in which that will take place 
including the occurrence of each five-yearly anniversary of the Commencement Date. 
But the policy goes on to say if as a result of a Plan Reviewthe Companys Actuary shall 
determine that the Benefits in force cannot be maintained until the next Regular Plan 
Reviewthe Company should forthwith notify the Planholder of such fact, of the increased 
of contributions required to maintain the Benefitsand of the amount by which the Benefit 
would require to be reduced in order to be maintained by the current level of Regular 
Contribution
I dont think theres any suggestion that review would consider the suitability of the income 
protection policy. I think its clear the point of any review is to assess whether or not the 
contributions made are sufficient to provide the benefits to which the Planholder is entitled. I 
think thats support by the Product Particulars Fact Sheet which says:
As contribution rates are based on our assumptions about the future, it is important for us to 
check that these assumptions are being met. We need to be sure that the Plan continues to 
be capable of funding the benefits you have chosen. For the reason we undertake special 
Plan Reviews every five years at which time we compare what has actually happened with 
the assumptions we made at the outset. 
The fact sheet goes on to explain that a favourable Plan Review might mean a reduction in 
contributions (or an increase in benefit) whereas an unfavourable Plan Review will lead to an 
increase in contributions. I think that also shows the purpose of the Plan Review is to decide 
whether whats being paid for the policy is enough to provide the required benefit. Again, 
theres no suggestion this review would consider whether the income protection policy 
remained suitable for an individuals circumstances. 
And while Mr B suggests Royal London had an ongoing duty to check if the plan remained 
suitable for him I dont agree. I appreciate Royal London may have disbanded its salesforce 
some years ago but I dont think that makes a difference. Ive not seen anything to show it 
told Mr B it would be assessing the suitability of this policy for him on an ongoing basis. So if 
Mr Bs circumstances had changed since he first took the policy out, I think it was for him to 
decide whether it still met his needs. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman