DRN-2264653
The complaint
Mrs and Mr Bs representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on their 
behalf that they were mis-sold a Wealth Management Plan (the plan), by Phoenix Life 
Limited (the business).  
The CMC says:
Theres no evidence that alternatives were discussed. 
Mrs and Mrs B didnt need life cover. 
The charges werent explained to them. 
What happened
In 1988, Mrs and Mr B were advised to take out the plan with a monthly contribution. The 
plan matured in 1998 with a small return. 
Mrs and Mr B didnt complain about the suitability of the advice until they met with the CMC 
in 2019. 
Despite raising an initial jurisdiction objection, the business consented to us looking into the 
merits of this complaint but didnt uphold it. In short, it said: 
Sufficient information was provided at the point of sale to enable Mrs and Mr B to 
decide whether or not they wanted the plan.  
Two years earlier theyd taken a similar plan which they held until maturity without 
any complaints.
The plan Illustration provided a projected growth rate of 7% and 10.50% per annum  
which were the prescribed growth rates in line with the regulators at the time  but no 
guarantees were given about the level of return.
This was a qualifying whole of life plan, primarily designed to build up a capital sum 
from regular premiums.  
The cost of life cover was negligible, and the policy was subject to upfront charges 
which would have had an impact on its early surrender value, however Mrs and Mr B 
didnt surrender the policy before the maturity date.
The literature provided at the point of sale explained the charges applicable to the 
policy.      
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The fact find records that Mr B asked for the plan to be set up. 
The notes recorded that the adviser was: 
o"called by Mr B (name anonymised) to commence a WHP for the new arrival 
a.s.a.p. The same for his other 2 daughters."
oAnd he specifically wanted to commence WHP for the child due in a month 
or so. 
This suggests that Mrs and Mr B were happy with the recommendation. However, if 
they werent, they had the right to cancel the policy. 
The plan matured in 1998, theres nothing to suggest they were dissatisfied with the 
product. 
The CMC disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
short, it made the following key points:
Just because the adviser noted that Mrs and Mr B wanted the plan doesnt mean it 
was suitable.
An inference that they (as small business owners) knew what good advice was is 
incorrect. 
The plan contained life cover which they didnt ask for. Just because it made the plan 
qualifying doesnt mean it was suitable. 
The plan also made a gain upon maturity, so they wouldnt have had a reason to 
complain. 
Our investigator, having considered the additional points, wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
Having considered Mrs and Mr Bs circumstances, needs and objectives, he cant 
say the advice was unsuitable. 
The policy documentation provided made clear the general nature and operation of 
the plan. 
The plan schedule outlined the monthly contributions, projected cash values and the 
sum assured, making clear how the plan worked and also how it was likely to perform 
over the years.
All the information provided enabled Mrs and Mr B to make an informed decision 
about whether (or not) they wanted the plan, and it was clear they did.  
Mr B calling up the adviser and specifically asking for the plan suggests that it was 
suitable for his needs and that he wanted it. These arent the actions of someone 
who was unfamiliar or unhappy with the plan.  
The CMC disagreed with the investigators findings. In short, it said:
The business provided an Illustration, but this doesnt provide a reduction in yield as 
a result of the charges that applied. 
It recently had an ombudsman decision that was upheld, where the charges 
impacted the returns.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says Im unable to say 
that the recommendation was unsuitable. 
The CMC has provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read andconsidered carefully. However, I hope Mrs and Mr B wont take the fact my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by the CMC and the business, and reach what I think is an
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation
and best industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
It seems that Mrs and Mr Bs objective was to save regularly, for their new child and for their 
future. In the circumstances, Im unable to say that the recommendation to invest in the plan 
was unsuitable or didnt meet that objective.
I appreciate Mrs and Mr B werent experienced investors, however they werent without 
investment experience either. I understand they previously invested in similar plans, so its 
likely they had some understanding of how these products worked. It may very well explain 
why they were happy to take another plan that was like what they had. In other words, I cant 
safely say that the recommendation to invest in this plan was unsuitable.
I appreciate that just because a customer wants something doesnt mean that it will 
automatically be suitable. In this instance Im satisfied that Mrs and Mr B got exactly what 
theyd asked for and wanted as soon as possible. Im mindful they were expecting their third 
child and wanted a similar plan to the ones they already had for their two daughters. I note 
the following was recorded in the comments section of the fact find:
The clients are expecting their third child in a month or so. 
I was called by Mr B (name anonymised) to commence a WMP for the new arrival a.s.a.p. 
The same for his 2 other daughters. 
I also note that they kept this plan, much like the previous one, until maturity, without any 
complaints. This suggests that they werent unhappy with what they were getting, probably 
based on their experience of what they already had.  
I appreciate the point about the inclusion of life cover, but despite what the CMC says Im not
persuaded that in this instance it rendered the recommendation unsuitable. The inclusion of 
life cover with a savings plan doesnt inherently mean that a recommendation is unsuitable, 
although it can in some cases, so each complaint must be considered in light of its individual 
circumstances.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that this plan was recommended as life cover, and its not
what the business is saying. Rather that this plan was recommended as a savings plan
with an element of life cover. I appreciate that in this instance Mrs and Mr Bs priority wasnt 
life cover, but despite what the CMC says Ive seen nothing to suggest that they were totally
against it. 
I note that Mrs and Mr B were married and already had two young children with another one 
the way, so I cant say that there was absolutely no need for life cover. Im mindful that in the 
event of a valid claim the policy wouldve paid out the sum assured. 
If Mrs and Mr B didnt think there was any need, they probably wouldnt have chosen to take 
out another policy, with life cover, like the one(s) they had.  Im unable to say that life cover was more than what was necessary for the purposes of 
ensuring that the plans was qualifying  which was likely to be an important factor given Mrs 
and Mr B were saving for their (unborn) daughter and wouldve benefitted from receiving a 
tax-free lump sum. For whatever reason, it doesnt seem like they were interested in putting 
the plan (or any of the previous plans) in trust.  
Im mindful the business confirms that life cover was at a minimal level and was only there 
for qualifying purposes and I have seen no evidence to suggest this is wrong.
In the circumstances Im satisfied that Mrs and Mr B were reasonably young enough for it 
not to have a significant impact on their savings, and they also maintained the plan till 
maturity. So, on balance any reduction in yield wouldve been low, and likely to have had a 
minimum impact on the returns.
Despite what the CMC says, on balance Im satisfied that the documentation made clear the 
charges (including for life cover) that applied to this plan. 
I note in the terms and conditions of the plan, under the heading Life Cover Charge (at 
page 2 of the document) it made clear the charges applicable for life cover. I also note in the 
Illustration document under the heading Everything Youll Want to Know, subheading 
What are the Plan charges?, the business provided further explanation. If Mrs and Mr B 
didnt understand anything or were unhappy with what they saw, they had the opportunity to 
seek clarification from the business.  
I appreciate Mrs and Mr B will be very unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what they want to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate their frustration, in the circumstances Im not persuaded the business has done 
anything wrong.
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mrs and 
Mr B what they want.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman