DRN-2675641
The complaint
Mr K complains about Skyfire Insurance Company Limiteds (Skyfire) delay in settling his car 
insurance claim. Mr K wants Skyfire to pay for expenses he has incurred while waiting for his 
claim to be settled.
What happened
Mr Ks car was damaged following a flood, so he reported this to Skyfire in August 2020. 
They deemed the car a total loss and made an offer to settle his claim. Mr K felt the offer 
was too low so Skyfire agreed to recover the car so an engineer could review it to give a full 
valuation. Skyfire told Mr K that an engineer would call him in five days. Over the next two 
weeks Mr K chased for updates and was told by Skyfire theyre waiting for the inspection 
report. Mr K then raised a complaint. 
In early September, and following a conversation with an engineer, Mr K accepted a 
valuation of £1,800 less his excess of £150. This payment was made to Mr K. Skyfire 
responded to Mr Ks complaint and said the delay was unavoidable. They said Mr Ks policy 
doesnt cover electrical or mechanical faults so an engineer needed to carry out a physical 
inspection before settlement could be made.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr K. He thought Skyfire hadnt delayed in settling the 
claim. Mr K disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr K will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mr Ks car insurance policy document. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and says Skyfire will settle Mr Ks claim by paying money if his car is a total loss. 
Theres no dispute that Mr Ks car was deemed a total loss, or about the claim settlement of 
£1,650. Mr K is unhappy about the length of time Skyfire took to reach a valuation and settle 
his claim. And, about expenses he has incurred during this time which he feels wouldve 
been avoidable. So, this is what I have looked into further. 
Ive reviewed the system notes provided by Skyfire and listened to the phone calls between 
them and Mr K. Mr K first reports the claim on 13 August. During the call he describes the 
incident which he says happened the day before. The call handler discusses the valuation of 
Mr Ks car and, given Mr Ks dispute, they agree to have an engineer carry out a review. 
They say it will take five working days for an engineer to contact him. 
During this call, Mr K explains he doesnt have a car so asks if any taxi expenses will be 
covered. The call handler explains this isnt covered under Mr Ks policy. Mr K then chases 
on 19 August and the call handler explains Mr Ks car is now on site but an engineer needs 
to review the valuation. They say it will take five working days from that day. Mr K queries 
this as he was previously given a timeframe of five working days and the call handler 
explains its five working days from when the car is on site. Mr K chases on 25 August and 
the call handler explains Mr Ks car is with the engineers team and theyre due to review it by 
the next day. An engineer carries out a review the following day and raises concerns about 
the electrical failure and whether its covered under the policy. So, they request an 
inspection. 
Mr K calls again on 28 August to say he hasnt yet received a call from an engineer. The call 
handler explains Skyfire originally received a report suggesting there was an electrical failure 
but the engineer carried out a review but decided they need to carry out a physical 
inspection. They explain this is to ensure the claim is covered under the policy. During this 
call, Mr K asks whether he can cancel his road tax and the call handler explains its Mr Ks 
decision but if the claim isnt accepted then he might be left with a car without tax. 
Theres further calls on 2 and 4 September, during which the call handlers explain theyre 
waiting for the engineers report. Skyfire call Mr K on 8 September to discuss the report and 
their valuation. Mr K doesnt agree with the valuation and, following a phone call with the 
engineer the following day  and an increase in the valuation, Mr K accepts the offer. The 
payment is processed the same day.      
From the point Mr K reports the claim, its taken Skyfire around four weeks to settle the 
claim. This is mainly down to the car requiring an inspection. Insurers often appoint 
engineers experienced in this type of work to carry out a valuation, and thats what Skyfire 
did. I think its a fair thing to do  and its reasonable for Skyfire to be guided by the 
engineers findings. The engineer first carries out a review a week after Skyfire inform Mr K 
his car is on site. The information I have seen shows the engineer had a concern so I dont 
think its unreasonable for Skyfire to have authorised a physical inspection to determine 
whether the claim could be covered under the policy. I think its important for an insurer to 
establish the actual cause of a problem in order to decide whether its covered under the 
policy. This did of course lead to a further period for Mr K to have to wait but I dont think the 
additional two weeks is unreasonable. I say this because the engineers report goes into 
quite some detail covering the damage, any repair costs and how the valuation has been 
calculated. So, I dont think two weeks is an unnecessarily long period to get this information 
together. So, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Mr K has provided details of expenses he feels should be reimbursed by Skyfire. This 
includes taxi fares hes incurred, an additional months insurance premium and road tax. I 
havent upheld the complaint so I cant ask Skyfire to reimburse those costs. In addition to 
this, Ive also looked at Mr Ks policy and this says a courtesy car will not be provided if Mr 
Ks car is a total loss. That was the case here, and while it unfortunately meant Mr K wasnt 
entitled to a courtesy car and had to rely on taxis, I cant see the policy says these costs will 
be covered. A call handler also confirms this to Mr K. In relation to the partial reimbursement 
of the insurance premium Mr K wants, the policy says, Your insurer will not refund any 
premium if you have made a claim And, in relation to the road tax, the registered keeper 
is responsible for paying road tax so I cant ask Skyfire to reimburse this.  
I note Mr K says his car wasnt deemed a total loss throughout the entire four weeks during 
which Skyfire were looking into his claim. He says his car was deemed a total loss on 13 
August, then it was decided it wasnt a total loss following the engineers first review  and 
then communicated to Mr K during the call on 28 August. And then, Mr Ks car was deemed 
a total loss on 8 September. 
Mr K says his car wasnt confirmed as a total loss until September so he shouldve been 
entitled to a courtesy car. I understand why Mr K feels this, but its important to look at the 
timeline here. Mr Ks car was deemed a total loss on 13 August. This remained the position until the first review by the engineer on 26 August. At this point, and after the review, theres 
two possible outcomes but this needs to be determined following a physical inspection; 
firstly, there isnt an electrical failure in which case the cars a total loss, or secondly, if there 
is an electrical failure, then the policy wont cover this. Mr Ks policy says he will be provided 
a courtesy car if his car is being repaired. And, I cant see that was the case at any point 
from 13 August until the claim is settled.       
In summary, I think the steps taken by Skyfire were reasonable in the circumstances. And, 
while this did lead to Mr K not receiving a valuation sooner than he was hoping for, I think 
those further enquiries from the engineer were fair and reasonable. So, I cant say Skyfire 
have delayed in dealing with Mr Ks claim.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman