DRN-3601977
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Erudio Student Loans Limited defaulted her accounts after 
writing to the wrong address.
What happened
Miss M has two mortgage-style student loans with Erudio. Certain aspects of them, such as 
deferment, have been managed by the Student Loans Company (SLC). Miss M had another 
student loan with a different company that was also administered by SLC. SLC would often 
deal with both sets of loans at the same time, such as by allowing Miss M to only submit one 
deferment application to cover both companies loans.
In 2019, Miss Ms address was updated with SLC. However, this arose from contact about 
the other company's student loan, and SLC did not pass the new address to Erudio. Erudio 
say this was for data protection reasons. It appears that SLC did not tell Miss M that they 
had not updated her address with Erudio.
Miss M explains that she made arrangements to repay that other companys student loan. 
She says SLC told her that no further action was needed, and didnt mention Erudio.
In 2020, the deferment period ended for Miss Ms Erudio loans. Erudio wrote letters to her 
old address where she no longer lived. They did not try any other methods of contact, nor 
check if this address was up to date. After getting no reply, they defaulted her accounts.
In 2021, a debt collection agency got in touch with Miss M on Erudios behalf, and she found 
out what had happened. She complained, but Erudio felt theyd done nothing wrong.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Miss M and Erudio a provisional decision on 22 June 2022, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
My role here is to look at not just the letter of the law and regulations, but also at what is 
good industry practice and what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Miss M had some responsibility to keep her contact details up to date. But she did make 
SLC aware of her correct address, and SLC were dealing with her Erudio account. So it was 
perfectly reasonable for her to think that Erudio had her current address. Indeed, it doesnt 
look like Miss M was ever told that SLC wouldnt pass her address to Erudio. And I cant see 
any good reason why Miss M would think thatd be the case  after all, SLC were happy to 
pass her deferment details between the two different companies. And her deferment 
applications would have involved not just Miss Ms personal data like her address, but 
sensitive financial data too. So I dont find Erudios data protection arguments to be valid.
Further, from what I understand, SLC told Miss M she didnt need to take any further action. 
And they were aware of her Erudio loans. So this suggests that Miss M may have been 
misadvised by SLC.
Miss M then didnt get any notice from Erudio that anything was wrong, since they only 
contacted her by post, and they only wrote to the wrong address. I cant see that Erudio took 
any reasonable steps to make sure that Miss M had actually received their correspondence. 
For example, they didnt check her address or try any other contact methods, despite having 
her phone number and email address. Even when Erudio hadnt had any reply from Miss M 
in months and critical deadlines were looming, they didnt check things  despite the fact that 
Miss M had dealt with these loans for decades and this was most unusual.
Technically speaking, Erudio were not strictly required to run an address trace or try other 
contact methods. But those sorts of things are standard practice in the industry. So I do not 
think that Erudios actions here  or inactions  constitute good industry practice, nor a 
reasonable approach to the situation. It would have been far more reasonable for Erudio to 
have just checked Miss Ms address or tried to reach her another way.
Had Erudio done so, it looks like it would have avoided the situation were in now. From what 
I understand, Miss M had already made arrangements to pay off the other companys loan, 
and she then arranged repayments with Erudios debt collector once she knew what the 
situation was. So it seems most likely she would have dealt with Erudios loans had she 
actually been made aware that she was behind, thereby avoiding a default.
But Miss M was unaware of what was going on with her Erudio loans. SLC knew her current 
address, and they handled her Erudio loans, so she had no good reason to think that Erudio 
didnt know her current address. Meanwhile, Erudio did not take reasonable steps to make 
sure Miss M actually knew the situation, and instead wrote exclusively to the wrong address. 
So Miss M never got the proper notices, nor the proper opportunity to avoid a default. It 
follows that I think the default was unfair.
Of course, I do acknowledge that Miss M also had some responsibility to keep track of her 
loans. And it also sounds like some of the fault may lie with SLC rather than Erudio. So with 
that in mind, I do not plan to tell Erudio to pay compensation here. But all the same, it looks 
like as a consequence of each partys errors, Miss M has ended up with a default that she 
didnt get the proper chance to avoid. That does not seem fair. It follows that the most 
sensible thing to do now is to remove the default and reinstate the accounts.
To be clear, I am not making a general finding on Erudios processes as a whole. But first 
and foremost, Erudio need to treat customers fairly  and often that will mean departing from 
their normal process. They need to avoid prioritising processes over people, and they should 
not treat a customer unfairly just because a process tells them to. So I am not telling Erudio 
to change a particular process. I am telling them to put things right where they went wrong in 
the circumstances of this particular case.
Both sides responded. Ill talk about their responses below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M explained she was happy with the provisional decision, though she reiterated that 
this had all had a significant and stressful impact on her. And I do appreciate where shes 
coming from. But as before, Miss M did also have her own responsibility to keep track of her 
loans  this wasnt solely Erudios fault. And so while I am sympathetic to the unfortunate 
stress Miss M went through, I do not think it would be appropriate for me to tell Erudio to do 
anything more than reinstating the accounts.
Erudio disagreed with the provisional decision. They reiterated their arguments about not 
getting Miss Ms updated address due to data protection, but I explained before why I do not 
think those arguments are valid.
Erudio also said they were not obligated to use other contact methods or to check they had 
the right address. But again, this was already addressed in the provisional decision: those 
sorts of things are standard practice in the industry. So I do not think that Erudios actions 
here  or inactions  constitute good industry practice, nor a reasonable approach to the 
situation. It would have been far more reasonable for Erudio to have just checked Miss Ms 
address or tried to reach her another way.
Erudio argued that, not least based on her contact with SLC, Miss M should have reasonably 
known she had an account with Erudio, and should have got in touch with them. But again, 
my provisional decision already took into account Miss Ms own responsibility, and that the 
situation had not arisen solely from Erudios actions and inactions. For example, as above, 
this is why I have not told them to pay Miss M compensation.
Lastly, Erudio felt the only reason Miss M didnt get notified about the default was because 
she failed to update her address. But thats clearly not the case. Aside from the fact that her 
address was updated with SLC  giving her good reason to think that Erudio knew it  she 
also didnt get notified because Erudio didnt undertake any standard, good industry practice 
such as checking they had the right details or using any of the other contact methods they 
already had on file.
Simply put, this is a case where the customer never received the proper notices before the 
default, was not given the proper opportunity to avoid the default, and the business made no 
reasonable efforts to make sure their customer was actually getting their correspondence 
and knew what was happening. It naturally follows that I still dont think this default was fair.
Putting things right
I direct Erudio Student Loans Limited to take such actions as are necessary to put these 
loan accounts in the position they wouldve been in had Miss M been aware of each loans 
status and then been able to apply for deferment or make payments.
That means reinstating each terminated loan, or if Erudio are no longer able to do so, then it 
means making arrangements so the debt is treated as if it had been reinstated  including 
honouring the original terms and conditions, removing any arrears or defaults from Miss Ms 
record, and ensuring Miss Ms credit file has not been adversely affected.That also means making arrangements to either treat the account as deferred now  if 
Miss M has been eligible this whole time. Or if Miss M would have been ineligible to defer 
anyway, it means making arrangements for her to make repayments now, starting with a 
clean slate.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ms complaint, and direct Erudio Student Loans Limited to put things right in 
the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman