DRN-3179571
The complaint
Mrs F and Mr J complain about Soteria Insurance Limited (Soteria) for the way it handled 
their claim for a leak at their home. They want Soteria to pay for the cost of the repairs to 
their hot water system, in addition to the damage caused by the leak. 
What happened
Mrs F and Mr J took out their home insurance via Soteria in October 2020. The home 
insurance included a main policy, underwritten by C, and a home emergency policy, 
underwritten by A. 
In April 2021, Mrs F and Mr J suffered a leak at their home. This was initially hidden, and 
Mrs F and Mr J could only hear a dripping sound. They called Soteria and gave details.
Soteria advised them that, if the leak was hidden, then the home emergency policy would 
not cover this, as trace and access was not included with this policy. Trace and access was, 
however, included with the main buildings policy. Soteria advised Mrs F and Mr J that they 
should engage their own plumber to carry out repairs and then submit details of this to their 
buildings claim. Soteria explained that the buildings cover would look at the resulting 
damage from the leak but did not cover the damage to the pipe or water system which was 
causing the leak. 
Mrs F and Mr J identified the source of the leak as their water tank. They have subsequently 
incurred significant costs in having this cylinder replaced. 
Mrs F and Mr J complained. They said that when they had taken out the policy they had 
specifically asked if trace and access and repair of leaks would be included and that they 
were assured they would. 
Soteria sent its final response to Mrs F and Mr J in June 2022. Soteria was not able to locate 
the call recording of Mrs F and Mr J buying their policy, but it rejected the complaint. Soteria 
offered Mrs F and Mr J £20 compensation for its failure to return a call. 
Mrs F and Mr J were unhappy so contacted us. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He felt that the policy wordings made clear 
that the home emergency cover did not include replacement of boilers, and the building 
policy did not cover damage to the fixed water or heating system itself.
Mrs F and Mr J did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs F and Mr Js frustration at not being covered for the actual damage to their 
water cylinder. They have explained that this is costly to replace. 
I do, however, agree with my colleagues decision.
As he explained, the call recording of the sale of the products is not available. Soteria has 
explained why this is and that calls not attached to a number cannot always be located. I am 
satisfied that Soteria has carried out an appropriate search for the call. 
Without this call I cannot be sure what was said at the point of sale, so I have looked at the 
wider information, and whether Mrs F and Mr J were appropriately advised about the 
constraints of the policy cover. 
Soteria sent full policy documentation to Mrs F and Mr J, including the detailed policy 
wording. This makes clear the different purposes and remits of the buildings policy and the 
home emergency cover. 
The wording makes clear that in both cases the water tank or boiler (from which there is an 
escape of water) is not itself covered.
On that basis, I do not uphold the complaint and consider that Soteria provided Mrs F and Mr 
J sufficient information to make an informed decision about whether to continue with the 
cover. As insurance centres on unexpected occurrences it is important that consumers look 
properly at the documentation and satisfy themselves that they are happy with the level of 
cover they are purchasing. 
Consequently, while I understand that this will be disappointing to Mrs F and Mr F, I do not 
uphold this complaint and do not ask Soteria Insurance Limited to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint and do not ask Soteria Insurance 
Limited to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman