DRN-3848331
The complaint
Mrs S complains she was mis-sold an investment she made in two bonds issued by Basset 
& Gold Plc (B&G plc). She says she was led to believe that all funds were fully secured and 
security backed, but now knows that was not the case. She would like to be compensated 
for the loss of capital suffered by the investment due to her being misled.
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Mrs S invested in a B&G Plc 3 Year Fixed Monthly Income Bond and a B&G Plc 3 Year
Fixed Monthly Income IFISA Bond. For a period of time, sales of these bonds were dealt
with by Basset Gold Ltd (BG Ltd), a separate business from B&G Plc, the issuer of the
bonds. BG Ltd arranged applications for investments in the bonds. And it was responsible for
advertising and marketing the bonds. Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to
discuss the bonds.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited
(Gallium). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17
February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Basset Gold Finance Ltd (BGF)  an independently authorised business, which was not
connected to Gallium  took over from BG Ltd at some point in 2018. Gallium says this
happened before the appointed representative agreement between it and BG Ltd came to an
end and has made submissions on this point  albeit inconsistent ones. For the remainder of
this background section I have referred to BG Ltd as the business Mrs S interacted with, but
the point of dispute is noted and I will consider in my findings whether Mrs S actually dealt
with BGF instead.
Mrs S and the investment in the bonds
Mrs S invested a total of £35,000 in the bonds.
BG Ltds log of applications records the following:
The certificates for the bonds Mrs S actually invested in records the application dates as 18
January 2018.
Investor Tags Legal Tags
Type Date Type Date
Everyday Investor 2017-07-27 09:51:32 B&G T&C Confirmed 2018-01-18 12:59:17
ISA T&C Confirmed 2018-01-18 12:59:06
Completed Investor 
Questionnaire2017-07-27 10:00:50
KYC Completed 2018-01-19 12:42:16Mrs S has limited recollection of the application process but told us she remembers having
phone conversations with her dedicated relationship manager. She also says she had no
previous investment experience at the time.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day
lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into administration
in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mrs S
has not had her invested capital returned to her.
The application process
From the available evidence, it would appear that Mrs S made her application online. There
a call recordings available in which she explains to her Dedicated Relationship Manager that
shes in the process of making her application online.
I have seen screen prints of each stage of BG Ltds online application process. These show
the online application journey that potential investors underwent. This consisted of two
stages, designed to meet the rules restricting who the bonds could be promoted to and on
how to test whether the investments were appropriate for the potential investor. The first was
certification. The second was the appropriateness test.
Galliums response to Mrs Ss complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mrs Ss complaint. It said Mrs S had been given sufficient information
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions, once Mrs Ss
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. 
I have also considered what Gallium describes as its position statement, which sets out 
general information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mrs Ss complaint and concluded it should be upheld.
They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mrs S as a restricted 
investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bonds for her  was 
misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Mrs S wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Mrs S to invest. For these reasons, both 
cumulatively and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to 
compensate Mrs S for the loss she has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary:
The acts the complaint is about took place after B&G Finance Ltd  an independent 
business with which Gallium had no relationship - became authorised. Once B&G 
Finance Ltd became authorised it took over from BG Ltd and so B&G Finance Ltd is 
responsible during this interim period, not Gallium.Our findings went beyond the scope of Mrs Ss complaint.
Regardless of label, Mrs S was required to confirm that she met the requirements of 
a restricted investor and confirmed that she did. It is not fair or reasonable to 
conclude that the use of the word everyday contributed to Mrs S giving an incorrect 
declaration, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration.
The appropriateness test answers, and these confirmations were sufficient for 
Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and 
experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
The investigator provided evidence to Gallium that supported that BG Ltd were involved in
the arranging of investments during the interim period. He sent copies of correspondence
from other cases we have reviewed that showed emails and paperwork in use at the time
consistently set out prior to 1 March 2018 that they belonged to BG Ltd as an appointed
representative of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited. The investigator remained of the view the
evidence shows BG Ltd promoted and arranged the B&G bonds Mrs S took out on in 
January 2018, and Gallium was responsible for the actions of BG Ltd here.
Gallium didnt respond directly to the investigator, but it provided this service with a
witness statement from its former director, dated 16 February 2023 on the subject of who
was responsible for arranging the bonds in the interim period, which says:
He understands that the only regulated activities that continued to be carried out by 
BG Ltd in the interim period, were that BG Ltd remained responsible for the making 
of telephone calls with investors or prospective investors concerning their bond 
investments.
It is his understanding that in relation to telephone calls between Basset & Gold 
representatives and investors/prospective investors in the bonds, during the interim 
period all regulated activities relating to the financial promotions concerning the B&G 
Plc bonds, as well as activities concerning the arranging of bond investments, were 
conducted by BGF.
BG Ltd continued to be responsible for the content of telephone calls between Basset 
& Gold.
On 4 January 2018, he received an email from the owner of Basset & Gold, which 
confirmed that Basset & Gold (he says this meant BGF) had been authorised by the 
FCA. The owner requested a meeting to discuss the best way to transition the 
regulatory business away from Gallium to the new firm.
He believes the meeting took place on 11 January 2018. No notes are available, but 
he recalls what was discussed.
This service asked  on another complaint  for various points of clarification on what is
said in the witness statement, and for contemporaneous evidence to support it. At the time of 
issuing my provisional decision we had not received a response to that request. However, 
for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision  which I quote below  I was satisfied I 
could proceed with this particular complaint without that further information.
My provisional findings
I recently issued a provisional decision. My provisional findings were as follows:
Given what Gallium says about the interim period  that it is not responsible for the act(s)
this complaint relates to - I have first considered all the available evidence and arguments to
decide whether we can consider Mrs Ss complaint.It is sufficient to say Mrs Ss complaint is about the arrangement of her investment in the
bonds and the exchanges she had with the representative in the period up to the
arrangement of the investment being concluded. In short Mrs S says she was misled during
those exchanges.
Rule DISP 2.3.1R says we can:
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities,
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
And the guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which
the firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent
for which the firmhas accepted responsibility).
This guidance is drawn from the relevant legislation, which is paragraph 3 of s39 to the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMSA):
the principal [here, Gallium] of an appointed representative is responsible, to the
same extent as if he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the
representative in carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
So I need to consider whether Mrs Ss complaint is about a regulated activity, carried on by
an appointed representative of Gallium, for which Gallium accepted responsibility.
Is Mrs Ss complaint about a regulated activity?
I am satisfied Mrs Ss complaint relates to a regulated activity. The bonds were a security or
contractually based investment specified in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
(Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). At the time Mrs S made her investment, the RAO
said regulated activities include arranging deals in investments. Acts such as obtaining and
assisting in the completion of an application form and sending it off, with the clients
payment, to the investment issuer would come within the scope of Article 25(1), when the
arrangements have the direct effect of bringing about the transaction. So I am satisfied the
application process  whether it took place online or over the phone  falls within the scope
of Article 25(1). It involved making arrangements for Mrs S to invest in the bonds, and had
the direct effect of bringing about the transaction.
Was Gallium responsible for the acts the complaint is about?
Under the appointed representative agreement in place between BG Ltd and Gallium, in
relation to bonds, BG Ltd was allowed to carry out promoting activitieswhere the Company
has approved the financial promotion. And Gallium allowed BG Ltd the right under its
authorisation with the FCA to give advice in connection with advising, arranging, or dealing
in investment products for present and prospective clients and in connection therewith to
display, advertise, promote, . for the sole purpose of promoting the sale of the same.
This agreement was in force during the period up to the date of investment  18 January
2018. So, if BG Ltd carried out the arrangements, that is business for which Gallium
accepted responsibility and the complaint can therefore be considered against it.
I note Gallium, says from 2 January 2018 BGF began to promote the bonds to investors andthat the website and telephone line was the responsibility of BGF from that date. However 
save for the witness statement, which is unclear on several points and in any event
inconsistent with the position set out in response to the view  it has provided no evidence to
support this point.
I will turn to the witness statement shortly. The evidence available otherwise all shows it was
BG Ltd  not BGF  which made the arrangements in this case.
Mrs S has recently provided two emails dated 18 January 2018 and 22 January 2018 from
B&G Ltds Dedicated Relationship Manager. These acknowledge receipt of Mrs Ss funds,
confirm the bonds subscription was complete and attached her bond certificates. The emails
are from BG Ltd and the email footer states, Basset Gold Ltd. is an appointed
representative of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited which is authorised and regulated by the
Financial Conduct Authority. Further Ive listened to several calls between Mrs S and the
same Dedicated Relationship Manager and so considering the various interactions in the
application process with BG Ltd  it seems clear to me that the business arranging Mrs S
bonds was BG Ltd not BGF. I appreciate Gallium has not seen these and so I intend to
share them with my provisional findings. I think these emails demonstrates that BG Ltd was
responsible, not BGF and therefore Gallium is responsible for arranging the investment in
the bonds.
While Im satisfied arrangements were being made for the investment, Ive also gone to
consider who the relationship manager was working for at this time. If they were no longer
working on behalf of BG Ltd, and after 2 January 2018 was instead working for BGF, I would
have expected this to be explained. I say this given Mrs Ss interactions with BG Ltd were
ongoing at that point. But Ive not seen evidence this happened, in fact to the contrary it
seems more likely the relationship manager was still working on behalf of BG Ltd.
Ive also reviewed the sample correspondence the investigator provided to Gallium to show
examples of when BG Ltd were involved in arranging investments in bonds during the
interim period. This includes copies of emails and paperwork in use around the same time as
Mrs S took out her investment which consistently set out BG Ltd, acting as an appointed
representative of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited, as the business involved in arranging the
investments. This evidence along with the specific evidence mentioned above from the sale
of Mrs Ss bonds in January 2018, supports that Gallium are responsible for the actions of
BG Ltd when arranging Mrs Ss bonds.
Gallium says the available evidence suggests that Mrs S applied to invest through a website
process approved by BGF. But I have not seen any evidence of the type Gallium refers to.
As I have set out, I have not seen any evidence specific to this investment which makes any
reference to BGF- all references are to BG Ltd.
The witness statement includes the following:
On 4 January 2018, I received an email from [name of the owner of the Basset
Gold/Basset and Gold businesses], the ultimate owner and controller of Basset &
Gold, which confirmed that Basset & Gold had been authorised by the FCA. I now
know that it is BGF that was the entity authorised by the FCA, and that BGF had
become FCA authorised on 2 January 2018. [name of the owner of the Basset
Gold/Basset and Gold businesses] requested a meeting to discuss the best way to
transition the regulatory business away from Gallium to the new firm.
I met with [name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset and Gold businesses] in the
hotel he was staying in London the week following his email. I believe the meeting
took place on 11 January 2018 as [name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset andGold businesses]s email of 4 January 2018 mentioned that he would be in London
the following Thursday, which was the 11th. I recall that I made a note of what we
discussed at the meeting, but so long after it took place I cannot now locate my
notes. I do, however, recall what was discussed.
At the meeting, [name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset and Gold businesses]
and I agreed that Gallium would cease monitoring and approving new financial
promotions with immediate effect, because Basset & Gold now controlled its own
regulated firm, BGF. [name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset and Gold
businesses] also informed me that BGF would update the Basset & Gold website and
online application form, to reflect that BGF was now responsible for the promotion of
the bonds and arranging any investments made in the bonds.
As mentioned, there are a number of things about the witness statement which are unclear,
and we have not been provided with any evidence to support what it says. But, even if I
accept what the statement says as an accurate reflection of the position at the time (and, to
be clear, given the available evidence otherwise, I do not) it does not in any event amount to
evidence BGF was responsible for Mrs Ss investment.
To be clear, I have not seen any evidence to show BGF took responsibility from 2 January
2018, as Gallium says, or that it had any involvement in Mrs Ss investment. All the evidence
I have seen supports a contrary position. All in all, I am satisfied Mrs Ss complaint is about
acts for which Gallium accepted responsibility. They are therefore acts of Gallium and can
be considered in a complaint against it.
The merits of Mrs Ss complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are
relevant here.
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant
here.
The bonds were non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who they
could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I
have considered the relevant rules in full.
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached similar overall
conclusions to the investigator, for similar reasons. In summary:BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mrs S into certifying herself as belonging 
in a category to which she did not belong (a restricted investor) by changing the 
term used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the category as being 
one anyone could fall into. This was not treating Mrs S fairly or acting in her best 
interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Mrs S, it is unlikely she would 
have certified herself as being a restricted investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bonds was not an appropriate investment for Mrs S. In the circumstances she would 
either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have 
concluded it should not promote the bonds to her.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mrs Ss
complaint should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mrs S would either not have
proceeded to make the investment or would not have been able to proceed, had
Gallium acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am
satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mrs S for her loss.
Responses to my provisional decision
In response to my provisional decision Gallium provided a general submission which
contained some further evidence relating to what it describes as the interim period. This
included:
A copy of the 4 January 2018 email from the owner of Basset & Gold referred to in 
the witness statement.
Copies of Galliums Appointed Representative Monthly Compliance Report for 
Basset Gold, for each month from February 2017 to February 2018.
Copies of the documents applying to terminate BG Ltd as Galliums appointed 
representative, submitted by Gallium to the FCA on 1 March 2018, and some 
associated emails.
Some email correspondence between Gallium and BG Ltds compliance officer about 
B&G Plc becoming an appointed representative of BGF, and the transfer of approved 
persons.
A list of calls made by B&G Ltd which Gallium had monitored, month on month.
Mrs S didnt have any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have first reconsidered the interim period point. I have reconsidered all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide whether we can consider Mrs Ss complaint  i.e. 
whether Gallium is responsible for the act(s) this complaint relates to. I have not been 
persuaded to change my view on this point.
I have carefully considered the additional evidence Gallium has submitted but, in my view, 
this only further supports the conclusion that Gallium was responsible for making 
arrangements for Mrs S to invest in the bonds and the complaint is therefore one we can 
consider against it.The 4 January 2018 email from the owner of Basset & Gold referred to in the witness
statement includes the following:
As you know we have applied for authorisation with a new company a few months 
ago and I am happy to inform you that we have now been authorised.
As discussed we will transition the regulatory business away from Gallium to the new 
firm, but wanted to discuss with you the best way to get this done. I will be in London 
next week on Thursday if you would like to meet.
As far as ISA manager goes, this will stay as is, as agreed.
Please let me know if you have any matters you think we should take into 
consideration and as always any advice and guidance will be greatly appreciated.
In the January 2018 Appointed Representative Monthly Compliance Report the following
questions are asked of Basset Gold:
Does the Appointed Representative stationery (including website) properly identify 
the firm as an Appointed Representative of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited? And 
have you provided copies to Gallium?
Have you attached a list of all investors you have promoted to this month?
Have all investors been categorised as appropriate to receive the financial 
promotions prior to promotion and such categories kept on file?
Each of these questions was answered Yes.
Attached to the January 2018 Appointed Representative Monthly Compliance Report is a
report all the investment business undertaken that month  which includes Mrs Ss 18
January 2018 investments (in her previous surname).
Although the report refers to Basset Gold and not specifically to either of the appointed
representative businesses it clearly relates  at least insofar as what I refer to above - to the
activities of BG Ltd, as it was BG Ltd  not B&G Plc  which operated the website, made
promotions and arranged investments.
The copy of the report we have been given also features a post-it note stuck to the report of
all the investment business, which says:
Pls note the total of money raised for B&G for Series 6 & 7/ They may need to 
consider new loan documents soon. Although probably will not be our issue as 
terminating end of Feb, but worth mentioning to them
I also note the Call Monitoring List provided by Gallium shows it monitored 11 calls in
January 2018  more than it had monitored in any previous month during its relationship with
BG Ltd.
This information, in addition to the emails from BG Ltd which Mrs S has previously provided, 
in my view, evidences BG Ltd was arranging investments in B&G Plc bonds  including the 
investments Mrs S made  at the time of Mrs Ss investments, and was doing so as an 
appointed representative of Gallium. I say this because:The 4 January 2018 email only refers to an intention to transition away from Gallium 
to BGF, and makes a request to discuss how this might be done. It is not evidence of 
a transition to BGF having already taken place, and of BGF hence being responsible 
from that time.
The Appointed Representative Monthly Compliance Report is evidence BG Ltd was 
still being described as an appointed representative of Gallium at this time, in 
stationery and on the website. It is also evidence Gallium was monitoring and 
recording promotions and arrangements being made by BG Ltd at that time. This is 
strong evidence Gallium accepted responsibility for the arrangement of investments 
at the time.
The post-it note on the investment list is clear evidence Gallium understood it was 
responsible for the arrangement of investments until 1 March 2018.
The fact Gallium was monitoring calls from BG Ltd to investors (or potential 
investors) is further strong evidence Gallium accepted responsibility for the 
arrangement of investments at the time  there is no other reason why such 
monitoring would be taking place.
It also remains the case, as I set out in my provisional decision, that I have not seen any
evidence specific to this investment which makes any reference to BGF.
As I set out in my provisional decision, in making the arrangements. BG Ltd was carrying out
business for which Gallium had accepted responsibility. So I remain of the view I set out in
my provisional decision, quoted above (which, to be clear forms part of this final decision) for
the reasons given there, and the further reasons set out above.
Turning to the merits of Mrs Ss complaint again, Ive considered all the available evidence
and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not been persuaded to change the view set out in my provisional decision. To
confirm, my final decision is the same as that set out in my provisional decision, for the
same reasons. For those reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that
Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mrs S would either not have
proceeded to make the investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium
acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is
fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mrs S for her loss.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs S
as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not invested in the bonds.
I take the view that Mrs S would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair
and reasonable given Mrs S's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mrs S fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mrs S's investments with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.Pay Mrs S £350 for the distress caused. This recognises the worry that she felt when 
B&G failed.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mrs S in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
dateTo (end 
date)Additional 
interest
B&G Plc 3
Year Fixed
Monthly
Income BondStill exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
the final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainants 
acceptance)
B&G Plc 3
Year Fixed
Monthly
Income
IFISA BondStill exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
the final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainants 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mrs S agrees to Gallium taking
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership,
then it may request an undertaking from Mrs S that she repays to Gallium any amount she 
may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investment should be deducted
from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any
return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments,
to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gallium totals all those payments and deducts that
figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If any
distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, they
must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs S wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mrs S's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mrs S would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My final decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay 
the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman