DRN-4496576
The complaint
Miss J is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with Oodle 
Financial Services Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In January 2023, Miss J was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with Oodle. The agreement was for £5,745 over 60 months; with an initial payment of 
£203.44, 48 monthly payments of £153.44 and a final payment of £203.44. At the time of 
supply, the car was just over nine years old, and had done 101,663 miles (according to the 
MOT record for 25 January 2023).
Miss J complained she was having issues with the car  the fuel injectors had failed, there 
were electrical issues with the car caused by water ingress, and the touchscreen and radio 
werent working. After having no response from the supplying dealership, and the car 
breaking down, Miss J complained to Oodle.
Oodle arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car. This inspection took place 
on 11 July 2023, at which point the car had done 102,829 miles  1,166 miles since it had 
been supplied to Miss J. The engineer said there was a fault with the cars infotainment 
system, as well as fault codes present relating to various systems, including the fuel 
injectors. However, the engineer said there were no signs of water ingress into the ECU or 
its surrounding location.
The engineer concluded that the ECU has suffered from a sudden electrical fault which can 
happen at any time [and] we would consider the fault[s present] would not have been 
present or developing at the time of purchase. Based on this report, Oodle didnt uphold 
Miss Js complaint, so she brought it to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said that, while there were faults with the car, there was no evidence they 
were present or developing when the car was supplied to Miss J. As such, the investigator 
thought the car was of a satisfactory quality when supplied, and components had failed due 
to normal in-service wear and tear.
Miss J had also raised the issue of a damaged locking wheel nut, which she says needed to 
be cut off. The investigator also didnt think this made the car of an unsatisfactory quality and 
said the damage couldve happened at any time. So, she didnt think Oodle needed to do 
anything more.
Miss J didnt agree with the investigator. She said the seat belts were mouldy when the car 
was supplied to her, and the supplying dealership shouldve known that the fuel injectors and 
timing chain were coming to the end of their natural life and replaced them before the car 
was sold.
With regards to the wheel nut, Miss J said there was a receipt in the logbook for replacement 
tyres just before the car was supplied to her, so it shows the locking nut was fine then.
Finally, Miss J said the electrical issued are caused by months and months if not months 
over a year of water slowly leaking into the ecu; and the warranty doesnt cover the fuel 
injectors as this isnt a major engine fault, although she believes that it is.
Because Miss J didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Where evidence has been incomplete 
or contradictory, Ive reached my view on the balance of probabilities  what I think is most 
likely to have happened given the available evidence and wider circumstances.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss J was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Oodle 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Oodle can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Miss J to show it was present when the car 
was supplied.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Miss J took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Oodle to put this right.
Ive seen a copy of the independent engineers report, dated 11 July 2023. The key parts of 
this report have already been referred to above. The engineer also confirmed their duty is to 
the courts, not to the person who instructed or paid for the report. As such, Im satisfied this 
report is reasonable to rely upon.
While the engineers report says the faults with the car werent present or developing when 
the car was supplied, Miss J has had the opportunity to provide evidence, such as a report 
from a garage or other independent engineer, to refute this. But she hasnt done so. And I 
havent seen anything else that would indicate the independent engineers report was 
incorrect. As such, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Miss J, Im 
satisfied the car was of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied to her. And its more likely 
than not that the faults with the car were as a result of in-service wear and tear, and parts 
reaching the end of their natural life.Ive noted Miss Js comments about the car. While I agree that long-term water ingress can 
cause electrical issues, the independent engineers report is clear that theres no evidence of 
any water ingress to the ECU or the surrounding area. As such, Im not satisfied the 
electrical faults were as a result of a water leak that was present when the car was supplied, 
and Im inclined to accept the independent engineers opinion that the ECU failed due to a 
sudden electrical fault.
With regards to the fuel injectors and timing chain, these parts have reached the end of their 
natural life. I wouldnt necessarily expect the dealership to have replaced these before the 
car was sold, and had they done so I would expect this to be reflected in a higher selling 
price. Ive also seen nothing to show me the dealership indicated these parts had been 
replaced before the sale, or that Miss J asked for this to be done. As such, I dont think the 
sale of the car was misrepresented in any way, or that Miss J was induced to buy the car on 
the basis that certain parts had been replaced, when they hadnt.
Finally, with regards to the wheel nut, Miss J has said the tyres were replaced just before the 
car was supplied to her. And this would mean the wheel nut was undamaged at the time. Im 
inclined to agree with this, as if the wheel nut was damaged, it wouldve needed to be cut off 
at that point, then replaced. As such, I think its more likely than not that the damage to the 
wheel nut occurred after the car was supplied to Miss J. And, even if this wasnt the case, 
Im not satisfied that a damaged wheel nut would mean the car was of an unsatisfactory 
quality.
So, given the above, I wont be asking Oodle to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Miss Js complaint about Oodle Financial Services 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman