DRN-3255259
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) mis-sold a pet 
insurance policy to him and didn't do enough to put things right when he pointed that out.
Reference to RSA includes its agents in whose name the policy is branded. 
What happened
Mr J rang RSA concerning the possibility of taking pet insurance for his dog. He started the 
conversation by saying that he had existing insurance but that it didn't cover the full 
purchase price of his pet. He asked if RSAs policies covered the full price of his dog. RSA 
said it could offer policies that did cover the full price. RSA then ran through a policy quote 
with him, which Mr J bought.
After he received his policy documents Mr J noticed that, if his dog died, there was a ceiling 
on the amount the policy would pay, which was £1,000 less than his dog cost. Mr J 
complained. RSA acknowledged that it had mis-sold the policy and cancelled it without 
taking any premium payment from Mr J. It also paid him £75 compensation.
Mr J didn't think that went far enough and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. He didn't think RSA needed to take any further action. Mr J didn't 
agree so his complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to instruct RSA to take any further action.
I can understand Mr Js frustration with RSA. He started his initial conversation with it by 
setting out why he wasn't happy with his current pet policy. That is it didn't cover the full 
amount hed paid for his dog. So he wanted to be sure that RSA would cover that purchase 
price. RSA told him its policy would cover the purchase price. But that was plainly wrong.
After Mr J complained RSA held its hands up to its mistake. It explained that given the 
training and the tools available to its staff this mistake shouldn't have happened. But it had. 
So its arranged the appropriate feedback, coaching and training to prevent it from 
happening again. It also paid Mr J £75 compensation.
Mr J thinks that, as he asked a specific question RSA shouldnt have made a mistake of this 
nature. And, if he hadn't noticed the error and needed to claim at some point in the future, 
the mistake could have cost [him] far more than the £75 compensation RSA paid.
While I take his point that an insurer like RSA shouldnt be making mistakes of this nature. I 
don't think the nature of the mistake means that more compensation is due. It might help if I 
explain that when deciding if compensation is warranted, and if so how much, I look at the 
impact a business mistakes have had on the consumer concerned. I don't look at how basic 
or complex the situation was that led to the error or omission, only at how its affected the 
consumer. 
Similarly, my role isn't to fine or punish a business for its mistakes. Instead I will look to see 
whether a business has done enough to make up for any omissions or errors. In this case 
RSA was able to address the issue fairly quickly with a minimum of impact on Mr J. He 
hadn't made a claim, so his policy cover with another provider wouldn't be affected. And 
RSA cancelled the policy without any cost to Mr J.
I appreciate that if Mr J hadn't read his policy documents then, had he needed to claim, this 
could have become a more problematic issue for him at some point in the future. But Mr J 
did read his policy documents and spotted the discrepancy fairly quickly. RSA put things 
right equally as quickly. That means he won't find himself in a situation of making a claim to 
RSA and having to argue that his policy was mis-sold, as thats already been taken care of. 
So I don't think it would be fair to consider the impact of something that won't ever happen 
when thinking about an award of compensation. And, given that RSA sorted matters out 
quickly, with a minimum of impact on Mr J, while recognising that it did cause him some 
frustration, I'm satisfied that its compensation payment of £75 is enough to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman