DRN-4519968
The complaint
Ms C complains that Trading 212 UK Limited put a block on her stocks and shares ISA 
account due to her not providing additional personal information. 
What happened
Ms C opened a stocks and shares ISA with Trading 212 in April 2020. When she accessed 
her account online in May 2023, she was prompted to complete some re-verification 
questions. She says she answered the first few questions as they seemed reasonable 
questions to ask for Know Your Customer (KYC) regulation purposes. However, she says 
she was then asked questions regarding her investments outside of her ISA which she didnt 
think were relevant. She says she believed these questions were designed to target her to 
sell her further financial products. So she declined to answer these. As a result of not 
completing the re-verification questions, Ms C says her ISA account has been blocked. 
Ms C complained to Trading 212 as she felt it had unfairly placed the block on her ISA 
account preventing her from trading. She said she wanted full functionality to be restored on 
her account and compensation for the amount time it has taken to do so.
Trading 212 considered Ms Cs complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, it said:
KYC is a standardised procedure that is mandatory for all its clients.
Not completing KYC checks may result in limitations placed on clients trading 
account or in the termination of its business agreement.
Trading212 requires personal information in order to adhere to its statutory and 
regulatory obligations.
Ms C remained unhappy and so she referred her complaint to this service for an 
independent review. 
One of investigators considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, they felt 
Trading 212 was able to ask the questions it did of Ms C in order to adhere to KYC 
regulations, to prevent fraud, money laundering and terrorist financing, as well as to assess 
the appropriateness of her account. They also said Trading 212 under its terms is able to 
place a block on Ms Cs account if she didnt provide the required information. 
Ms C didnt accept the investigators findings. In summary, she said: 
She has an execution-only account and under the Financial Conduct Authority rules, 
Trading 212 isnt required to obtain personal or financial information about her for an 
execution-only transaction. 
She had only ever traded equities, but the questions asked her about more complex 
products she had no experience of.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Trading 212 has provided a copy of its share dealing service terms of business. These 
explain:
5.1. We are required under the law and regulation to verify the identity of our 
customers. We have undertaken a risk-based approach to this process, which might 
require obtaining among other things, documentary proof of your name, date of birth 
and address. You shall agree that we may use additional online electronic verication 
tools that might request among other things further details, documents, photo and 
video evidence from yourself. If you cannot satisfactorily prove your identity, you may 
not be able to open an account with us or may have to close your existing account.
[]
5.8. If you do not comply with these obligations in this clause 5, this may affect the 
way we can provide the service to you and we may:
a. refuse to open an account for you or accept your assets; 
b. refuse to deal for you;
c. refuse to make payments or transfer Investments from your account;
d. close your account; and/or
e. take any other responsible step necessary to comply with regulatory 
requirements.
So its clear Trading 212 was able to request information from Ms C which is required under 
the law and regulations, in order to identify her. And if she failed to do so, Trading 212 could 
take the appropriate action listed above. 
There are various rules and regulations that Trading 212 has to comply. Some of these 
include KYC regulations in which firms are required to take several steps to establish 
customer identity; understand the nature of customers' activities and qualify that the source 
of funds is legitimate. There are also anti-money laundering regulations; requirements to  
identify vulnerability in customers; as well as ensuring products meet the needs of its 
identifiable target markets. Its important to understand that these regulations dont set out a 
prescribed set of questions for a firm to ask. Instead, the regulations give a firm scope to ask 
relevant questions to ensure it gathers enough information to meet its regulatory obligations. 
 
Trading 212 has provided screenshots of the questions that it asked of Ms C as part of the 
re-verification process. These screenshots show which questions Ms C answered and which 
were left incomplete. Having thought carefully about these, and considering the above 
obligations on Trading 212, Im satisfied there were some relevant questions which Ms C 
ought to have answered. 
Some of the unanswered questions were about the source of her investment funds. Im 
satisfied Trading 212 was required to ask these in order to meet its KYC obligations and to 
prevent money laundering. So I think Ms C ought to have answered these in order for 
Trading 212 to re-verify her. 
I appreciate that some of the questions on the face of it appear to be about appropriateness 
and I agree that Trading 212 isnt expected to test appropriateness on an execution-only 
account. However, Im satisfied these questions, on the whole, are an information gathering exercise to either identify any possible vulnerability or to ensure the product meets the needs 
of its identifiable target market. 
However, I do appreciate why Ms C feels some of the questions were designed to target her 
to sell her further financial products. I say this as some of the questions were specifically 
about contracts for differences. I understand she hasnt invested in these and hasnt 
expressed an intention to, so I dont think these questions are relevant and Im not 
persuaded they were asked with Trading 212s regulatory obligations in mind. 
With that in mind, Im satisfied Ms C didnt answer all the questions Trading 212 required 
and so it acted fairly in taking action to suspend trading until this information was provided. 
Whilst, on the whole, the questions were relevant and asked in line with Trading 212s 
regulatory requirements, Im not persuaded the questions asked of her in relation to 
contracts for differences were relevant and are not required to be answered in order for her 
to continue trading in stocks and shares. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Cs complaint against Trading 212 UK Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman