DRN-4039054
The complaint
Miss D complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined a 
claim she made for subsidence damage to her garage under a home insurance policy. 
Miss D has a representative who dealt with RSA and its loss adjuster, but Ill refer to Miss D 
throughout. RSA had appointed a loss adjuster to act on its behalf.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 8 March 2023 explaining why I was minded to uphold 
Miss Ds complaint. While the background is set out in that decision, Ill summarise it here:
In 2016 Miss D discovered cracks in her garage and made a claim. RSA sent a loss adjuster 
and when investigating the claim carried out monitoring of garage movement in 2017, which 
revealed negligible to no on-going ground movement. RSA said the garage wasnt suffering 
from subsidence and refused the claim. 
Miss D disagreed and sent further information to the loss adjuster including a report from a 
Chartered Engineer that stated:
- Large, stepped cracking clearly indicated downward movement
- Large fir trees had been removed from behind the garage some years previously
- Trial pits were inspected which showed the garage is founded on reasonable ground 
and the foundation was a standard construction for a single storey garage
- There had been differential movement of the garage foundations manifesting in the 
cracks
- The subsidence is due to direct and indirect tree root action which has been 
exacerbated and prolonged by leaking sewers.
RSA reviewed this report alongside other information but maintained its decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained how Miss Ds policy covered damage caused by 
subsidence and it was for Miss D to demonstrate, on the balance of probabilities, that she 
had a valid claim. And if RSA relied on a policy exclusion it was for RSA to demonstrate that 
exclusion applied to the same standard of proof. 
I stated how, in my experience of dealing with these types of complaints and other industry 
related literature I was satisfied the pictures of the damage were classic signs of ground 
movement damage. But RSA hadnt provided an explanation as to what caused the damage, 
simply that the monitoring results from 2017 showed negligible movement. I said the 
absence of movement didnt demonstrate the damage wasnt a result of previous ground 
movement.
I was persuaded from all the information that the damage occurred during the period RSA 
insured the property and Miss D had provided evidence in the form of an engineers report 
that opined the cause of the damage was subsidence. I made observations about the way in 
which RSAs loss adjuster had poorly handled or engaged with the causation point. All they 
did was rely on the absence of ongoing movement in 2017. I said the lack of engagement 
with this had put Miss D to significant inconvenience in obtaining further information to 
substantiate the claim and shed been involved in an elongated process over six years. I 
noted she had a representative work on her behalf, but RSAs handling had had an adverse 
impact on her over a long period and so thought compensation was a fair remedy for that.
To put things right I said:
1. RSA should instruct its preferred supplier to carry out a lasting and effective repair, or
2. If RSA cant provide a preferred supplier, then it will need to have a full schedule of 
repair works commissioned at market rate process and pay that to Miss D so that she 
can arrange her own repairs, or
3. If RSA does have a preferred supplier, but Miss D wants a cash payment RSA need 
only pay Miss D what it would cost RSA (this could be some way below the market 
rate that Miss D would need to pay).
4. Pay Miss D £1,000 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Replies to my provisional decision
Miss D, through her representative, accepted my provisional decision.
RSA provided comments from its loss adjuster, which Ive summarised the main points as:
As per emails to RSA the garage was founded off shallow foundations bearing onto 
made ground, which is susceptible to shear strength failure and isnt suitable. This 
would give the same cracking but wouldnt be covered by the policy.
They hadnt had sight of Miss Ds reports.
It would be reasonable to require further investigations of the foundations.
Compensation would be warranted if they overturn their original decision.
RSA requested the reports from Miss D.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSAs response has not persuaded me to reach a different outcome. Im satisfied RSAs 
loss adjuster did have Miss Ds 2018 engineers report because Ive seen a memo of a 
telephone conversation in which a Chartered Surveyor from the Loss Adjusting company 
corresponded with Miss Ds representative commenting on the Engineers findings. And 
indeed, we have recently passed a copy of the Engineers report to RSA in any case. 
Ive considered RSAs point about the foundations, but this doesnt persuade me to reach a 
different outcome. As I had relayed to RSA via the investigator, none of the loss adjusters 
reports (Preliminary advice report; Technical Report and Final Report) commented on causation but did say movement was recent and cause unknown. It neither ruled in or out 
ground movement as a cause. And indeed, RSAs final response letter was silent on this too. 
It was pointed out to RSA that Miss Ds representative had specifically asked the loss 
adjuster whether defective foundation was RSAs final position, but the information thats 
been provided didnt show this was the reason for either declining the claim or that it was the 
cause leading to the damage.
From all the information Ive seen Im satisfied that Miss D has demonstrated, on the balance 
of probabilities, her garage has suffered damage as a result of subsidence. Im not 
persuaded RSA has demonstrated, to the same standard of proof, a policy exclusion 
applies.
Industry rules (ICOBs) relevant at the time of the claim required RSA to, among other things, 
handle the claim promptly and fairly. RSAs initial actions were, in my view, in line with this  
it appointed a loss adjuster, Miss Ds property was inspected, and a period of monitoring 
took place. And RSA communicated a decision on the claim promptly thereafter. However, 
for the reasons explained, RSA and its agent didnt get to grips with the causation point 
noting that it was the very issue that needed determination. Again, the mere absence of 
ground movement after the damage had been discovered doesnt demonstrate the damage 
wasnt caused or a result of ground movement. 
Ive borne in mind the loss adjusters oblique reference to the foundations of the garage, but 
they didnt engage in any meaningful way with the additional information that Miss D shared, 
particularly her engineers report from 2018. While I have alluded to the fact that a surveyor 
from the Loss Adjuster company had communicated with Miss Ds representative it didnt, in 
my view, lead to what reasonably should have been a review of all the circumstances of the 
claim and a formal determination by RSA as to why Miss Ds claim remained declined. There 
was acknowledgement from the loss adjuster that the removal of trees may have contributed 
to the damage where the ground would recover, and some heave may occur (an insured 
peril).
Taking all this into account and having thought carefully about what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint, I remain satisfied it should be upheld, and RSA needs to 
put things right.  
Putting things right
While RSAs loss adjuster has said it thinks it would be fair to have an opportunity to 
reinvestigate / reinspect the foundations I disagree. Several years have passed since the 
loss adjuster visited the property, authored several reports justifying the declinature of the 
claim, had sight of the Engineers report that challenged RSAs claim decision and indeed 
acknowledged tree removal may have been a contributory factor. And in the main, RSA has 
failed to engage with causation. 
Whats apparent, in my view, is that RSA hasnt handled the claim fairly and to delay this 
even further than RSA has already done would be unfair and unreasonable. RSAs loss 
adjuster is an expert and identified there was ground movement related damage but had not 
clearly addressed the actual cause. Miss Ds Engineers report does that and so, in line with 
our Services remit to resolve complaints quickly and with minimal formality, I require Royal 
& Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to put things right as follows:
a. RSA should instruct its preferred supplier to carry out a lasting and effective repair, 
i. For the avoidance of doubt, within 28 days of the date on which we tell RSA Miss D accepts my final decision RSA should have identified a supplier, issued 
instructions, and liaised with Miss D to advise her of the supplier details and 
that said supplier will be in touch with her to commence visits to assess the 
work to be done, or
b. If RSA cant instruct a preferred supplier to carry out repairs, then it will need to 
have a full schedule of repair works prepared and costed at market rate prices for 
materials, labour etc and pay that to Miss D so that she can arrange her own 
repairs, 
i. This visit for compiling a schedule of work instructed by RSA should take place 
within 28 days from the date on which we tell RSA Miss D accepts my final 
decision
ii. The costed schedule of work report coming from this visit is to be made 
available to Miss D within 28 days of the visit at b.i. above 
iii. Payment is to follow within 14 days of b.ii. above, that is from when the report 
is made available to Miss D
oIf RSA pays later than this it must also pay interest on the amount from 
the expiration of the 14 days to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple, or
c. If RSA does have a preferred supplier, but Miss D wants a cash payment RSA 
need only pay Miss D what it would cost RSA to carry out a lasting and effective 
repair (this could be some way below the market rate that Miss D would need to 
pay),
i. The payment under this part should be paid to Miss D within 14 days of Miss D 
telling RSA, in writing (or email), that shed prefer a cash payment. If it pays 
later than this it must also pay interest on the amount from the date Miss D 
confirms she wants a cash payment to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
d. Pay Miss D £1,000 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
i. RSA must pay this compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Miss D accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to put things right 
as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman