DRN-2981328
The complaint and what happened
Mr and Mrs W complain about the way HDI Global Specialty SE has handled their claim for 
vacant possession of their rental property. 
Any reference to HDI, includes agents acting on its behalf, such as the claim handlers. 
The full details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
In August 2019 a section 21 notice was issued to Mr and Mrs Ws tenant to bring the 
tenancy to an end. They also submitted a claim under their Landlord and Tenant 
protection policy to cover the costs and expenses associated with gaining vacant 
possession, rent protection and rent recovery. 
Papers were submitted to the court in September 2019. Having not heard anything 
from the court, the solicitors appointed to run the legal case, chased the courts on 
numerous occasions between December 2019 and into February 2021. During this 
process a complaint was made to the court (December 2020), and it conceded an 
error had been made and it had failed to correspond. 
Meanwhile Mr and Mrs W made a complaint about the delays in obtaining a hearing 
date which meant the tenant was still in the property and they were accruing rent 
arrears. HDI issued a final response in August 2020 which explained although the 
court had been chased a hearing date had yet to be listed, but that it would continue 
to chase. It explained the maximum payable under the rent guarantee had been 
reached but the solicitor would pursue a money judgement against the tenant. 
Our investigator was satisfied the court had been chased for a hearing date but felt 
better updates could have been provided and the court told sooner about the tenants 
anti-social behaviour. So she asked HDI to pay Mr and Mrs W £200 for the 
inconvenience caused.
HDI agreed, but Mr and Mrs W have asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman. Theyre unhappy with the compensation suggested as they say they 
are owed £26,000 in rent and £5,000 worth of damage has been caused to the 
property. They remain unhappy with the lack of meaningful updates and have 
provided further documentation such as police reports about the tenants anti-social 
behaviour and the impact that had on the community.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
HDI accepted the claim under the policy to gain vacant possession. From that point, 
the matter is run by the legal firm appointed to handle proceedings. I can see from 
the evidence provided that the legal firm chased the court on numerous occasions to 
arrange a hearing date. And even when it was made aware of the anti-social 
behaviour, a hearing date wasnt set. A complaint was made to the court, who 
admitted it had made an error. But following that complaint, it appears there were 
further delays and it seems the court issued papers to the wrong address. So even 
had HDI been more proactive, particularly with ensuring the court knew of the anti-
social behaviour and community impact, given how often the legal firm chased, to no 
avail, its hard to see how Mr and Mrs Ws position would be any different had HDI 
chased more. 
I accept Mr and Mrs W may not have been provided with meaningful updates and I 
understand how frustrating that must have been. But it doesnt appear there was 
much in the way of updates that could be provided, given the apparent lack of 
response from the court. Nevertheless HDI could have provided more information 
about what was happening, and the efforts gone to, such that Mr and Mrs W may 
have been reassured that all that could be done, was being done. I dont think that 
happened, particularly as it doesnt appear the court was made aware of the anti-
social behaviour until around October 2020. Whilst I have found that it was unlikely to 
have made a difference to the setting of the hearing date, I do acknowledge the 
possibility. And at least being told the court was aware of that would have put Mr and 
Mrs Ws mind at rest that the court knew of the urgency of the situation. So although 
Im not persuaded doing more would have changed the situation with regard to the 
hearing date, Im nevertheless satisfied they were caused worry for which they 
should be fairly compensated  I find the £200 recommended by the investigator to 
be a fair reflection of the impact that had. 
That compensation is separate from the financial losses which Mr and Mrs W have 
suffered as a result of the actions of the tenant. The complaint brought to us was 
about the lack of progression and the setting of a hearing date, not the rent recovery 
or the damage to the property.  If Mr and Mrs W dont believe HDI has considered the 
claim in relation to the rent recovery, or any pursuance of costs associated with the 
damage to the property from the tenant fairly (if that claim has been made), then that 
is a matter they can complain about and bring to us if they remain unhappy. 
Mr and Mrs W have already received the maximum claim amount allowable under 
the rent protection part of their policy  11 months. I understand why they wish to be 
paid more, particularly given their losses. But there is no provision within that part of 
the policy that entitles them to be paid more rent, outside of the rent recovery 
provisions. And as I havent found that more proactiveness would likely have resulted 
in an earlier hearing date, I dont find that HDI should otherwise fairly make a 
contribution to those losses.
The situation Mr and Mrs W found themselves in was intolerable. And I can well understand 
how much they wanted the situation resolved at the soonest possible juncture. But Im not 
persuaded the delays were of HDIs making, although it could have done some things better 
and the compensation awarded reflects that. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require HDI Global 
Specialty SE to pay Mr and Mrs W £200 compensation. 
   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman