DRN-3444477
The complaint
Mr B has a legal representative, Mrs W, who brings this complaint about Cofunds Limited on 
his behalf. She holds power of attorney (PoA) for Mr B. 
Mrs W says Cofunds has refused to provide her independent online access for Mr Bs 
investment portfolio - and in her view, she should have this right as an attorney acting in Mr 
Bs best interests.  
What happened
Mr B and Mrs W registered the PoA in 2012. In 2020, Mrs W provided the PoA information to 
Aegon  the business for which Cofunds now takes responsibility.
In April 2021, Mrs W submitted a complaint to Cofunds via a third party. She explained that 
in order to raise funds for care home fees, she needed to cash in some of his investments 
held by Cofunds in Mr Bs Aegon platform. She said that without online access, she couldnt 
be in an informed position about which stocks and shares to encash. 
In May 2021, Cofunds rejected the complaint. It said online access was only available to 
investors or financial advisers. Its systems did not allow the facility to any other third parties 
 even those acting via PoAs. 
It told Mrs W that she could continue to transact by telephone, email and post. Or, a 
workaround could be to set Mr B up with online access and login as him, having first gained 
his full approval to do so as his representative. However, it could not grant Mrs W separate 
access in her own right, as an attorney or otherwise.  
Mrs W remained unhappy and brought the complaint to this service.  
Our investigator did not think the complaint should succeed. He said that Mrs W still had 
access to Mr Bs account by other means, including telephone, email and by post. To that 
end, he noted that fund switches and the transfer of an investment ISA to Cofunds had been 
made on Mr Bs behalf; he felt this showed Mrs W was able to access and manage Mr Bs 
account as required, using her PoA. 
Further, he concluded that Cofunds had provided Mrs W with the information Mr B would be
entitled to in managing his affairs. He understood that Mrs W would prefer to have this 
information online for herself. But in his view, he did not believe that Cofunds needed to, or 
could, provide that service. 
Mrs B disagreed. She said she felt that our investigator had missed the point of her 
complaint. She said that the main crux of the issue was that by obtaining PoA for Mr B, they 
had undertaken a legally recognised mechanism for Mrs W to manage Mr Bs affairs in the 
event he did not have capacity to do so for himself. The confirmation given by the Office of 
the Public Guardian when registering lasting PoAs confirms that the attorney is able to act 
on the donors behalf as if the attorney was the donor themselves. So, she should have 
online access to Mr Bs Cofunds account.
The complaint has now been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise how frustrating this matter is for Mrs W. But, Im unable to uphold this complaint. 
Unfortunately for Mrs W, we do not act in the capacity of a regulator. That means our 
decisions dont ordinarily interfere in how a business may conduct its operations or how it 
may exercise commercial judgment on the provision of a particular service. That remit falls to 
the Financial Conduct Authority. Instead, we provide dispute resolution; this means we have 
a duty to make decisions based on what we consider fair and reasonable having considered 
the specific circumstances of a complaint. 
Cofunds does not have the facility to provide independent access to an investor account for 
an attorney on behalf of a donor, at present. It says this is since some PoAs are joint, and its 
systems do not have resource to allow online access because of the risk of unauthorised 
instructions. I do not find this to be an unreasonable or unfair stance to take. 
I say that noting how Mrs W is able to access Mr Bs account by all other means of 
communication, including telephone. I appreciate she said this impedes her from obtaining 
the most recent information on Mr Bs investments. However, Cofunds contends she was 
able to provide instruction for transfer of funds from a general investment account to an 
investment ISA on Mr Bs behalf in March 2021. 
While I recognise that this transfer took place through supplying a form and not via the online 
access facility, Cofunds has also told Mrs W that she can register Mr B for online access and 
use that access as his legally appointed representative to undertake online instructions on 
his behalf. 
I believe that proposal provides the access Mrs W requires. I also believe it reasonably 
meets the guidance Mrs W has referred to from the Office of the Public Guardian. Mrs W 
could act on Mr Bs behalf as if she was him, by setting up and utilising his online access 
which I understand Cofunds has already issued. I find this fair in the circumstances. 
I do not consider I could or should reasonably order Cofunds to change its processes to 
allow specified third party access for individuals that hold PoA, where Mrs W can access Mr 
Bs account using his online access in her role as his attorney.   
My final decision
Though I appreciate this decision will not be what Mrs W has hoped for, I am unable to 
uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman