DRN-3132078
The complaint
Mrs A complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance to her 
alongside a store card. 
I cant consider this complaint against the policy seller directly because the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller was 
acting as its agent at the time - so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken on that responsibility. To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Mrs As store card account was opened in 1985. PPI was sold to her sometime later on 31 
January 2002. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs As complaint should be upheld. Through her 
representatives, Mrs A disagreed with that view. The matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below. 
I can see that in her PPI questionnaire, Mrs A said she thought PPI had been sold during a 
face to face meeting between the parties. But looking at AXAs records, and as PPI was sold 
so long after Mrs As store card account was opened, I think its most likely the cover was 
sold on the telephone. I dont have recording of that telephone conversation. Thats not 
unusual given how long ago the cover was sold  I wouldnt expect either party to keep 
records for such a long time. So to help me decide whats likely to have happened at the 
time, Ive looked at what Mrs A told us about the sale and Ive considered the records that 
AXA has from that time. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether it would have been made clear to Mrs A that the 
PPI was optional, and she didnt have to take it out if she didnt want it. As I said above, by 
the time PPI was sold to Mrs A, shed had her store card for over 15 years. I think she would 
have known the cover wasnt a condition of her card and that she didnt have to take it out 
when it was offered to her on the telephone. The PPI premiums would have appeared on her 
store card statements and if she hadnt wanted this cover, I think she would have queried 
what those payments were for. The evidence doesnt suggest she did. So on balance, I think 
Mrs A would have known she had a choice about whether to take the cover. 
I havent treated this as an advised sale. Thats because I havent seen anything to suggest 
AXA recommended the cover to Mrs A after taking account of her personal circumstances. 
But it did have to give her enough information about the cover so she could decide for 
herself whether it was a good fit for her needs. 
In the absence of a call recording, I accept its possible AXA didnt tell Mrs A everything it 
should have done about the PPI. But that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the 
complaint because I have to consider whether Mrs A would have acted differently if AXA had 
told her everything it should have. To help me decide on this point, Ive looked at the terms 
and conditions of the cover. And Ive looked at what Mrs A told us about her personal 
circumstances at the relevant time. 
Looking at the policy document, I can see that 15% of Mrs As store card balance would 
have been repaid for every month she was off sick from work, or if she lost her job. Each 
claim could have lasted for up to 12 months. 
Mrs A told us that she was a temporary or agency worker, but that she had been in her role 
for 17 years. She wasnt entitled to any sick pay and had no other means with which to meet 
her card repayments if she was out of work. So I can see how the PPI could have been 
helpful if she was off sick or if she lost her job. 
Ive also checked whether she would have been affected by any of the policys exclusions. I 
understand she was in good health at the point of sale, so she wouldnt have been affected 
by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. Although she told us she was a 
temporary worker, as shed been in her role for 17 years, I dont think shed have been 
affected by any of the unemployment exclusions either. 
Although there were some additional evidential requirements for both back and mental 
health conditions, I dont think Mrs A would have thought shed be able to make a claim 
without providing some medical evidence in support of that claim. So I dont think these 
limitations would have put her off taking the PPI out. 
On balance, I cant reasonably say Mrs A would have acted differently if AXA had given her 
more or better information about the cover. I still think she would have taken the policy out. 
The representative raised several of what I consider to be general complaint points, which it 
says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling 
PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost 
good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance 
of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint, just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint and so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman