DRN-2373358
The complaint
Mr R complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) incorrectly registered a default on his 
credit file. 
What happened
Mr R had a credit card account with Vanquis. Mr R says he agreed a payment plan with 
Vanquis, but even so a default was registered on his credit file due to a misunderstanding on 
the start date of the plan. Mr R says he wants the default removed as it is causing him 
problems applying for credit elsewhere. 
Vanquis says that while they accept the communication with Mr R was unclear, as he had 
been given written notice of the payment plan, they had acted correctly in marking his credit 
file with a default, as they are obliged to provide accurate information. They accept the 
communication was unclear and paid Mr R £75 by way of an apology. 
Mr R wasnt happy with the response from Vanquis and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld the complaint. He felt that 
the communication between Vanquis and Mr R was ambiguous and the default should be 
removed from Mr Rs credit file.
Vanquis were unhappy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision. 
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said :
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I have come to a similar outcome as the investigator but with a slightly 
different resolution and I will explain how I have come to my decision. 
What happened here was in late January 2020 Mr R received a notice his account would be 
passed to a debt collection agency. A couple of weeks later, Mr R contacted Vanquis by 
email to discuss this and the access to his account online. I can see at this point Vanquis 
apologised for the access issues and began negotiations with Mr R for a payment plan to be 
put in place. After establishing affordability an agreement was made to accept £25 per 
month to begin in February 2020. What is important here is, in the email chain over a period 
of an hour or so, Vanquis then suggest to Mr R, given he was paid towards the end of  each 
month, they would commence the payment plan on the 1st April 2020.
When looking at this I can understand both sides view here as Vanquis says they meant the 
continuous payment authority would begin in April in addition to the initial payment in 
February, which they say they confirmed in writing to Mr R. I have considered this carefully 
but having read the email chain I can see that Mr R would have assumed the payment plan 
was beginning in April especially as Vanquis were agreeing, in an attempt to support him, to 
tie his payments to the date close to his salary. This seems to be supported by the fact that 
Vanquis have recognised the confusion and made a payment to Mr R of £75 by way of 
compensation. 
The investigator says as a result of this ambiguity created here Vanquis should, on top of the 
compensation paid, correct the credit file to remove the default marker. 
Vanquis are unhappy with this as they say they have a duty to report accurate information to 
credit agencies. While Vanquis are correct here, the issue is, by giving  misleading 
information as to when the plan should commence, Mr R wasnt given the opportunity to 
make the payment in February and this is supported by the fact he did make payments on 
time thereafter. 
While Mr R may not agree, I cant see that the reason for him not being able to obtain 
funding elsewhere can solely be attributed to this default against his credit file, so I dont 
uphold that part of his complaint.  
On balance, I support the overall view of the investigator here, but I would say that Mr Rs 
credit file should correctly show what was agreed with him. The investigator says the default 
marker should be removed and I agree with this, but in its place a notice of a payment plan 
should be recorded here. 
This slightly differs from the investigators outcome, and I say this because I am satisfied this 
is what would have happened, if the communication regarding the payment plan 
arrangements had been made clearer to Mr R. 
While Vanquis will be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied this outcome more 
accurately portrays the situation and is a fair resolution to the complaint made by Mr R.
Both parties have accepted my provisional decision, so the case has been passed back to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mr R and Vanquis until 17 December 2020 to accept or reject my provisional 
decision, as both parties have accepted what I have said in my provisional decision I see no 
need to change or add to this and so my final decision remains the same.  
Putting things right
I instruct Vanquis Bank Limited to amend Mr Rs credit file to reflect a payment plan was in 
place rather than the existing default.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct Vanquis Bank Limited to amend 
Mr Rs credit file to reflect a payment plan was in place rather than the existing default. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman