DRN-2267202
The complaint
Mr I complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc failed to pursue a chargeback claim in respect of 
faulty shoes.
What happened
On 25 June 2019 Mr I ordered a pair of shoes online costing £79.25 using his credit card. He 
says they werent waterproof and he contacted the bank 22 November 2019 to dispute the 
transaction. Clydesdale didnt pass the message to the right department and only picked this 
upon on 9 December when Mr I made contact again.  It explained that as 120 days had 
passed since he made the transaction it would out of time to make a chargeback claim and 
apologised for the delay and paid him £50 compensation.
Mr I brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt think the bank was wrong not to pursue a 
chargeback claim given disputes such as this one must be raised within 120 days of 
purchase.
He also agreed that the bank had been correct to say that a section 75 claim wouldnt 
succeed as the cost of the transaction must be more than £100 for this option to apply. Mr I 
didnt agree and asked the matter be considered by an ombudsman. He said it took several 
attempts to chase the bank for the forms and he had never sought to make a section 75 
claim. He said the bank should cover his claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback is a process that is provided by the Card Scheme- in this case MasterCard. It 
allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if there's a problem with the goods 
or services they've paid for. There's no automatic right to a chargeback.  Nor is chargeback 
a guaranteed method of getting a refund. MasterCard checks the nature of the problem 
against the possible chargeback reasons to see whether the claim will be successful. If the 
bank feels that a claim won't be successful, they don't have to raise a chargeback.
One of the requirements for chargeback claim to be made to MasterCard is that it is 
submitted within 120 days of the purchase. In this case the bank was notified of the problem 
with the shoes in late November and it was too late to make a chargeback claim. The fact 
that it failed to respond to the initial claim would have had no impact on a claim being made. 
It was simply poor service for which it has paid £50 compensation. I consider that to be fair.
I note Mr I has said it took several attempts to chase the bank for the forms. He hasnt 
specified when he made these attempts. There is no record of that on the banks records 
and I note that he was able to make a claim online without the need to chase anybody so I 
cannot say that the bank can be held responsible for delaying the claim beyond 120 days.
Finally, for completeness I can confirm I agree with all the parties that section 75 has no 
relevance to this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman