DRN-3241848
The complaint
Mrs F complains that TSB Bank plc wont agree to remove defaults from her credit file 
despite making partial settlement offers.
What happened
In 2019 the Financial Ombudsman Service considered a complaint from Mrs F about an 
overdraft she had with TSB Bank plc. The outcome of the complaint was that TSB agreed to 
remove default reported for the overdraft on the successful completion of a payment plan. 
That meant, TSBs agreement on removing the default was reliant on Mrs F repaying the full 
outstanding balance.
In May 2021 Mrs F asked TSB to accept 50% settlements for both debts. Mrs F also asked 
TSB to confirm it would remove the defaults from her credit file once the partial settlements 
were made. In July 2021 TSB confirmed it would agree and that the offer was available for 
30 days. But TSB didnt offer to remove the defaults it is reporting. 
Mrs F complained to TSB and it sent her a final response. But due to a mistake, the final 
response wasnt sent to the correct address. TSB went on to send Mrs F a cheque to 
apologise for its error. TSB confirmed its Risk Team was considering the partial settlement 
offers made but says there was never an agreement to remove the default relating to Mrs Fs 
loan and that it would only take that step for the overdraft if the balance is repaid in full. 
Mrs F referred her case to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
TSB had dealt with Mrs Fs case fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. Mrs F asked to 
appeal. In her response, Mrs F gave further background to her original complaint and why 
she feels TSBs actions have been unfair. In addition, Mrs F has more recently told us about 
the impact of these issues on her. As Mrs F asked to appeal, her case has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I can see how stressful this situation has been for Mrs F and that its gone on for a long time. 
In her response to the investigator, Mrs F provided some background concerning how her 
original complaint came about. I want to explain that weve already looked at that case and 
Mrs F accepted the proposed outcome. The outcome of that case was that TSB agreed to 
remove the default reported about Mrs Fs overdraft if she completed a repayment plan  
paying the balance back in full. To put it another way, theres no agreement to remove the 
default unless the debt is repaid. 
I also think its fair to note that there was no agreement by TSB to remove the default its 
recorded on Mrs Fs credit file in relation to her loan. The loan didnt form part of Mrs Fs 
previous complaint that was referred to this service. 
Mrs F has told us she doesnt feel able to make a partial settlement unless TSB agrees to 
remove the defaults from her credit file. TSB says it wont remove the default where the 
overdraft debt isnt settled in full. And its never made that offer in relation to Mrs Fs loan. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs F but TSB is required to report accurate information to the credit 
reference agencies. And Im satisfied that reporting a default in relation to a partial 
settlement is accurate. As Ive noted above, theres no agreement by TSB to remove the 
loan default. The agreement to remove the overdraft default requires full settlement. So I 
dont agree its unfair for TSB to continue to report defaults even if Mrs F makes a partial 
settlement. 
I can see TSBs agents have been involved and that its final response was sent to the wrong 
address. I agree some of the service provided has been poor. Whilst I can see the situation 
as a whole has caused Mrs F distress and inconvenience, I think the settlement of £100 
fairly reflects what happened and how she was affected. As Im satisfied TSB had paid a 
settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I havent been persuaded to 
increase the award or tell TSB to remove the defaults. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint because TSB Bank plc has already paid 
a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman