DRN-1643779
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Miss P says Santander UK Plc mis-sold her the PPI. 
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
I have not found that this policy was mis-sold, for the following reasons.
Miss Ps mortgage application had a section for PPI, amongst other optional insurances. It 
said it was something Santander strongly recommended she thought about  this was only a 
recommendation, not a requirement. It offered her the choice to apply for PPI, or to not apply 
for it, and instead receive information about it in case she later changed her mind. The 
option saying Miss P wanted PPI was chosen, and she signed the application to confirm her 
choices. The record of Miss Ps interview with the advisor also recorded that shed chosen 
PPI, and again Miss P signed that to confirm what was on it.
Miss Ps homebuyers plan set out the PPIs cost separately to the cost of the mortgage itself 
 it wasnt part and parcel of the lending. And it again said that PPI was something 
Santander recommended  it didnt say it was required. It even suggested that Miss P 
consider taking out a similar policy, rather than Santanders own one. Then it looks like in 
order to get this policy, Miss P would need to have submitted an application specifically for 
PPI, separately to applying for the mortgage itself. Ive not seen any wider problems with 
Santanders sales process from the time, nor any evidence which shows that Miss P was 
misled here. Overall, I think its most likely that Santander made it clear Miss P didnt have to 
take out PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if she no 
longer remembers doing so after so long.
Santander recommended the PPI to Miss P, so it had to check that the policy was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, it looks like Miss P was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
While Miss P had benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those and 
covered her for longer. It also wouldve been useful when her benefits reduced to just a 
fraction of her normal pay. I understand Miss P felt secure at the time, but accidents, 
illnesses, and redundancies can and do happen, even to otherwise healthy people or in 
careers that feel secure. I also understand her family wouldve been happy to help, but there 
was always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. This mortgage was Miss Ps 
sole responsibility, so I dont think it wouldve been suitable for Santander to recommend she 
rely on other people to pay it. And it was a significant, long-term commitment, where if Miss P fell behind on the repayments, she risked losing her home. So it looks like the PPI 
couldve really been useful for Miss P in protecting her home.
Its possible that the information Santander gave Miss P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind. Here, it looks like Miss P chose to take out the policy, which indicates 
she wanted this type of cover. As I said above, it doesnt look like she was affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI, and it could have really been useful for Miss P in case 
something went wrong. Santander were not under any obligation to give Miss P information 
about competitors policies, and in any case this policy was competitively priced given how 
much it would pay out in a claim. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was 
likely to have put her off taking it out. 
Lastly, Miss P pointed out that weve found that PPI was mis-sold in many other cases, and 
I do understand her point. But different policies worked in different ways, were useful in 
different circumstances, were sold using different methods at different times, and so on. So 
though some PPI policies were mis-sold, it doesnt necessarily mean that another particular 
one was, too. We look at each case on its own merits, and for the reasons I went through 
above, I have not found that this particular policy was mis-sold.
This means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss P.
But Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss P because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss P about that. Because Santander didnt tell 
her, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss P.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Miss P any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 May 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman