DRN-2952573
The complaint
The estate of Mr D complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited avoided his 
life assurance policy and refused to pay the death claim.  
The complaint is brought by Mr Ds wife, Mrs D, the administrator of his estate. 
What happened
In 2015 Mr D took out a life assurance policy with Legal and General through an 
independent financial adviser. The policy had a sum assured of £150,000 and was set up 
over a 28-year term. Mr D sadly passed away in September 2019 and so Mrs D made a 
claim on the policy. 
Legal and General avoided the policy and didnt pay the claim. They said Mr D failed to fully 
disclose his health history when applying for cover. Legal and General thought 
Mr D had incorrectly answered a question about whether hed ever been told by a health 
professional to reduce the amount of alcohol he was drinking, by saying no. And that while 
Mr D disclosed that he suffered from chronic pancreatitis, he answered no to whether a 
doctor had ever suggested the condition may be related to his past or present alcohol 
consumption. Legal and General said had they known his accurate health history then they 
wouldnt have offered cover and considered this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying 
misrepresentation. 
A complaint was raised but Legal and Generals position didnt change. They explained 
theyd obtained Mr Ds medical records which showed his health history wasnt consistent 
with what he told them in the application. Legal & General noted that Mrs D said he didnt 
drink alcohol and that she told his doctors this. But, they considered the medical information 
didnt support this. So, Legal and General remained of the view that Mr D had mis-
represented his health when applying and so theyd made the correct decision by avoiding 
the policy and refusing the claim. 
The complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator didnt think Legal and General 
had to do anything further. In short, he said:
Mr Ds medical records show that he admitted to drinking excessive alcohol and in 
2006 he was referred to the Community Drug & Alcohol Service (CDAS) for his 
alcohol problem. And that, following a diagnosis of chronic alcoholic pancreatitis he 
was still drinking and told to give up all together. The records also show that he later 
gave up drinking and remained abstinent.
He acknowledged Mrs Ds points around her husband not being a drinker  albeit he 
did suffer with a cocaine addiction which he was referred to CDAS for (not alcohol 
problems). And that Mr Ds post mortem revealed a normal pancreas which she feels 
shows that he wasnt a heavy drinker. Further, Mrs D thinks its likely her husband 
was wrongly diagnosed and that the symptoms he suffered were more likely related 
to his heart. She said that whenever Mr D was suffering with symptoms of apparent 
pancreatitis his doctor would wrongly assume it as due to his alcohol consumption. 
But, given the conflicting information, he thought the medical records were more 
persuasive and likely to be true. And so, as he thought the application questions 
were clear, he thought Mr D didnt take reasonable care when answering them. 
Legal and Generals underwriting criteria shows that they wouldnt have offered cover 
to Mr D had they known hed been advised to reduce his alcohol intake and that his 
pancreatitis was related to this. He was therefore satisfied the misrepresentation was 
a qualifying one. 
Legal and General considered the misrepresentation to be deliberate or reckless  
which allows them to avoid the policy and retain the premiums. Whereas with 
careless misrepresentation they can avoid the policy but are expected to refund the 
premiums. So, given the premiums had been refunded, he didnt feel the 
categorisation of the misrepresentation has had any material impact on the outcome. 
He also acknowledged Mrs Ds belief the medical records are inaccurate as well as 
concerns about the level of care Mr D received. But, he explained this wasnt 
something he could consider. And, even if it transpired Mr D was misdiagnosed, it 
remained at the time of application  according to his medical records  that hed 
discussed and been made aware of information which he didnt disclose as part of 
his application for Legal and General to consider. 
He also wouldnt expect an insurer to review every applicants medical records at the 
point of application. Instead, the onus is on the applicant to provide information that is 
correct and not mis-leading for the insurers consideration. 
Mrs D disagreed with our investigator and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
Before I explain the reasons for my decision, Id like to clarify that Im only considering 
Legal and Generals decision to avoid Mr Ds policy and refuse the claim here. Im aware 
Mrs D has referred to the advisers role in setting up the policy but that isnt something I can 
consider as part of this decision. If Mrs D has concerns about the sale of the policy then, as 
the administrator of Mr Ds estate, she can direct them to the adviser to address. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Legal and General thinks Mr D failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation by not disclosing hed been advised by a health professional to reduce the 
amount of alcohol he was drinking. And that the chronic pancreatitis he suffered from was 
related to alcohol consumption. Ive looked at the questions Mr D was asked in the application and whether he took 
reasonable care answering them. These are:
Lifestyle

Have you ever been told by a health professional that you should reduce the amount 
of alcohol you have because you were drinking too much?
Mr D answered No.
and;
Health  Last 2 years

Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the 
last 2 years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for:

any condition affecting your gall bladder, liver or pancreas, for example hepatitis, 
fatty liver?
Mr D answered Yes and from the list of options available to select, he chose Pancreatitis. 
Which of the following best describes your condition?
Acute Pancreatitis. A sudden onset of severe pain which has since resolved. You 
may have had sickness and a general feeling of ill health.
Chronic Pancreatitis. Recurrent pain which may be worse when eating or drinking. 
You may have had associate weight loss. 
Mr D selected Chronic Pancreatitis. He was then asked:
Has your doctor ever suggested that this condition may be related to your past or 
present alcohol consumption? 
Mr D answered No.
Im satisfied the above questions are clear and so Mr D ought to have understood what 
information he was being asked to provide. 
At this point, I want to firstly reassure Mrs D that Ive given careful consideration to the points 
that shes raised. In particular, that she says Mr D wasnt a heavy alcohol drinker and the 
troubles he had were in relation to his cocaine use (including that being the reason for the 
referral to CDAS). 
I would like to firstly explain that Mr Ds cocaine use wasnt the reason for his policy being 
avoided and the claim refused. Nor was it in relation to anything that happened after Mr D 
applied for the policy  as Mrs D has alluded to a referral in 2017 which she says didnt 
happen. Im therefore not going to comment any further on this here. Instead, the issue here 
is in respect of Mr Ds alcohol consumption and whether he was advised to reduce his 
intake, as well as whether a doctor ever suggested his chronic Pancreatitis may be related to 
it. 
Ive noted Mrs Ds strength of feeling about this and that she says the application questions 
were answered honestly. But while she disputes Mr D had problems with alcohol, I dont 
think I can reasonably ignore the medical records. And I consider these clearly show that 
Mr D was advised to reduce his alcohol consumption. For example, in a letter of 9 January 2006 to CDAS from his doctor, it says:
He admitted drinking excessive amounts of alcohol but denies any drug abuse. He 
has been referred to [Dr S] for his severe depression but he needs help for his 
alcohol problem.
And, in a letter of 10 January 2006 to Dr S, it says:
I advised him to contact CDAS for his alcohol problem and also referral to counsellor 
at our surgery for bereavement counselling.He had a past history of cocaine 
addiction, he denies any now.
Further, in a medical letter of 6 March 2007, it says:
Problems: Chronic alcoholic pancreatic
However, almost unbelievably, he is still drinking occasionally despite being told on 
multiple occasions he is going to be exquisitely sensitive to alcohol. I have taken this 
in hand again and told him that he really must give up altogether, and if he does 
there is a reasonable chance he is going to recover and his symptoms settle.
It is then, in a medical letter of 4 September 2007, subsequently recorded:
His Tramadol use is probably slightly lower than before, but it continues and it is 
good to see that he has given up alcohol.

In terms of his long term plan I think he will need to keep being supplied with 
Tramadol and he needs to continue to be abstinent of alcohol. 
Im aware Mrs D has questioned the accuracy of the medical records. But I see no reason to 
question the legitimacy of them or consider that they dont reflect the medical 
treatment/advice Mr D received at the time. It follows that I think Mr D was advised to reduce 
his alcohol consumption and that it was related to his chronic pancreatitis. And I think its 
reasonable to have expected Mr D to have remembered receiving such advice given the 
severity of the condition and the various discussions that are recorded as taking place. 
Mrs D says that it wouldnt make sense for Mr D not to have disclosed his alcohol 
consumption to the adviser when he did disclose his cocaine use (albeit this wasnt included 
in the application as it happened outside the five-year time period of the relevant question). 
Especially as, in her opinion, cocaine use is far worse than drinking alcohol. I cant comment 
on the severity of using cocaine versus alcohol. And I cant be sure why he didnt disclose 
his health history in respect of his alcohol consumption. Nevertheless, given I think 
Legal and General asked clear questions and that I think he shouldve recalled the advice he 
received, I dont think Mr D took reasonable care when answering the above questions. 
Legal and General has shown that, had it known this information, they wouldnt have offered 
cover to Mr D. This means Im satisfied Mr Ds misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
Legal and General considered Mr Ds misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless. This 
means, under CIDRA, they would be entitled to avoid the policy, refuse the claim and retain 
the premiums. Whereas if considered careless, Legal and General would still be entitled to 
avoid the policy and refuse the claim, but they would be expected to refund the premiums. 
As the premiums have been refunded, the estate of Mr D has received the most favourable 
outcome irrespective of how the misrepresentation is classified. I therefore think this is fair 
and I dont consider Legal and General has to do anything further. For the above reasons, Im satisfied Legal and General was entitled to avoid Mr Ds policy in 
accordance with CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, Legal 
and General doesnt have to deal with the death claim. As CIDRA reflects our long-
established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Legal and General to rely 
on it to avoid Mr Ds policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
On a final note, I understand Mrs D has said that had Legal and General carried out the 
relevant medical checks in 2015 then she wouldnt be in this position now. While I 
sympathise with her position, I should explain that insurers arent obligated to obtain medical 
records at the point of application. But rather, they rely on the applicant providing accurate 
information to the questions they ask and can make their underwriting decisions based on 
the answers received. The onus therefore is on the applicant providing accurate information 
to the insurer for them to consider.
I know Mrs D will be disappointed by this outcome but, for the above reasons, I dont think 
Legal and General has acted unfairly by avoiding the policy and refusing the death claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman