DRN-3264341
The complaint
Mrs L complains about the way Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco Bank) handled a 
payment holiday application for her personal loan. 
What happened
Mrs L has a loan and credit card with Tesco Bank that fell into arrears at the start of January 
2020. In April 2020 Mrs L applied for a payment holiday for both her loan and credit card. At 
this point, the loan was four payments behind but Mrs Ls credit card payments were up to 
date. Mrs L has explained she received a text message from Tesco Bank to confirm the 
payment holiday had been approved and assumed it covered both the loan and credit card. 
In July 2020 Mrs L spoke with Tesco Bank on several occasions and was given incorrect 
information. Mrs L says the service she was given was poor and the call handlers were rude. 
Mrs L complained to Tesco Bank about the way her payment holiday had been dealt with. 
Tesco Bank sent Mrs L a final response in September 2020 and apologised for the service 
provided. Tesco Bank said Mrs L wasnt eligible for a payment holiday on her loan as she 
was four payments in arrears in April 2020 when she applied. Tesco Bank said the credit 
card payment holiday had been approved as it was up to date. 
Tesco Bank went on to add it had used holds on Mrs Ls loan account in January and April 
2020 due to the arrears. Tesco Bank said it couldnt offer a backdated payment holiday. 
Tesco Bank paid Mrs L £150 and apologised for the service provided. In light of the incorrect 
information given to Mrs L, Tesco Bank agreed to amend her credit file and remove the 
missed payments recorded between May and September 2020. Tesco Bank said the loan 
would report as being four months in arrears. 
Mrs L referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They asked 
Tesco Bank to pay Mrs L a further £50, taking the total award to £200. They also asked 
Tesco Bank to amend Mrs Ls credit file in line with its final response. Mrs L asked to appeal 
and said shed been told the payment holiday was approved in April 2020. Mrs L also said 
shed tried to pay back the four months missing payments but Tesco Bank insisted she deals 
with them all. Mrs L also said the information Tesco Bank was recording on her credit file 
was wrong and that the £150 shed received wasnt a fair way to resolve the complaint. 
As Mrs L asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering how to resolve a complaint, we try to put the consumer back into the 
position they wouldve been in had no error been made. Mrs L has explained she was told 
the payment holiday for her loan was approved in April 2020 and acted on that information. I 
understand Mrs Ls view that the payment holiday should be retrospectively applied to her 
loan account and credit file. But the error in this case is that Mrs L was led to believe she 
qualified for a payment holiday when she didnt. Because the loan was four payments in 
arrears in April 2020 Mrs L shouldve been told the payment holiday application had been 
declined. Mrs L wasnt eligible for the payment holiday. 
That means, the correct position would be as if Mrs L had been told her payment holiday 
application had been declined in April 2020 and offered further support by Tesco Bank under 
its standard approach for customers experiencing financial difficulties. Tesco Bank says that 
it applied an account hold in January 2020 after Mrs L explained she was experiencing 
financial difficulties so no payments were collected until April 2020. And another hold was 
placed on the loan account in April 2020, meaning payments werent due. Tesco Banks final 
response explained a further payment hold was applied until October 2020. 
Whilst I agree Tesco Bank did lead Mrs L to believe a payment holiday for her loan had been 
approved, Im satisfied that was wrong. Looking at the way Tesco Bank handled Mrs Ls 
account during 2020, Im satisfied its in line with the normal process for customers 
experiencing financial difficulties. I havent found that Mrs L was treated unfairly overall.
Mrs L has explained she offered to repay the four existing missed payments but Tesco Bank 
said she was nine months in arrears. As Ive said above, Im satisfied Mrs L didnt qualify for 
the payment holiday. So there was no option to add missed payments to the end of the loan 
term. Tesco Bank asked Mrs L to complete an income and expenditure assessment to 
ensure she could clear the arrears as well as making the normal monthly payment. Im 
satisfied thats fair in the circumstances. 
Tesco Bank acknowledged it misled Mrs L and agreed to amend her credit file in recognition 
of its mistakes. Whilst I agree Mrs L didnt qualify for the payment holiday, Im satisfied the 
changes Tesco Bank agreed to make are a fair way to resolve her complaint. 
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ls complaint and Tesco Bank agreed to pay a total of £200 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. Ive read and considered everything Mrs L has told 
us about how the issues raised affected her during a particularly difficult time. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mrs L, but Im satisfied £200 reflects the impact of the issues raised on her and is 
a fair way to resolve her complaint. 
As Tesco Bank has amended Mrs Ls credit file and agreed to pay her a total of £200, Im 
not telling it to take further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Ls complaint and direct to Tesco Personal Finance PLC to 
pay her a total of £200 (less any compensation already paid) and ensure her credit file is 
amended. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman