DRN-2888910
The complaint
Mr K and Mr K complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) hasnt settled a
claim they made on their landlords home insurance policy.
As Mr K is representing both parties to the complaint, Ive referred just to Mr K in this
decision.
What happened
On 17 October 2019, Mr K got in touch with RSA to make a claim on his landlords home
insurance policy. He told RSA that water was leaking from the upstairs bathroom in his
tenanted property into a downstairs bathroom, which had caused damage to the ceiling.
RSA appointed a surveyor, which Ill refer to as D, to visit the property on 25 October 2019.
The surveyor carried out various tests in the bathroom to try and find the source of the leak.
It ultimately concluded that the water wasnt leaking from the shower itself, or from the
pipework  it put the damage down to failed grouting. While it was waiting for the surveyors
report to come through though, RSA appointed another expert, which Ill call O, to visit the
property and inspect the damage. This was so O could prepare a scope of works and
consider what repairs might cost. O visited the property on 6 November 2019. 
However, on 8 November 2019, RSA received Ds report. Based on Ds conclusions, RSA 
didnt think the damage was covered by the policy terms. And it said that the policy terms 
specifically excluded wear and tear and damage which happened gradually. So it turned 
down Mr Ks claim.
Mr K was unhappy with RSAs decision. He said that O had told him his claim would be
covered. He said that RSA had never formally turned down his claim. He said that he had an
independent report which put the damage down to a failed shower trap. And he was
unhappy that hed had to pay the policy excess to O, even though his claim hadnt been
paid. He asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. She noted that the policy
only covered escapes of water from fixed water or heating installations, or any domestic
appliance. Ds investigations had ruled out leaks from the heating system; the hot and cold
feeds or the shower waste pipes. So she didnt think the leak fell within the scope of cover.
And she didnt think the claim would be covered by the accidental damage section of the
policy either. Thats because D had concluded that the damage was down to failed grouting,
which RSA said happened over time and was due to wear and tear. So overall, she felt itd
been fair for RSA to turn down Mr Ks claim.
Mr K disagreed. He maintained that his claim hadnt been rejected in writing. He said he
hadnt seen a report from O and he disputed Ds findings. He maintained that his surveyor
had concluded the damage was due to a leaking shower trap and that itd now been fixed by
a professional builder. D had found that the walls were saturated. But he felt that it wasnt
possible to measure whether fully ceramic tiles were saturated. He considered that if they
had been, theyd have come off the wall.
I asked Mr K to provide a copy of his experts report, which he provided. Ill refer to this 
expert as P. We sent the report to RSA for it comments. I went on to issue a provisional 
decision on 20 April 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained the reasons why I didnt 
plan to tell RSA to pay Mr K and Mr Ks claim based on the available evidence. I said:
Ive first considered the terms of Mr Ks policy, as this forms the basis of his contract with
RSA. The policy does cover escape of water. The relevant section says:
What is covered
Escape of water or oil from any fixed water or heating installation, or from any domestic
appliance.
Ive looked closely at the evidence both parties have provided. First, Ive considered Ds
report. This says that it carried out moisture readings on the wall, which indicated that the
shower tiles were saturated. It included a photograph of a reading being taken. It found that
there was no loss of pressure in the pressurised heating system, which showed there wasnt
a leak on the heating circuit. It carried out an endoscope reading in the ceiling void, which
didnt detect any leaks from the hot and cold feed. Again, it included a photo of this test
being carried out in its report. It also carried out dye tests in the drain to check whether the
leak was coming from the shower  and no leaks were found. A photo of this testing
accompanied the report. D did find that the tiles were visibly damaged and it carried out flood
testing, which showed water running through the ceiling. It concluded that:
The damaged shower cubicle wall tiling grouting is allowing water to pass. And it found
there were no leaks from the pipework.
Based on this report, it doesnt appear that D thought the water was escaping from a fixed
water installation, or domestic appliance. So I think it was fair for RSA to rely on Ds
evidence and conclude that Mr Ks claim wasnt covered by the policy terms. Mr K does have
accidental damage cover, so Ive thought about whether RSA shouldve settled the claim
under this section of the policy. But the policy specifically excludes damage which happens
gradually or is caused by wear and tear. And based on Ds findings, I think it was fair for
RSA to conclude that the damage most likely happened over time and therefore isnt
covered by the accidental damage section of the policy.
However, Mr K has now provided Ps report. This report is dated 15 October 2019 and
reaches a different conclusion to D. P said:
After close visual and camera inspection both from (the) inside ceiling and the first floor
bathroom, the damage has been caused by the gradual leaking from the waste trap to the
first floor shower.
As this report does suggest that the water was leaking from a fixed appliance, I asked the
investigator to send it on to RSA for its comments, as it isnt clear whether Mr K had
previously sent it on.
RSA has told us that it has been trying to speak to Mr K about Ps report, as it has concerns
about it. Its told us it hasnt been able to contact him. Specifically, its pointed to the fact that
Ps report is dated two days before Mr K called it to make his claim. During the call, he didnt
mention the report and he didnt mention the report to D either when it visited the property
around a week later to find the source of the leak. It also wishes to confirm whether the
quote was for fixing the leak, or for repairing the resulting damage.
Ive thought carefully about what RSAs said and Ive looked closely at its records. It has anote setting out Mr Ks conversation with one of its claims handlers on 17 October 2019
when he first made the claim. The notes suggest that Mr K advised that the leak hadnt been
fixed and also that the shower tray might need to be taken out to find and access the leak.
Given Ps report is dated 15 October 2019, I can understand why RSA feels that Mr K
wouldve likely known where P considered the leak was coming from when he called up to
make the claim two days later. So it isnt clear why he didnt tell RSA that hed had a builder
inspect the damage and whod diagnosed a leak from a failed waste trap when he notified it
about the claim. Or why he didnt tell D about the report, given it visited his property about a
week later specifically to find and get to the source of the leak. I think then that its
reasonable for RSA to want to speak to Mr K to discuss these concerns with him and to then
review the claim again based on this information.
On this basis, as I think RSA has reasonable grounds for wanting to talk further to Mr K, I
dont think I can fairly direct it to pay the claim at this point. Its open to Mr K to either get in
touch with RSA directly to discuss Ps report with it, or to provide a response to me which I
will pass onto RSA to consider. I need to make it clear though that my role isnt to handle
claims, its simply to decide whether RSA has treated Mr K fairly. So it will be for RSA to
decide whether or not to reassess the claim based on any new information it receives from
him.
Mr K has also raised concerns about why O visited him when it seemed RSA had already
decided to turn down his claim. Looking at the notes, Ds report wasnt received by RSA until
8 November 2019, at which point O had already been appointed. I note that RSAs records
state that it spoke to Mr K on this date to let him know that it was declining the claim and
offered to put its decision in writing, which Mr K refused. But I think it communicated its
decision to him within a reasonable timeframe and it clearly explained its reasons in its final
response to Mr Ks complaint.
Ive noted that Mr K complains that he paid a policy excess of £250 to O, which appears to
tally-up with RSAs records. However, it doesnt appear that Mr K has raised this particular
complaint point with RSA previously and it hasnt had the chance to investigate these
concerns specifically. Its response to Mr Ks complaint only considered its decision to turn
down the claim. So it wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment on this issue here. If Mr K
remains unhappy with RSAs decision to charge an excess, hell first need to complain about
this issue to RSA before we may be able to look into this specific point.
I asked both parties to send me any further information they wanted me to look into.
RSA accepted my provisional findings.
Mr K disagreed. He again questioned Ds findings that the wall was saturated, as he 
considered if this had been the case, the tiles wouldve come off of the wall. He disputed that 
RSA had been trying to get in touch with him to discuss Ps report and asked for 
confirmation of dates and times. He also disagreed that RSA had declined the claim over the 
phone and had offered to put its refusal in writing. He asked me to listen to a copy of the call.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still dont think RSA needs to pay Mr K and Mr Ks claim based on the 
evidence it currently has and Ill explain why.Its important I explain that Im not a buildings expert. My role is to consider the available 
expert evidence which is provided to me to help me decide what was the most likely cause 
of damage. In this case, Ive considered both D and Ps expert evidence. I appreciate Mr K 
questions Ds findings regarding the saturation of his wall, given the tiles have remained in 
place. But Ds report includes photos of the investigations it undertook during its visit to the 
property. One of those photos shows that Ds surveyor took a moisture reading from the 
shower cubicle wall. Based on that reading, D concluded that the wall was saturated. I note 
that P made no finding as to whether the shower wall was wet or not. So based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I think it was fair for RSA to rely on Ds conclusion that the wall was 
saturated.
Mr K asked me to listen to the call between him and RSA on 8 November 2019. I requested 
a copy of this, but RSA told me it was no longer available. I appreciate Mr K disputes 
strongly that he was told the claim had been turned down, or that RSA offered to put its 
findings in writing. Ive thought carefully about this. But RSAs claims notes suggest that one 
of its claims handlers did call Mr K to let him know about its decision and that they offered to 
write to him to explain RSAs rationale. The notes suggest this was refused. The notes also 
say that Mr K wanted extracts of the leak report, which were sent. 
Its possible that RSAs call handler didnt give Mr K the full update the notes suggest was 
given. With that said though, RSAs notes also say that the call was listened to on 28 
November 2019, following Mr Ks complaint, and the call content did reflect the notes. So I 
still think its more likely than not that Mr K was updated about the status of his claim during 
the call.  But even if I didnt think the call handler had told Mr K about the reasons for the 
decline of the claim, I dont think it makes any material difference to the outcome of Mr Ks 
complaint. I say that because Ds report still puts the damage down to something the policy 
didnt cover. So regardless of the call content, RSA had still already concluded it shouldnt 
be paid. And RSA did explain its full reasoning in its final response to Mr Ks complaint 
around five weeks later. So I dont think Mr Ks position was prejudiced in any way.
RSA has provided me with a list of the attempted calls one of its claims handlers has made 
to Mr K. I can see that it has the same number on file for Mr K as we do. It tried to call Mr K 
on 23, 24 and 25 March 2021 and again on 1 April 2021. The claims handler wasnt able to 
speak to Mr K. I find RSAs call records persuasive evidence that RSA has tried to get in 
touch with Mr K to discuss Ps report and its concerns with him. Its now open to Mr K to 
contact RSA if he wishes to discuss Ps report with it and its concerns which I outlined in my 
provisional decision.
But overall, I still think RSA has reasonable grounds for wanting to discuss Ps report further 
with Mr K before it reviews the claim again based on this discussion and any further 
information. And Im still satisfied that it was fair for RSA to initially rely on Ds report, given it 
doesnt appear to have been aware of Ps report before Mr K sent it to me. If Mr K is 
unhappy with any further assessment of his claim, following a discussion with RSA, he may 
be able to bring a complaint to us about that issue alone. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman