DRN-3644217
The complaint
Mr G complains about Barclays Bank Plcs delay in crediting his account with a cheque he 
deposited. He also complains about Barclays handling of his complaints. 
What happened
Mr G deposited a cheque for €63,280 into his Barclays account in June 2021. Mr G says he 
checked with Barclays in August and was told it could take longer to clear. Mr G says he was 
told he could complain but would have to call but, when he did, he was then told he would 
need to make the complaint in branch. Mr G says he made a complaint in branch and then 
received a call to say checks were completed on days 20, 30 and 60 and there was nothing 
more they could do. Mr G says he then called the complaints team and was left waiting for 
an hour and then went into branch but didnt find the staff helpful in dealing with his 
complaint. Mr G then received a letter from Barclays which referred to his behaviour and that 
his account would be closed if there were further issues. Mr G says the cheque didnt clear 
until 8 October. Mr G says he lost out on a property as there wasnt any guarantee on when 
the cheque would clear. Mr G complained the cheque was lost for two months and then took 
a further two months to clear. Mr G says the amount he received was £52,803 but he 
believes it wouldve been higher had the cheque cleared sooner.   
Barclays responded and explained, when Mr G deposited the cheque, he was told it could 
take eight weeks to credit his account. Barclays said Mr G did visit their branch and they 
made enquiries to find out what was happening. Barclays explained, to enable the cheque to 
be paid, they have to return it to the issuing bank, and this was done by a courier company 
in June. Barclays said they then sent regular chasers to the foreign bank asking for payment. 
Barclays said they didnt receive a response until August when they informed Barclays they 
hadnt received the cheque. Barclays said they checked with the courier company who 
confirmed they delivered the cheque. 
Barclays said, when they received notification that the foreign bank had lost the cheque, they 
then requested payment by sending a copy of the cheque, so they followed the correct 
process in trying to obtain payment. Barclays said the delay in the funds being applied to   
Mr Gs account was caused by the foreign bank. Barclays said, they appreciate how 
frustrating this issue has been for Mr G. They said the normal timescale for the processing of 
a foreign cheque via collection is six to eight weeks, but when they process a foreign cheque 
theyre reliant on the foreign bank confirming the payment of the cheque. They said, 
unfortunately due to the foreign bank advising they couldnt locate the cheque, a delay has 
then been caused. Barclays said they wouldnt be compensating Mr G for any loss incurred 
due to this delay. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr G. He thought there hadnt been any errors by 
Barclays and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr G disagreed so the matter has come to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr G will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
The cheque 
The terms and conditions of Mr Gs current account sets out the process when paying in 
foreign cheques. This says, depending on where the cheque comes from and what currency 
its in, it will be deposited into the account through a negotiation or collection service. It says 
the collection service means Barclays will wait for the cheque to clear and the other bank 
has confirmed the transaction before crediting a customers account. The terms and 
conditions say This usually takes about four to seven weeks. 
Theres no dispute about the date Mr G deposited the cheque, or when it was credited to his 
account. This took around 16 weeks which exceeds the timescale set out in the terms and 
conditions, so Ive looked to see whether Barclays were responsible for this. 
Barclays have provided system notes which refer to them sending the cheque to the foreign 
bank via a courier company a few days after its deposited. The notes refer to Barclays then 
sending SWIFT messages on 28 June, 11 August and 25 August 2021. I can see our 
investigator has asked for evidence of these messages, but Barclays say the messages they 
sent are referred to as fate chasers and were sent to the intermediary bank. Barclays say 
the intermediary bank would then have contacted the drawee bank. Barclays say they dont 
therefore have a record of the messages sent. Barclays have also confirmed that, given this 
happened in 2021, theyre unable to locate the tracking communication with the courier 
company. 
Barclays have though provided a copy of their email to the intermediary bank sent in August 
2021 which refers to their SWIFT messages and asks them for an update. The intermediary 
bank then respond and explain the cheque hasnt been received. Barclays then follow this 
up with an indemnity letter to the intermediary bank with a copy of the cheque and ask for 
payment. So, while I havent seen the actual SWIFT messages and tracking communication, 
I have seen contemporaneous evidence in the form of communication between Barclays and 
the intermediary bank referring to the SWIFT messages and system notes which refer to the 
dates they were sent. And, the intermediary bank dont dispute receiving the SWIFT 
messages. So, taking this all into account, I believe on the balance of probabilities, its more 
likely than not that, the SWIFT messages were sent. That being the case, I think its unlikely 
Barclays wouldve been sending SWIFT messages for a cheque they hadnt sent, so I think 
its more likely than not the cheque was sent. So, while I am sorry to hear about the property 
purchase which fell through for Mr G, I cant hold Barclays responsible for the delay which 
occurred in the cheque being credited to Mr Gs account.  
I note Mr G feels he had to initiate enquiries to get Barclays to look into things and he also 
had to wait long periods to see a member of staff at the branch. I acknowledge this will have 
been frustrating for Mr G but the terms and conditions say the process can take up to seven 
weeks so I cant say there were any proactive steps Barclays couldve taken prior to this. In 
any event, SWIFT messages were sent during this period. 
Then, after the seven weeks, Barclays chase the intermediary bank and thats when theyre 
notified the cheque hasnt been received. From that point, and following the indemnity letter, 
its reasonable to expect the period of seven weeks would start again, and the cheque was 
then credited into Mr Gs account within that timeframe. 
Staff attitude I understand Mr G is concerned about a member of staff asking him if the transaction 
involving the cheque was a scam. Barclays say their member of staff needed to ensure Mr G 
wasnt the victim of a scam and thats why the member of staff raised this query. I 
understand why it might be upsetting for a customer to be asked if their transaction could 
possibly be a scam, particularly when the customer knows the transaction is legitimate. But I 
dont find that Barclays did anything wrong in raising any queries they felt were necessary. 
Its in all our interests that security checks are enforced to reduce the likelihood of banks and 
their customers becoming victims of fraud. 
I note Mr G was left upset at receiving a warning letter. Barclays notes set out the member 
of staffs account of events and the reasons which led to their decision to issue the letter. 
Taking into account the notes, I cant say Barclays have acted unreasonably. 
Complaints handling
I can see Mr G raises a number of issues about Barclays complaints handling. Complaint 
handling isnt a regulated or other covered activity. So as a general rule, and in line with the 
law, if the complaint is solely about complaint handling, we wouldnt be able to look into 
things. Where complaint handling forms a part of a customers complaint, then we can take 
into account complaint handling when looking at the overall customer experience. In this 
case, I cant say the issues which Mr G raises about the complaints handling are an 
extension of the issues which relate to regulated activities, so I cant look into the complaint 
handling part of the complaint.   
I understand Mr G will be disappointed, and I acknowledge his concerns about the issues he 
experienced. I wish to reassure Mr G Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but 
if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it 
or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.    
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman