DRN-4164248
The complaint
Mrs B complains about delays when transferring her Individual Savings Account (ISA) from 
Cofunds Limited (Aegon) to another provider.
What happened
Mrs B requested that Aegon transfer her ISA to another provider. This took longer than 
expected so Mrs B complained.
Aegon said the transfer was made within the required time limits and the initial delay was 
because they were waiting on information from the new ISA provider. 
Remaining unhappy Mrs B brought her complaint to our service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. They thought Aegon hadnt caused any 
unnecessary delays.  
Mrs B disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B has provided a lot of information about her complaint and its clear how strongly she 
feels about what happened. I want to assure Mrs B that Ive read and considered everything 
provided even if I dont mention or address every complaint point in detail. Ive summarised 
some things which reflects the informal nature of our service and no discourtesy is intended.
Aegon heard from the new ISA provider on 10 August 2022 requesting a transfer. That same 
day Aegon wrote back to the new provider asking for bank account details so the funds 
could be sent electronically. There was no response so Aegon chased this information again 
on 7 and 16 September 2022.  
On 16 September 2022 Aegon received the required information. Aegon then made the 
transfer to the new provider on 23 September 2022, some six working days later. Industry 
guidelines say that a stocks and shares ISA transfer should be done within 30 calendar days 
of receiving all the required information, and this is what happened. 
There were some purchase trades in place on the account that had to settle before the 
transfer could be started. Once this happened on 22 September 2022 things moved quickly 
as they shouldve done.
Mrs B asked why the stock wasnt sold on 11 August 2022 when the transfer request was 
first received as this wouldve lessened any financial loss. I can see why Mrs B would like 
this to have happened however the procedure of Aegon is to only begin a transfer when in 
receipt of all the required information from the new ISA provider. And since its not my role to 
tell a business what policies and procedures to put in place, I cant say Aegon made any 
errors when acting like this.
Mrs B also said she wasnt kept updated while Aegon were chasing the new provider for 
information. It may have been good customer service to update Mrs B however these types 
of ISA transfers are done business to business without any customer involvement. So while 
frustrating, I dont think Aegon acted unfairly by not issuing updates, and Im satisfied they 
were chasing the new provider as they should have done.
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Aegon treated Mrs B 
fairly and reasonably so wont be asking them to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman