DRN-2331672
The complaint
Ms A complains that Santander UK Plc didnt get back some money that she sent overseas, 
then found out she didnt really owe.
What happened
Ms A told us she was regularly sending money overseas, by bank transfer from her 
Santander account, to pay for services provided overseas under an ongoing contract. She 
said she didnt know at the time, but the services stopped being provided in August 2019. 
She told us she found this out after her October payment was made. She asked Santander 
to get this money back for her. 
Ms A said she had a letter which confirmed the services stopped in August, and she wanted 
Santander to send that through to the bank that shed been paying each month, so it could 
see shed overpaid. She said Santander didnt do that. She didnt think it had done enough 
to help. 
Ms A also said Santander had failed to respond to her complaint for several months. 
Santander said it had asked for the money back in November. The receiving bank sent back 
a message saying that it had asked the account holder Ms A had paid. That person said the 
payments Ms A had made for August and September were due, services had been provided 
then. They had sent a refund of half of the payment made for October, which Santander paid 
into Ms As account. Santander said that it couldnt share with Ms A the electronic messages 
it had sent. 
Santander said it didnt have any record of Ms A complaining about not getting her money 
back until we told it she wanted to complain, in February 2020. It sent her a letter then about 
the payments, explaining it couldnt get back all the money she had paid. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that Santander wasnt 
able to send the other bank a copy of the letter Ms A had shared with it. And she said that 
Santander wasnt responsible for the money not coming back. She said Santander could 
only get this money back if the person who received it sent it back. Santander cant do any 
more. 
Our investigator said she thought that Santander sent Ms A a complaint response letter 
within the time it is given to do that, because there wasnt any evidence that it knew about 
Ms As complaint before we told it about this. But our investigator also said that Ms A had 
brought her complaint to our service before Santander sent that letter, so our investigator 
didnt think that had delayed us being able to look into your complaint.
Ms A didnt agree. She said that she had text messages from Santander about the recall of 
her payments going back to October 2019. She said Santander hadnt acted on the 
information she had provided, like the letter which she said showed the cancellation of the 
contract. She said Santander had repeatedly said to her on the phone that there shouldn't be 
a problem in recalling her payments. And she said it took Santander over sixty days to reply 
in writing 
Ms A wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Ms A wanted Santander to help her get some money back. I think its important to start by 
setting out what Santander is able to do to help Ms A. 
Santander can ask the bank it sent money to, if it will send it back. But it cant do any more 
than that. It cant make the person that Ms A paid give this money back.
Banks are sometimes able to do more to make someone give back money theyve been 
paid, but banks can only take those extra steps in certain circumstances. If Ms A had paid by 
card, then Santander may have been able to do more to help. But here, she paid by bank 
transfer. So Santander can only ask for the money back. 
Santander does that by sending through an electronic message to the overseas bank. So it 
cant send the other bank a copy of the letter Ms A showed it. 
And even if Santander had sent a copy of that letter, I wouldnt expect that to make any 
difference. Santander doesnt decide if the person Ms A sent the money to deserves that 
money, or if she ought to send it back. Nor does the receiving bank. They both just do what 
their customers ask them to do. 
Ms A is Santanders customer. She told Santander to ask for this money back. It asked the 
receiving bank for the money back. 
The receiving bank asked its customer if she would give the money back. She paid back half 
of one monthly payment. And said she wouldnt pay back the rest. 
Santander hasnt done anything wrong. Its tried to help Ms A. Its not Santanders fault that 
the person who Ms A paid wont give all the money back. It cant do anything to make her 
pay this money back. 
Ms A said that Santander had ignored her complaint. But she also told us that she made her 
complaint at the same time as she asked Santander to get this money back. So it looks to 
me as if Ms A considered shed made a complaint when she was asking Santander to get 
the money back. 
Thats not how Santander or our service would usually think a complaint against a bank 
works. Wed expect Ms A to ask Santander to do something, and then complain if she wasnt 
happy with what it had done. So I think the reason that it took Santander so long to write to 
Ms A about her complaint was because of a misunderstanding between them. I can see that Ms A brought her complaint to us in November 2019 so, like our investigator, I 
dont think that the delay in providing a written response to Ms A has caused a delay in our 
service considering this complaint. I dont think Ms A has been disadvantaged by this. 
I know that Ms A has told us shes sent money to someone who isnt entitled to it. She thinks 
shes been scammed, and the person who has her money is a con artist. From what shes 
told us, I understand why shes so upset, but whatever has happened, I dont think its 
Santanders fault. Its already done all it can do. And because of that, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman