DRN-3645621
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F have complained about the way Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has 
dealt with their mortgage account. In particular, they say that, because there was a block on 
their Halifax current account, they werent able to make payments towards their mortgage.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 15 July 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs F being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Mr and Mrs F have a mortgage with Halifax. The mortgage has been in arrears for some 
time. There is currently a court order in place from September 2021 in which possession 
proceedings were adjourned on condition that Mr and Mrs F pay the monthly instalment as it 
falls due, plus £100 per month off arrears of just over £16,700.
In November 2021 Mr and Mrs F contacted Halifax to explain that they wouldnt be able to 
make their mortgage payment as there was a block on their current accounts with Halifax 
and another bank in the same group. After looking into this, Halifax said that the block on the 
Halifax current account had been removed on15 December 2021. However, they were still 
unable to access the account. Mr and Mrs F werent happy with what Halifax said and 
referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
An investigator looked at what had happened but noted that the block hadnt been removed 
from Mr and Mrs Fs current account in December 2021, although their current account with 
the other bank in the same group had been lifted. The investigator asked Halifax to pay 
compensation of £200 for this.
The investigator didnt think Halifax needed to do anything further. Thats because it would 
still have been possible for direct debits to be paid from the account, if one had been set up 
for the mortgage (Mr and Mrs F had cancelled their direct debit in March 2020). The 
investigator also noted that Mr and Mrs F had access to about £37,000 in their other current 
account and so could have paid their mortgage from that account if theyd chosen to do so.
Halifax agreed to pay the recommended compensation of £200. Mr and Mrs F didnt agree 
with the investigators findings. In summary, they want Halifax to pay at least £500. Theyve 
also said that they pay their mortgage from their Halifax current account, not their other 
current account, so their access to funds in the other account is irrelevant.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision on it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Im not considering whether or not Halifax was entitled to put a block on the 
current account; thats an operational matter for the bank in which I will not interfere. This 
complaint is purely about Mr and Mrs Fs difficulties in making their mortgage repayments as 
a result of not having access to their current account, even after Halifax had said the block 
had been removed.
Mr and Mrs F dont have a direct debit in place for their mortgage, and they werent able to 
make manual transfers from their current account to the mortgage account. Halifax has 
acknowledged it made a mistake when it didnt remove the block. The bank has agreed to 
pay compensation of £200 for this. I think this is fair, reasonable and proportionate in all the 
circumstances. 
Ive noted what Mr and Mrs F have said about their other current account and that the funds 
in that account were not theirs and so they could not have used them for the mortgage 
repayments. Mr and Mrs F say they were prevented from paying their mortgage due to the 
block on their Halifax current account, out of which their mortgage repayments were made. 
I can see that, after the court order in September 2021, Mr and Mrs F were paying £2,000 a 
month towards their mortgage, which included the monthly repayment and an amount off the 
arrears. 
However, given that Mr and Mrs F say they only used their Halifax current account to pay the 
mortgage, once the account was blocked, Id have expected them to have built up a reserve 
in that current account, made up of the mortgage repayments they hadnt been able to make 
as a result of the block. And once the block had been removed, they should have been able 
to make all the repayments theyd been prevented from making in one lump sum, bringing 
their account up-to-date in line with the court order. However Mr and Mrs F havent provided 
me with any evidence to show they had their mortgage repayments in reserve building up in 
the Halifax current account, ready to pay the mortgage once the block was removed.
In the circumstances, although Halifax did make a mistake, Im not persuaded that it has 
prevented Mr and Mrs F from bringing their mortgage up-to-date. It was up to them to make 
sure they put aside the £2,000 they needed to pay each month so they could put the account 
back on track once the block was removed. If they didnt do that, I cant hold Halifax 
responsible.
Putting things right
Halifax shouldnt have said the block had been removed from the Halifax current account 
when it had not, but Im not persuaded that this has resulted in Mr and Mrs F being unable to 
pay the mortgage or to bring it up to date. Given this, I think compensation of £200 is fair, 
reasonable and proportionate to the mistake made by Halifax. I dont think the bank needs to 
do anything further, for the reasons given above.
My final decision
My final decision is that, in full and final settlement of this complaint, Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax must pay Mr and Mrs F compensation of £200 for distress and 
inconvenience. I make no other order or award.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman