DRN-3041542
Complaint
Mr W has complained about the overdraft fees and interest TSB Bank plc (TSB) applied to 
his current account. Hes said unplanned overdraft fees were applied to his account even 
when he didnt have funds.
Background
Mr Ws complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that TSB had 
done anything wrong as there wasnt anything to suggest that Mr W was in financial difficulty 
and TSB had in any event refunded some of the fees. So she didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Mr W disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts TSB charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at TSBs charging structure per se, it wont have acted fairly 
and reasonably towards Mr W if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Mr Ws 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been
aware Mr W was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were
instances where TSB didnt treat Mr W fairly and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where TSB continued charging 
Mr W even though it knew he was in financial difficulty or it ought to have realised this was 
the case. I think its important for me to start by saying that TSB did refund a significant 
proportion of the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr Ws account. So it seems to me 
that TSB did take some account of Mr Ws circumstances and presumably when he called 
up to explain his situation. 
Ive also considered whether TSB should refund any of the other interest, fees and charges 
that it added to Mr Ws overdraft.
Its fair to say that Mr W did incur unarranged overdraft fees on occasion. But the 
unarranged overdraft charges on Mr Ws account were incurred sporadically and even then 
some were refunded. There were also regular credits going into Mr Ws account and lengthy 
periods when he wasnt anywhere account near going overdrawn. Equally, while Im not 
seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mr W expenditure, nonetheless there 
are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions 
account going from the account. 
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mr W wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty during these periods. But there isnt anything in these 
transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted TSB to potential financial difficulty. 
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Mr W, I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for TSB to proceed with the interest, fees and charges it didnt 
refund. And I dont think TSB unfairly charged Mr W in circumstances where it ought to have 
realised that he may have been experiencing financial difficulty.
As this is the case, I dont think that it needs to refund any of the other interest, fees and 
charges and Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. I appreciate that this will be very 
disappointing for Mr W. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman