DRN-2022612
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc has been sending statements for his current 
account to the wrong address.
What happened
Mr D has a current account with Barclays, which was formerly held as a joint account with 
his ex-partner. Mr Ds ex-partner updated the address on this account in December 2017. 
In October 2018, Mr Ds ex-partner was formally removed from the account. The address 
was not updated. 
In December 2019, Mr D discovered that statements had been going to his ex-partners 
address. He contacted Barclays to complain. It changed the address as soon as Mr D 
reported the matter to the bank. And its now offered Mr D £200 in recognition of the worry 
and inconvenience caused by not making sure it had the correct address when the account 
was updated to remove Mr Ds ex-partner.
Our Investigator thought this was reasonable to resolve things but Mr D didnt. He said he 
didnt think £200 was enough to recognise the distress and personal hardship or the time its 
taken for him to contact Barclays and our service about this issue.
As Mr D didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision on 3 
June 2020. Ive set out my provisional findings here:
Provisional Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
The address was changed before Mr D asked for the joint account holder to be removed. So 
at the time the address was changed, it was changed by someone who was at that point 
party to the account  so I dont think Barclays made a mistake at this time. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ds account say that customers must keep the bank 
informed if there are any changes to your situation, contact or personal details. So I think it 
was Mr Ds responsibility to make sure the address the bank held for him on this account 
was correct. But I also think, when the joint account was changed to a sole account, it would 
have been good practice for Barclays to have checked that the address was correct.
 
Mr D says the rest of his banking facilities with Barclays are paperless, so he didnt realise 
that he wasnt receiving statements for this account. He also told our Investigator he was 
concerned about the security of his accounts with Barclays. But as Ive explained, the 
address was changed before Mr D asked Barclays to remove the joint account holder and 
not by an unknown third party.  
Mr D says the information contained in his statements was sensitive and then caused 
problems with his ex-partner regarding maintenance payments towards the children they 
share. As Mr D has pointed out, someones bank statements are sensitive personal 
information, so I can understand this issue causing the kind of consequences hes 
described. So Ive considered the impact on Mr D.
The statements have been going to the wrong address since the account was changed in 
October 2018 until Mr D noticed there was a problem in December 2019. And although thats 
a long time, Mr D didnt notice there was an issue and it doesnt look like it caused any 
issues with his ex-partner during that period. I say this because Mr D said he discovered the 
address was wrong when he downloaded historic statements for the account on his online 
banking. And hes told us, when he contacted us in February 2020, that he recently had an 
altercation with his ex-partner regarding money based on what she knew from his account 
statements. But it seems this was after he'd corrected the address. 
As it was Mr Ds responsibility to keep his contact details up to date, its not a mistake on 
Barclays part. But, as Ive said above, it would have been good practice for it to have 
checked. So because it wasnt its responsibility, £200 seems a fair amount of compensation 
for something it probably should have done, but wasnt required to do.
Mr D has said this is insufficient because of the time its taken for him to contact Barclays 
and us. But Barclays corrected the address straight away and told Mr D that it wouldnt be 
able to respond to his complaint within the appropriate timescale and correctly advised him 
of his right to bring his complaint to our service. So I still think £200 is enough to 
acknowledge the trouble and upset Mr Ds been caused by it not checking the address on 
this account. 
Responses to my Provisional Decision
Barclays didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
Mr D responded to say he didnt agree with my findings for a number of reasons. In 
summary, he said:
He didnt know the address had been changed in December 2017, so how was he 
supposed to know to ask Barclays to correct it. 
He said, as part of the meeting he had in 2018 where his ex-partner was removed , 
he had to show identification and prove his address and that the address was 
clarified and changed during this meeting. Mr D said I hadnt mentioned this in my 
provisional decision. 
Id said in the provisional decision that it appeared that Mr D had only discovered the 
address was wrong because hed downloaded historical statements and not because 
of anything his ex-partner had said. Mr D didnt think this was fair because things had 
been said, and there had been issues with his ex-partner, but because Mr D didnt 
know about the address being wrong  he hadnt made the connection. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think the £200 offered by Barclays is fair and reasonable in resolution 
of this complaint. Mr D has now said both that he didnt know the address had been changed and also that he 
clarified the address when his ex-partner was removed from the account in 2018. He says 
during the meeting with the bank where this happened, the address was updated in front of 
him. 
But thats not what Mr D told this service or Barclays when he first made his complaint. He 
said he discovered the address was wrong in 2019 and contacted Barclays straight away. 
He was also concerned about the security of his accounts  because he didnt know how or 
when the address had been changed.
If Mr D had told Barclays to change the address in 2018, as he now says, I wouldve 
expected this to have formed part of his complaint to the bank and later to our service. But 
this point has only been raised in response to my provisional decision. So we asked 
Barclays for its comments. 
Barclays said the advisor Mr D spoke to couldnt recall the details  which isnt surprising 
given the time thats now passed. And the notes from that meeting only mention the removal 
of the joint account holder. The other evidence we have only shows the address being 
updated in 2017 and then again in 2019. So on balance, I dont think Mr D did ask for the 
address to be updated. I say this in particular because he says himself he didnt know it had 
been changed, so he had no reason to ask for it to be updated until 2019. And if he had, its 
not clear to me why he wouldnt have told Barclays and our Investigator this earlier in the 
complaint.  
Mr Ds now also said, in addition to statements for the joint account, monthly balances of his 
other accounts have been sent to the wrong address as well. But as far as I can see from 
Barclays records, those accounts have only ever been attached to his address. 
I still find Barclays shouldve checked that the former joint account address was what Mr D 
wanted it to be though  Barclays didnt and because of that it wasnt updated and its 
caused Mr D worry and inconvenience. But, for the reasons Ive explained, Im not 
persuaded that any additional compensation is warranted. 
Putting things right
While I understand Mr D will be disappointed, my finding remains that £200 offered by 
Barclays is fair and reasonable to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I think the £200 Barclays has already offered is fair in all the 
circumstances of this complaint. So I require Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay, if it hasnt 
already, £200 to Mr D in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman