DRN-3456967
The complaint
Mr D complains about Interactive Investor Services Limited (Interactive) refusing to allow 
him to continue to hold in his ISA an issue of American Depositary Shares (ADSs). He says 
Interactive has not been fair or customer friendly.
Mr D doesnt agree with Interactives interpretation of the ISA rules, which Interactive says 
mean the ADSs cant be held in an ISA. He says Interactive didnt say the ADSs couldnt be 
held in an ISA when he first bought them in 2019. He seeks compensation for the tax he will 
have to pay on gains on the ADSs when held outside an ISA. He also seeks a refund of fees 
he says Interactive charged him for holding the ADSs.
What happened
In October 2021 Interactive told Mr D ISA rules didnt permit his ADSs to be held in an ISA. It 
said he could either sell the ADSs and leave the proceeds in his ISA or transfer the ADSs 
out of the ISA. It offered to do the sale free of commission. It gave Mr D just over a month to 
reply and said it would sell the ADSs if it didnt hear from him within that time.
Mr D complained and in response Interactive gave him around two months more to choose 
between the two options it was offering. It told him the ISA guidance states that for an 
ADR/ADS to be eligible both the ADS and the underlying shares used to make up the ADS 
must trade on an HMRC recognised exchange. ADR means American Depositary Receipt.
Interactives complaint response stated the following as a quote from the ISA guidance:
A depository receipt can be held in an ISA providing the underlying shares represented by 
the depository receipt are in the beneficial ownership of the holder and are themselves ISA 
qualifying. It is irrelevant for ISA purposes whether the depository receipt is listed or traded 
on a recognised stock exchange.
Interactive said that although Mr Ds ADSs are traded on a recognised stock exchange, the 
underlying shares were unlisted and so didnt trade on a recognised exchange. Interactive 
said this meant the ADSs arent ISA qualifying. Interactive acknowledged it had let Mr D buy 
the ADSs within his ISA but said it had to correct this now it had discovered the issue. On 
top of its existing offer to sell the ADSs within the ISA free of commission, Interactive also 
offered to reduce its exchange rate charge.
Interactive said if Mr D decided instead to move the ADSs from the ISA, it would do this free 
of charge, including transferring to a different provider. But Interactive said it would not be 
responsible for any tax liability arising from such a decision to move the ADSs from the ISA.
Mr D has said Interactives view that his ADSs cant be held within an ISA, wrongly interprets 
his ADSs - American Depositary Shares - as ADRs - American Depositary Receipts. 
Our investigator thought Interactive did understand Mr D held ADSs not ADRs. But our 
investigator thought these ADSs werent ISA qualifying because although the ADSs were 
listed on a recognised exchange, the shares underlying them werent. So our investigator 
agreed with Interactive and also thought the options Interactive had offered Mr D, including 
the extra time in its complaint response letter, were fair and reasonable.
Our investigator understood Mr D had transferred his ADSs from the ISA to an overseas 
broker which our investigator thought supported the idea the ADSs werent ISA eligible, as 
otherwise Mr D mightve transferred the ADSs to another providers ISA. Mr D has since told 
us that he also moved some ADSs into his pension.
Our investigator understood Mr D hadnt yet incurred the tax liability he had asked Interactive 
to cover. But our investigator didnt think Interactive should cover any tax liability for Mr D 
anyway. In reaching this view our investigator noted Mr D was better off overall as a result of 
having bought the ADSs, even after allowing for the tax. In other words, Mr D was better off 
than he wouldve been if he hadnt bought the ADSs at all. Also our investigator thought if 
Mr D had been told by Interactive the ADSs werent ISA qualifying, he wouldve most likely 
still bought them outside the ISA. In other words, he wouldve held the ADSs in an account 
that wasnt capital gains tax free, and so wouldve had to pay tax on his gains anyway.
In view of all this, our investigator concluded Interactive didnt have to do anything more to 
put things right.
Mr D maintains that Interactives wish to remove his ADSs from his ISA was due to it wrongly 
interpreting his ADSs as ADRs  that is, as receipts rather than shares. He refers to ISA 
guidance that says shares are ISA eligible if listed or traded on a recognised exchange. His 
ADSs are traded on the New York Stock exchange. He rejected our investigators view and 
also said the following points hadnt been taken into account:
The company that issued the ADSs was global with multiple subsidiaries but with only 
one public listing which is on a recognised stock exchange (the New York Stock 
Exchange listing of the ADSs).
The ADSs arent receipts and whether there is an underlying class A share is irrelevant  
the class A shares are just an internal link from the ADSs to the various company 
subsidiaries. This was all in the annual report he sent us.
Interactive had admitted an error (allowing the ADSs to be bought within the ISA) but 
was offering no compensation for the inconvenience of moving the ADSs and had also 
charged him ADR fees. That is completely unfair and consumer unfriendly.
Regarding inconvenience suffered by Mr D due to Interactive allowing him to buy the ADSs 
within his ISA, Interactive has said no redress is due for this because, in brief summary:
Interactive offered Mr D cost-free options to resolve the issue and it cant be responsible 
for what he chose to do instead. His disappointment and inconvenience stems from his 
own choices, delay and decision to pursue and escalate his complaint. He had made a 
very large gain on the ADSs at the time of the dispute. Any capital gains tax he pays is 
applicable as the right position wouldve been for the ADSs to be bought outside an ISA. 
The result of Interactives error was Mr D avoided paying tax. Its possible he will face no 
tax at his overseas broker. He has been repaid many times over by benefiting from 
Interactives administrative position.
Mr D considers he should be compensated for the service he has received. He also points 
out that Interactive acted on its own interpretation of the ISA rules rather than being told to 
act by the relevant tax authority (HM Revenue and Customs - HMRC).
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally it has been passed to me for a decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Mr Ds ADSs represent a certain number of class A ordinary shares of the company that 
issued and listed the ADSs. This is apparent from the annual report Mr D sent us, which 
refers to the ADSs as American Depository Shares, each of which represents one of our 
Class A ordinary shares His contract notes for the ADSs also reiterated this, saying: 
EACH REP ONE CLASS A ORD SHS. 
So the ADSs arent shares of the company but depositary shares representing those shares.
I note in passing that the memorandum of association on the companys website says the 
share capital of the company is made up of class A and class B shares. It doesnt include the 
ADSs in that description, only the class A shares that the ADSs represent.
The ISA guidance Mr D has referred to contains a section on shares, but it also has one that 
covers both ADRs and ADSs specifically. That section includes the following:
If the investor holds an American depositary shares or American depositary receipt that is 
traded on a US stock exchange the underlying investment is the shares represented by the 
American depositary shares or American depositary receipt. If these shares are officially 
listed on a recognised stock exchange, the American depositary shares or American 
depositary receipt will be a qualifying investment for stocks and shares ISA.
The reference to If these shares are officially listed refers, for both ADRs and ADSs, to the 
shares represented by the ADRs or ADSs  meaning the underlying investment rather 
than the ADRs or ADSs themselves. In this case that means the companys class A ordinary 
shares. If those underlying shares represented by the ADSs are not officially listed, the 
ADSs would not be ISA eligible according to this guidance. This part of the section makes no 
distinction between ADRs and ADSs.
Neither Mr D nor Interactive have suggested that the ordinary shares the ADSs represent 
are listed or traded on a recognised exchange. Mr D says the companys only public listing is 
for the ADSs, listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The annual report he refers to gives 
information on the history of the company and refers to an initial public offering for the ADSs 
but doesnt refer to the companys ordinary shares being listed on any recognised exchange.
So the ADSs are depositary shares and the shares they represent arent listed or traded on 
any recognised exchange. As the shares the ADSs represent arent listed or traded on a 
recognised exchange, the ADSs arent ISA eligible under the guidance referred to above. 
With this in mind, I dont think Interactive did anything wrong when it wrote to Mr D offering 
him the options it did. Based on its understanding of the ADSs and its interpretation of the 
guidance, Interactive took the view that the ADSs had to be removed from the ISA. It acted 
on this in line with its duty to run the ISA in accordance with the relevant rules and guidance. 
It doesnt matter that it wasnt acting under a specific instruction from HMRC.
In reaching my conclusion above, I dont overlook that the company that issued the ADSs is 
global with many subsidiaries or that it has only listed its ADSs and not its ordinary shares or 
that the ADSs are depositary shares rather than depositary receipts (although I note that the 
guidance to which Mr D refers says these two terms are often used interchangeably). I dont 
agree that the significance of the companys class A shares is as a link between the listed instrument and the companys subsidiaries. The significance of the class A shares is that 
they are the companys shares - the ADSs are instruments representing those shares.
Mr D has said Interactive charged custody or ADR fees for holding the ADSs. I gather he is 
referring to the sort of fees or costs that arise due to the custody of shares underlying an 
ADR issue. Mr Ds ADSs likewise involve depository or custodian services - ordinary A 
shares are deposited with a custodian  so fees or expenses can arise in a similar way. 
Fees or expenses like this may be outlined in regulatory filings or prospectuses. What Mr D 
has told us, and the fact he held ADSs rather than ADRs, doesnt persuade me he has 
incurred expenses or been charged fees at Interactive that he shouldnt have incurred 
relating to his holding of the ADSs or the custody of the shares underlying his ADSs.
Mr D has asked for compensation for a capital gains tax liability. Hes told me he has not yet 
sold any of the ADSs and hasnt yet received any tax bill for his gains. But I think theres still 
a chance that Mr D will face tax on gains he makes on the ADSs (usually gains are taxed at 
the point when an asset is disposed of, such as upon sale). Mr D claims compensation for 
this future tax on the basis that he wished to continue to hold the ADSs within the ISA and if 
hed been permitted to do so he wouldnt have had to pay tax on any gains. But in light of all 
Ive said above already, Im not persuaded that Mr D was entitled to hold the ADSs within an 
ISA and entitled to escape tax on his gains in that way.
Also Im not persuaded that if Mr D hadnt been allowed to buy the ADSs within the ISA, the 
way he most likely wouldve bought the ADSs wouldve allowed him to avoid tax on gains. 
He hasnt told us of a way he mightve manged this and Im mindful that what Mr D mightve 
done differently should be assessed without using hindsight. Mr D has told me he transferred 
some ADSs to his pension and transferred some offshore, but Ive seen no suggestion from 
him that he wouldve bought the ADSs offshore or within his pension to start with if he hadnt 
been able to use his ISA. The size of the ADSs price rise, and so the extent of a potential 
tax liability outside an ISA, of course wasnt known when Mr D first bought the ADSs. 
With what Ive said above in mind, if Mr D had decided to buy the ADSs even though he 
couldnt use his ISA, what I have doesnt make me think he wouldve most likely done so in a 
way that wouldve avoided tax on the gains. For this reason my conclusion is that Interactive 
shouldnt compensate or indemnify Mr D against tax arising on gains he might make or have 
made on the ADSs, as that would put him in a position he could not have found himself in 
even if Interactive had not done anything wrong.
Interactive has told us the ADSs should never have been purchased within an ISA for that 
error we sincerely apologise. So it accepts it was at fault. Mr D thinks Interactive should 
offer redress for its customer service in the light of this. Interactive has told us it doesnt 
consider that a payment for this would be appropriate. Ive considered all this carefully. 
I agree that having spotted the issue Interactive did act fairly in offering Mr D options to put 
the situation right in ways that would cause him only limited inconvenience and cost. The 
transfer from the ISA was cost free and the offer to sell his holdings within his ISA involved a 
currency exchange at a reduced fee rate. That cost may have been outweighed by potential 
benefits from the situation  a larger sum within the ISA for reinvestment than might have 
been achieved with a qualifying investment, for example. Perhaps there were other benefits 
too, but I wont explore that more here given that Mr D didnt wish to sell his ADSs and so 
didnt take up this offer.
Interactive says its offer wouldve allowed Mr D to benefit from the proceeds of its error. At 
the very least Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr D was likely to be disadvantaged materially by 
the options Interactive offered  bearing in mind that if Interactive hadnt made its error he 
wouldve likely still had to pay tax on his gains. Also accepting the options Interactive offered Mr D wouldve settled matters with a minimum of inconvenience to him. So if Mr D chose to 
do something that was more time consuming and inconvenient, I agree with Interactive that 
this isnt inconvenience that Interactive should necessarily compensate Mr D for.
Engaging in financial business involves some inconvenience. Also errors do happen from 
time to time and complaints sometimes need to be made. None of these things on their own 
mean compensation should be paid necessarily. But in this instance Interactives error did 
cause Mr D significant disappointment in my view and some unavoidable inconvenience. 
I say this bearing in mind that when Interactive spotted and contacted Mr D to address the 
error, Mr D had held his ADSs in his ISA for two years and wasnt expecting any problem like 
this. Also by that time any alteration of the tax situation of his ADSs was complicated by a 
sizable gain (on paper) which brought with it the prospect of a significant tax loss if the way it 
was crystallised involved it being taxed. So Interactives update was surprising, disappointing 
and not at all trivial for Mr D given the large sums involved. I think it understandable in that 
context that Mr D wished to explore and give everything careful consideration before acting.
Also I dont agree that because Mr D had a large (paper) gain when Interactive spotted the 
issue, the impact of the error was of no consequence for him. There may have been ways 
for him to take advantage of the situation or to resolve it at minimal cost, but there were also 
clearly routes that could potentially lead to significantly negative results. It was not a small 
matter.
With all Ive said above in mind, taking everything into account I think it fair and reasonable 
that Interactive pays Mr D £250 for the inconvenience and disappointment its error caused 
him  and I uphold his complaint in part. But bearing in mind the options Interactive went on 
to offer Mr D, which I think were reasonable, I dont think Interactive need do more than this.
Putting things right
To put things right Interactive Investor Services Limited should pay Mr D £250 for the 
disappointment and inconvenience caused by its error.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mr Ds complaint. Interactive Investor Services Limited 
should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman