DRN-1618158
The complaint
Ms J complains that Zurich Insurance PLC has unfairly declined her claim under her 
landlords insurance and unfairly avoided her policy. Any references to Zurich include its 
agents.
What happened
Ms J claimed to Zurich following a fire at her rental property in April 2018. Zurich investigated 
and said it was avoiding the policy from the renewal date of June 2015 and refunding Ms Js 
premiums on the grounds of misrepresentation. It said this concerned her declarations of 
occupancy, tenancy agreements and good repair.
Zurich also said the claim failed because exclusion clauses within the policy applied and 
because Ms J failed to follow policy conditions such as maintaining the property. 
Ms J said she put the property in the hands of letting agents and so wasnt aware of all of the 
details. She provided a statement from the agents with dates of inspections of the property 
saying the property was secure and in a good state of repair.
Zurich said this was false information as it was at odds with police reports showing the 
property was unsecured and was being used as a squat. Zurich said the property had been 
unoccupied for some time when the fire occurred and Ms J hadnt received any rent since 
October 2017, or produced a tenancy agreement post March 2016. 
Zurich said its enquiries with the local council showed Ms Js property was unoccupied as 
follows:
During 2014-2015 unoccupied for 157 days
During 2015-2016 unoccupied for 169 days
August 2017 unoccupied for 1 day
From December 2017 onwards 102 days to date of loss
Zurich said the policy requires Ms J to notify any periods of unoccupancy in excess of 120 
days and changes of tenant, but she hadnt done so including at renewal in 2015 and after 
and these were misrepresentations. Zurich said it would have restricted the cover had it 
been properly informed, and it wouldnt have renewed the policy. 
Zurich said as well as the misrepresentations its reasons for declining the claim were:
Lack of formal tenancy agreements in place as required.
Exclusion of claims where unoccupancy exceeded 120 days.
Exclusion of claims for damage caused by malicious persons.
Property not maintained in a good state of repair as required.
All reasonable steps werent taken to prevent damage as required.
Ms J thought Zurichs information was incorrect and there were discrepancies in its response 
to her complaint. She said Zurich declined the claim for the property being unoccupied for 
more than 30 days when in fact she was covered for up to 120 days.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said Ms J had to provide 
accurate information to Zurich, but hadnt done so. She said Ms J had no evidence of a 
tenancy agreement post March 2016 despite saying so at renewal as a policy requirement. 
She said Zurich was confused about the policy term concerning unoccupancy but Ms J still 
hadnt reported unoccupancy as required. She said Ms Js letting agent provided a 
statement about inspections that conflicted with three police reports about the property being 
unsecured and being used as a squat. 
Ms J disagreed with the investigator. She said shed been put under huge financial strain 
and stress by having to meet the costs of the fire damage. And she couldnt see what she 
had done to be put in such a difficult position. Ms J requested an ombudsman review her 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
My role here is to decide whether Zurich was entitled to avoid Ms Js policy and not pay her 
claim for the fire damage. In reviewing this complaint, Ive considered the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). It sets out the obligations of 
a consumer when entering into an insurance contract and the remedies available to an 
insurer if a consumer fails to fulfil their obligations if it can show they made what the Act 
describes as a qualifying misrepresentation.
Firstly, I should make clear that each time Ms J renewed her policy she took a new 
insurance contract with Zurich. Under CIDRA Ms J had to take reasonable care not to make 
a misrepresentation at each renewal. If Ms J made a misrepresentation it is then for Zurich 
to show this was a qualifying misrepresentation. To do this it needs to show she didnt take 
reasonable care and wouldnt have offered her cover at all if she hadnt made the 
misrepresentation, or wouldve done so on different terms. Once its shown a qualifying 
misrepresentation what its entitled to do depends on whether the misrepresentation was 
deliberate or reckless or careless. And, if it was careless what it can do depends on what it 
wouldve done had she not made the misrepresentation. 
Ms Js claim is under the policy she took out in 2008. Zurich has avoided the policy to 
renewal in 2015 and said further misrepresentations occurred at renewal in 2016. It hasnt 
said this for renewal in 2017 but has also avoided this contract and refunded premiums for 
all three years and so has treated the 2017 renewal the same as the previous years. I dont 
think it follows that because it is entitled to avoid the policy Ms J renewed in 2015 and 2016, 
the contract she took out in 2017 ceased to exist. Zurich has to show that its entitled to 
avoid these contracts in accordance with CIDRA if its going to use this as a reason not to 
pay her claim. 
So the first thing I need to consider is whether Zurich was entitled to avoid Ms Js policy from 
renewal in 2015. I then need to decide whether it was entitled to avoid her subsequent 
polices, including the one she took out at renewal in June 2017.Ive seen the declarations Ms J completed in 2015 to 2017 when renewing her policy. She 
was asked to confirm that the property has not been unoccupied for more than 120 days nor 
will it be left unoccupied for more than 120 days. And that a lease or rental agreement is 
in force in relation to each tenant living at the property. And that the property was in a good 
state of repair.
Zurichs annual Statement of Insurance to Ms J set out her Declaration including:
You have confirmed that:
it is currently in a good state of repair and will remain so.
it has not been unoccupied for more than 120 days nor will be left unoccupied for more than 
120 days at a time. 
a lease agreement, rental agreement or a deposit guarantee bond is in force for each tenant 
living in Your Property.
So Zurich needs to show first of all that by answering its question in the way she did Ms J 
failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. And I think its done this. 
One of the considerations under CIDRA is how clear the question the consumer was asked 
was. I think the question was clearly put and if she was uncertain Ms J needed to check 
before making the declaration.
Long periods of unoccupancy must have coincided with lack of rent and so I think Ms J 
would have been aware of these. I can see the last rental payment Ms J received was from 
October 2017 and she hasnt provided a tenancy agreement for this time. From this and the 
lack of contact with the letting agent, I dont think she had reason to believe the property was 
still being let after this time.
Police reports state that the property was found to be insecure on three occasions and was 
being used as a squat. Ms J declared the property was in a good state of repair. According 
to a statement the letting agent carried out regular inspections over the period leading up to 
the fire and said that the property was secure and in a good state of repair. The statement 
lacks any other detail or photos. 
This statement doesnt seem to accord with the polices dealings with the property. Nor does 
it accord with the presence of secure boarding fitted to the front door that had been 
damaged or the description of the property as a squat for local drug addicts. Additionally, 
when the fire was investigated, the back door was unlocked and there was an occasion 
when the council were contacted to board the property. And so, on balance I dont think the 
property was safe and secure, or in good repair.
So Im satisfied that Ms J ought to have clearly understood what she was being asked to 
confirm when she was asked about these statements. And this means I think Zurich has 
shown she failed to take reasonable care to make a misrepresentation in 2015 to 2017. This 
means there was a qualifying misrepresentation at this point and  in my opinion  it has the 
right to avoid the policy Ms J renewed for these three years.
The policy carries a clear warning about the consequences of not following the policy 
requirements.
This insurance is underwritten strictly, which means that any breach of warranty by you will 
entitle the insurers to void the policy and in the process, refuse to deal with any claim.
Zurich has shown that if Ms J had not made this misrepresentation it would not have 
renewed her policy when the contract came for renewal. The policy required Ms J to make similar notifications during the policy year and Zurich said it would have heavily restricted 
cover had she done so.
This means I am satisfied Ms Js misrepresentation was a qualifying one. Although Zurich 
hasnt said, by returning Ms Js premiums to her, it has treated her misrepresentation as 
careless. I think that is fair in the circumstances.
Therefore, Im satisfied Zurich was entitled to avoid Ms Js policy in accordance with CIDRA. 
And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, Zurich does not have to deal 
with her claim following the fire at her property. And  as CIDRA reflects our long-
established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Zurich to rely on it to avoid 
Ms Js policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint. 
The policy sets out exclusions and conditions which must be followed by Ms J for a claim to 
be met or the insurance cover to be valid. Zurich has also relied on these in declining Ms Js 
claim, they include notifying unoccupancy and tenant changes during the policy year and an 
exclusion for damage caused by malicious persons. However, since I agree that it was fair 
for Zurich to avoid Ms Js policy there is no need to deal with these here. 
Ms J said her insurer hasnt responded to her letter and it was wrong to say she was 
covered for 30 days between tenancies as the policy covers her for up to 120 days when the 
property is empty. I can see Zurich was wrong on this point. This doesnt make a difference 
to my decision as the property had, on occasions, been unoccupied for over 120 days 
without notification from Ms J or her letting agents. 
I havent found that Zurich made any error in avoiding Ms Js policy and declining her claim. I 
think Zurich acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances and I wont be asking it to do 
any more to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman