DRN-4353990
Complaint
Miss B has complained that TM Advances Limited (TM Advances) irresponsibly provided 
her with an unaffordable loan when she was already struggling as result of excessive 
gambling. 
Background
TM Advances provided Miss B with a loan of £3,000.00 in March 2018. This loan had an 
interest of £6,209.88 and a 36-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of 
£9,209.88 was due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £255.83.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that TM Advances unfairly 
provided this loan to Miss B as proportionate checks would have shown it was unaffordable. 
TM Advances didnt respond to the assessment. So the case was passed to an ombudsman 
for review as per the next stage of our dispute resolution process.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Miss Bs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Bs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did TM Advances complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss B would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Miss B wouldve been able to 
do so?
2. Did TM Advances act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did TM Advances complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss B 
would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
TM Advances provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required TM Advances to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Miss Bs ability to make the 
repayments under this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so TM Advances had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Miss B. In practice this 
meant that TM Advances had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt 
cause Miss B undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for TM Advances to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss B.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were TM Advances checks reasonable and proportionate?
TM Advances says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Miss B 
prior to providing her with this loan. It also carried out a credit check. Miss Bs income was 
recorded as being £3,700.00 a month and she had expenditure of just under £2,200.00 a 
month. In its view, all of this left Miss B with sufficient disposable income to make the 
repayments to this loan. 
Ive carefully considered what TM Advances has said. But the credit check it carried out 
showed Miss B was carrying quite a bit of debt and had had previous difficulties repaying 
credit. So I think that the information on the credit check was enough to call into question the 
expenditure information provided. Indeed, I have to question why Miss B would need to 
borrow on such disadvantageous terms if she had as much as TM Advances says she had 
available in disposable income in the first place. I appreciate that TM Advances says that it asked Miss B about her indebtedness and her 
previous difficulties with credit. And Miss B explained that her defaults, which although they 
occurred in 2014 were still active, were as a result of being out of work and the high usage of 
high-cost short term credit was down to helping a family member and vet bills. But given just 
how long Miss B appeared to be struggling despite, on TM Advances calculations having 
over £1,500.00 in disposable income, I dont think that this explanation could reasonably be 
taken to be credible. And I think that TM Advances needed to take further steps to verify 
Miss Bs actual monthly expenditure. 
I say this while particularly mindful that TM Advances says Miss B would be consolidating 
debt that was subject to cost-caps, on a much more expensive basis and over a longer term. 
As I cant see that TM Advances did do this and instead chose to rely on what looked to 
have been an overoptimistic assessment of Miss Bs disposable income, I dont think that the 
checks it carried out before providing Miss B with her loan were reasonable and 
proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to TM Advances that Miss B 
would have been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided,
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely
than not that a proportionate check would have told TM Advances that Miss B would have 
been unable to sustainably repay this loan.
TM Advances was required to establish whether Miss B could make her loan repayments 
without experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments 
were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, its clear that Miss B had 
a high level of expenditure. Her use of credit from short-term lenders was even more 
extensive than what had appeared on the credit searches. And its pretty clear and apparent 
just why this is the case. So I think that proportionate checks would have shown                     
TM Advances that Miss B was unlikely to be able to make her payments without borrowing 
further or suffering significant adverse consequences.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Miss B would not have been able to make the
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted TM Advances to the fact that Miss B was in no sort of position to make the 
payments on this loan without suffering significant adverse consequences.
Did TM Advances act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss B in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that TM Advances acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss B in some other 
way. So I dont think TM Advances acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss B in some 
other way.
Did Miss B lose out as a result of TM Advances unfairly providing him with this loan?
As Miss B paid and is still being expected to pay a high amount of interest and charges on a 
loan that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a 
result of what TM Advances did wrong.So I think that TM Advances needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what TM Advances needs to do to put things right for Miss B
Having thought about everything, TM Advances should put things right for Miss B by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Miss B pad on this loan. 
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Miss B to the date of settlement
removing all adverse information recorded about this loan from Miss Bs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TM Advances to take off tax from this interest. TM 
Advances must give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Bs complaint. TM Advances Limited 
needs to put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman