DRN-4175165
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy their escape of water claim was unfairly declined when they were 
moving out of their home. Mr and Mrs G had a home insurance policy with QIC Europe Ltd 
(QIC).
What happened
Mr and Mrs G made a claim to QIC when an expansion vessel burst in their attic. The 
incident occurred on the morning Mr and Mrs G were due to complete on the sale of their 
house. Mr and Mrs Gs parents spotted the significant damage caused when they attended 
to hand over the keys for the sale completion.
QIC instructed a surveyor to review and validate the damage. The surveyor had reported the 
property was void of furniture when he inspected it. As Mr and Mrs G were selling their 
house, theyd emptied their property of most of the contents two days earlier. QIC decided to 
decline the claim. It said under the terms and conditions of the policy, it doesnt cover loss or 
damage while the buildings are unoccupied or unfurnished.
Mr and Mrs G thought this was unfair. They said QIC had initially raised their expectations by 
saying the claim would be accepted, but then decided to decline it. They said theyd only 
been emptying their house as they were about to move, and theyd been visiting their house 
regularly in the week or so when theyd moved out. They thought in the circumstances it was 
unreasonable for QIC not to honour the claim.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. Although he thought QIC had fairly 
rejected the claim in line with the terms and conditions, he did think it wrongly raised Mr and 
Mrs Gs expectations. So, he thought QIC should pay £200 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. Mr and Mrs G disagreed, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I made a provisional decision on this on 24 May 2023. I said:
In its final response, QIC explained why it had declined Mr and Mrs Gs claim. QIC have set 
out the policy conditions for escape of water. QIC have highlighted an exclusion that says it 
doesnt cover loss or damage while the buildings are unoccupied or unfurnished. QIC 
further explained the term unfurnished is defined in the policy as meaning without enough 
furniture for normal living purposes. QIC said the list of contents at the time of the incident 
(which was provided by Mr and Mrs G) wouldnt have been sufficient for normal living 
purposes.
I think QIC have been clear as to why it has declined the claim. Mr and Mrs G thought this 
was unfair, so I have considered why this was. Mr and Mrs G thought it was unreasonable to 
apply the exclusion on the day the sale on their house was completing. Mr and Mrs G said 
the claim wouldve been for a far greater value if there had been more in the house. Mr and 
Mrs G said when they made their initial claim they were told it would be covered and were 
advised to take up the floor. Mr and Mrs G said they wouldnt have done this if the claim 
wasnt accepted. Mr and Mrs G said they rang QIC up separately and were told their 
property could be unfurnished for 30 days.
I think it is accepted that QIC misled Mr and Mrs G about their claim been accepted initially. I 
can see this as QIC has accepted our investigators recommendation of paying £200 
compensation for falsely raising Mr and Mrs Gs expectations. Mr and Mrs G said they 
wouldnt have had any of the work done if the claim wasnt to be covered. I have no reason 
to doubt them on this point, although I do realise this would have caused some difficulty with 
the buyer and may have resulted in some late renegotiation on the purchase price. However, 
I think its likely the financial impact wouldve been less on them.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Gs point about applying the exclusion on the date of completion. 
I have sympathy for this point as the policy doesnt exclude cover for moving house. I think it 
shouldve stated this specifically if this was the case. As Mr and Mrs G were moving house, 
at some point they wouldve needed to move their belongings. So, if something happened to 
the house in that small window when the belongings had been moved, I dont think it would 
be reasonable in the circumstances not to consider a claim. 
However, QIC said the house had been emptied earlier than completion day. I have checked 
this. As Mr and Mrs G were moving to temporary accommodation until they could move to 
their new home, they gradually moved out their belonging to the temporary accommodation 
over a period of time (as they were moving in with relatives). I dont think this is 
unreasonable, it probably was more pragmatic for them and helped to reduce removal costs. 
Mr and Mrs G said they only stopped living in the house a couple of days before the incident. 
I dont think this was unreasonable as its likely theyd transferred most of their contents and 
belongings at this point. However, they said they visited the house everyday up to the sale 
and Mr G continued working from the property.
When considering the claim, I think its important that the circumstances of the claim and 
practicalities are considered. I appreciate QIC have applied the terms and conditions strictly. 
However, I think the intent of the policy isnt that strict. In the same exclusion the term 
unoccupied is defined as we consider your home to be unoccupied when it is not lived in 
by you or your family for more than 30 days in a row. These terms are consistent with what 
Mr and Mrs G were told when they spoke separately to QIC.
I think with the way the policy is written the intent of it is that cover isnt provided when the 
house isnt been lived in regularly. If I consider what the claim was for  it was for a burst 
expansion vessel. It would make sense this wouldnt be covered if the house wasnt lived in 
for a long time as the heating may have been left off for long periods and damage would 
take much longer to find. However, in Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances, I dont think their 
actions have added any risk to the insurer. I dont think its pragmatic when moving house to 
say you become uninsured once you have moved your belongings out of the house. 
Therefore, I intend to uphold this complaint.
Therefore, I intend for QIC to settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy based upon valid receipts. Mr and Mrs G have incurred costs already, so QIC 
should review these for reasonableness at normal market rates and not at the cost they 
would do the work themselves. This is because Mr and Mrs G werent afforded this 
opportunity. As Mr and Mrs G have been without this money, I intend to add 8% interest 
(simple) from the date they paid the costs to the date QIC reimburse them.
I think moving house is one of the most stressful events that people experience. I think the 
incident on the day of completion wouldve added to that. Unfortunately, these things happen. However, at their time in need I wouldve expected QIC to be more supportive and 
accommodating to Mr and Mrs G. I think QICs interpretation of the circumstances and policy 
are unfair and this added to what was already a stressful situation. Mr and Mrs G were 
inconvenienced themselves with arranging the work to be carried out  it may have been 
possible for QIC to do this after the completion date. Therefore, I think the level of distress 
and inconvenience has been quite high, so I intend to award £500 in compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs G accepted my provisional decision and didnt have anything further to add.
QIC said it was very disappointed with my decision, but it didnt have anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require QIC Europe Ltd to:
settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy based 
upon valid receipts
add 8% interest* (simple) from the date Mr and Mrs G paid costs to the date QIC 
reimburse them
pay Mr and Mrs G £500** compensation  for distress and inconvenience.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires QIC Europe Ltd to take off tax from this interest. QIC 
must give a certificate showing how much tax its taken off it if Mr and Mrs G asks for one.
 
**QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
that Mr and Mrs G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman