DRN-4008153
The complaint
Ms Ws complaint is about the administration of her life assurance policy with Legal and 
General Assurance Society Limited (L&G). She is unhappy L&G wanted to communicate 
with her through a secured messaging service, as she has had a negative experience with 
such systems in the past. In addition, she has concerns any information contained within the 
messaging service wouldnt be available to her solicitor or family following any claim, and 
could be lost, thereby jeopardising the claim. 
What happened
In October 2022 Ms W took out a over 50s life assurance policy with L&G. It was set up to 
provide life cover of £2,274 and would run for the remainder of her life, as long as she paid 
the monthly premium. The policy started on 24 October 2022.
When the policy was set up L&G sent Ms W policy documentation in the post. However, it 
also sent her emails on 24 October 2022 to welcome her as a customer and a second to 
confirm the direct debit details. There was a link contained in the second email for Ms W to 
access the message about the direct debit, as it related to confidential information. As Ms W 
didnt access the link, she was sent follow-up emails reminding her she had a message she 
hadnt accessed. 
L&G responded to the complaint in a letter of 11 January 2023. It explained it used the 
secured messaging to protect its customers personal data and policy information. L&G 
confirmed it had only sent her one message in this way, but if she hadnt opened it, she may 
have received reminders by email to do so. However, as Ms W was unhappy using the 
system, it had removed her email address from its records so it couldnt send her further 
emails. L&G apologised for any upset or frustration she had been caused. 
In response, Ms W called L&G because she felt it hadnt answered all her concerns. She 
explained she didnt think the secure messaging system was an appropriate way of 
communicating with her, as any messages would not be available to her family in the future 
and could get lost in L&Gs systems. Ms W also said she found the email she had been sent 
threatening.
L&G wrote to Ms W again following its conversation with her. It said the email it had sent to 
Ms W had explained registering for an account on the messaging system was optional and 
paper documents were available where required. As Ms W had been satisfied she had 
everything she needed in relation to her policy, she had confirmed she would not be 
registering for an account. L&G apologised its earlier letter hadnt fully addressed her 
concerns, and it said it was sorry the welcome email had annoyed her, as that was not its 
intention. 
Ms W was not satisfied with L&Gs response and referred her complaint to this service. 
When we informed L&G we had received the complaint, it explained its normal process for 
new policies is entirely digital, although there is the option for policyholders to receive paper 
copies of documents. However, even where the policyholder has asked for paper copies, it 
would continue to communicate digitally. It also confirmed where a secure message was not 
opened, an automatic reminder would be sent after 45 days and a further remainder 45 days 
after that.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
didnt think L&G had done anything wrong.
Ms W didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that the complaint be referred 
to an ombudsman. She said she didnt think the investigator had understood her complaint. 
She said some of the emails were sent to her months after the policy had been set up. This 
had scared her, as she thought it implied something was wrong. She reiterated her concern 
that any messages or information contained in the secure messaging system would not be 
available to the representatives of her estate in the event of a claim and the potential for this 
to jeopardise the claim. Ms W said she hadnt agreed to any electronic correspondence, so 
she didnt think it was fair of the investigator to conclude it was ok for L&G to communicate in 
this way. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly reiterate an explanation our investigator provided to Ms W. We are not the 
regulator of financial businesses; that is the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). It is not our 
role to decide what internal processes or procedures a financial business puts in place to 
manage its policies and funds. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and 
their customers. It is clear Ms W is unhappy L&Gs default for managing and communicating 
on its policies is a digital format, but that is not something this service can make a finding on. 
If Ms W is still unhappy about this issue, the FCA is the appropriate body to raise it with.
I would, however, confirm it is not unusual for businesses to want to communicate with their 
customers digitally. Whenever a business communicates with its customer, it has to ensure 
that when any confidential information is involved, the communication is made in a secure 
manner. Generally, normal emails are not considered secure and so if a business wants to 
communicate digitally, it will usually do so via a secure portal or encrypted emails. 
In this case L&G uses a secure messaging system. As I have said above, I cant criticise it 
for doing so, or find it did something wrong, especially given Ms W provided her email 
address to L&G. What I can consider is what L&G did when Ms W told it she didnt want to 
use the secure message system and the emails she was receiving were worrying her. In this 
instance L&G removed her email from the policy records and had it deleted from any 
marketing databases it has. This meant Ms W would not receive any further 
correspondence. L&G also apologised for the upset Ms W had been caused. I consider 
these actions were entirely appropriate and I dont consider it needs to do anything further to 
settle this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms W to accept or reject my decision before 
19 July 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman