DRN-2166821
The complaint
Mrs M1 has complained that TSB Bank plc wont refund transactions, which she said she 
didnt authorise.
Miss M2, her daughter, represents her.
What happened
Mrs M1 noticed her debit card was missing from her purse on 6 March 2020. She contacted 
TSB to report the loss and found out that it had been used to make seven transactions, 
totalling £2,038.07 on 5 and 6 March 2020. Mrs M1 said she didnt recognise any of the 
transactions.
She said shed last used her card to withdraw £250 on 5 March at 13.06. She said she 
always kept her card in her purse. She didnt keep a written note of her PIN. Her driving 
licence and a credit card, which was in her purse, were also missing but the cash was still in 
her purse.  She asked TSB for a refund.
TSB investigated and decided not to refund the disputed transactions. It said there was no 
evidence of fraudulent activity because:
the disputed transactions were made by chip and PIN
Mrs M1 said she didnt keep a written note of her PIN
she said no one was in the vicinity when she withdrew £250
the transactions didnt fit the typical fraud pattern as the person didnt empty the 
account
there was a payment to a petrol station which she uses regularly, ten minutes after 
she reported the card missing
there were no attempts to use the card after it had been cancelled
the disputed transactions were not out of character for the account.
Mrs M1 didnt think TSBs decision was fair, so she asked this service to investigate. Mrs M2 
told us that her mum had been the victim of a distraction theft and believed shed been 
shoulder-surfed at the ATM when she withdrew £250. She said two of the transactions, for 
£729 and £744.99 to a high street shop, were unusual for her account and that her mum had 
never used that branch. She also complained that TSB didnt try to contact Mrs M1 to alert 
her to these two transactions.
An investigator looked into her complaint, but he didnt uphold it. He concluded that TSB had 
done nothing wrong.
Mrs M1 and Miss M2 didnt agree with the investigators view. Theyve asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision. Miss M2 now says that thieves can use a mobile phone to 
zoom in on an ATM from afar and observe the PIN. She said TSB is obliged by law to refund 
the disputed transactions. And she said that TSB failed to protect Mrs M1s account by not 
alerting her to the two transactions. She said if it had contacted her, she wouldve told it they 
were fraudulent, and it couldve stopped the payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
those reached by the investigator but for different reasons.
In short, TSB is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The relevant 
regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). Mrs 
M1 says she didnt make the disputed transactions and is seeking a refund. So, my primary 
concern is to come to a view about whether or not I think she authorised them.
There were seven transactions in total. Six transactions were made on 5 March 2020. These 
were purchases in high street shops and one cash withdrawal. The seventh transaction was 
a purchase on 6 March 2020 in a petrol station which Mrs M1 uses regularly. The 
investigators view refers to a cash withdrawal at the petrol station but according to the audit 
report for the card transactions, this was made on 2 March 2020 and appears on the 
statement on 6 March 2020. The audit report shows there was a payment for £215.18 to the 
same petrol station on 6 March between 10.30 and 11.00.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mrs M1s genuine card and PIN were 
used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is 
not, on its own, enough to enable TSB to hold her liable. So, I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mrs M1 made the 
transactions herself or consented to someone else using her card.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for TSB to conclude that Mrs M1 
authorised the transactions. Ill explain why Ive reached this conclusion.
The disputed transactions were made with her genuine card and PIN. There were no 
incorrect attempts at the PIN, which indicates that the person already knew it. The PIN is key 
evidence which links Mrs M1 to the disputed transactions. Of itself, its not enough to hold 
her liable, which is why I need to consider how it was compromised. Mrs M1 said she didnt 
keep a written note of her PIN. So, on her own evidence, she was the only person who knew 
it, making it more likely that she completed the transactions.
Ive considered her evidence that she was shoulder-surfed and the victim of a distraction 
theft. I note Miss M2 says this was a local problem, but she hasnt provided any information 
from the police or local press. However, Im not convinced that this is what happened 
because Mrs M1 told TSB that no-one was in the vicinity when she withdrew £250 from the 
ATM. So, shoulder-surfing wasnt a plausible explanation for how her PIN was compromised. 
Also, Mrs M1 hasnt given any details about how someone got close enough to her to 
remove two cards (but not the cash) from her purse without her noticing. And she hasnt 
described how she was distracted, by whom or the persons appearance. So, despite what 
Miss M2 says about zooming in at ATMs, I dont consider that Mrs M1 was shoulder-surfed 
or the victim of a distraction theft. I think if she were, then she wouldve provided full details 
to the TSB when she reported her card missing and to this service. I understand that both 
Miss M2 and TSB asked the police for CCTV footage, but none was available.Ive also noted there were no balance enquiries before any of the disputed transactions. 
Again, this suggests that the person knew there was enough money in the account to fund 
the transactions. And whilst fraud can take many different forms, its more common to see 
balance enquiries, cash withdrawals up to the daily limit and multiple purchases in a short 
space of time. Usually, the fraudster tries to empty the account as quickly as possible. That 
didnt happen here. The first transaction was for £3.50 which isnt typical for fraud. The 
spending stopped at 15.38 and continued the next day at 10.36 leaving a long interval where 
nothing happened. The person must have been confident they could use the card safely the 
next day. Normally, a fraudster would continue spending until the card is blocked.
For these reasons, I think its more likely than not that Mrs M1 authorised the disputed 
transactions.  
Ive considered her complaint that TSB didnt contact her about the two larger transactions. 
Miss M2 said when her mother went into branch to ask for a statement there was a note on 
the file to call her, but she didnt receive a call on her landline or on Miss M2s mobile, which 
was also registered to the account. TSB said it no longer has a record of its calls to her and 
said it wouldve called her on all available numbers. 
Its disappointing that TSB no longer has proof of the call. From what Ive seen in similar 
cases, banks do send out automated calls checking if a transaction is genuine. So, I think its 
more likely than not that TSB wouldve sent a message. However, I think it was reasonable 
for its systems to assume she was using her card because shed made a genuine cash 
withdrawal for £250 approximately one hour before the first of the two larger payments and 
there was one small payment to a supermarket in between. Besides, if the evidence shows 
that its more likely that shes authorised a transaction then TSB is not obliged to refund it, 
even if it hasnt sent a text message. And in such circumstances, I cant see what difference 
a message wouldve made as she was likely to confirm the payments as genuine.
Its possible Mrs M1 allowed someone she knew to use her card and they took advantage, 
prompting her to report her card as stolen. The disputed payment to the petrol station just 
ten minutes after shed reported the card missing supports this. If this happened, then a call 
from TSB might have made a difference. But this isnt her evidence. And even if she had 
allowed someone to use her card, TSB would still be entitled to hold her liable under the 
relevant regulations for any transactions which had gone through.
Taking everything into account, I find, on balance, that Mrs M1 authorised the disputed 
transactions. It follows that TSB is entitled to hold her liable for them.
Im sorry this will be disappointing news for Mrs M1, but I hope the reasons for my decision 
are clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Robert Hills
Ombudsman