DRN-3175122
The complaint
Mr S case is about the time it took for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) to transfer the 
balance of his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) bank account, and then close the 
account. He says the process was unduly delayed and that he should be compensated for 
financial loss and for the trouble and inconvenience he faced in the matter.  
What happened
Mr S provided us with a helpful summary of events, in which he said mainly as follows:
The SIPPs bank account with RBS had been opened since 2002, and it was used for 
income generated from the SIPPs property investments. He lives abroad, and in 
2019 he decided to liquidate the property investments and to transfer the SIPP to a 
Qualifying Recognised Overseas Pension Scheme (QROPS), for 
investment/reinvestment thereafter. In order to do so  and in order to 
effect/complete the SIPP (and proceeds of liquidation) transfer  the balance of the 
SIPPs RBS account also had to be transferred. He and the other/joint SIPP trustee 
therefore submitted written instructions to RBS on 22 July 2019 to transfer out the 
balance of the account (around 45,000 GBP) and to close the account. Thereafter 
the delays began.
Nothing had happened as of 7 August, before which both the SIPP and the QROPS 
administrators had enquired into progress. He chased RBS on this date and was told 
the size of the balance transfer meant his authorisation in person was required, but at 
the end of the call he was assured his telephone authorisation was sufficient and that 
the transfer would be done by 9 August. He chased again, by phone, on 13 August 
as nothing had happened as of this date, he was told the same things as in the 
previous call and he was promised completion of the transfer by 16 August. He 
chased for a third time on 21 August and was kept on hold for over half an hour. He 
then received an email from RBS asking for a bank mandate update that had never 
previously been requested  and the account always had an operating mandate.
He decided to test the online service, as an alternative, on 22 August and 
successfully transferred 10,000 GBP  with assistance from RBS Fraud 
departments approval; and he proceeded to use the same service to complete the 
transfer of the remaining balance. He thereafter complained to RBS about his 
experience and about its mishandling of his initial complaint(s) about the matter. 
RBS concedes Mr S complaint about the delayed transfer process and about its service. It 
confirmed this to him and to us, and it explained to us that upon receipt of his instructions on 
24 July it ought to have completed the transfer and account closure process in 10 days, but 
in his case it did not do so until 40 days later on 2 September  so the process was delayed 
by 30 days in his case. However, it argues that Mr S incurred no financial loss and that his 
request for 1,000 GBP compensation for trouble and inconvenience is unwarranted  
instead, it has offered 75 GBP which it considers to be fair.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She acknowledged that RBS had already 
conceded liability for the complaint, so the only issue to determine was the level of redress 
for Mr S. She disagreed with RBS claim that no financial loss had been incurred. She noted 
evidence that Mr S had intended to invest following completion of the transfer, and that he 
did invest (in the PruFund Growth (Sterling) Account  an International Prudential Bond) 
after the transfer was completed. As such she found that he should be compensated for any 
lost investment value that could have been avoided if his investments were made 30 days 
earlier  that is, made without the 30 days delay caused by RBS. She also concluded that he 
should be paid 300 GBP for the trouble and inconvenience the matter had caused him.
Neither party appears to have responded to the investigators view, so the matter was 
assigned to an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions expressed by the investigator, and for 
the same reasons. Merits is not in dispute in this case, RBS accepts that the SIPPs bank 
account balance transfer and closure process was unduly delayed by 30 days and I am 
satisfied with documentary evidence that, overall, supports Mr S account of events and that 
establishes RBS unreasonable delay in managing and concluding the process. The matter 
in dispute  and in need of determination  is redress.
Mr S claim for trouble and upset compensation was understandably based on his 
computation of the value of the time and effort (with a basis in the value of his professional 
time) he invested in chasing RBS and in trying to resolve the transfer matter. However, such 
a computation relates naturally to costs, this service does not normally make costs awards 
in cases and I have not seen cause, in the present complaint, to depart from that approach. 
In terms of compensation for trouble, upset, distress and/or inconvenience, our aim is to 
consider a monetary measure of a complainants experience(s) in any of these respects. It is 
not an exact science, but we have experience in using our discretion  and with due regard 
to the facts of each case  to determine an appropriate award. In Mr S case I am satisfied 
with the investigators proposal of 300 GBP. It covers the trouble and inconvenience he 
faced in his case and it is broadly consistent with awards we have made in comparable 
cases.
I also agree with the investigators finding on the financial loss caused to Mr S. There is 
evidence of his investment/reinvestment intention and that he invested the transferred cash 
as intended. In his case and in the context of a SIPP and a SIPP related transfer, such 
investment/reinvestment would have been foreseeable to RBS, so the negative impact on 
that resulting from the undue delay it caused ought reasonably to have been foreseen too. 
On balance, I consider that RBS is responsible for any lost investment value that Mr S has 
incurred by his investments being made 30 days later than they could  and probably would 
 have been made. He has submitted evidence of the PruFund Growth (Sterling) Account 
(the PGSA) investment on 8 November 2019, using what appears to be the total funds 
transferred (that is, the liquidation proceeds and the balance transferred from the RBS 
account). As such, the investigator was correct to propose that assessment of possible lost 
investment value should be based on a comparison between the actual value of the entire 
Retirement Plan/PGSA and what its value would be had it been invested 30 days earlier. I 
also accept Mr S evidence that investment/reinvestment could not happen until the SIPP 
transfer was complete and completion of that was dependent on completion of the RBS 
account balance transfer  so the entire PGSA investment was affected by RBS delayed transfer.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr S/his SIPP as close as possible to the position he would now be in if 
there had been no delay by RBS in transferring out the SIPPs bank account. On balance, I 
consider that he would have behaved differently and that he would have invested in the 
PGSA earlier than he did. 
It is not possible to say precisely how much earlier he would have invested in the PGSA, but 
I consider it safe to conclude that he would probably have done so by the same amount of 
time over which the transfer delay happened  that is, 30 days. As such, the natural 
benchmark for consideration of possible financial loss in his case is the PGSA and the 
relevant start date would be 30 days earlier than the PGSA investment date (8 November 
2019)  that is, 9 October 2019.
Mr S is ordered to engage meaningfully and co-operatively with RBS to provide it with all 
information and documentation, relevant to its calculation of redress, which it does not 
already have.
What must RBS do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, RBS must do the following:
Compare the actual performance and actual value of Mr S QROPS Retirement 
plan/PGSA as of the end date with that of its fair value based on the benchmark 
shown below (which is also based on the PGSA) also as of the end date. If the fair 
value is greater than the actual value the difference must be paid to him in 
compensation. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Pay any interest set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If 
RBS is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the interest, it 
must tell Mr S the deduction amount and give him a tax deduction certificate if he 
asks for one, for him to reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay the compensation into Mr S pension plan if possible, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation should not be paid 
into his pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. If 
the compensation (and interest) cannot be paid into his pension plan, pay it directly 
to him. Had it been possible to pay it into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income, so the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using his actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement 
age. For example, if he is or is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. If he would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay Mr S 300 GBP for the trouble and inconvenience caused to him. Provide the calculation of the compensation to Mr S in a clear and simple format. 
investment namestatus benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to     
(end date)additional 
interest
  Mr S QROPS 
Prudential 
Providence 
Retirement Plan 
(featuring the 
PruFund Growth 
(Sterling) Account  
International 
Prudential Bond)still 
exists the PruFund 
Growth 
(Sterling) 
Account  
International 
Prudential 
Bond9 October 
2019date of 
settlementnot applicable
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark terms. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations 
simpler, I will accept if RBS totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end 
instead of deducting periodically.
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the
complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the respondent
firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr S complaint and I order The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc to calculate and pay him compensation as set out above, and to provide him 
with a calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 Roy Kuku
Ombudsman