DRN-3275844
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank 
continued to charge the full monthly fee for his Club Rewards during the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr W holds Club Rewards with M&S Bank. This product attracts a monthly fee. In return it 
offers a range of benefits such as worldwide travel insurance, additional points earned when 
using a M&S Credit Card and various vouchers.
Mr W says M&S Bank should have reduced the monthly fee as he has not been able to use 
the travel insurance benefit due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr W complained to M&S Bank in February 2021. M&S Bank responded to this complaint 
saying that it was not going to reduce or refund the fees, but if Mr W wanted to, he could 
remove the Travel insurance element of his Club rewards. It went on further to explain that, 
given that the Travel insurance option was no longer on sale, if Mr W did remove this 
element currently, he could not add it back again. It also highlighted that it did reduce the 
monthly fee for some 6 months at the start of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Unhappy with M&S Banks response, Mr W referred the complaint to this service. One of our 
adjudicators investigated it but concluded that M&S Bank hadnt acted unfairly. So, he didnt 
think that M&S Bank needed to do more. 
Mr W didnt accept this outcome and he asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. So, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think that M&S Bank needs to do anything. Let me explain why. 
Club Rewards came with two options - one with travel insurance, the other without.  The 
product that Mr W has complained about contains benefits that are sold as a package. 
Because of this, people are unable to pick and choose what benefits it comes with. And that 
also means it comes at a fixed price. Therefore, if Club Rewards holders dont feel that the 
combination of benefits that they receive from the package continues to provide good value 
for money, it is up to them to cancel it. 
In this case, Mr W mayve felt (quite understandably) that it was poor value for money during 
the pandemic. And that he didnt want to pay for some of the benefits as he was unable to 
use some of them. But Club Rewards does not operate like a typical insurance policy does. 
Rather than offering to provide cover for 12 months, it provides cover (and some non-
insurance benefits) on a monthly rolling basis. Therefore, because Mr W was not tied into 
keeping the Club Rewards, he was free to cancel it as soon as he felt it was no longer good 
value for money. 
I understand that it may be frustrating for Mr W that he cant currently reinstate the Travel 
insurance option, if he decides to cancel it. But the products that M&S Bank offers are down 
to its own commercial judgment and is not something I can comment on. Or to put it another 
way, Im unable to say that M&S Bank is being unreasonable because it has decided to 
withdraw the travel insurance benefit from its Club Rewards package.
I should also add that the decision by M&S Bank not to reduce or refund the Club Rewards 
fees for all customers was also a commercial decision that it was entitled to make. Again it is 
not something I can comment on. It did though need to explain this clearly to Mr W and set 
out his options going forward. I can see in the final response from M&S Bank  that it was set 
out that it was up to Mr W to decide whether to continue to pay for the Travel insurance, or 
cancel it if he preferred to do so. Therefore, it was for Mr W to cancel if he wished to do so 
and I havent seen anything that suggests that he did. 
I understand that this may have been inconvenient for Mr W and I can understand how 
frustrating that it must have been to not be able to use services that he was paying for. But 
ultimately, whilst he may think that it is unfair that M&S Bank continued to charge him the full 
price for, the onus was on him to cancel it if he no longer thought it was good value for 
money. 
So, in this instance, while I can completely understand why Mr W feels he has not received 
value for money during recent times, I cant ask M&S Bank to refund any of his fees. Nor can 
I instruct M&S Bank to guarantee that he can reinstate the travel insurance at a future date, 
should he cancel it.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman