DRN-1555171
 
Complaint          
Mr and Mrs P complain that Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold them monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
Background
Mr and Mrs P took out a mortgage with Lloyds in May 1999. They were sold PPI in 
connection with this mortgage in October 2000. Mr and Mrs P then took out a further 
advance on their mortgage which completed in December 2000. The policy was amended to 
reflect the additional advance. Mr and Mrs P then took out a (further) further advance which 
completed in February 2001 and once again the PPI cover was amended to reflect the 
further borrowing.  
The PPI would have provided a monthly benefit if Mr and/or Mrs P were off sick or lost their 
job. It would have paid out for up to 12 months per claim. The benefit of the policy was split 
so that Mr P would have received 20% of the overall monthly benefit if he couldnt work and 
Mrs P would have received 80% of the overall monthly benefit if she couldnt work.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs P 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ps case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. I appreciate Mr and 
Mrs P will be disappointed by this outcome but I will now explain why Ive reached this 
decision.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs P were eligible for the policies. Im satisfied 
they were eligible based on their age and circumstances at the time of the sales.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs P say that the policies were optional and needed 
their consent before the policies could be applied to the account. Mr and Mrs P say that they 
were unaware they had been sold PPI. Mrs P questions had she known she had PPI then 
why wouldn't she have made a claim for unemployment when she was made redundant in 
2001. Mr and Mrs P say that they didnt need PPI as they had sufficient existing repayment 
means.
I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs P and Lloyds, so Ive thought about 
everything Lloyds and Mr and Mrs P have told us and looked to the documents from the time 
of the sales in order to help me decide what is more likely to have happened. First of all I note that the PPI in connection with the mortgage taken out in 1999 was sold 
over a year after the mortgage had been taken out. So I think Mr and Mrs P would have 
been aware the PPI was optional. I have seen a separate PPI application completed by Mr 
and Mrs P in relation to this PPI policy as well as in relation to the PPI sold in connection 
with the further advances. The application forms detailed who was to be covered and what 
the percentage benefit split should be. So I think its clear that some discussions took place 
about PPI. The further advance application form for 2001 makes it clear that Mr and Mrs P 
wanted to take PPI as they have ticked to take it and there is also a handwritten note on this 
form which indicates that Mr and Mrs P wanted the benefit of the PPI to be increased to 
cover the extra borrowing. 
With regards to the point Mrs P makes about not making a claim under the policy when she 
was made redundant in December 2001 -  Ive seen a handwritten letter from Mrs P dated 
27 April 2001 instructing Lloyds to cancel the total monthly PPI premium. Ive seen a 
response from Lloyds dated 2 May 2001 confirming cancellation of the policy. As the policy 
had been cancelled (and I understand the mortgage was also redeemed in 2001) Mrs P 
couldnt have made a claim under it in December 2001 - so this is perhaps why Mrs P didnt 
make a claim under the policy.  
In any event, I think its clear from this letter and as well as the application forms I have 
referred to above that Mr and Mrs P were aware they had been sold PPI. I think its more 
likely that Lloyds made it clear to them that PPI was optional and that it was only applied to 
the account because Mr and Mrs P chose to take it out. Ofcourse I appreciate why Mr and 
Mrs P no longer recall this given the length of time since the sales.
Lloyds accept they advised Mr and Mrs P to take out the PPI. This means they had to take 
adequate steps to ensure it was suitable for them. I dont know whether they took all the 
steps as they should have but based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances at 
the time, I think it was suitable for them.  I say this because:
 
Mr and Mrs P dont appear to have been affected by the more restrictive 
terms/exclusions in the policy For example, terms relating to certain medical 
conditions and unusual employment terms. So it appears that they could have relied 
on all the cover under the policy. I note that Mrs P says she was made redundant in 
December 2001. But there is nothing in the documents I have seen to say that this 
would have been known, or was likely, at the time when the policies were sold. 
 
Mrs P says she would have received six months pay if she couldnt work due to 
sickness or an accident. Mr P, we have been told, was entitled to basic sickness 
benefit. So Mr and Mrs P are likely to have felt a drop in income if Mrs P was off work 
beyond the six months, or if Mr P was off work beyond his basic sick pay entitlement.
 
The PPI would have paid out in addition Mr and Mrs Ps employer benefits. So they 
could use their employer benefits for other expenses at what is likely to have been a 
difficult time financially.
 
Mr and Mrs P said that they did not have any other means they could use to meet 
their mortgage payments, such as savings and/or other insurance policies. So PPI 
would have enabled them to meet an important financial commitment had they needed to rely on it and would have done so for 12 months at any one time  much 
longer than their existing repayment provisions.
 
The PPI appears to have been affordable to Mr and Mrs P at the time of the sale and 
Mr and Mrs P could have cancelled it any time without losing out financially. 
 
As well as checking that the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs P, Lloyds also had to give them 
clear enough information so that they could make an informed decision as to whether or not 
to take it out, in particular about the costs, benefits and main exclusions under the policy.
It's possible Lloyds didnt give Mr and Mrs P all of the information as they should have. But 
this in itself doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether 
better information would have put them off taking it out. 
And I dont think better information would have put them off taking the PPI out. I say this for 
the same reasons I think the PPI was suitable for them.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman