DRN-3611821
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received when attempting to transfer money abroad 
from his HSBC UK Bank Plc account.
What happened
Mr H holds a bank account with HSBC. On 2 March 2022 he contacted them to transfer 
around £3,500 to family members abroad. He said he was told the transfer would take 
around four working days to go through. However, the funds failed to reach the account on 
time, and following a number of interactions with HSBC, Mr H requested the payment be 
recalled. He accepts he was informed hed incur a £25 fee for recalling the transfer, but says 
he wasnt told that a further £194.85 would be debited from his account. So, he complained. 
HSBC responded, but said that Mr H agreed to cancel the payment, and was informed he 
would incur both a £25 cancellation fee, and would lose out from the exchange rate. As a 
gesture of goodwill, HSBC agreed to refund the £25 charge, but they maintained that the 
£194.85 was debited correctly. Unhappy with this, Mr H brought his complaint to our service.
An investigator considered Mr Hs complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld, as he 
thought HSBC had made it clear that Mr H would experience a loss from the exchange rate 
as well as being charged a cancellation fee. And he was satisfied that the £25 refund HSBC 
credited Mr Hs account with, was a fair resolution to his complaint. But Mr H remained 
unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When reviewing matters, Ive first listened to the calls that took place between the parties. 
When Mr H initially called on 2 March 2022, he explained that hed just processed the 
transfer of £3,500, and wanted to know how long it would take for the payment to go 
through. He was told by HSBC it would take around four working days, as it was going 
outside of the European Economic Area (EEA)  but, dependant on the bank it was being 
sent to, and whether further checks might be required, it could take longer. At the end of the 
call, the adviser reiterated that these transfers usually take around four working days, 
dependant on where the money was going to. 
When Mr H called back on 7 March 2022, he wanted to know why the payment had been 
delayed, and why it hadnt yet reached the recipients account, as he said four working days 
had now passed. HSBC said that they couldnt provide specific reasons, and it may be that 
the payment goes through tomorrow - which prompted Mr H to raise his complaint.  But while 
I appreciate Mr H was frustrated with the time it was taking, its important to note that, HSBC 
never guaranteed it would go through within four days, they instead explained that it would 
usually take around four working days, but it may take longer. Furthermore, at the point Mr H 
raised this initial complaint, only three working days had passed since the initial transfer 
request was made. So, at this point, I dont think HSBC had done anything wrong. 
When Mr H called on 8 March, HSBC explained they had just received a request for further 
information relating to the payment recipient, which Mr H provided shortly after. Following 
which, HSBC said they now had what they needed, and would forward this information 
internally. They did explain however, that it could still take up to five days from then for the 
payment to go through, given that further checks had been required. And they couldnt 
control how long it would take for the information being sent to be processed. On balance, 
this seems reasonable. 
A further call took place the following day, as the monies had still not reached the recipient, 
at which point Mr H requested the payment be cancelled. Mr H was told at this point that 
there would be a charge of £25 to cancel the payment, and that he would also lose out on 
the exchange rate, and Mr H agreed to this. He also asked for his complaint to be escalated. 
When the complaints department spoke with Mr H, they said it was difficult to provide an 
update on exactly when the payment would go through, as the additional checks were not 
being carried out by them. But they understood Mr Hs frustration, and agreed to refund the 
£25 cancellation charge as a gesture of good will. However, around a month later, Mr H saw 
that £194.85 had been debited from his account, which he disputed, and said he was told 
hed just be charged a £25 cancellation fee. But HSBC explained the debit was as a result of 
the fluctuation in currency exchange rates, and the loss was incurred as a result of having to 
buy back the currency to credit his account with. But Mr H said he was never advised of this. 
Ive listened to the calls between HSBC and Mr H and, as set out above, Im satisfied the 
advisor made it clear, that in cancelling the transaction, in addition to the £25 charge, Mr H 
would also lose out on the exchange rate. So Im satisfied HSBC made Mr H aware that the 
£25 charge would not be the only cost he would be incurring. 
I appreciate this has been frustrating for Mr H, and he wouldve liked the transfer to have 
gone through sooner. But Im satisfied HSBC made it clear from the outset that while 
payments would usually take around four days, this wasnt guaranteed. Im also satisfied that 
at the point Mr H raised his initial complaint, HSBC were still within the approximate 
timescales theyd provided. And, while ultimately, it seems the transfer was going to take a 
little longer than HSBC initially thought, Mr H was never given assurances that the money 
would clear in this time, and it was his choice to cancel the transaction, rather than waiting 
for it to go through. And Im satisfied that at the point he chose to do so, he was made aware 
he would incur both a cancellation fee, and experience a loss from the exchange rate. 
So, in summary, Im satisfied that both charges (the £25 cancellation fee and £194.85 
charge) were both applied fairly. And I dont require HSBC to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman