DRN-2707872
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) has refused her car 
insurance claim for damage caused to her car when water leaked into its interior due to 
blockage in the plenum chamber (or bulkhead) drains. She complains its said she didnt 
take reasonable care to protect her car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The starting point for any complaint about an insurance claim is the contract between 
the parties  the policy. It sets out the terms and conditions, what cover is provided, 
definition and any exclusions that apply.
Mrs Ks policy is not an all risks policy. This means it doesnt provide cover for all 
eventualities. The only event it provides cover for are the insured perils listed within 
the policy document. These include  amongst others  liability to others, damage to 
the car, as well as fire and theft. That means for Mrs Ks claim to succeed, it must be 
for an insured peril (and for no exclusions to apply). 
Flood damage isnt specifically mentioned in the policy, but cover is provided for 
accidental or malicious damage. 
It is a condition of the policy  as set out in the General conditions section  that the 
insured person must take care of their car, including protecting it from loss or 
damage. The policy goes on to say failure to comply could result in a claim being 
refused and/or the policy being cancelled. 
It isnt in dispute the drains in the plenum chamber were blocked and this led to the 
water ingress, causing damage to the cars interior. The repairing garage has 
confirmed the drain holes were blocked by debris and leaves.  
Mrs K says clearing out leaves between the bonnet and the windscreen is 
undertaken regularly. Shes provided a photo of the service log to evidence this was 
carried out when her car was serviced a few weeks prior to the leak being noticed.
Looking at it, the service log doesnt explicitly mention leaves or debris were cleared. 
But Ive no reason to doubt what Mrs K has told us. However, clearing out leaves 
between the bonnet and the windscreen isnt the only part of this area thats 
recommended by the cars manufacturer. In the Vehicle care section, the owners 
manual makes the following recommendations with regards to caring for and 
cleaning the plenum chamber:
Remove with a vacuum cleaner or by hand > !
And 
! NOTICE
The drains for the plenum chamber may get clogged by leaves and dirt. 
Water that does not drain away may make its way into the interior.
Have the area under the perforated cover cleaned by a qualified 
workshop.
I think it can be reasonably inferred the recommendation to get the perforated cover 
cleaned by a qualified workshop is in addition to using a vacuum cleaner or hands to 
remove visible leaves and debris.
The repairing garage has confirmed it didnt check the plenum chamber area of 
Mrs Ks car. As the drains werent checked and unblocked in line with the 
manufacturers recommendations, I dont consider it unfair or unreasonable of 
Admiral to conclude Mrs K didnt take reasonable care to protect her car from 
damage. 
Mrs K has questioned how she could have reasonably been expected to know she 
was required to maintain the plenum chamber. She says the owners manual doesnt 
suggest cleaning this area should be done routinely and it isnt part of any 
maintenance program. I accept the manual doesnt explicitly state the plenum 
chamber should be cleaned routinely. But I dont think this means it shouldnt be 
cleaned routinely either. Ive reviewed the rest of the Vehicle care section and it 
seems to me it makes recommendations on how to rather how frequently to look after 
the car. The section doesnt specify the frequency of caring for or cleaning other 
parts of the car either. 
Looking at the service log photo Mrs Ks provided, I acknowledge checking for drains 
isnt explicitly listed as one of the checks. But Ive looked at the service schedule 
applicable to her car on the manufacturers website. Under Scope of service, 
maintenance work is split into inspection work and servicing work. And inspection 
work does include checking for water drains. So, I dont agree it shouldnt be 
considered as part of routine maintenance. 
I think its reasonable to say water drains should be checked routinely, regardless of 
whether they are included in a service. Even more so when the owners manual 
includes a separate notice, which is given sufficient prominence, about the possibility 
of the drains getting blocked and the implications of that happening. 
I appreciate Mrs Ks frustrations and know shell be disappointed by this outcome. But 
having looked at what happened, I cant see Admiral has made a mistake or acted unfairly in 
declining the claim in accordance with the policy terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman