DRN-3563929
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with
Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance (Close Brothers).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in May 2022. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M, but I dont agree with the investigators view and Im only
expecting to uphold his complaint in respect of the water damage that is now present in the
car. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers, who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr M. The car here was about
eight and a half years old and had already completed 68,940 miles. So, I think a reasonable
person would expect quite a bit of wear and tear to be present.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation and explains that consumers
have a short term right to reject goods if theyre of unsatisfactory quality when supplied and if
the request is made within the first 30 days. It also explains that the short term right to reject
stops running if the consumer requests a repair during those 30 days.
Mr M asked to reject the goods only eight days after he took possession of them. Im not
persuaded he would have given the dealership an opportunity to repair the car had his rights
under the relevant legislation been explained to him. It seems he was given no option but to
have the car repaired.
But, whilst the dealership were prepared to repair some of the faults Mr M reported to them
that doesnt mean the car was of unsatisfactory quality. Three inspectors have looked at the
car since Mr M returned it to the dealership. There is no evidence of a faulty USB socket,
broken glove box or inoperable cigarette lighter. These may have been fixed when Mr M
originally took the car back to the dealership but, regardless, I dont think any of those faults
would make an eight-and-a-half-year-old car of unsatisfactory quality. I think a reasonable
person would consider them to be normal wear and tear on a car of this age and mileage.
The most recent inspection also highlighted a small oil leak and some wear to the idler
pulley, but it was the inspectors expert opinion that these faults would also be considered
normal wear and tear on a vehicle of this age and mileage.
All of the inspectors have noted the noise from the door straps or hinges when the doors are
open. Its clear that the doors close properly so this noise doesnt prevent the car being
used. Two inspectors didnt think the noise was a fault, but the most recent inspector thought
it was. He said the fault would have been present when the car was supplied but he went on
to say the noise wouldnt be unordinary on a vehicle of this age and mileage. So, I think its
therefore clear that even if the noise from the doors was considered a fault, none of the
inspectors considered it a fault that made the car of unsatisfactory quality. Its not therefore a
reason to suggest the business allow a rejection of the car or should be compelled to repair
the fault.
There were fault codes identified during the first inspection but no fault codes were present
during the most recent inspection and the original inspector has explained they were
therefore probably ghost faults from previous issues. That seems a likely explanation and I
dont think it would be fair to suggest fault codes exist that identify any fault with the car
when supplied.
So, I dont think there is evidence of this car being supplied in an unsatisfactory condition. I
think the issues that have been identified with it could all fairly be considered reasonable
wear and tear on a car of this age and mileage. I dont therefore think the business were
compelled to complete repairs or allow the car to be rejected.
I know that will be very disappointing for Mr M and I understand hes left the car with the
dealership since the faults became evident and therefore hasnt had use of the car he has
been paying for. But I dont think, on the evidence provided, that there was any reason Mr M 
couldnt have continued to drive the car. It had recently passed an MOT and was therefore
roadworthy, and the noise from the doors only appears to have been evident when the doors
were open. Theres been no corroboration of faults with the USB socket, cigarette lighter or
re-mapping warning but, even if these were originally present, it seems the issues were
resolved for Mr M before the first inspection of the car in November 2021.
Close Brothers have refunded two monthly finance instalments in respect of the delays in
their investigations and theyve also paid Mr M £100 to cover any distress and
inconvenience caused. In the circumstances, I think their actions have been fair. But I dont
think theyve considered the water damage to the carpet that the most recent inspection
revealed, or the mouldy seat belts. Its been suggested this has been because the window
has been left open and I dont think its likely Mr M did that. So, I think Close Brothers should
remedy any water damage that may have occurred, but Im not asking them to take any
further action as I dont believe there is sufficient evidence the car was supplied in an
unsatisfactory condition.
My provisional decisionFor the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Close Brothers
Limited to repair any water damage to the car as confirmed in the inspectors report of 13
April 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Close Brothers didnt provide any further information, but Mr M did. Ive read his quite 
lengthy correspondence and viewed the video evidence hes provided since he collected the 
car from the dealership on 18 June 2022. 
I wont refer to everything Mr M mentioned in that additional correspondence as I think Ive 
already covered some of the points he raised. But there were several points that I thought 
needed some further consideration.
Mr M said the business had told him to return the car to the dealership on 15 October 2021. 
He provided a copy of the businesss case notes in which they state, customer called to say 
they are not happy with the car and advised first 14 days they can return car. But I can see 
the business explained the dealership would need to provide payment to them (for the 
finance) and I cant see that was done. By 20 October 2021 Close Brothers had raised an 
unsatisfactory quality complaint on Mr Ms behalf so I dont think there was ever an 
agreement for Mr M to return the car indefinitely or an instruction for Mr M to leave the car at 
the dealership permanently.
Mr M also said the car had been misrepresented to him as there had been no mention of the 
faults it had in the initial advert. But as the independent inspectors havent identified any 
faults that would have made the car of unsatisfactory quality at the point it was supplied to 
Mr M I dont think it would be fair to say there had been any misrepresentation. As Ive 
already explained I think some wear and tear would be likely to be present on a car of this 
age and mileage and Im not persuaded there was anything other than that.
Mr M has also suggested that as all four doors were making a noise its more likely there is a 
fault than if there was only one making a noise. Im not persuaded by that argument. I think if 
all four doors were making a noise its more likely that this wasnt a fault as two of the 
inspectors suggested. It would appear to be more likely to be a feature that is consistent 
with this model and/or age of vehicle. 
So, overall, Im still not persuaded there is evidence this car was of unsatisfactory quality. 
Mr M has provided some videos to show the cars condition after he collected it. Those 
videos show the mats to be dirty and mouldy and the seat belts and chairs to be dirty/mouldy 
too. Mr M suggests there is a damp smell in the car and its also suggested that there are 
some dents/scratches on it that werent there when he returned the vehicle. I explained in 
my provisional decision that, I think Close Brothers should remedy any water damage that 
may have occurred, and I think that would fairly extend to valeting the interior of the car and 
ensuring any odours were eliminated. But Im not asking them to repair any scratches or 
dents as I dont think I have enough evidence they werent present when the car was 
supplied to Mr M.
Mr M has explained that the dealership had warned him they would be making a £10 a day 
charge to store the car and as this was likely to be a significant expense I asked Close 
Brother if theyd be prepared to waive that charge. They discussed the matter with the dealership and agreed that as long as Mr M collected the car quickly, the storage charges 
wouldnt be pursued. I thank them for making that concession and also thank Mr M for 
collecting the car promptly. As the car was collected there should be no storage charges 
made.
Putting things right
Im asking Close Brothers to put things right in the way Ive explained above. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Close Brothers
Limited to repair any water damage to the car as confirmed in the inspectors report of 13
April 2022 and evidenced in Mr Ms videos. They should ensure that any interior odours are 
eliminated and that the interior of the car is valeted for Mr M. No storage charges should be 
made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman