DRN-4314107
The complaint
Mr G complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has failed to refund £6,250 he 
lost to an investment scam in June 2022.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will provide a brief summary and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Mr G fell victim to an investment scam in June 2022. He discovered the investment with the 
scammer (B) via a YouTube video showing a celebrity talking about it on a TV show. After 
clicking on a link, he received a phone call from B who encouraged him to invest in 
cryptocurrency. Mr G proceeded to make two payments to the scammer from his RBS 
account of £5,000 on 2 June 2022 and £1,250 on 13 June 2022. Mr G realised he had been 
scammed when he was being asked to pay more money to withdraw his profits, and RBS 
refused to refund the money he had lost.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think Mr G had a reasonable basis 
for believing the payee was legitimate. The investigator also felt that Mr G would have likely 
ignored an effective warning as he said he would have chosen the payment option of 
investing in cryptocurrency. As a result, she didnt think RBS was required to refund the 
payments under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code). Mr G disagreed, so the 
matter was escalated to me to determine.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint in August 2023. I said I was minded to 
uphold it and set out the following reasons:
Having considered all the available evidence, Im currently minded to uphold Mr Gs 
complaint and intend asking RBS to refund 50% of the payments lost to the scam in 
line with the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code).
I agree with the investigators conclusions in that I dont consider Mr G to meet the 
criteria of being considered vulnerable under Code, and neither do I think he had a 
reasonable basis for believing the payments were part of a genuine investment 
opportunity.
However, Im not satisfied RBS can fairly or reasonably rely on the exemption of 
Mr G having ignored an effective warning. Given the value of the payment and the 
fact it was going to a new payee, I think RBS ought to have provided an effective 
warning.
RBS has said that Mr G would have been provided with a warning if he had selected 
the correct option investing in cryptocurrency. However, it has not been able to 
provide any evidence to demonstrate whether Mr G did indeed choose this option, or 
that he was even presented with any warning. Mr G says he cant recall whether he 
was presented with any option or given a warning. So, without any evidence to show 
otherwise, Im not satisfied that Mr G can be said to have ignored an effective 
warning as theres no evidence to suggest he was actually given one. So I dont 
consider it fair for RBS to rely on this exception to decline full reimbursement.
I therefore intend directing RBS to reimburse 50% of the payments Mr G made to the 
scammer, as well as 8% simple interest per year from the date his CRM claim was 
declined until the date of settlement.
I note there has been some discussion about whether an intervention from RBS 
would have been effective. But based on the value of the payments made, Im not 
persuaded any intervention would have been required at all. The largest payment 
made was for £5,000, but I can see that Mr G had made payments from his account 
for over £4,000 just a few weeks before. So, I dont think any of the payments made 
as part of the scam were unusual enough to have warranted an intervention by RBS.
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. Mr G accepted my provisional 
findings and proposals. RBS disagreed and maintained that its customers would be 
presented with a warning if they select the correct payment option. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In its most recent submissions, RBS has said that a customer would have to choose a 
payment option in order to make a payment, and it has provided an example payment 
journey of what it says would have likely been presented if Mr G had chosen the correct 
payment option (investing in cryptocurrency). 
However, as I set out in my provisional findings, it still hasnt provided evidence of Mr Gs 
particular payment journey to show that he was in fact presented with a list of payment 
options or a scam warning. RBS can only speculate that he would have been presented with 
such a warning, which I do not consider to be sufficient enough for it to establish that Mr G 
ignored an effective warning under the CRM Code.
Therefore, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I set out in my provisional findings, 
and it follows that I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plc to:
Refund 50% of the payments Mr G made as part of the scam.
Pay 8% simple interest per year from the date Mr Gs CRM claim was declined until 
the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman