DRN-2459090
The complaint
Mr T complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, trading as Cashplus, blocked his 
account and did not reply to his letters.
What happened
Mr T has an account with Cashplus, into which his housing benefits and other income were 
paid. He paid his rent from that account. In late 2019 he was imprisoned for around four 
months, during which his account was blocked. He wrote four letters to Cashplus about this, 
but received no reply. He arranged for a third party to write to them, and then he phoned 
Cashplus, who confirmed that they had received his letters and that his account was under 
review. Meanwhile he was not receiving his benefits payments, and he had to make 
alternative arrangements to pay his landlord.
Mr T was released in early 2020, and on returning home he discovered that he had no 
access to online banking. He phoned Cashplus again, and they asked him to provide proof 
of his identity. He sent some documents the same day, but Cashplus did not accept them. 
Cashplus says this was because a photocopy of his passport was incomplete, being cut off 
at the bottom, and because his council tax bill was uncertified. The next document he sent in 
had a different address to the one which was recorded on his account. It was not until his 
fourth attempt, almost a month after returning home, that Cashplus was satisfied with the 
evidence he provided and unblocked his account.
Mr T, having complained to Cashplus while this was still going on, brought this complaint to 
our Service. Cashplus said it had not unblocked the account earlier because it had not 
received acceptable documents. Our investigator decided that Cashplus had been entitled to 
act as it had, and concluded that the delay in unblocking the account was not Cashpluss 
fault. So he did not uphold this complaint.
Mr T asked for an ombudsmans decision. He accused Cashplus of acting in bad faith, and 
he demanded to know what had happened to his housing benefit payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see on the account statements and in Cashpluss records that the missing housing 
benefit payments (for December 2019 and January 2020) were paid into the account on 18 
February 2020.
Our investigator quoted paragraph 12.5 of Cashpluss terms and conditions, but I think the 
next paragraph is more relevant. It reads:
12.6 We may at any time and without notice suspend, restrict, block or cancel Your 
Card or Account, or refuse to issue or replace a Card for reasons relating to the 
following: 
(ii) We are required to do so to comply with any applicable regulations or 
legislation; 
(iv) if You have not complied with these Terms and Conditions; 
The law and regulations require banks to take steps to ensure that the information they hold 
about their customers, such as an address, is accurate. This means they can require 
evidence of an address and of other matters to verify their customers identities, even if a 
customer has had an account with them for a long time, and even if they have provided such 
evidence before.
Paragraph 7.1 of the terms and conditions requires customers to tell Cashplus about any 
change of address within 14 days. I can see on Cashpluss records that Mr T told it he had 
changed its address in May 2019, but he does not appear to have told Cashplus that he had 
changed it back again (until after the account was blocked).
I think that either of the above reasons would be sufficient reason for Cashplus to block the 
account until it received satisfactory evidence.
I accept Cashpluss explanation for why it did not consider Mr Ts first three attempts to 
verify his address and identity. As Ive said, the copy of the passport was incomplete. Some 
of the documents he provided had the wrong address on them, in that while Mr T had moved 
back to his old address, the account was still registered to the new address he had notified 
to Cashplus back in May 2019.
I have no reason to doubt that Cashplus would have unblocked the account earlier if the 
documents eventually provided to it in February had been provided in the first place. Once 
they were provided, the account was unblocked. Nothing I have seen leads me to suspect 
that Cashplus acted in bad faith.
I do not mean to suggest that what happened was not inconvenient for Mr T  Im quite sure 
that it was. But sometimes these requests for evidence do cause inconvenience, and that 
cannot be helped. It does not change the fact that banks are entitled (and obliged) to do it.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman