DRN-3879397
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to his purchase of some 
solar panels.
Mr H is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mr H bought solar panels for his home in August 2018. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Ikano, and so that business is liable under the Act for the acts and omissions of the 
installer. Mr H says the installer misled him into believing that the panels would be self-
funding, which they werent.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that the installer had 
misrepresented the system to Mr H and found no reason to uphold the complaint. The CMC 
did not agree, and so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. That is 
because the contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and the estimated 
benefit of the panels very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the cost.
At the top of page 2 is a box headed Estimated Year 1 Solar Returns, and after a brief 
breakdown of how the total was arrived at, it gives the total benefit figure as within the range 
of £273.98 to £355.00. I think these figures are conspicuous; they are not buried in some 
fine print.
Directly below that is another box headed Funding information. This clearly states that after 
a small deposit paid for with a card, the balance will be £8,795, paid for with finance.
This document was signed by Mr H immediately below those figures, and so I am satisfied 
that the installers salesman did bring this information to his attention and that he read it.
The interest on the loan does not appear on this document, and so I think that Mr H could be 
forgiven for overlooking it. This document also does not say how long the loan period is, but 
I am sure that Mr H understood that he had ten years to repay the loan.1 So one tenth of the 
amount borrowed would clearly come to £879.50 each year. That is more than double the 
higher benefit figure for the first year. Again, I think this is clear.
1 The total loan period was 11 years, made up of one year with no loan payments due and then ten 
years of monthly repayments. This was clearly set out in the loan agreement.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr H about the benefits and 
cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of 
the loan, and so I dont think it is plausible than the salesman told him otherwise.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman