DRN-3874713
The complaint
Mr C has complained about his car insurer esure Insurance Limited (Esure) regarding the 
settlement it made to him after his car was damaged in an accident.
What happened
Mr C had an accident in late January 2022. He had a previous accident in November 2021, 
the damage for which was still outstanding and awaiting repair when the January 2022 
accident occurred. Esure, in assessing the January 2022 damage, felt the car was repairable 
 but then it reviewed the condition of the car and decided it was in a general poor state. So 
it decided to treat the car as a total loss. Esure viewed industry guides that will give market 
values for cars but determined that the poor condition meant the values returned couldnt be 
relied upon.  It felt the condition would drastically affect the cars value  making it about half 
of what its market value might otherwise have been. It paid Mr C £1,710, less the policy 
excess. Mr C was unhappy and complained.
Mr C mentioned the previous repair to Esure and that he hadnt had settlement for it. Esure 
wasnt minded to change its view on the settlement it had provided in response to the 
January claim. Mr C also told Esure he felt hed had poor service from it  promised call 
backs, for example, had not been received. Esure said that was because it had decided not 
to call Mr C due to his behaviour in a call with its engineer. When Mr C complained to this 
service Esure said it had chosen not to charge Mr C a salvage value for him retaining the 
car, and nor had it applied a proportional settlement to the claim. The latter it said it could 
have done because Mr C had done more miles in the car than the policy allowed for.
Our Investigator felt Esures settlement had not been fair and reasonable. She felt Esure 
should pay an additional £1,504 to Mr C  based on the industry guide prices without 
deduction for the condition of the car. She also felt Esures service had been poor at times  
but noting its decision to not apply any deduction for salvage or a proportional settlement, 
she felt no further compensation should be awarded.
Mr C said he was satisfied with the outcome. Esure said it disagreed with it. It said that its 
engineer had determined the impact the condition of the car would have on its market value 
 but that there was no method to or reasoning behind that decision. Esure provided some 
repair values for some areas of the car it felt were in poor condition  but didnt explain what 
the purpose of that detail was meant to show. Esures engineer then clarified that because of 
the poor condition of the car its settlement value had been obtained by reference to what a 
trade price within the industry guides, for the car would be (usually the retail price is used).   
Our Investigator told Esure that she felt all of the poor condition issues it had identified  
and provided a cost for repair for  were actually most likely accident related damage. She 
confirmed that her view about Esures settlement, and what she felt it needed to do now, had 
not changed. The complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I find my view is the same as that reached by our Investigator. I think Esure 
sought to settle this claim unfairly and unreasonably and it must now make an additional 
payment to Mr C to resolve that. Also like our Investigator, I think Esure could have handled 
the claim better at times  but noting the choices it has made regarding salvage and 
proportionality, I dont intend to make it pay compensation. 
It was always up to Esure how to settle this claim. But, when viewing a car as a total loss, 
Esure knows that this service often finds it fair and reasonable to rely on industry guides to 
determine the market value of cars. Sometimes an expert opinion also needs to be sought 
and applied  but where that is the case we would still expect that opinion to be based on 
some kind of reasoning. Until recently Esure hadnt provided any reasoning to support the 
value it had ascribed for the market value of Mr Cs car. It has now said that it used the 
trade value from the guides. But that makes little sense to me as the trade value in the 
guides is used for trade to trade sales  not to account for pre-existing damage.
In any event, Mr C was unlucky enough here to be involved in two accidents in fairly quick 
succession. Certainly quick enough that Esure hadnt managed to sort the first claim out 
when the second accident occurred. And the major areas of concern for Esure as potentially 
affecting the market value still seem to be related to either the first or second accident. With 
other issues to the car not amounting to more than the type of damage any buyer might 
expect to see for a car of this age. And I note that our Investigator checked the value that 
would be applied for Mr Cs car in the guides if it was felt to be in poor condition  and the 
value returned didnt change from that given when the car was said to be in good condition. 
I think that is reflective of the fact that most buyers expect older cars to come with some 
level of damage. Overall I think Esure hasnt shown that it settled Mr Cs claim fairly and 
reasonably. So I need to think about what a fair and reasonable market value is.
Our Investigator noted that the industry guides returned the following values for Mr Cs car:
£3,360
£3,350
£3,217
£2,930
She noted that an average of those would be £3,214.
As noted above  this service often finds the use of the industry guides to be a fair and 
reasonable way to determine the market value for a car. In this case, averaging those figures 
makes sense to me. And nothing presented by Esure makes me think it would be unfair and 
unreasonable to rely on them/their average in this instance when thinking about what a fair 
and reasonable settlement is for this claim/complaint. So I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable for that average value to be adjusted at all.
Mr C had an excess of £550. Deducting that from the average sum gives a value of £2,664. 
I think this is the sum Esure should have originally paid in settlement to Mr C for his claim. 
But it paid him £1,160 (which included the excess deduction). I think Esure should now pay 
Mr C the difference remaining between £2,664 and £1,160, which is £1,504. To this sum 
Esure should apply interest* from the date its previous settlement payment was made 
(17 May 2022) until this further payment is made. This is because Mr C has been without 
these funds which he was reasonably entitled to receive. 
I appreciate that Mr C received bad service on occasions from Esure. I can understand 
Esure choosing not to communicate with Mr C on the phone  but it should have told him it had made that decision and not promised him call backs that were never going to be made. 
I think the first claim was also delayed and that Esure failed to take account of that when 
assessing the January 2022 claim. I think Mr C has been quite frustrated by Esures 
handling at times. But I note that Esure chose not to make deductions from the claim 
settlement and, on this occasion, I think that fairly and reasonably discharges any liability it 
might otherwise have to Mr C to pay him compensation. I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to make it pay compensation as well. 
Putting things right
I require Esure to pay Mr C £1,504, plus interest* applied from 17 May 2022 until settlement 
is made.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires Esure to take off tax from this interest. If 
asked, it must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to pay the redress set out above at 
Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman