DRN-1870822
The complaint
Mr R complained that American International Group UK Limited wouldnt pay his claim under 
his caravan insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R claimed when his caravan suffered axle damage, which he said was due to potholes. 
But AIG said that damage wasnt covered under his policy because it had happened 
gradually and was wear and tear. Mr R wanted them to inspect his caravan again.  
The investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld and that AIG should 
obtain another expert report on the caravan. Mr R agreed, as wanted them to inspect his 
caravan again. But AIG didnt agree and so Mr Rs complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont assess whether or how damage to a car would be caused as this is a matter for the 
experts in these situations, the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these 
complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has considered all the available 
evidence and whether they can justify their decision to decline a claim.
Ive looked at Mr Rs policy wording. On page 22 it says that AIG it wont pay a claim due to 
any gradual causes including (but not restricted to) deterioration or wear and tear.
AIG asked an independent engineer to inspect the caravan. The engineer said the damage 
wasnt as a result of an insured matter but was due to wear and tear, which must have 
happened gradually over time. Mr R said that when he tried to query this, they didnt return 
his calls or emails. The independent engineer did then ask two other caravan technician 
firms for their opinions, but they didnt inspect the caravan.  One of them said the damage 
was wear and tear. The other said there was a slight possibility that it was caused by a 
pothole, but it could also be because the damage was on the same side as the caravans 
heavy kitchen appliances. So AIG declined the claim. They did apologise for not returning 
calls and offered Mr R £50 compensation for any distress and inconvenience this caused.
But Mr R felt it was unfair for AIG to rely on the views of the other caravan technicians as 
they hadnt inspected the caravan, when his experts had. He said the technician was wrong 
about what side of the van the appliances were on, and so wasnt reliable.  He said that the 
caravan didnt have the axle damage when it was serviced a few weeks before he hit 
potholes on a specific trip, and the firm that serviced his caravan confirmed this.  
He said he first noticed the damage after he had driven on a specific road on a specific date. 
When he returned home from that trip, he took it back to the caravan servicing firm to check 
it. 
That firms report confirms that the damage was due to potholes and not to wear and tear. 
AIG decided this firm wasnt a caravan expert, but this was because the independent 
engineer looked them up on the internet, and I dont think that was an adequate way to 
assess their work or experience. The information Mr Rs caravan servicing firm have given 
about their experience and the wording of their report suggests that they do have caravan 
experience. So I dont think it was fair of AIG to discount that report. Mr R also got a report 
from another caravan garage, which said that the damage was due to impact and was 
consistent with Mr Rs account that hed hit potholes, and was not due to gradual wear and 
tear.
AIG said when theyd inspected the caravan Mr R was unaware of the exact time and 
location of hitting the potholes. But Mr R said that he was aware of the date and the road 
where it happened, and so I dont think it matters if he couldnt identify the specific pothole. I 
also dont think its relevant to AIGs decision about Mr Rs claim that AIG cant identify a 
third party from whom they could recover their costs.  
The question is whether AIG had enough evidence to fairly decide on the claim. In this case, 
I dont think that they did. 
Putting things right
I agree with the investigators recommendation that AIG should obtain a new independent 
engineer report on the caravan and then assess Mr Rs claim afresh in the light of all the 
evidence.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require American International Group UK Limited to:
Arrange for Mr Rs caravan to be inspected by an independent engineer after which 
they should reconsider his claim looking at all the evidence. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
