DRN-4311045
The complaint
Miss B complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) has unfairly refused to 
meet a claim she made for jewellery stolen from her home.
What happened
Miss B has an insurance policy with Admiral that covers the contents of her home. In 
particular the policy covers a valuable necklace.
In mid-2023, Miss B sold her car. When the buyer came to pay her, they came in so they 
could hand over the cash for the car. Miss B left this person alone in her lounge for a couple 
of minutes. 
A little while later Miss B looked for her necklace  but couldnt find it. She reported this to 
the police as she suspected the buyer had stolen it. The police agreed this was likely theft 
and Miss B approached Admiral to make a claim. When Miss B explained what happened, 
Admiral said it wouldnt meet the claim, as shed allowed the buyer into her home. Admiral 
explained that in these circumstances her policy didnt cover the theft.
Miss B complained but Admiral didnt change its mind so she asked us to review her 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Admiral had been unfair. He checked the terms and conditions 
in the policy and agreed that the exclusion Admiral relied upon was set out in the terms and 
conditions. Miss B suggested another part of the cover might apply  malicious acts. Our 
investigator didnt think that would make a difference, as the same exclusion also applied to 
that part of the policy.
Miss B doesnt think this is fair and Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry Miss B has had her necklace stolen, but Im not going to uphold this complaint 
for much the same reasons as our investigator gave. 
No insurance provider covers every event that might happen in all circumstances, and the 
ones that arent covered are listed in policies as exclusions.  In Miss Bs situation, the part 
of the policy that applies to the loss of the necklace is theft (or possibly malicious acts). Both 
of these have the same exclusion. This is, in summary, that theres no cover if someone is 
lawfully in the property. Miss B allowed the buyer to come into her home, and Im satisfied 
that this is reasonable interpreted as them being there lawfully. There is no suggestion that 
the thief broke into her home using force and violence, and that would have needed to 
happen for the theft to be covered.
I do appreciate that the police said the loss was likely to be theft, but that in itself doesnt 
mean Admiral has to meet a claim, as it only has to meet claims that are covered in the 
policy.
I understand why Miss B specified the necklace on her insurance. Unfortunately that simply 
means shed have been paid the full value of the item if a claim had been accepted. It 
doesnt over-ride the terms and conditions in the rest of the policy. So this hasnt affected my 
decision.
Finally, Miss B said she thought there might have been something wrong with the way 
Admiral renewed her policy earlier in 2023. As far as I can see she hadnt raised this as a 
complaint with Admiral by the time this complaint came to us. She can of course make a 
separate complaint to Admiral about that if she wishes, but I cant comment on it here. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman