DRN-3941053
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC did not allow him to withdraw cash in branch, closed 
his accounts with them and have shared his data without his permission.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known by both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has raised a number of points and posed a lot of questions to Lloyds and this service. 
While I have fully considered and read everything he has said and sent us, in line with this 
services role as a quick and informal body, Ill be focusing on the main points of his 
complaint when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.   
Cash withdrawal in branch
Mr H went into a Lloyds branch to withdraw £5,000 in cash. When he entered his card into 
the card machine, he could not recall his personal identification number (PIN). Because of 
this, the staff asked him to provide a valid form of identification. And I think this was 
reasonable as they are required to ensure they are dealing with the correct customer that is 
linked to the account. 
Mr H provided his driving license, however the address on the license did not match the 
primary address that Lloyds held on file. Because of this, the staff did not accept the license 
as a valid form of identification and refused to allow Mr H to withdraw £5,000 in cash from 
the account. 
I appreciate Mr H says he has seen a document that says Lloyds accept a driving license as 
a valid form of identification and that it did not specify the address had to match the one on 
file. But I have seen Lloyds internal guidance for cashiers, and this goes into more detail. It 
specifies that the address on the license must match the address held on file. I appreciate 
Mr H feels this internal guidance should not supersede what is on Lloyds website, but I dont 
think it is unreasonable that Lloyds have internal guidance and processes that are not 
publicly available. And I dont think Lloyds has made an error by having more detailed 
internal guidance. 
Ultimately, I think it is reasonable that Lloyds took steps to ensure they were dealing with the 
correct customer. Because of this, I think it was reasonable that the cashier did not accept 
Mr Hs license as proof of his identity and did not allow him to withdraw the cash in branch. 
Mr H also offered to verify himself on telephone banking in order to withdraw the funds. But 
was told this is a different verification system and they would still not allow him to withdraw 
the £5,000. I think Lloyds acted fairly in the circumstances; telephone banking is a separate 
service with different risk levels and needs for verification. So, I think it was fair that Lloyds 
did not accept the telephone banking verification process when trying to identify Mr H. 
Closure of Mr Hs account
Following the incident in branch, Lloyds reviewed its relationship with Mr H. As a result, they 
decided to withdraw their banking services from him. Lloyds sent Mr H a letter in which they 
explained they had made the decision to end their relationship with him and close all of his 
accounts across the Lloyds Banking Group (LBG), which includes other financial 
institutions. 
They gave him 65 days notice and looking at the terms and conditions of the account, this is 
more than they were required to give in the circumstances. The letter explained he would be 
able to make alternative banking arrangements during that time and transfer over any 
standing order and direct debits. The letter did not give a specific reason as to why they 
were closing the accounts, but they are not required to do so.
Ive thought about this carefully and I think Lloyds decision to close Mr Hs accounts was fair 
and was made in line with the terms and conditions of the account. Ive reviewed their 
evidence and rationale for making this decision and I dont think they reached it incorrectly or 
unreasonably. I think that they followed the correct process and gave him enough time to 
make alternative banking arrangements, so I cant see they have made an error in the 
circumstances.  
Cheque cashing
When Lloyds closed Mr Hs account, it had a credit balance remaining. Lloyds sent a cheque 
for the remaining balance to Mr Hs home address, which is line with what the closure letter 
said they would do. Mr H attempted to cash the cheque in a Lloyds branch, but the staff 
explained they could not carry out his instruction, which Mr H was unhappy with. 
Ive firstly considered that Lloyds issued Mr Hs remaining balance via cheque. On balance, I 
dont think this was unreasonable. They gave Mr H prior warning that this is what would 
happen if Mr H did not move the funds elsewhere prior to the account being closed. As he 
did not and a credit balance remained, I think sending him a cheque was a reasonable way 
of sending him his funds so he could deposit them where he wished. 
Mr H attempted to cash the cheque in a Lloyds branch, however, Lloyds have explained that 
they do not provide cheque cashing as a service. Mr H has referred to the cheque as being a 
cashiers cheque, but I dont think this is correct and Lloyds has stated this was a regular 
cheque. And as Lloyds do not provide cheque cashing as a service, I cannot agree that they 
have made an error in not providing this service to Mr H as it would not be available to any 
other customer in a Lloyds branch. 
Sharing information across LBG
Mr H is unhappy that his data has been shared between Lloyds and other entities within the 
LBG. He has made reference to them being different data controllers and he feels his data 
has been breached as a result of information being shared across separate entities within 
the group. Ive looked over the terms and conditions of his account and in Section O, which explains 
how Lloyds process personal information, it states: your personal information will be shared 
within LBG and other companies that provide services to you or us
Looking at this, I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr Hs information would be shared across 
LBG. I dont think this term was misleading or unclear in any way and by having his accounts 
with Lloyds, he was agreeing to abide by the terms and conditions of the account. So, I cant 
agree that Lloyds has made an error when sharing his information within the LBG.
Mr H has said that in 2021, he withdrew his consent for his information to be shared across 
the LBG, so any data that was shared after that time was done so without his authority. Ive 
considered this carefully and looked over the relevant Privacy Notice from Lloyds. This 
states:
You can withdraw your consent at any time. Please contact us if you want to do so. This will 
only affect the way we use information when our reason for doing so is that we have your 
consent.
The last line is important for what I have to consider. Withdrawing consent will only be 
relevant when Lloyds needed Mr Hs consent to carry out an action in the first place. In this 
instance, Lloyds sharing information across the LBG was within the terms and conditions of 
Mr Hs account, so they did not require his consent to share his information. Because of this, 
there is no consent for Mr H to withdraw in the circumstances and I do not think Lloyds have 
made an error when continuing to share his information after 2021. 
Mr H has also raised issues with the way in which LBG is set up and its general 
infrastructure, including call centers. It is not within my remit to instruct a business on how it 
should choose to operate. I have explained above why I think it is fair and reasonable that 
Lloyds has shared Mr Hs information across the LBG, so I do not think they have made an 
error in connection with this.
Subject Access Requests (SARs)
In April 2022, Mr H asked for a full disclosure of the accounts which were due to be closed 
and what direct debits and standing orders were applicable for each of them during a 
telephone call with Lloyds. Mr H chased this up a few weeks later and said he had asked for 
a full Data Subject Access Request (DSAR). However, the call handler explained they had 
not understood this to be a full DSAR but instead considered it to be an information request 
about the standing orders and direct debits on his accounts. They then raised a DSAR for 
him.
While a consumer does not have to specify that they are making a DSAR, I do think it needs 
to be clear that they are asking for all the information a business holds about them. And I 
dont think this was clear in Mr Hs request. So, I think it is understandable that Lloyds did 
not immediately action a DSAR following Mr Hs first request. However, once this was made 
clear I can see they did raise a DSAR quickly.
Mr H says that the response he received only contained information about his Lloyds 
accounts and not his other accounts across the LBG as he requested. He said that the 
information was unintelligible due to popup windows on the screen printouts and that it was 
sent on headed paper from another entity with LBG. 
It should be noted that I have not had sight of the specific printouts Mr H has referenced, but I see no reason to doubt what he has said. Ive considered the effect receiving unclear 
information about the standing orders and direct debits, the delay in receiving this 
information and it being on headed paper from another entity has had on Mr H. In doing so I 
have considered the information he requested, which was centered around what direct 
debits and standing orders were on the account. 
I accept that sending the response on different headed paper appears to have been an error 
on Lloyds part. Though I dont think this has any bearing on the information contained within 
the letter. While I can appreciate Mr H wanted this information summarised in one document, 
I have to consider that this information was also readily available on his statements or 
through his online banking, if he uses it, or could have been obtained via the telephone 
banking service. So, it was still possible for Mr H to access this information without Lloyds 
providing a clear response to his request. Because of this, while I appreciate Lloyds could 
have handled Mr Hs request better, I dont think it needs to take further action to remedy 
this. 
Mr H says that he made a second SAR in branch, but the manager was not aware of what 
one was, and asked Mr H to leave the branch. Its difficult to know exactly what was said in 
the branch and there are no notes that reflect what the conversation was. So, I cant be sure 
of where the miscommunication occurred or how the request was made by Mr H. I do note 
that Mr Hs comments have been noted and passed onto Lloyds to implement any training 
they feel is necessary. On balance, I dont think Lloyds needs to do anything further in 
relation to this point. 
Contact with the Data Protection Officer (DPO)
I can see that Mr H made a few requests to speak to the DPO at Lloyds and he feels his 
requests have been unfairly declined. 
Looking at the contact notes that Lloyds have provided, I can see following his initial request 
to speak with the DPO it was explained that this was not possible as the DPO does not 
speak directly with customers. They also show that in the past Mr H had refused to speak 
with members of staff in the DPO office. However, Mr H requested someone speak to him on 
this occasion.
I can see that a member of the DPO team did try to telephone Mr H, but due to his phone 
being set up to not receive phone calls from unknown numbers, they could not reach him. As 
a result, they issued him with a letter instead. Considering this, I cannot see that the initial 
failed attempt at telephoning Mr H was due to an error on Lloyds part.
The DPO team has confirmed that a second request for a phone call but at that point they 
were due to send Mr H the letter described above, so they carried on with the written 
correspondence instead. On balance, I dont think this was unreasonable as they were still 
contacting Mr H, albeit in a different format to what he requested. 
The DPO team have confirmed that the final request made by Mr H was missed and this was 
due to human error. However, at that point Mr H had already been advised that Lloyds would 
no longer talk with him over the phone but would instead only correspond in writing. As the 
earlier letter sent by the DPO contained everything that they felt was necessary, they would 
not have added anything meaningful to what they had already said. 
Because of this, I dont think the missed request has impacted on Mr Hs customer journey 
with the DPO team and I dont think it has had a detrimental effect on him. As a result, I dont 
think Lloyds needs to take any further action in relation to this aspect of the complaint.    My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman