DRN-3795568
The complaint
Miss P complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out
proper affordability checks before it granted loans to her. Had it done so, Morses wouldve
discovered she couldnt afford to repay these loans.
What happened
Miss P was advanced six home collected loans between August 2017 and November 2019.
Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £300.00 24/08/2017 22/12/2017 33 £15.00
2 £300.00 22/12/2017 24/07/2018 33 £15.00
3 £400.00 30/10/2018 07/06/2019 33 £20.00
4 £300.00 07/06/2019 29/11/2019 33 £15.00
5 £200.00 22/11/2019 08/03/2021 34 £10.00
6 £300.00 29/11/2019 08/03/2021 34 £15.00
The weekly repayment column is the cost per week per loan. Where loans overlapped
the commitment to Morses was greater. For example, when loans 5 and 6 overlapped
Miss Ps commitment to Morses was £25 per week.
Morses explained in its final response letter that it had carried out affordability checks before
these loans were advanced and based on the information it received, it was reasonable to
lend.
Miss Ps representative didnt agree and instead referred the complaint to the Financial
Ombudsman Service.
The case was then reviewed by an adjudicator. He concluded it was reasonable for loans 1
 3 to have been advanced. So, he didnt uphold the complaint about those loans. However,
he thought loans 4 - 6 shouldnt have been granted because the lending pattern was now
harmful for Miss P.
Miss Ps representative didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment.
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators assessment in summary, Morses said:
Loan 4 was the same amount as loans 1 and 2 and Miss P repaid these loans
without any issues.
Loan 5 was Miss Ps smallest loan advanced and while loan 6 was larger, Morses
doesnt consider these amounts to be excessive.
Loans 5 and 6 were advanced close together but Morses didnt see any reason not to
advance them due to Miss Ps good repayment history.
Morses carried out adequate checks before loans 4  6 were advanced which
showed Miss P could afford the repayments.
Miss P didnt tell Morses about any financial difficulties she may have been having.
As no agreement has been reached, the case was passed to me to resolve. I issued my 
provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold Miss Ps complaint 
in part about loans 5 and 6. A copy of the provisional findings follows this in smaller font and 
italics and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Neither Miss P (or her representative) appear to have disagreed with the adjudicators
findings in relation to loans 1  3. So, it seems this lending isnt in dispute and so I no longer
think that I need to make a finding about it. But I have kept these loans in mind when
thinking about the overall lending relationship between Morses and Miss P.
Instead, this decision will focus on whether Morses did anything wrong when it granted loans
4 - 6.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Miss P could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss
Ps income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss P. These factors include:
Miss P having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss P having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss P coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss P.
Morses was required to establish whether Miss P could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss P was able to
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, andthought about what this means for Miss Ps complaint.
The adjudicator upheld these loans because in his view they were harmful for Miss P
because it was now unsustainable for Morses to continue to lend to her.
I can understand why the adjudicator has concluded this, but I dont think, Morses wouldve
concluded these loans were now harmful to Miss P. Ive explained why below.
I accept that Miss P had been indebted with Morses continuously for around 22 months 
and she was further committing to be indebted for at least an additional 33 weeks. This, in
some situations could be a sign that she was now reliant on the borrowing or at the very
least having longer term money management problems. Neither can I ignore that the lending
was consecutive and at times overlapped, which could show that Miss P had a continued
need for credit.
But I also have to keep in mind that Miss Ps borrowing wasnt always increasing. Indeed, for
loan 4, Miss Ps borrowing had reduced back to the level it was for loans 1 and 2 and then
for loan 5, her borrowing decreased again. In addition, her weekly commitment to Morses
also fluctuated.
Finally, there also hadnt been any obvious repayment problems when Miss P had settled
previous loans.
So, taking everything together, I dont think Morses wouldve or ought to have realised these
loans were unsustainable for Miss P and so I am intending to conclude the loans werent
likely to be so harmful that it wouldve prompted Morses to have stopped lending to her. But
that doesnt mean Morses did all it shouldve done before advancing these loans.
Morses has provided us with the income information it collected from Miss P for loans 4  6.
For these loans, Morses was aware, that the weekly disposable income (so the amounts
Miss P had after deducting expenditure from her income) ranged from around £49 to 87 per
week. This may have then led Morses to believe that Miss P had sufficient disposable
income and could afford the loan repayments.
But that doesnt mean that Morses carried out a proportionate check. I do think the time in
debt ought to have altered Morses to the possibility that Miss P may have been reliant on
this credit and her indebtedness were potentially extending for another 33 weeks and by
loan 4, Miss P had the smallest amount of declared disposable income to date. These
factors ought to have prompted it to consider whether it knew enough about Miss Ps
financial position.
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on what Miss P declared to
it about her income and expenditure. Even though this information suggested Miss P could
afford these loan repayments.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Miss Ps actual financial position to
ensure the lending was affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking
for evidence of her outgoings or looking at bank statements and/or Miss Ps full credit file.
This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other
information that Morses mightve needed to consider about Miss Ps financial position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold these loans, I have to
be satisfied that had Morses carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered
that Miss P couldnt afford them.
Miss Ps representative has provided a full copy of her credit file, which Ive considered.
Having done so, I dont think there is anything from around the time at loan 4 was granted
which wouldve given Morses cause for concern. So, based on what I currently have, I cant
uphold Miss Ps complaint about that loan.However, by loans 5 and 6 Miss Ps finances had changed. Its important to note here that
for loan 5, Morses has recorded that there were no other, outstanding credit commitments
and Morses established Miss P had £79.60 per week in disposable income. For loan 6, there
were £40 per week of outstanding other credit commitments and disposable weekly income
of £49.80.
But, in October 2019, Miss P opened another home credit account  which led to weekly
repayments of £69. Then at the start of November 2019, Miss P had recently opened a hire
purchase agreement with weekly repayments of £68. These commitments, which were both
outstanding at the time of loans 5 and 6 led to weekly commitment of £137. I think Morses
wouldve discovered these outstanding commitments had it carried out a proportionate
check.
Taking account of the income and expenditure information Morses relied upon, it wouldve
concluded that Miss P couldnt afford the loan repayments because she didnt have any
disposable income in which to pay her outstanding creditors as well as paying her Morses
loans.
Although Morses didnt carry out proportionate checks, Im not able to conclude that further
checks wouldve led it to conclude that loan 4 shouldnt have been granted. However, there
is sufficient information contained within the credit report to show that she didnt have
enough disposable income to afford the repayments for loans 5 and 6.
So, Im intending to uphold Miss Ps complaint about loans 5 and 6.
Response to the provisional decision
Both Miss P and Morses were asked to provide anything further for consideration in 
response to the provisional decision, as soon as possible, but in any event no later than 
10 November 2022. 
Neither Morses or Miss P (or her representative) responded to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information or comments have been provided, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings I reached in the provisional decision. I still dont think Morses ought to have 
approved loans 5 and 6 for Miss P because had it carried out proportionate checks it 
wouldve likely discovered that she didnt have enough disposable income to be able to 
afford the repayments towards these loans. 
Ive outlined below what Morses needs to do in order to put things right for Miss P. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had if it hadnt lent loans 5 and 6, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss P may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, orindeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Miss P in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Miss P would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have provided Miss P with loans 5 and 6.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss P towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss P which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss P 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Miss P the total of A plus B.
D. Morses should remove any adverse information recorded about loans 5 and 6 from 
Miss Ps credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should
give Miss P a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Miss Ps 
complaint in part.
Morses Club PLC should put things right as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman