DRN-2430821
The complaint
Mr S complains Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) failed to send him a loan agreement to 
sign in order to pay off his existing personal loan and take out a new one over a longer term. 
This resulted in the loan being cancelled and him missing repayments on his existing loan. 
He thinks a default marker which was then applied to his credit file was done so unfairly.  
What happened
Mr S had a personal loan which started in August 2017. From August 2018 he was unable to 
continue making the £160 repayments due to a change in his circumstances. Sainsburys 
has given us copies of its call notes showing Mr S was in regular contact to explain what was 
happening and whether he would be able to make the payment each month. Sainsburys 
refunded some late fees and put Mr Ss account on hold a few times.
In October 2018, after three missed payments, Sainsburys has said it issued a default 
notice to Mr S telling him he needed to bring the arrears up to date to avoid default. But as 
his circumstances hadnt improved he couldnt do that. So the call notes show he spoke to 
Sainsburys in November and December 2018 about refinancing his loan.
On 7 January 2019, Mr S spoke to Sainsburys about extending the loan term so hed pay 
less each month. The notes show he agreed to make two payments of around £100 over the 
next two months to show he was able to keep up the new repayments. In the meantime, his 
account was defaulted on 31 January 2019 as he hadnt made any contractual payments.
Mr S made payments of around £100 as agreed. He queried the default and was told it 
would be removed when the rescheduled loan was agreed. In March 2019, the application 
for the rescheduled loan was accepted and Mr S was told the default would be removed.
Unfortunately, Mr S wasnt sent the loan agreement to sign and return due to a system error 
so he called to chase it on 29 March 2019. The call handler suggested he call again the 
following week if he still hadnt received it and theyd arrange for it to be resent. Mr S didnt 
call the following week and as the offer period for the loan expired in April 2019, the 
application was cancelled and the default wasnt removed. Mr S made a complaint in 
July 2019 and Sainsburys offered him £200 as compensation for not sending the agreement 
but it refused to remove the default. Still unhappy, Mr S asked us to look into things.
 Our investigator upheld the complaint. She thought Sainsburys should remove the default 
as it had agreed to do so if the loan application was successful and the only reason it wasnt 
was because the loan agreement wasnt sent to him. Sainsburys didnt agree. It said it made 
an error in offering Mr S the rescheduled loan after a default notice had already been sent. It 
accepted Mr S wouldve suffered disappointment from being given the wrong information but 
it thought itd compensated him enough. So the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision in November 2020. I thought this complaint should be 
upheld in part in summary because:
I was satisfied the default was applied fairly as Mr S knew payments hadnt been made 
for several months  and it was unlikely hed be able to bring the account up to date. But 
I accepted if the agreement had been sent, the default wouldve likely been removed.
I thought it was Sainsburys error that meant the loan agreement wasnt sent to Mr S. But 
I thought it was reasonable to expect he wouldve called  as he was advised  to see 
where the paperwork was, particularly considering how important it was to him.
Sainsburys told us it isnt its usual process to offer customers a rescheduled loan if 
theyve already received a default notice. So if nothing had gone wrong, it wouldnt have 
offered Mr S a rescheduled loan in the first place. And I didnt think it was appropriate to 
direct Sainsburys to offer it now because it had incorrectly done so before.
The default was applied before Mr S was advised to stop making the £100 payments. 
These werent set up as an arrangement but were to prove he could afford them. So I 
didnt agree it wouldnt have been applied if hed continued making these payments. 
I didnt think it would be fair to direct Sainsburys to remove the default. But I thought 
Mr S was caused a great deal of stress and upset as he was clearly very concerned 
about the default and he was relying on the loan to get out of a very difficult financial 
situation. That wouldnt have been lessened by knowing it was offered incorrectly. 
To put things right, I thought Sainsburys should pay Mr S a further £400. I asked both 
parties to make any further comments before I reached a final decision. Sainsburys 
disagreed. It said Mr S is now in the position he shouldve always been in and it didnt think 
my findings were consistent with our usual approach. Mr S thought my provisional decision 
was biased. He asked for time to provide call recordings and said in summary:
Sainsburys had admitted several errors including not sending the loan agreement which 
Mr S wasnt responsible for. And hed had several conversations with experienced staff 
regarding the refinancing of his loan. So he doesnt think the offer was made incorrectly. 
He was told not to worry if the new loan agreement was late as there can sometimes be 
delays  and he needed to be patient. So he was cautious about calling too much. 
If a mistake had been made, he questions how none of Sainsburys staff who have been 
involved realised this. He thinks Sainsburys is just saying this now  particularly as it 
didnt mention that a mistake had been made in the letter sent in July 2019. 
He was told over the phone the default would be removed once Sainsburys agrees to 
the rescheduled loan. And he was told later it had been removed.
Although Sainsburys has said it sent a default notice to Mr S in January 2019, its not 
true. Its not given us a copy of the letter and it said it had system problems at the time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I would like to assure Mr S we are an impartial service and Ive considered everything both 
he and Sainsburys have said very carefully before reaching a decision. 
Mr S has said Sainsburys didnt send him a default notice so I presume he thinks this 
means he couldve had the rescheduled loan. But I dont agree. Based on what Ive seen, 
Im satisfied its more likely Mr S knew payments hadnt been made towards his loan. And I 
dont think its likely he wouldve been able to pay the arrears and bring the account up to 
date due to his financial circumstances at the time. So I think the default was applied fairly 
and Mr S was too far along the collections process to be entitled to a rescheduled loan.
Theres no dispute over what Mr S was told over the phone or that he wasnt sent the 
agreement due to an error. And I accept the application wouldve been successful if it had 
been sent. But that doesnt make a difference in this case. I say this because Sainsburys 
has said its not its usual process to offer customers a rescheduled loan once their account 
is so far into the collections process. And I think thats reasonable. So by directing it to still 
offer Mr S the loan and remove the default, I would be asking it to put him in a better position 
than he wouldve been in if there was no mistake made. And that wouldnt be appropriate. 
Sainsburys only identified a mistake had been made after Mr S came to our service. So I 
can understand why hes unhappy this wasnt mentioned or noticed by its staff sooner. But 
whilst I understand it must be frustrating, I dont think the fact this wasnt picked up earlier 
automatically means the information Sainsburys has now given us must be wrong. I say this 
because, I wouldnt expect Sainsburys staff members to review the full circumstances of a 
loan application each time a customer calls in or discusses whats happening. Particularly as 
in this case, often Mr S was just chasing the documentation. 
In any event, even if I did think someone shouldve picked something up sooner, it doesnt 
mean I think Sainsburys should now offer the loan or remove the default. When putting 
things right, we put customers in the position they wouldve been in if things hadnt gone 
wrong  as far as possible. And if a member of staff had noticed the error, Mr S still wouldnt 
have what he wants now  the loan in place and the default removed.
Mr S was given the impression hed be able to get himself out of a very difficult financial 
situation  which wouldve significantly impacted his circumstances. He was also told the 
default  which will affect his credit file for a number of years  would be removed. Mr S 
acted on this information and I think its likely he wouldve felt a great deal of relief when he 
thought some of the financial pressure and worry he was experiencing would be eased. So 
Im satisfied Sainsburys now explaining this was offered by mistake and is no longer 
possible has caused him a considerable amount of distress and upset. So overall, I think its 
fair for Sainsburys to pay Mr S another £400 on top of the £200 its already paid him.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ss complaint in part and direct Sainsburys Bank Plc 
to put things right by doing what Ive said above. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
28 February 2021. 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman