DRN-2945531
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty hasnt carried out the
settlement in full that was agreed, on 7 October 2020, in order to resolve Mr Ws
complaint.
Mr W has also said that he doesnt think it is fair that if he sets up a repayment plan, for his
outstanding balance, Drafty will report this on his credit file. Mr W states that he has only
ended up having to set up a repayment plan due to Draftys failure to help him properly in the
first place.
  
What happened
Our adjudicator did partially uphold Mr Ws complaint. Mr W did not agree with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold 
Mr Ws complaint in part. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional 
findings follow this and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mr W originally complained that Drafty had failed to provide him with information and help on
how to change his card payment details. Mr W explained this was required as he had
changed his name, and there didnt appear to be an option on Draftys app to allow him to
make these changes. Mr W stated this information and support wasnt provided and as a
result he was unable to maintain his monthly payments on the credit facility. This resulted in
the facility defaulting and the outstanding balance being transferred to a third-party debt
collection agency.
When Mr W referred his complaint to our Service, Drafty hadnt provided a final response
letter to his complaint. A final response letter regarding irresponsible lending was issued by
Drafty but this didnt address Mr Ws complaint about the support he asked for in order to
change his card details. Additionally, Draftys complaint submissions to our Service also
addressed irresponsible lending. So, one of our adjudicators asked Mr W if he would like us
to also consider irresponsible lending as part of his complaint. Mr W confirmed he did.
The same adjudicator looked at Mr Ws complaint about irresponsible lending and the lack of
help in changing his card payment details. He thought that it was reasonable for Drafty to
have given Mr W the initial credit facility of £500 in July 2018, and the first two credit limit
increases. The adjudicator went on to explain that he thought by August 2019, Drafty
shouldve withdrawn the credit facility. The adjudicator explained this was because Mr W
hadnt reasonably demonstrated an ability to significantly reduce his outstanding balance in
the first 12 months, hed held the credit facility. And he thought Mr Ws overall pattern of
borrowing, by 23 August 2019, showed signs of Mr W experiencing financial difficulties as
well as an over reliance on this type of lending.
For the part of the complaint about changing Mr Ws card payment details, the adjudicator
thought there was a failure in communication from Drafty regarding firstly Mr Ws requests
for help and then when he raised the same issue as a complaint. The adjudicator went on to
explain that he thought Mr W had been caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience due
to the lack of support provided by Drafty, which had resulted in Mr W missing scheduled
payments.
Taking everything into consideration, the adjudicator thought Drafty should do the following:
A) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the account relating to any
drawdowns taken after the credit limit increase of £1,080 in August 2019.
B) Treat all payments Mr W has made towards his account after the credit limit
increase of £1,080 as though they had been repayments of outstanding principal.
C) If at any point Mr W would have been in credit on their account after considering
the above, you will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest*
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the
refund is made.
D) If there is an outstanding principal balance, then you can use any refunds
calculated as part of C to repay this. If a balance remains after this then you should
try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr W. If you have previously written
off any principal, then you shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up only of
principal you have already written-off.
E) You should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mr Ws credit
file after the credit limit increase of £1,080.
You should pay Mr £200 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by
failing to address his request for assistance about changing his card payment details.
Please note this must be paid directly to Mr W and cannot be used to reduce any
indebtedness he has with Drafty.
Drafty responded and made an offer that was in-line with the adjudicators
recommendations. This offer was put to Mr W and he confirmed his acceptance of it in
October 2020. The adjudicator informed Drafty of Mr Ws acceptance and the adjudicator
reasonably believed Mr Ws complaint to have been resolved. The complaint was then
closed.
On 9 November 2020, Mr W contacted us to says that hed received the £200 distress and
inconvenience payment but that Drafty was asking him to pay an incorrect amount for his
outstanding balance. The adjudicator contacted Drafty about this and was informed the issue
had been resolved from Draftys end.
Mr W then explained that Drafty was asking him to make payment of the full outstanding
balance rather than offering a suitable repayment plan. The adjudicator queried this with
Drafty as this had been included in the agreed settlement. I can see from Draftys email,
dated 29 December 2019, that it provided Mr W with the option of making a one-off payment
for the full amount or Mr W could set up a payment plan.
As part of the same email, Drafty explained that if Mr W was to set up a payment plan then
Drafty would be required to report the payment arrangement to the Credit Reference
Agencies. Mr W hasnt happy with a payment arrangement being reported on his credit file,
so he referred the matter back to us. Mr W also informed us that, as of 4 January 2021, his
credit file was still showing adverse information about his Drafty credit facility. Mr W
explained that at this point it had now been more than 60 days since hed accepted Draftys
offer so the adverse information shouldve been removed, in-line with the accepted
settlement.Mr W asked us to look into the matter further as he didnt feel the agreed settlement had
been carried out in relation to the amendments Drafty agreed to make to his credit file or that
reporting a payment plan was fair. Mr W has said that due to no fault of his own hed fallen
into arrears with his outstanding balance on the credit facility and now a repayment plan
would be further adverse information.
The adjudicator raised Mr Ws concerns with Drafty, on 5 January 2021, and asked Drafty to
consider whether it would be willing to set up a repayment plan without this being reflected
on Mr Ws credit file. The adjudicator also asked Drafty to remove any current adverse
information still reported on Mr Ws credit file, as per the settlement that had already been
agreed in October 2020.
Drafty responded stating that any repayment plan would be reported of Mr Ws credit file but
that this would be removed once hed repaid the outstanding balance. Drafty also told us that
it had already raised a request for any adverse information to be removed from Mr Ws credit
file and that this would take 30 to 45 days to be reflected on Mr Ws credit file. Mr W wasnt
happy with what Drafty had said about the removal of the current adverse information from
his credit file or the adding of new adverse information.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final
decision.
As Mr Ws complaint about irresponsible lending and the changing of card payment details
appears to have been settled, I wont be considering these parts of Mr Ws complaint any
further. I say this because Drafty made an in-line offer based on the adjudicators
recommendations for both these aspects of Mr Ws complaint. Mr W also accepted this offer
and the £200 distress and inconvenience payment has been completed.
Drafty has also said that it has reduced Mr Ws outstanding balance to £1,030.35, using the
redress calculated and has provided information showing that the redress calculations
included the extra payments Mr W had highlighted to us as having been made between
January and March 2020. So there doesnt appear to be an ongoing dispute about these
aspects of the complaint.
I will now consider Mr Ws complaint about Drafty not having carried out the accepted
settlement as agreed in October 2020 and whether it would be fair for Drafty to report a
repayment plan on Mr Ws credit file
.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
that are applicable in this instance.
Im partially upholding Mr Ws complaint and Ive explained why below.
Agreed settlement from October 2020
I can see Mr W has said Drafty had added two missed payment markers to his credit file,
when he contacted us by email on 11 December 2020 and that his credit file hadnt been
updated by January 2021. Mr W also explained that he was still being chasing by the third 
party debt collectors, for an incorrect outstanding balance amount in January 2021.While Drafty may have added missed payment markers to Mr Ws credit file, there isnt
anything from what Ive seen to suggest when these may have been added. Additionally, as
Mr W hasnt provided us with a copy of his full credit file, when he raised this issue with us in
January 2021, there isnt enough information from what Ive seen to reasonably indicate
these markers, by themselves, have caused Mr W financial loss since the settlement was
accepted in October 2020.
Mr W has provided us with a screenshot of his Drafty credit file entry from June 2021.
Having reviewed this, I cant see that there isnt any adverse information, in terms of any
missed payment or default makers on the Drafty entry. So, this would indicate that any
adverse information that was on the entry has since been removed. This reasonably
suggests Drafty has completed the removal of adverse information from Mr Ws credit file in 
line with the October 2020 settlement.
Having said that, in an email dated 16 June 2021, Drafty stated that it raised the request for
the removal of adverse information from Mr Ws credit file with the credit reference agencies
on 20 January 2021. This was more than three months after Drafty had been informed of
Mr Ws offer acceptance and can take up to a further 30 to 45 days for the update to appear
on Mr Ws credit file.
As a result, it would be closer to four and half months after Draftys offer was accepted for
this part of the settlement to be completed. Yet Drafty was able to complete the payment for
distress and inconvenience as well as reducing Mr Ws outstanding balance within a
reasonable amount of time following Mr Ws offer acceptance.
I also note that as part of Draftys offer, it has said that it would inform the credit reference
agencies of any amendments within 28 days of receiving the offer acceptance. So, I dont
think having to wait up to four and half months to have any adverse information removed
from his credit file, which is almost double the amount of time Drafty had said it would take,
was a reasonable amount of time for Mr W to have had to wait.
Additionally, Mr W has provided us with a copy of a letter he received from a Credit
Reference Agency (CRA), also dated 20 January 2021. This was following Mr W raising the
issue of having his credit file amended with the CRA. The CRA explained that Drafty had not
agreed to amend his credit file without Mr W first contacting Drafty. This seems to contradict
the request Drafty made to amend Mr Ws credit file on the same day. I can appreciate
Mr Ws continued frustration and upset at trying get any adverse information removed from
his credit file and the appropriate updates made.
Looking at the credit file screenshot Mr W had provided from June 2021, I can see that it
was last updated on 4 February 2021. However, the outstanding balance is still reported
incorrectly. I say this as the outstanding balance is showing as £1,415 but in numerous email
communications from Drafty to both our Service and Mr W, Drafty has confirmed Mr Ws
outstanding balance is £1,030.35.
In accordance with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) Principles for the Reporting
of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies, businesses are
required to report data that is accurate and up to date. Given it is now almost nine months
since Mr W accepted Draftys settlement offer and the information reported on his credit file
entry is still incorrect, I think at the very least Drafty should update Mr Ws outstanding
balance to reflect the correct amount still owing.
However, Drafty has also told us that it stopped reporting on Mr Ws credit facility from
December 2020. So, if Drafty isnt willing or able to request the appropriate amendments to
Mr Ws outstanding balance, then I dont think it would be unreasonable for Drafty toconsider removing the entire credit file entry. This would effectively limit any further distress
and inconvenience to Mr W but this doesnt mean Mr W isnt required to repay the
outstanding balance he has, because he does.
I say this because nine months to get to this point is more than a fair and reasonable amount
of time for Drafty to have implemented the agreed settlement and to have reported accurate
and up to date information on Mr Ws credit file. Additionally, based on what Ive seen, Mr W
has continued to be caused undue distress and inconvenience during this same period of
time - due to the inaccurate information reported and being asked on a number of occasions
to pay an incorrect outstanding amount. This is despite the October 2020 accepted
settlement including an agreed reduction of the outstanding balance as well as Mr W having
raised his concerns about the outstanding balance amount, he has been asked to pay after
the acceptance of the settlement offer.
Bearing all of this in mind, I dont think it would be unreasonable for Drafty to pay Mr W an
additional payment of £100 for any further trouble and upset that Drafty has unnecessarily
caused him in the nine months since he accepted Draftys offer to settle his complaint.
Reporting a repayment plan on the credit file
In accordance with the ICO principles for reporting arrangements and good industry practice,
financial businesses are required to report accurate information about a consumers
borrowing to the credit reference agencies. And that reporting an agreed payment plan
would generally fall within the type of information to be reported. However, under the first
principle, the ICO also states that data that is reported on a consumers credit file must be
fair.
In this instance, Drafty has already agreed, by offering and paying Mr W £200 compensation
for the distress and inconvenience caused to him, that there were failings in addressing Mr
Ws request for assistance in changing is card payment details. And that this likely caused
Mr W problems in making his contractual payments on his credit facility. The adjudicators
view on this aspect of Mr Ws complaint stated that when Mr W fell into arrears on his facility
he had, up to that point, been making his minimum monthly repayments as scheduled. So,
the adjudicator concluded that the lack of assistance by Drafty had caused Mr W undue
distress and inconvenience and he should be compensated.
In light of the agreed settlement in October 2020 and everything else that has happened with
Mr Ws credit facility since then as detailed above, I think it would be reasonable for Drafty to
agree a suitable repayment plan with Mr W and then not report this arrangement on his
credit file, just the reducing balance on the facility. I say this because reporting a payment
plan now would only be adding further adverse information to Mr Ws credit file, when Mr W
has already been caused a fairly prolonged amount undue distress and inconvenience as a
result of Draftys lack of support and communication.
I acknowledge that by reporting an agreed payment plan, Drafty would be accurately
reflecting what is happening with the current outstanding balance on Mr Ws credit facility, as
well as following good industry practice. However, in the individual circumstances of this
case, by doing so it wouldnt seem to fairly reflect what has happened and why, since Mr W
initially raised his irresponsible lending and change of card payment details complaint with
Drafty.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W responded to tell us that he was happy with the outcome reached in the provisional 
decision. He also told us that he has new bank details, so Drafty will need to contact him 
before making the compensation payment. 
Drafty initially responded to say that it broadly agreed with the findings in the provisional 
decision. It said that it would agree to pay the additional compensation payment of £100. It 
also confirmed it had reduced the outstanding balance to what was previously agreed.
Although, Drafty didnt confirm whether this balance reduction had been communicated to 
the credit reference agencies. If it hasnt done this, it will need to arrange for the correct 
balance to be updated with the credit reference agencies. 
However, it said it couldnt prevent the further adverse credit file data from being reported to 
the credit reference agencies. It said the information would be removed once Mr W settles 
the account. It also said that it would have to report any payment plan with the credit 
reference agency and if Mr W doesnt stick to any plan then his account may be passed to a 
third-party collection agency.
However, before I finalised the final decision, this service contacted Drafty acknowledging 
the above and asking what else it could do, given what was explained in the provisional 
decision. In response, Drafty said it would do the following (in addition to paying the 
compensation);
An affordable repayment plan can be set up without further adverse information 
being reported to the credit reference agencies  as long as the plan is stuck to. 
But, should Mr W not stick to the repayment plan or misses a payment, then this 
adverse information will be reported to the credit reference agencies.
Once the facility is repaid, Drafty has offered to remove it from Mr Ws credit file.
Ive considered what Drafty has recently told us, and I do consider this to be a fair resolution 
to the complaint. In effect, should Mr W need a repayment plan, he agrees to one and then 
sticks to it, no further adverse information will be reported. And once the account has been 
repaid the record will be deleted. This seems fair and reasonable to me. 
So, taking on board everything that has been given to this service, Im still upholding Mr Ws 
complaint and Ive outlined below, what Drafty has agreed to do to put things right. 
  
Putting things right
In order to put things right Drafty take the following action;
Drafty needs to ensure the outstanding account balance is correct with the credit 
reference agencies
Drafty and Mr W should try and come to a mutally agreeable repayment plan (if one 
is needed) and in line with Draftys recent email, no new adverse information should 
be added to Mr Ws credit file as long as the plan is stuck to. 
Once the account balance has been repaid, in line with Draftys recent email it should 
delete the record and
Drafty should pay Mr W an additional £100 compensation.
Finally, Id remind Drafty of its obligation to treat Mr W fairly.Mr W has told us that he has a new bank account details so Drafty will need to liaise with 
him in order to make sure the compensation payment is paid into the correct account. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Ws 
complaint in part.
Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty should put things right for Mr W as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman