DRN-4110452
The complaint
Ms W, represented by her solicitors, complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) has 
overcharged her interest on her mortgage. 
What happened
Ms W took out an interest only mortgage with BOI in 2007. The mortgage was taken on 
discounted rate of BOIs standard variable rate (SVR) minus 1.85% until 30 June 2009. 
The mortgage then reverted to BOIs SVR, which is the rate that applied until Ms W 
redeemed her mortgage in May 2019. 
On 24 September 2020, Ms Ws representative sent a letter of complaint to BOI on her 
behalf. The letter set out that Ms W sought to claim damages in relation to being 
overcharged interest on her outstanding mortgage balance due to the unlawful interest 
rates and any variations in the interest rates charged by BOI. 
The letter set out that Ms W considers the mortgage offer issued in May 2007 contained 
unfair terms pursuant to the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contract Regulations 1999 
(UTCCR). Elaborating on this point, Ms Ws representative argued:
Section four of the offer letter is unfair as the term within did not explain what was 
meant by the standard variable rate, and Ms W was misled into believing that this 
rate would vary in accordance with the Bank of England base rate, rather than at 
BOIs discretion. 
Ms W does not accept that the mortgage general terms and conditions, which 
defined the SVR were incorporated into the contract. 
It is unfair to expect a consumer, such as Ms W, to pore over the small print to 
understand the meaning of a key term like the interest rate. 
The meaning of the SVR and particularly the fact that BOI could vary it at its 
discretion, should have been set out in the mortgage offer. The failure to do so 
renders the term within section four of the mortgage offer unfair for the purposes of 
the UTCCR such that BOI is unable to rely on it. 
A term included within a contract allowing a lender to vary interest rates entirely at its 
own discretion without providing grounds to do so is unfair. 
The term lacks transparency and Ms W did not have an effective right to termination 
due to the presence of an Early Repayment Charge (ERC), as well as other costs 
associated with discharging her mortgage and switching to another lender. 
Section 15 of the Supply of Goods and Services Act should be deemed to apply in 
this case. This allows for the consideration of a reasonable rate being applied to 
Ms Ws mortgage balance rather than BOIs SVR. 
BOIs actions constitute a breach of Principle 6 of the FCA Handbook whereby a firm 
must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. And a 
breach of MCOB 11.5(1)(b) which requires a firm to treat customers fairly by 
assessing, before deciding to vary a regulated mortgage contract or home purchase 
plan; whether the consumer will be able to repay the sums borrowed and interest. 
Ms W seeks to claim the difference between the amount of interest she paid on her 
mortgage and the amount she would have paid had it been subject to what she 
deems to be a reasonable rate. 
BOI responded to the letter of complaint disagreeing with Ms Ws allegations. In summary, 
BOI argued:
Interest has been charged in line with the mortgage terms and conditions. An 
illustration of how interest has been calculated and applied has been provided to 
Ms W in annual statements. 
The information about the interest rate in the mortgage offer is prescribed by 
regulation and refers to the rate as being variable rather than a tracker. The 
mortgage terms and conditions also set out how interest rate changes are made. 
Ms Ws representative referred her complaint to our service on 17 November 2020. 
Our investigator issued an assessment not upholding the merits of Ms Ws complaint on 22 
March 2023. In summary he said:
The complaint point that, at the point of sale, Ms W was misled into believing the 
SVR would track base rate had not been brought in time, under DISP 2.8.2(R).
The complaint was raised on 24 September 2020, so the investigator concluded that 
a complaint about all of the interest charging events that took place within six years 
prior to this, had been raised in time. Which would be from 24 September 2014 
onward. So, he was satisfied that he could consider whether the sums charged from 
24 September 2014 onward were fair and reasonable. 
DISP 2.8.2(R) has two parts, the second providing for a scenario where the 
consumer seeks to bring a complaint more than six years after the event complained 
of. Specifying such a complaint must be brought within three years from the date the 
consumer became aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, that they had 
a cause for complaint. But the investigator thought Ms W ought reasonably to have 
been aware she had cause for complaint from June 2009 when she reverted to the 
SVR given the margin had increased from when she first took out the mortgage. So, 
he didnt think this gave her any more time. 
In considering the fairness of the interest rate charged from 24 September 2014 
onward, he will need to take account of previous variations of the interest rate in 
order to determine whether the rate charged during the period he can look at is fair. 
He will also need to consider whether the variation clause is itself an unfair term as a 
matter of law. He concluded both of these things were part of all the circumstances 
of the case that he is required to consider under the DISP rules and are relevant to 
whether the interest charged from 24 September 2014 onward is fair and reasonable. 
BOI was not required to set out all the terms and conditions of the mortgage contract 
in a single document. There are good reasons why general terms and conditions 
would be in a separate document to an individual consumers offer. The mortgage represented a substantial liability and a consumer ought reasonably to 
be treated as if they had read all the information provided with the mortgage offer, 
including the associated terms and conditions. 
Ms Ws mortgage contract did not commit to track the Bank of England base rate, 
she was made sufficiently aware of its terms and the BOI has sought to charge 
interest in accordance with those terms. 
When considering relevant law, the investigator thought there was a possibility that a 
court may conclude that parts of the variation clause are overly broad and could be 
more transparent. 
In determining whether, at the time the contract was taken out, there were likely to be 
significant barriers for Ms W dissolving the contract, the investigator noted that BOI 
was only able to rely on the variation terms when there was no ERC. So, Ms W 
would not have had to pay a charge to end her contract with BOI should she have 
chosen to switch to another lender. The investigator added that he didnt think 
switching costs were a significant barrier to exit and instead were costs a borrower 
could incur if she ever sought to switch lender. 
He set out the need to consider what, if any, unfairness Ms W experienced because 
of mortgage payments based on changes to the interest rate. And the need to 
consider whether BOI had exercised the terms fairly. 
He found SVRs to serve a legitimate purpose in permitting lenders to provide for 
future changes and allows borrowers flexibility. 
The investigator was not persuaded BOI varied the rate unfairly. 
The investigator noted that while the SVR reduced between 2007 and June 2009, the 
difference between the SVR and the Bank of England base rate increased. He set 
out that this was a time of significant change in the wider market as a result of the 
financial crisis. This impacted on the funding costs of businesses and was reflected 
in changes to a number of lenders interest rates.
BOI told this service that its cost of funds did not reduce in line with base rate. And 
while Ms Ws representative has provided this service with expert reports which it 
says shows the cost of funds reduced in line with base rate, the investigator 
considered BOIs own evidence about how the crisis had impacted it specifically, to 
be more compelling. 
The investigator set out that prior to 2012, BOI had a cap in place which prevented 
its SVR from increasing more than 2.5% above base rate (subject to the mortgage 
terms and conditions). This meant its SVR remained static at 2.99% since 2009 
compared to an industry average of 4.8%. BOI removed this cap in July 2012. The 
investigator was satisfied that the evidence provided shows BOI acted in line with its 
terms and conditions and the removal did not result in any unfairness to Ms W in the 
period he could consider. He also thought BOI notified Ms W of the impending 
change.
Overall, he didnt think there was anything to suggest that BOI had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably, or that Ms W has overpaid interest. He also considered that the 
interest rate applied to Ms Ws mortgage over the term remained generally in line 
with the SVRs of other similar lenders across the market. So, he did not consider the 
rate Ms W to have been an obvious outlier or excessive. Ms Ws representative responded to say Ms W disagreed with the outcome he had reached 
and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman. In summary it said:
Ms W did not receive any correspondence from BOI in 2012 notifying her that it 
would be removing the cap. 
It continues to assert that BOI has overcharged Ms W, firstly by breaching the terms 
of the mortgage agreement and secondly, by raising and maintaining the SVR at a 
level which cannot be justified by reference to its relative cost of funding throughout 
the entire mortgage term.
BOI has breached its Braganza duty by raising the margin difference when setting its 
SVR and by failing to reduce the margin once external wholesale cost of funding 
became cheaper. 
Our investigator sent the representative copies of the letters BOI says were sent to Ms W in 
2012 along with the leaflets that wouldve been included in the mailing. Ms Ws 
representative responded to say the letters were template letters, so it maintains its position 
that the cap removal was not communicated to Ms W. 
The investigator confirmed that he would pass the case to an ombudsman for a final 
decision  inviting both parties to provide any further comments or information they would 
like the ombudsman to consider by 26 April 2023. 
Neither party made any further representations. 
As the complaint could not be resolved informally and as the deadline for the parties to 
respond has now passed, it is now appropriate for me to issue my decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by briefly setting out the scope of my jurisdiction to consider this complaint. Since 
neither party requested a decision by an ombudsman on this question, I do not intend to go 
into it in detail. But its important that I satisfy myself of my jurisdiction to consider this 
complaint before going on to consider the merits.
The rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service  set out in the DISP section of the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook  prescribe the time limits applicable to complaints. 
DISP 2.8.2 R provides that 
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service:

(2) more than
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or 
ought to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint having been received;
unless
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in 
DISP 2.8.2 R or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances; 
or
 
(5) the respondent has consented to the Ombudsman considering the 
complaint where there time limits in DISP 2.8.2 R or DISP 2.8.7 R have 
expired
In this case, BOI has not consented to our consideration of any matter that is out of time, 
and Ms W and her representative have not argued that there has been a previous complaint 
or that there are exceptional circumstances. 
Im satisfied that we can consider this complaint from 24 September 2014 onwards, being six 
years before Ms W first brought this complaint. And Im satisfied that I cannot consider 
matters before then, since Ms W knew  or ought reasonably to have known  of cause for 
complaint. If she expected the SVR to track base rate, then it would have been clear to her 
that it had not done so when she reverted to the SVR in 2009 with a margin higher over base 
rate than she had expected would be the case. And if Ms W considers she has been 
charged an unfairly high rate of interest at the point of reversion or at any time since then, 
again she ought reasonably to have been aware of cause for complaint at that time. That 
means that, in this case, the three year limit does not give Ms W more time to complain than 
the six year limit.
As a result, Im satisfied the complaint about the interest rates charged before September 
2014 has been made out of time. And for the same reasons, Im satisfied any complaint 
about how the information provided to Ms W at outset was misleading (in respect of how the 
mortgage would operate in terms of the movement of the SVR) would also be out of time. 
In considering the fairness of the interest rate charged since 24 September 2014, I need to 
consider the whole history of the interest rate, including before 24 September 2014. Thats 
because each time BOI made a decision to change the SVR, the SVR remained at that 
revised level until it made a further decision to change it  from the starting point of the level 
resulting from the previous variation. Therefore, the SVR charged since 24 September 2014 
is the sum of the parts of the history that went before. And if any of those parts were 
themselves potentially unfair, that might in turn mean that the interest rate charged to Ms W 
since 24 September 2014  which was set by reference to the SVR  is itself unfair.
I will also need to consider whether the contractual term used to vary the SVR is itself unfair 
as a matter of law. 
Both of those things are part of all the circumstances of the case that Im required by our 
rules to consider, and so are potentially relevant to the question of whether interest charged 
since 24 September 2014 is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
In considering that question, I am required by DISP 3.6.4 R to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
I also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable outcome. 
So, although I have read everything that has been supplied to me, I may not address every 
point that has been raised. 
Having done all that, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I realise this will be 
disappointing for Ms W. But I hope the reasons I have set out below will help her to 
understand why I have come to this conclusion. 
Ms Ws representative has raised many individual complaint points both to BOI directly and 
to this service. However, I consider the overall complaint to break down into two key points:
Ms W expected that her mortgage would track the Bank of England base rate once it 
reverted to the variable rate. As it did not do so, BOI has treated her unfairly.
Ms W has paid an unfairly high rate of interest compared to what she should have 
done from 24 September 2014 onwards because in varying the SVR BOI (i) relied on 
an unfair term and/or (ii) did not vary the SVR for a reason allowed by the terms and 
conditions. 
I will deal with each point in turn. 
Did BOIs actions cause Ms W to have an expectation that her mortgage would track the 
Bank of England base rate?
Ms Ws representative considers BOIs actions to have given Ms W an expectation that her 
mortgage would track base rate. 
As I mentioned above, this part of Ms Ws complaint is out of time. 
To the extent that Ms Ws representative is suggesting that this is also a basis to complain 
about the charges that are in time, I disagree with its conclusions. 
The mortgage documentation is clear in that Ms Ws mortgage would revert to the SVR once 
her discounted rate expired and that the SVR could go up as well as down. And I havent 
seen any evidence that persuades me that BOI was obligated, contractually or otherwise, to 
have its SVR track base rate for the duration of the mortgage. 
I am aware Ms Ws representative argues that, as the mortgage general terms and 
conditions were not included in the mortgage offer letter, they should not form part of the 
mortgage contract. I disagree with this conclusion for the same reasons given as our 
investigator. 
BOI was not obligated to set out all the terms and conditions governing its mortgages in one 
document. And while I appreciate this means Ms W would need to read more than one 
document to understand and appreciate the terms that governed her mortgage, given this 
was a substantial liability, secured on her principle asset, I think Ms W ought reasonably to 
be treated as if she had read all of the information provided. And Im not aware of any evidence that can properly be said to show that BOI acted in a way 
where it committed to keep the margin between the base rate and the SVR the same  the 
fact that this margin didnt substantially change over a period of time isnt sufficient to 
indicate that BOI had agreed to give up its right as set out in the contract, and I think that in 
commercial terms this would have been an odd decision, given the extent to which funding 
costs can change. Finally, I am not aware of any principle of law that, on the facts of this 
case, would obviously commit BOI to doing so. 
So, it follows that I do not uphold this part of Ms Ws complaint. 
Fairness of interest charged: interest rate variation terms?
I have to consider whether from 24 September 2014 onwards Ms W paid an unfairly high 
rate of interest. While I acknowledge that Ms W paid the SVR set by BOI, and that there is 
no evidence (and no complaint) that BOI made any calculation errors in charging interest, I 
also think that there are other questions that are potentially relevant to whether the interest 
itself was fairly charged. 
One of those questions is whether the term allowing BOI to vary the SVR is the sort of term 
the courts would consider to be unfair as a matter of law. The law on unfair terms is an 
important part of consumer protection measures and prevents businesses from taking 
advantage  whether consciously or otherwise  of their customers, who have limited 
bargaining power. If a variation made in reliance on an unfair term contributed to the rate 
charged from 24 September 2014 onwards, then that might be relevant to whether interest 
charged from 24 September 2014 was fair. 
To assess the farness of the interest rate terms, it is helpful to first set out the relevant terms 
themselves:
Section 4 of the mortgage offer states:
.
Product Description
Variable rate currently 7.34% with a discount of 1.85% until 30/06/2009, giving a 
current rate payable of 5.49%
 After the initial rate period ends the following rate(s) will apply
Bank of Ireland Mortgages standard variable rate, currently 7.34% until maturity.
 Part 01 Product related Offer Conditions

Unless the Company gives the Borrower notice to the contrary, the Companys 
standard variable rate (SVR) will not exceed the Bank of England base rate plus 
2.5% during any period when the Borrower is being charged interest on the Mortgage 
Advance at SVR (or at a rate which is set by reference to the SVR), and during which 
the Borrower may be obligated to pay an early repayment charge in accordance with 
this Offer (except for thirty days after the announcement by the Bank of England of 
any change in its Base Rate). If the Borrower is given notice that SVR will exceed 
Bank of England Base rate plus 2.5% and the Borrower is paying SVR (or at a rate 
which is set by reference to SVR) when such notice is given, then if whole or any part of the Mortgage Advance is repaid during the period of ninety days following the date 
of notice, the Borrower will not be obligated to pay the Company any early repayment 
charge specified in this Offer. The Borrower will be taken to have received a notice 
from the Company under this condition if the Company has sent it by post either to 
the property or to the Borrowers last known address.
The Bank of Ireland mortgage conditions 2007 set out:
Standard Variable Rate
Our standard variable rate of interest, which is the rate of interest we use as the 
basis for setting the interest rates we charge to all our mortgage borrowers in the 
United Kingdom who pay interest at a rate which we are free to vary (which to avoid 
doubt, does not include borrowers who pay interest at a Tracker rate).
4. Interest
(5) When we change the Interest Rate we will tell you about the change at the 
earliest opportunity (and no later than 30 days after the change comes into effect) by 
either letter or other personal notice. 
(8) Charging interest at a Variable Rate
This Condition 4(8) applies where we are charging you interest at a Variable rate. 
(a) We may change the Variable Rate:
by changing the Standard Variable Rate; or
(if the Offer or any separate agreement so provides) by changing any 
premium rate or discount rate which we add to or subtract from the Standard 
Variable Rate to arrive at the Variable Rate.
(b) We may change the Standard Variable Rate at any time. We will only increase 
the Standard Variable Rate for one or more of the reasons specified in Condition 
4(10). 
(10) The reasons mentioned in condition 4(8)(b) are:
to reflect changes in our cost of funds (i.e. the cost of borrowing the money 
we use in our mortgage lending business), for example, caused by changes 
in market interest rates or by other factors outside our control;
to reflect changes in the interest rates which other mortgage lenders charge 
on residential mortgage loans (including buy to let mortgage loans);
to ensure that the amount we receive from borrowers will enable us to 
maintain a prudent level of reserves and to meet any regulatory requirements 
that apply to us;
to ensure that the amount we receive from borrowers will enable us to 
maintain the long-term sustainability of our mortgage lending business;
to reflect changes in the costs we reasonably incur in administering 
borrowers accounts;to reflect a change in the risk of shortfalls on borrowers accounts which we 
reasonably believe to have occurred as a result of economic factors;
to reflect any change in taxation which affects the profit we earn from our 
ordinary activities; 
to reflect a change in the law, or in any code of practice which applies to us, 
or a decision or recommendation by a court, ombudsman or regulator.
One of the considerations that I am required to take into account is relevant law. I consider 
that the application of the UTCCRs to the relevant terms in this case falls into that category 
of relevant law. I have therefore considered whether I think that a court would have a 
reasonable basis to conclude that any of the relevant terms may be unfair, and then whether 
and the extent to which that assessment may be relevant to whether Ms W was charged an 
unfair rate of interest during the period I can consider. 
The relevant test as to whether a term is unfair is set out at Regulation 5(1), as follows:
A contractual term which has not been individually negotiated shall be regarded as 
unfair if, contrary to the requirement of good faith, it causes a significant imbalance in 
the parties rights and obligations arising under the contract, to the detriment of the 
consumer.
Regulation 6 says:
(1)the unfairness of the contractual term shall be assessed, taking into account 
the nature of the goods and services for which the contract was concluded and by 
referring, at the time of conclusion of the contract, to all the circumstances attending 
the conclusion of the contract on which it is dependent
(2) In so far as it is in plain and intelligible language, the assessment of fairness of a 
term shall not relate:
(a) to the definition of the main subject matter of the contract, or 
(b) to the adequacy of the price or remuneration, as against the goods or 
services supplied in exchange. 
So, it is important to note, that I must consider whether the variation terms were unfair based 
on the situation when Ms W took the mortgage out and in the context of the agreement as a 
whole. And whether the terms in question go to the main subject matter of the contract or the 
adequacy of the price/remuneration. 
Schedule 2 to the UTCCRs sets out a grey list of indicatively unfair terms and various factors 
relevant to assessing the fairness of a term. The grey list includes:
1. Terms which have the object and effect of  
(j) enabling the seller or supplier to alter the terms of the contract unilaterally without 
a valid reason which is specified in the contract
The grey list of indicatively unfair terms is subject to the qualifications to be found in in
paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 of the UTCCRs. For example, paragraph 2(b) of Schedule
2 of the UTCCRs identifies that the indication of unfairness under paragraph 1(j) is
without hindrance to terms under which a supplier of financial services reserves theright to:
change a rate of interest payable without notice where there is a valid reason 
(provided the supplier informs the consumer at the earliest opportunity and the 
consumer is free to dissolve the contract immediately);
alter unilaterally the conditions of a contract of indeterminate duration (provided that 
he is required to inform the consumer with reasonable notice and that the consumer 
is free to dissolve the contract).
As a strict matter of law, if the relevant clauses in this case are unfair under the UTCCRs, 
they would not be binding on Ms W (Regulation 8 UTCCR). And BOI would not have been 
permitted under the terms and conditions to vary the SVR in the way that it did.
In considering these matters, it is relevant to note that the Court of Justice of the European 
Union (CJEU), having identified that ultimately the fairness of a term was a matter for the 
national court to decide, has indicated what national courts should take into account when 
making that decision:
in Invitel, (C-472/10), the court concluded that a price variation clause in a contract is 
not a core term. Identifying that a price variation clause was instead a term relating 
to a mechanism for amending the prices of the services provided to the consumer. 
in RWE, (C/92/11), the court emphasised that, for unilateral price variation clauses 
(falling within paragraphs 1(j) or 1(l)) to be fair, they must specify the reasons and 
methodology for the price variation so that the consumer can foresee, on the basis of 
clear, intelligible criteria, the alterations that may be made to those charges. In 
addition, the CJEU was concerned that the customer is provided with meaningful 
criteria by which they can verify, and if necessary, challenge, any proposed variation 
to the rate. The CJEU also placed importance on whether the right to exit a contract 
in the event of a unilateral price variation can practically be exercised by the 
consumer at the time, having regard to the circumstances of the market as it exists at 
the time.
in Kasler, (C-26/13), the CJEU identified that, when assessing the fairness of a 
unilateral variation clause  and the meaning of plain intelligible language, national 
courts ought to consider whether: a) the mechanism expressed in the reasons for the 
variation is transparent; such that b) it would enable a consumer to foresee and 
predict the economic consequences for him or her.
In Matei (C-143/13) the CJEU referred to the loan agreement needing to set out 
transparently the reasons for and the particularities of the mechanism for altering 
the interest rate and the relationship between that mechanism and the other terms 
relating to the lenders renumeration, so that the consumer can foresee, on the basis 
of clear, intelligible criteria, the economic consequences for him which derive from it. 
The leading UK judgement on the UTCCR is the 2015 Supreme Court case ParkingEye v 
Beavis. In this case the Court said that:
The test for establishing a significant imbalance (Regulation 5(1)) includes, but is not 
limited to, asking whether the terms of agreement deprive the consumer of an 
advantage which they would enjoy under national law in the absence of the 
contractual provision;The question of whether a term is contrary to the requirements of good faith depends 
on an objective hypothetical negotiation, asking whether an informed consumer 
would have agreed to the term in question during individual contract negotiations. 
This should take into account a wider circumstantial review, such as the relationship 
with other relevant contractual terms; and 
Consideration should be given to the nature of the goods or services supplied, 
including the significance, purpose and effect of the term in question. 
FCA guidance (FG18/07) on unfair terms in consumer contracts is also of relevance. This 
paper sets out that The fairness assessment is a holistic assessment and these two 
elements may overlap in the way they apply to any particular set of facts and that the 
applicable law recognises the importance of striking a fair balance between the legitimate 
interests of both the supplier and consumer. The guidance also provides an overview of 
factors relevant to determining whether a variation term is fair. At paragraphs 66 and 67 the 
guidance states that firms should consider the consumers freedom to exit the contract if 
they do not accept the variation, and how they can actually do so. This should include the 
financial and practical barriers which may prevent them from doing so within any advance 
notice or reasonable timeframe. 
Application to Ms Ws complaint
Having considered the above, I am satisfied I need to address the following in deciding 
whether the variation clause was unfair: 
Whether the term is a core term 
Whether the term creates a significant imbalance in the parties rights and obligations 
to the consumers detriment contrary to the requirement of good faith.
The decision whether the term is unfair should be made in the light of what sort of contract is 
in issue and what the contract is about, as well as what the other terms say and all the 
circumstances that existed when the term was agreed. Assessing whether a term is unfair 
involves winding the clock back to the date the term was agreed, and then standing back to 
consider the term in its full context, both within the contract and in al the surrounding 
circumstances. 
- Is the relevant term a core term?
The terms in question relate to the mechanism for amending the price of the services 
provided, not the price itself. So, I am satisfied they are ancillary terms whose fairness can 
be assessed under the applicable fair terms legislation. 
- Do the terms create a significant imbalance contrary to the requirements of good 
faith?
As set out above, one of the considerations when determining if the terms create a 
significant imbalance is whether the terms of the agreement deprive the consumer of an 
advantage which they would enjoy under national law if the term was not there. 
I am not persuaded that the interest rate variation clause applicable to Ms Ws mortgage 
contract does this. At a general level, such clauses have a legitimate purpose and are 
common in financial services consumer contracts. Particularly those of long or indeterminate 
duration, such as mortgage agreements. A fair variation term can benefit both consumers 
and lenders. Providing flexibility and a wider choice to consumers and enabling firms to provide competitively priced products, knowing they can vary the interest rates they charge 
to reflect changes in circumstances, particularly in their own costs of funding.1
A reversion rate also permits lenders to provide for future changes that justify increases in 
the rate, and a lenders own costs of funds and things such as changing regulatory 
requirements are by nature difficult to foresee. So, Im satisfied that, if the agreement itself 
didnt include a rate variation clause, its reasonable to assume that national law would 
provide a mechanism for allowing a lender to vary the rate for legitimate reasons. And I think 
the average consumer could reasonably be assumed to accept this and agree to it in 
hypothetical negotiations. 
In addition, when considering whether there was a significant barrier to exit, it is important to 
note that there was no ERC applicable to Ms Ws mortgage at the point it reverted to the 
SVR on 30 June 2009. So, if BOI had exercised its rights as set by the variation term, and 
Ms W was unhappy with that decision, she was free under the contract to transfer her 
mortgage to another lender should she have wished without having to pay this charge. 
While Ms Ws representative has said that other costs impacted on Ms Ws ability to redeem 
her mortgage such as switching costs, Im not persuaded these are the sort of significant 
barriers that the CJEU and FCA had in mind when determining whether a variation clause is 
unfair. Ms W would incur these costs if ever she sought to switch lender. 
So, I dont think the variation terms would be considered unfair simply because at a general 
level there would be a cost to a consumer from moving elsewhere. 
Ive also considered whether the terms in Ms Ws agreement go further than reasonably 
necessary to protect BOIs legitimate interests and whether the variation clauses are 
sufficiently transparent. Having done so, and while overall I am satisfied with fairness of 
clause 4 (10), I accept that there is a possibility that a court might conclude that parts of the 
clause are overly broad and could be more transparent. But I think its important to be clear 
that whatever the answer to this question, the central issue I need to decide is whether there 
has been any unfairness to Ms W from 24 September 2014 onwards. The fairness of the 
underlying variation clause will not of itself properly answer that question.
Our service is required to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstaces. That 
includes, but is not limited to, relevant law. So, while Ive taken account of the relevant law 
regarding unfair contract terms, Ive also thought more broadly about whether, and the 
extent to which, the way in which the terms have been used has resulted in unfair treatment 
for Ms W. I think that is the ultimate question I need to answer in deciding whether to uphold 
this case. 
Has BOI exercised the terms fairly?
In answering this question, I am doing so in the context that this complaint only concerns the 
fairness of interest charged to Ms Ws mortgage since 24 September 2014. All interest 
charging events before that are out of time because Ms W did not refer her complaint in 
time. 
However, in order to consider the fairness of the interest Ms W was charged during the 
period that is in time, its necessary for me to consider historic changes to BOIs SVR, since 
the SVR charged during the period of time that is in time is the result not only of decisions 
BOI made during that period, but also the result of decisions it made prior to it. 
1 FCA Guidance (FG18/07 Paragraph 34)Im satisfied that each time BOI made a decision to change the SVR, the SVR remained at 
that revised level until it made a further decision to change it  from the starting point of the 
level resulting from the previous variation. Therefore, the SVR charged from 24 September 
2014 is the sum of the parts of the history that went before. And issues impacting on the 
fairness or lawfulness of those parts might have an impact on the fairness of the SVR 
charged from 24 September 2014. 
Having established that I need to look at the SVR both before and after September 2014, 
and having considered all the available evidence, I am not persuaded that anything BOI has 
done in varying the rate has led to unfairness from 24 September 2014 onwards.
To assess whether BOI treated Ms W fairly during the period I can consider, it is important to 
note that it chose to include a cap within some of its mortgages which ultimately resulted in it 
maintaining a margin of no more than 2.5% above base rate until July 2012 for all 
consumers on its SVR. 
Such a cap is intended to shield customers from large or extreme increases in the interest 
they pay whilst on an SVR, particularly if they are unable to exit the mortgage contract 
without incurring a substantial fee, such as an ERC. 
Ms Ws mortgage offer confirms the cap only applies to consumers who are being charged 
interest at the SVR or by reference to the SVR and may be obligated to pay an early 
repayment charge. 
Given Ms W ceased to be subject to an ERC from 30 June 2009, the cap no longer applied 
to her mortgage from that date. But it appears BOI maintained all consumers (whether or not 
they were entitled to rely on the cap) on a single SVR rate until 2012.  
The period 2007-2009 while Ms W was on the discounted rate
There were several reductions in base rate during this period  going from 5.50% to 0.50%. 
During the same period BOIs SVR reduced from 7.59% to 2.99% - a reduction of 4.6%. BOI 
choosing not to pass on the full reductions in base rate led to a margin increase of 0.40% 
across the period. 
While BOI did not pass on the full reductions during this period, its SVR was one of the 
lowest in the market at the time and significantly lower than it was when Ms W agreed to 
take out the mortgage in 2007. 
Both parties will be aware that this period was a time of significant change for the wider 
market as a result of the financial crisis. This had far reaching impacts on the funding costs 
of businesses and it was reflected in a change to a number of lenders interest rates across 
the market at the time. 
Whilst base rate did reduce significantly during this period, the costs to lenders of funding 
their businesses changed as did their prudential requirements. These are made up of 
several factors which are not directly linked to base rate. There was also a substantial 
increase in risk to all lenders during this period. This was clear at the time and has been the 
subject of analysis by both the Bank of England2 and the FCA3 since.
2 Quarterly Bulletin, Q4 2014, Bank of England  Bank funding costs: what are they, what 
determines them and why do they matter? 
3 May 2018 Guidance Consultation GC18/2 Fairness of Variation terms in financial services 
consumer contracts under the Consumer Rights Act paragraphs 2.8 to 2.10BOI has provided relevant explanations and reasoning to show its cost of funds did not 
reduce in line with base rate and that as a result, it was unable to pass on the full reduction 
in this period. 
For reasons of commercial confidentiality, I havent set out in detail the evidence BOI has 
been able to provide in full or provided copies of it to Ms W. Our rules allow me to accept 
information in confidence, so that only a description of it is disclosed. In this case, I consider 
it appropriate to accept the information and evidence BOI has provided in confidence, 
subject to the summary of it I have set out in the decision. 
While I note and have considered in full the expert reports provided by Ms Ws 
representative, I am not persuaded they outweigh the business specific evidence provided 
by BOI on the impact of the financial crisis on its own cost of funding. In addition, I have 
considered other sources such as the Bank of England that lead me to a different conclusion 
from Ms Ws representative.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied the variations BOI made to its SVR during this 
period were in line with its terms and conditions and that it has provided evidence to show it 
exercised those terms fairly. 
The increases in 2012 and cap removal
As set out above, Ms Ws mortgage offer contained a clause that said BOIs SVR would not 
increase by more than 2.5% above base rate and that if it did, consumers would be notified 
of the change (the application of the clause is subject to whether a consumer was liable to 
pay an ERC). 
In July 2012, following communications with the FCA to ensure it was treating its customers 
fairly, BOI chose to remove this cap and increased its SVR from 2.99% to 3.49% outside of 
any change to base rate. It made a further increase in October 2012, from 3.49% to 4.49%. 
BOI has told us it wrote out to all customers in 2012 to make them aware of the impending 
change. It has sent us copies of the leaflets that it says accompanied these letters which 
explained the reasons for the increase:
The cost of funding mortgages has increased significantly for the Bank in recent years. In 
addition, banks are required to hold more capital reserves, as part of measures to protect the 
banking system from the type pf scenarios seen during the banking crisis.
At the time this change came into force, Ms W was not eligible to benefit from the cap as it 
only applied to consumers who were subject to an ERC  Ms W was on BOIs SVR and 
therefore not subject to an ERC. So BOI could have varied Ms Ws SVR above the 2.5% cap 
from the date that her initial discounted rate ended in 2009, but it chose to keep its SVR 
within 2.5% of the Bank of England base rate for a further three years. 
Notwithstanding the above, BOI still had to ensure it varied the SVR in line with its terms and 
conditions and exercised those terms fairly. 
The terms and conditions applicable to Ms Ws mortgage provide for changes to the SVR in 
the scenario that the banks cost of funds change and/or there is a need to ensure the 
money it receives from its borrowers is sufficient to enable it to maintain a prudent level of 
reserves and to meet any other regulatory requirements
BOI has supplied evidence to show that the cost of funding its mortgage book had 
significantly increased when taking into account both direct funding and the increased cost associated with the changes in regulatory requirements and equity to debt ratios. It was also 
under continued restriction as to how and where it raised funds due to the Central Bank of 
Irelands Financial Measures Program to which it was subject. The evidence provided 
demonstrates that BOI had to take action in order to maintain financial stability and this 
translated to the removal of its cap and increases to its SVR. 
Ms Ws representative says she didnt receive the letters in 2012. BOI says it sent the letters 
to the address it had on file for Ms W. Ultimately, whether Ms W did or did not receive the 
letters in 2012 will not determine this complaint. I say this because Ms W was not 
contractually entitled to rely on the cap by the time it was removed and any complaint that 
she did not receive the letters in question would likely be out of time as the event took place 
over six years ago. Ms Ws annual mortgage statements would also have reflected the 
increase in 2012. So, I do not intend to comment on the receipt of these letters any further. 
Looking at BOIs decision to increase the SVR and remove the cap in the context of the 
above circumstances, and the evidence BOI has been able to provide, Im satisfied it has 
been able to show both that it varied the SVR and removed the cap in line with the relevant 
terms and conditions and that it had good commercial reasons for making the changes that it 
did. 
It has shown it balanced its need to meet its funding and regulatory costs and the needs of 
the consumers impacted by the changes - it shared its plans with the FCA, implemented a 
customer mailing exercise, introduced the change over two increments to allow customers 
time to adapt to their new payments and offered consumers the option to switch to 
alternative BOI rates or access to a free and independent mortgage broker if they were part 
of its closed book. 
So Im not persuaded the variations made during this period led to Ms W being treated 
unfairly or that BOI breached its terms and conditions as suggested by Ms Ws 
representative. 
2012-2019
Any variations following the increase to BOIs SVR in October 2012 were in line with and to 
the same extent as changes to base rate. 
Ms Ws representative has said BOI breached its Braganza duty by failing to reduce the 
margin between its SVR and the Bank of England base rate once external wholesale cost of 
funding became cheaper, particularly by 2016. 
While wholesale cost of funding is one of many factors that forms part of a lenders pricing 
decisions. The cost of running a mortgage book is also influenced by regulatory changes, 
capital requirements, risk of borrower default and a number of other factors. While the 
immediate impact of the financial crisis had passed by this time, its legacy has forever 
changed the mortgage market. 
I havent seen any evidence that suggests BOIs decision not to reduce the margin between 
its SVR and the base rate amounted to it acting arbitrarily, capriciously, perversely or 
irrationally. And the terms and conditions that govern Ms Ws mortgage do not obligate BOI 
to reduce its SVR in line with base rate. Instead, Im satisfied that BOI approached the 
question of varying the SVR during the period I can look at fairly and reasonably. 
Summary
Overall, taking into account all of the changes made to the SVR between 2007 and 2019, 
while the terms do provide BOI with discretion in regards to maintaining the cap and varying the SVR, I have not seen anything to persuade me that BOI acted outside of its terms and 
conditions or treated Ms W unfairly in the period that I can consider, or that Ms W has 
overpaid interest from 24 September 2014 as she claims. 
Ive also considered the representatives point that BOI has breached Principle 6 of the FCA 
Handbook and MCOB 11.5(1)(b). Having done so, and for much the same reasons set out 
above, Im not persuaded it has. 
My final decision
Considering everything, and for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and 
I make no award against Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Lucy Wilson
Ombudsman