DRN-4435175
The complaint
Mr H complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
Occupational Pension Scheme to a type of personal pension plan, in 2018. 
PSA Financial Services Limited is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things 
consistent throughout this final decision, when referring to the business, Ill refer mainly to 
PSA.
What happened
Mr H approached PSA in 2018 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. PSA completed 
a fact-find to gather information about Mr Hs circumstances and objectives. His 
circumstances at that time were as follows:
Mr H was 54 years and 11 months old and in a civil partnership. He had no financial 
dependents. He was seeking financial advice about a deferred DB pension from a 
previous job. The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) was around £40,635 and 
the normal retirement age (NRA) was 65.
Mr H and his civil partner lived in rented accommodation and had no significant 
debts, assets or savings. They earned £35,000 per year and £32,000 respectively 
(gross) and had around £1,200 left over each month as disposable income. 
Mr H had recently suffered a heart attack around two months prior to the advice 
sessions although he was evidently recovering. He was taking statin type medication 
in the meantime.
In addition to the pension being complained of, Mr H had a slightly larger DB pension 
with his current job. This isnt the subject of any complaint here.
PSA set out its advice about Mr Hs smaller DB pension in a suitability report it issued on 
16 May 2018. It advised him to transfer out of his deferred DB scheme. Mr H first 
complained to PSA about its advice in 2023. In response, PSA denied it had done anything 
wrong and said it had acted on Mr Hs objectives at the time. He then referred his case to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our investigators looked into it and said the complaint 
should be upheld. 
PSA still doesnt agree. So, as the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account all relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of PSA's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, PSA should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Hs best interests.. 
Ive therefore used all the information we have to consider whether transferring to a new 
personal pension arrangement was in Mr Hs best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Financial viability 
PSA referred in its transfer analysis to critical yield rates. The critical yield is essentially the 
average annual investment return that would be required on the transfer value - from the 
time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits as the DB scheme. The 
critical yield comparison was a requirement from the regulator at the time when advising 
clients on DB transfers. Its also important to point out that the critical yield comparison is 
only one of a number of different metrics Ive used to compare the different schemes. And in 
my view, these all point one way  that Mr H was probably going to receive lower pension 
benefits overall, as a result of transferring to a type of personal pension plan. 
I say this because the critical yield required to match the benefits at the age of 65 in the 
existing scheme, was described as 13.68%. PSA said throughout its advice that Mr H may 
be seeking an earlier retirement due to his recent health scare, but it didnt set out any 
critical yields for ages younger than 65. PSA also didnt explain in its suitability report the 
aspects of the critical yield which were clearly showing that Mr Hs pension, if he transferred, 
might not grow to an extent that made transferring financially viable. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor. 
In Mr Hs case, the relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given was only 
3.8% (for a retirement at age 65). This is substantially below the critical yield figure Ive set 
out above and so it clearly shows that exceeding the critical yield was not reasonably 
achievable here. Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper growth projection rate was 
8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. Mr H was 
described as having an attitude to risk (ATR) which was moderately cautious. So I think all 
these assumptions were showing that future growth rates of around 2 to 4% were credible 
expectations. Reaching the critical yield level of over 13% was almost certainly not 
achievable.
Ive also noted that when using the NRA of 65, PSAs own transfer analysis said that in order 
to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits provided 
by the existing scheme, the estimated fund required (also known as the capital value) was 
£132,179. Even to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated 
benefits provided by the existing scheme, assuming no spouses pension, no increases in 
payment and no guarantee at retirement, the estimated fund required at 65 was still £52,929. 
To reiterate, these figures are found in PSAs own analysis based on data the regulator 
required businesses to refer to at the time. And because these figures are well above Mr Hs 
CETV, they represent, in my view, a revealing window into the value of the guaranteed 
pension he could be giving up by transferring away.
I therefore think there was every reason to think that Mr H would receive lower overall 
pension benefits when he took retirement as a result of transferring away from the DB 
scheme. There would be little point in transferring if this were the case so I think this should 
have showed that transferring, from a financial perspective, was not right for Mr H. 
But of course, these straightforward financial comparisons arent the full story here. This is 
because PSAs recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal pension wasnt 
wholly based on the growth comparisons with his current scheme alone. Rather, PSA 
focussed on what it saw were the wider benefits in transferring away from the scheme. 
These were mainly focussed on what Mr Hs apparent objectives were. Ive considered these 
issues below. 
Other reasons for transferring
Ive used a combination of what was in PSAs recommendation report in May 2018 and the 
various client information forms it completed about Mr H, to help determine what PSA said 
were the main objectives for transferring out of the DB scheme: 
PSA said Mr H wanted to take approximately £10,000 tax-free cash from his pension 
to spend on his driveway and garden, go on holiday and build some emergency 
savings. He then wanted to take income of £6,000 per year until the fund was 
depleted.
It said he wanted to ensure any funds left on death would be available to his civil 
partner.
PSA said Mr H wanted improved performance of his pension.
PSA also refers, more generally, to three other broad areas. It says now for example that all 
the evidence suggested that Mr H was happy with the service hed been provided by PSA at 
the time. It also implies that he had been given a significant amount of information during the advice process. PSA also added that whilst he was at the time employed full-time and 
working, his employment situation was volatile due to his recent health issue. 
I will address all these topics in turn.
Introductory issues
I think its reasonable for me to start from the premise that it was PSA that was the regulated 
party here, not Mr H. Ive noted PSA was also charging Mr H a significant fee in proportion to 
his relatively modest - by pension standards - CETV. The advisers job therefore wasnt 
simply to transact what Mr H might have thought was a good idea. He wasnt experienced in 
this area and hed gone looking for advice, was paying for it, and so probably had every 
expectation that the advice offered would be in his best interests.
So, I think its irrelevant that Mr H may have initially been happy with the advice. What Ive 
seen tends to show that he had no experience of these matters and probably gained a 
subsequent realisation that transferring away from a DB scheme might not have been right 
for him. As Ill set out below  I dont think it was. And to be clear, PSA clearly recommended 
that he should transfer away and he followed that advice.
Mr Hs health
Im sure that, both for himself and his civil partner, Mr Hs health and wellbeing would have 
been of the utmost importance. And I certainly wouldnt wish to imply that a recent heart 
attack wasnt of significance. 
However, I think that the adviser failed to proportionately assess Mr Hs overall health and 
what it could mean for his retirement needs. I think there was every indication at the time 
that Mr H may have taken his sudden illness as a prompt to evaluate his working life and his 
eventual retirement plans. But I dont think there was any indication that his life expectancy 
had become so short as to make transferring away either urgent or necessary. I say this to 
clarify matters as its unclear to me what PSA is really saying about Mr Hs health and its 
relationship to him transferring his DB pension to a personal type of plan. But in PSAs 
response to the complaint it said, at the time [Mr H] approached PSA for advice, he was 
understandably uncertain about his future given his recent disclosed health problems and 
concerned that he may not be able to remain in his current employment, but even more so, 
how long he would actually live. 
However, I think the advisers job here was to use their training and experience to come to 
the view that there was no hard evidence showing Mr H was so ill that he was going to pass 
away anytime soon. Everything pointed to him having got through the worst of the heart 
attack and that he was making a recovery. So, I think saying that Mr Hs life could be in 
danger at that time was overstating the actual prognosis. The more likely outcome of this 
health event was perhaps a reduction to part-time work, or potentially an early retirement 
from his current job at some point. I dont think the adviser properly considered these 
scenarios and they certainly didnt factor them in to the financial profiles. 
In short, there would have been no rationale for transferring away based only on a theory 
that his life was in imminent danger  the prognosis generally looked much better than this.
Mr Hs apparent objectives
PSA supported what it had said about Mr Hs health matters with other rationale. It said Mr H 
wanted to access his pension more or less straight away, to carry out some home 
improvements and that he wanted some cash for spending on a holiday and an emergency fund. However, in my view, this all needed to be considered against the original purpose of 
Mr Hs pension and that he only had limited financial resources. The purpose of the pension 
was obviously to help provide a reasonable income for him in retirement rather than to use 
on discretionary spending. As Ive said, this was his smaller DB pension but I think it was still 
a relevant part of his somewhat limited pension resources. 
The adviser didnt go into much detail about what Mr Hs retirement plans really looked like 
and they assumed the financial slack potentially caused by him wanting to give up work 
completely could be taken up by using Mr Hs partners wages. So, what PSA effectively 
advised Mr H to do was to irreversibly transfer away from this guaranteed DB pension for life 
on a vague plan that wasnt yet clear. For example, the adviser didnt appear to 
comprehensively assess all Mr Hs income needs in retirement or consider reasonable 
eventualities that could occur in the years ahead. Nor did they appear to consider him 
remaining in that scheme and retiring from that when ready to do so, even if there would be 
an actuarial reduction caused by him accessing the pension earlier. They just took Mr Hs 
aspirations at face value and focussed completely on transferring away to a type of personal 
pension plan. They recommended that Mr H immediately access 25% of the transferred 
pension straightaway followed by yearly drawdowns of £6,000. However, its not clear what 
the plan was after this when the drawdown amounts ran out.
Of course, I accept that Mr H wanted to enjoy some of his own money. But the spending 
objectives for his home and the other aspirations he had just werent properly costed in any 
way and given the fee Mr H was being charged for the advice and his limited pension 
overall, I think these costs should have been clearly investigated and laid out. There was no 
explanation, for example, of why the 25% tax-free amount of over £10,000 was required for 
what Mr H wanted to achieve. The information at the time describes Mr Hs home as being 
local authority provided, so I dont think substantial structural changes were on the cards 
here  references in the fact-find mention only notional works required on the garden and / 
or driveway. 
So, I think the adviser should have been sceptical of the requirement for such an amount for 
what appeared non-essential works to a council property, a holiday and other wholly 
discretionary spending, however nice it would have been to have been able to afford these 
things.
In my view, by transferring away and using the money in the way described, the adviser was 
recommending a pathway where Mr Hs retirement income seemed much less secure. Ive 
mentioned he had another DB pension but this was projected to pay only around £8,100 per 
year and a relatively small lump-sum, upon reaching the age of 65. I think its reasonable to 
assume Mr H was going to try to access that pension early too at some stage and so these 
figures might well have become lower. So, there was a material risk here that Mr Hs overall 
retirement income was going to be modest because he was giving up work so young. 
Transferring the smaller DB scheme would only exacerbate these financial uncertainties and 
expose Mr H to a stock market risk that showed he could be worse off. I dont think the 
adviser took enough account of this when advising him to leave the DB scheme.
Overall, I dont think Mr H had a genuine need to access his tax-free cash so early. He only 
had modest pension provisions, and I think the advice should have been for him to remain in 
the DB scheme and to use it  together with his other DB scheme - in exactly the way it was 
intended. In my view, Mr Hs circumstances demanded a known and regular income in the 
future, rather than any need for a flexible income which was no more than a stock objective 
used to help support the transfer-away recommendation. If Mr Hs circumstances changed, 
or if financial flexibility did become more relevant, then he could have revisited transferring 
this pension at a later date. In any event, Mr Hs aspirations for this non-essential spending were probably achievable 
through other means. We know, for instance, that at the time he and his partner had a 
reasonable portion of disposable income each month and even if this reduced they could still 
apparently meet their short-term living costs on Mr Hs partners salary alone. The fact-find 
also said they had a capacity to reduce their outgoings if needed. It seems to me that Mr Hs 
aspirational spending might have been possible with a small loan, even if this was 
predominantly based on his civil partners income rather than his. At the time we were in a 
sustained period of very low interest rates which would have meant borrowing was 
affordable for them but I dont think this was ever realistically considered.
Death benefits
In this case, its difficult to assess to what extent the death benefits in Mr Hs DB scheme 
were discussed. As Ive pointed out, the main rationale for the transfer advice was for access 
to discretionary spending by accessing his DB tax-free lump-sum once transferred. But 
death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. I think the evidence suggests that the 
issue of Mr H being in a civil partnership, as opposed to being married, was discussed. And I 
think the death benefits available to a spouse in his DB pension scheme may not have been 
available to Mr Hs partner in the same way. So, I think the lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension were likely made to look like an attractive feature to Mr H. I think 
he was told that if he died, the transferred pension pot would be available to Mr Hs civil 
partner potentially tax-free. I do accept the point being made.
However, the main purpose of a pension is to fund a retirement and it could be reasonably 
said that Mr Hs pension provision was already modest. As Ive said, I do accept hed faced a 
shock of having a heart attack a few months previously, but there was no indication at all 
that Mr H couldnt recover. There may even have been an opportunity to continue working, if 
only on reduced hours. But by taking this relatively small pension, withdrawing 25% of it 
straight away and taking annual income of £6,000 as PSA recommended, clearly there may 
not have been anything left for Mr Hs civil partner to inherit in a personal plan at all, if he 
had transferred out of his DB scheme. He wasnt yet quite 55 years old and given the small 
extent of this CETV I think this whole pension was likely to have been run down completely 
within five years if Mr H followed PSAs advice. Basing the transfer on the death benefits 
therefore lacked credibility as they werent really relevant. 
Mr Hs civil partner was also quite a bit younger than Mr H. He had his own DB pension and 
there was no real indication hed be giving up working for many years. In this context, Mr Hs 
pension wasnt quite so relevant. His civil partner enjoyed a salary and his own pension, so 
there was no indication that if Mr H were to die soon, his partner would necessarily suffer 
financial hardship.
Other issues
Ive seen that Mr H wanted to improve the performance of his pension. But whilst I 
understand most people would want to see their pension grow, this wasnt really defined or 
explained and it wasnt a reason to transfer. As Ive shown when discussing the critical yield 
rates, the evidence is much more persuasive that Mr H would likely be worse off financially 
in the longer-term by transferring away. 
Ive also seen no evidence that Mr H had either the capacity or desire to exercise control 
over his funds. With his DB scheme, Mr H had a guaranteed income for life and the scheme 
was run for him by trustees. The evidence Ive seen shows Mr H himself had no experience 
of these types of other DC money market investments and I think he would have found the complexity of managing the transferred funds to be onerous in the years ahead. What Ive 
seen tends to show Mr H would have required ongoing financial advice and support, all of 
which would cost him money which his DB scheme didnt require from him.
Suitability of investments 
PSA recommended that Mr H invest his funds in a personal pension. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr H and I 
dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring out of the scheme if clear advice had been 
given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because he should have been advised not to transfer and so the 
investment in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given. 
Summary
I dont think the advice PSA gave Mr H to transfer away from his DB scheme was suitable.
Even though Mr H had two DB pensions, he had what could be reasonably described as 
only modest pension provisions overall. With this smaller scheme, he was giving up a risk-
free, known and guaranteed pension for life. PSA failed to explain to Mr H the relevance of 
the critical yield rates which showed he was likely to receive lower pension benefits as a 
result of transferring away.
There were also no other credible reasons to transfer the pension. PSA hung its 
recommendation on a desire for flexibility which was both poorly defined and simply not 
required. In fact, the evidence is persuasive that Mr Hs needs in retirement were for the 
opposite  a pension that was known to him and one which would largely keep up with the 
cost of living and last until he died. Whilst Mr Hs partner would likely not benefit from the DB 
schemes 50% spouse pension, this was a relatively minor consideration particularly as the 
transferred funds would be quickly and entirely exhausted if following PSAs advice. 
What PSA advised Mr H to do was to irreversibly transfer away from his DB scheme to fund 
discretionary spending which seemed somewhat vague and non-essential. Given his overall 
resources, the opportunity existed for the adviser to point out that either early retirement was 
financially unviable or that his aspirations for the apparent level of discretionary spending 
were unrealistic. Nevertheless, other funding methods through Mr Hs civil partners financial 
resources appeared more achievable and less damaging to Mr Hs retirement needs. 
PSA has stated at several points that Mr H was satisfied with the advice at the time and he 
was provided with a good amount of information. However, this is to substantially miss the 
point. PSA was being paid to provide this advice to Mr H, a relative amateur seeking help in 
this field. The advisers job was therefore to really understand his circumstances and to 
provide advice that was in his best interests. The adviser made a clear recommendation for 
Mr H to transfer away, so not surprisingly he followed that advice.
I have considered whether Mr H would have disregarded the advice if it had been different 
and gone ahead with the transfer in any event. But I dont think this would have happened. 
The reasons given for the transfer and the release of cash were neither urgent nor essential. 
And I think if an adviser, which Mr H was paying for, had carefully advised him that 
transferring wasnt right for him I think he would have followed that advice.
In light of the above, I think PSA should compensate Mr H for the unsuitable advice. It 
should use the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr H, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
PSA must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
If he hadnt transferred, I accept the more plausible outcome would have been for Mr H to 
still access his DB pension early and in the circumstances this would have been aged 55. 
Compensation should be based on that retirement age. The usual assumptions in the FCA's 
guidance should then be used.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Hs 
acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, PSA should:
always calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr H accepts PSAs offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr H for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, PSA may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Hs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £190,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. However, this upper limit is highly 
unlikely to be relevant in this case.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and I direct PSA Financial Services 
Limited to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £190,000.
If Mr H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on PSA Financial Services 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman