DRN-3447537
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S complain following a payment holiday arrangement, Nationwide Building 
Society (Nationwide) didnt make them aware their credit file would be adversely affected as 
a result. 
What happened
Mrs S and Mr S have two mortgage accounts on their main residential property with 
Nationwide. Mr S says following the expiry of an agreed six-month Covid payment holiday he 
contacted Nationwide  in October 2020 and March 2021, to arrange further support as his 
income was still being affected by the Covid pandemic. Mr S says on both occasions, 
Nationwide never informed him his credit file would be affected by these arrangements and 
he only became aware of this when he approached another mortgage provider. 
Mrs S and Mr S says Nationwides actions mean they can now only apply to higher interest 
rate lenders and want Nationwide to remove these credit file markers immediately. 
Nationwide says on both occasions when the interest only mortgage payment concession 
was agreed with Mrs S and Mr S, letters were written to them both advising of what was 
agreed and that these agreements would be notified to the credit reference agencies. 
Additionally, Nationwide says Mr S was told this on two separate occasion when he 
telephoned them to put in place the concession arrangements, in October 2020 and March 
2021. Nationwide says it has done nothing wrong here. 
Mrs S and Mr S werent happy with Nationwides response and referred the matter to this 
service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says having listened to call recordings provided by Nationwide, its clear Mr S 
was informed the concession mortgage payment arrangements would be referred to the 
appropriate credit reference agencies and these calls were backed up in writing by 
Nationwide, when again this was mentioned. 
The investigator went on to explain, the credit marker of AR Mr S says is recorded on his 
credit file, refers to an arrangement to pay, and not an arrears marker, as Mr S believes or 
was told by other lenders he says he approached. The investigator says this type of marker 
on his credit file is what he would expect to see given what was agreed by Nationwide and 
couldnt say that it had done anything wrong here. 
Mrs S and Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mrs S and Mr S to discover there had 
been a marker placed on their credit file, when they had understood that wouldnt be the 
case. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Nationwide acted unfairly when it placed the 
AR markers on Mrs Ss and Mr Ss credit file.
Mrs Ss and Mr Ss complaint centres around the time Nationwide agreed two interest only 
mortgage payment concessions, in October 2020 and March 2021. I can see these 
arrangements followed on from an earlier six-month Covid payment holiday, agreed with 
Nationwide. Its worth saying that Mrs S and Mr S had therefore benefited from the maximum 
Covid payment holiday deferral available to them, under the guidance provided by the 
Financial Conduct Authority to lenders like Nationwide. 
Mrs Ss and Mr Ss complaint here is not about this arrangement, as no entries to their credit 
file were made by Nationwide over this Covid payment holiday period. Their complaint is 
more about what happened following the two interest only mortgage payment concessions 
agreed in October 2020 and March 2021. Mrs S and Mr S says when the interest only 
mortgage payment concessions were put in place, Nationwide didnt explain to them it would 
place arrears markers on their credit file.
The first thing to say is amongst all the other information provided to this service, I have 
listened to both the call recordings that Mr S refers to in October 2020 and March 2021, read 
the case notes provided by Nationwide and I have seen copies of the letters sent following 
these arrangements being put in place. 
While I understand Mrs S and Mr S feel strongly about what they were told when these 
arrangements were made, from the telephone calls I have listened to, the advisors at 
Nationwide say on both occasions, it has agreed a non arrears bearing plan, but the 
concession will show on their credit files, which Mr S acknowledged. I have also seen letters 
from Nationwide addressed to Mrs S and Mr S dated 14 October 2020 and 8 April 2021, 
following on from those discussions and in both letters it states  Details of this temporary 
concession will be passed onto Credit Reference Agencies, which are used by lenders to 
work out whether to lend you money or not.
So, with that in mind I cant say Nationwide havent made this point clear to Mrs S and Mr S.  
I understand Mrs S and Mr S believe these markers on their credit file refer to arrears, but 
that isnt the case here. Nationwide have told this service it hasnt reported any arrears, only 
a payment arrangement which is different. Its worth saying the marker AR denoted on a 
credit file, and as described on the credit file Mrs S and Mr S provided to this service, refers 
to an arrangement to pay. 
This arrangement to pay marker is what I would expect Nationwide to note with the credit 
reference agencies as part of its obligations, and here it suggests just that, a payment 
arrangement had been made with the consumer  which is what was agreed here. I 
understand from Mr S that other financial institutions have taken this marker to mean 
arrears, but I havent seen any evidence to support that, but even if that was the case, I cant 
hold Nationwide responsible for how this has been interpreted by other lenders. 
With this in mind, Im satisfied Nationwide havent made any errors here in what it reported 
to the credit reference agencies, and it had made clear to Mrs S and Mr S, that these 
mortgage payment arrangement concessions would be reported in this way. It follows, while  Mrs S and Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, I cant tell Nationwide 
to remove the credit file markers. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman