DRN-3031645
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2007. Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold them 
PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and 
Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. And they said that, although Halifax 
says it didnt do anything wrong in relation to the commission on the policy, its made an offer 
as if it had.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ws. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Ws complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. But in any event Halifax has paid back some of the 
cost of the PPI, so I dont think it needs to do anything more. Ive summarised my reasons 
for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Over the years, weve seen a number of Halifax cases involving branch sales from 
around the same period Mr and Mrs W were sold their PPI. Using what I know generally 
of Halifaxs sales practices at the time, I think its more likely than not Mr and Mrs W 
would have been given an option to take out the PPI and that Halifax would have gained 
their consent before adding it to their account.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W, so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at the time, shows that 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example, Mr W, who 
was the one covered by the policy, was eligible for the cover and they had limited means 
to fall back on, so they had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr Ws employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And although Mr W says he had a medical condition diagnosed 
some time before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for Halifax to have 
recommended it. I say this because Mr W appears to have kept the condition under 
control with medication for over 30 years before the policy was sold. Although Mr W did 
end up taking some time off of work for the condition, this wasnt until several years after 
the policy was sold. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs W as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying 
from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs W would have declined the cover had Halifax done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. 
So, I think they would have still thought they had some good reasons to take the policy 
out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs W would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ws representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ws particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
Non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but 
in any event Halifax has paid back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more it needs 
to do. My reasons are set out below.
Was there an unfair relationship?
Mr and Mrs Ws representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary they have said Mr and Mrs W should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: Halifax failed to tell Mr and Mrs W about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because 
they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs W wouldnt 
have taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should 
receive a refund of all the premiums they paid.
But in this case, Halifax has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ws PPI was less 
than half of what they paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Halifax has worked this 
out and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr and Mrs Ws 
case was less than half the cost of the PPI.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think Halifax needed to tell Mr and Mrs W about the commission. So it follows that I 
dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think Halifax treated 
Mr and Mrs W unfairly. 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipThis means Halifax doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs W back any of the commission they paid 
for the PPI. 
But in any event Halifax has paid back to Mr and Mrs W some of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate Mr and Mrs W as if it had treated them unfairly. So I dont think it needs to do 
anything more.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank of Scotland plc didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs W paid for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland plc has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W. So 
Bank of Scotland plc doesnt need to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman