DRN-2858631
The complaint
Mr W complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. has turned down a claim he made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr W was due to take a fly-cruise holiday from a city in Europe. At the 
time Mr W travelled, there was severe flooding in the city he was due to travel to. Mr W says 
he was late getting to the cruise departure point and that when he arrived, he was denied 
boarding because he didnt have the right documents.
Mr W called Mapfre to check whether hed be covered under the policy. The call handler told 
Mr W that Mapfre would look to cover his cruise costs and any unused accommodation. 
They also told Mr W that if he was unable to get to his final departure point to get back to the 
UK because public transport failed, it would also look to cover reasonable accommodation 
costs.
So Mr W decided to remain in the city and had an alternative holiday. He took a flight back to 
the UK a day early. He made a claim for the costs associated with not boarding his cruise 
and the additional expenses associated with his stay.
Ultimately, Mapfre turned down Mr Ws claim. It said the policy specifically excluded a travel 
provider not providing any part of a trip. It acknowledged though that the claims handler Mr 
W had spoken to shouldve asked him for more information about why the cruise ship had 
denied him boarding. If theyd done so, they couldve let Mr W know upfront that his claim 
wouldnt be covered. But it also said that when itd later asked Mr W if he was claiming due 
to the flooding, hed answered yes. So it felt there was fault on both sides. Overall, it offered 
Mr W £75 compensation to recognise the trouble and upset its service had caused him.
Mr W was unhappy with Mapfres decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr Ws complaint should be upheld in part. She didnt think the 
policy terms covered Mr Ws specific circumstances. She listened to the call between Mr W 
and Mapfres call handler and she felt the call handler had assumed that Mr Ws cruise had 
been affected by the flooding. She thought they ought to have done more to establish why 
Mr W couldnt travel and that if theyd done so, Mr W couldve been given more helpful 
information upfront. She didnt think Mr W had suggested he intended to stay in the city 
abroad for an alternative holiday though. And she didnt feel Mapfre had indicated that these 
costs would be paid. She felt fair compensation to recognise Mr Ws distress and 
inconvenience would be a total of £175.
Mapfre agreed with our investigators recommendation. Mr W disagreed. He said the call 
handler had told him to have a nice holiday and that his claim would be covered. He said 
flights back to his home city were only once a week, so if he had flown back early, hed have 
incurred additional flight and accommodation costs in travelling to a different airport. He said 
the delay in telling him he wasnt covered meant that he hadnt been able to make a claim 
through his credit card provider for lost drinks and excursions. And he felt the compensation 
the investigator had suggested was an insult.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the fair outcome is for Mapfre to pay Mr W a total of £175 
compensation. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr Ws policy and the circumstances of his claim to decide whether Mapfre treated 
him fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy, as these form the basis of his 
contract with Mapfre. While Mr W did have cruise cover, this doesnt include a policyholder 
being unable to take their cruise at all. Mr Ws cruise was effectively cut short at the point he 
was denied boarding, so I think it was appropriate for Mapfre to consider the claim under the 
cancellation and cutting your trip short section of the policy. This says:
If you have to cancel or cut short your trip because of one of the reasons listed below.
The following are reasons we will accept for you cancelling or cutting short your trip:
1.You die, become seriously ill or get injured.
2. A relative), business associate, a person you have booked to travel with or a relative or 
friend living abroad, who you plan to stay with, dies, becomes seriously ill or gets injured.
3.You have to go to court to be a witness or be on a jury (but not as an expert witness) or 
you are put in quarantine.
4.There is an accident involving a vehicle you were planning to travel in, which happens 
within seven days before the date you planned to leave and means you cannot use the 
vehicle. 
5. You are a member of the armed forces, police, fire, nursing or ambulance services and 
you have to stay in your home area because of an emergency or you are posted overseas 
unexpectedly.
6. You being made redundant, as long as you had been working at your current place of 
employment for a minimum continuous period of two years.
7. It is necessary for you to stay in your home area after a fire, storm, flood or burglary at 
your home or place of business within 48 hours before the date you planned to leave
8. It is necessary for you to return to your home area after a fire, storm, flood or burglary at 
your home or place of business...
9. You cannot travel because of government restrictions after an epidemic, for example, the 
Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advise you not to go to the destination because 
there has been an outbreak of avian flu.10. If you become pregnant after we have sold you this policy, and you will be more than 32 
weeks pregnant (or 24 weeks if you know you are having more than one baby) at the start 
of, or during, your trip. Or, your doctor advises that you are not fit to travel because you are 
suffering from complications of pregnancy or childbirth.
This section of the policy also includes a list of the things Mapfre has chosen not to cover. 
One of these says:
You not getting the passport or visas you need. 
And the policy also includes a section of general exclusions, which apply to all claims. One 
of these says that Mapfre wont cover
Any claim that results from the tour operator, airline or any other company, firm or person 
not being able or not being willing to carry out any part of their obligation to you.
Theres no dispute that Mr W wasnt able to board his cruise because he didnt have the right 
documents. This isnt one of the insured events that Mapfre has chosen to cover under the 
cancellation and curtailment section of the policy. And given what Mr Ws told us about why 
he couldnt board the cruise, it seems the circumstances of the claim are specifically 
excluded by the policy terms. So I dont think it was unfair for Mapfre to conclude that the 
costs associated with Mr W curtailing his holiday werent covered.
I appreciate how strongly Mr W feels he was led to believe that his claim would be met. Like 
the investigator, Ive listened closely to Mr Ws initial call to Mapfre and his follow-up call 
once hed returned home. During the first call, Mr W told the call handler that he was stuck in 
the city and hadnt been allowed to board the cruise ship. I too think the call handler 
assumed Mr Ws plans had been disrupted due to the severe flooding in the city and told Mr 
W that Mapfre would look to cover a curtailment claim on these grounds. I think the call 
handler ought to have probed into the reasons why Mr W hadnt been allowed to board the 
ship. Had they done so, I think its more likely than not that the call handler couldve been in 
a position to explain the possible limitations on cover. As they didnt, I can understand why 
Mr W mightve understood that a curtailment claim would be considered. 
With that said though, I have to bear in mind that when Mr W did call Mapfre, following his 
return to the UK, he told the claims handler that his claim was caused by the flooding. So I 
cant say, on balance, that its most likely that the first call handler wouldnt have been left 
with the same impression about the reason for the claim even if they had probed further.  
The first call handler also didnt guarantee payment. They told Mr W hed need to make a 
claim when he got back to the UK. And the call handler didnt indicate to Mr W that he could 
arrange an alternative trip while he was abroad, which would be covered. Instead, he 
informed Mr W that if he couldnt return home as planned (due to an insured reason), there 
may be missed departure cover for additional accommodation and travel expenses. 
I am satisfied overall though, that the first call handler couldve done more. Where a financial 
business has done something wrong, I need to think about whether that mistake caused a 
consumer to lose out. Mr W wouldnt have been entitled to claim any of his curtailment costs, 
so I dont think hes lost out here. He says that because he thought hed get the costs back, 
he decided to stay abroad. He said if hed known he wasnt covered, hed have arranged a 
flight straight home. Ive thought about this.
I can see that Mr W did reschedule his existing flight, seemingly at a cost to him of around 
£50. This was only one day before he was due to return home. Had Mr W gone ahead and 
rescheduled his flight on or shortly after hed been denied boarding, based on the current 
evidence, these costs still wouldnt have been covered. The cost of a new flight (and any associated accommodation) would only have been covered if Mr W couldnt take his pre-
booked flight because of an insured event preventing the operation either of the plane or the 
public transport getting him to the airport. And I havent seen enough to show me that this 
was the case. Likewise, even if Mr W had had to fly back via a different city and had incurred 
onward costs to get him back to his home city, he still wouldnt have been covered. So hed 
always have incurred at least some additional costs in getting back to the UK.
And I also need to bear in mind the fact that although Mr W didnt have the cruise holiday 
hed planned, he did have a holiday. He was able to stay abroad for a week and it seems he 
decided to make the best of the situation, rather than returning home early. So while he paid 
out for additional accommodation, he did derive a benefit from these costs and made use of 
the accommodation. So in these particular circumstances, I dont think it would be 
reasonable for me to say that Mapfre must reimburse him for the costs he paid out.
But Mapfre accepts it made errors in the way it handled Mr Ws claim. It acknowledges it 
didnt do enough upfront to look into the circumstances of it. And it continued to ask Mr W for 
information hed already provided. It also took several months to give him an answer on his 
claim. So I think its reasonable and appropriate for it to pay Mr W compensation to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience its handling of the claim caused him. Having 
considered what I think is a fair amount, I agree that £175 total compensation is fair and 
reasonable and takes into account the impact on Mr W and the frustration hes been caused. 
Im pleased that Mapfre agreed to pay this amount.
I appreciate Mr W feels that Mapfre prevented him from making a claim for some of his costs 
under the Consumer Credit Act. I dont agree though. I think it was open to Mr W to try and 
recover his costs while his claim was being assessed. If any of these costs had been 
recovered through his credit provider, they couldve been withdrawn from the claim.
Overall, I sympathise with Mr Ws position, because I appreciate hes significantly out of 
pocket. But I think it was fair for Mapfre to turn down his claim. And Im satisfied that £175 is 
fair compensation to recognise the impact its handling of the claim had on him.     
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint.
I direct Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to pay 
Mr W £175 compensation (less £75 if this amount has already been paid).  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman