DRN-3192521
The complaint
Mr S complains that he had to pay a fee to Big Media Presence Limited trading as 
Contractcars.
What happened
Mr S engaged the services of Contractcars as a broker to help him obtain a car on finance. 
Mr S chose a car, agreed the terms and paid a fee of £750 to Contractcars.
Mr S was advised that the car would be delivered on a certain date but prior to this he was 
contacted and told that there would be a delay because there was a problem with the cars 
electrics.
When the car was delivered, Mr S noticed that the electrics were faulty and asked to reject it.
Mr Ss finance provider attempted to debit his bank account for payments due under the 
lease contract. Mr S complained to Contractcars and asked for a refund of his fee.
Contractcars said the car could have been repaired and that it had been Mr Ss decision to 
reject it. It said it had provided the service it had contracted to provide and so wasnt 
prepared to refund the fee, but it offered to waive the fee on Mr Ss next order. 
Following this response, Contractcars offered to refund the £750 fee but the offer was later 
withdrawn. 
Mr S wasnt happy with the outcome and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Contractcars had done everything 
it agreed to do when it sourced the car and arranged the finance agreement.
Mr S didnt agree. He said that Contractcars hadnt sourced a car which was of satisfactory 
quality and because of this, it should refund the fee.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whether Contractcars has done something wrong, its important to establish 
what it agreed to do, and whether it fulfilled those obligations. In this case, Mr S chose 
Contractcars to find him a suitable car leasing agreement for a car he had chosen. Once Mr 
S had chosen the car, it was up to Contractcars to confirm the details of the agreement, 
including the cost, the mileage allowance and other key information such as wear and tear 
and excess mileage charges.
Ive listened to the call recording between Mr S and Contractcars and Im satisfied that the 
adviser explained what Contractcars would do and how the fee of £750 would be applied.
Once Mr S was happy with the lease agreement sourced by Contractcars, he paid the fee. I 
can see that up until this point, Mr S had no issues with the service provided by 
Contractcars. It had done what it said it would do  it had found a lease agreement Mr S was 
happy with.
I appreciate that things went wrong after this. Delivery of the car was delayed and when the 
car was delivered, it had faults. I understand why Mr S feels frustrated about this, but the 
condition of the car (and any faults with the car at the point of supply) are not matters for 
which Contractcars can be held responsible. Contractcars are the brokers of the agreement, 
not the supplier of the car. Only the supplier of the car - or the finance provider  can be held 
responsible for any quality issues affecting the car.
Im unable to say whether the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. Based on 
what Mr S has said and based on the fact that he was allowed to reject the car, it seems 
likely that there was a fault. Any complaint about the quality of the car (and any claim for 
related financial losses) should be made to the finance provider.
I understand that Mr S feels very strongly about the fee he paid to Contractcars and about 
the service he received when things went wrong. But having considered what Contractcars 
was obliged to do here, Im satisfied that it has done what it should have done. The terms 
and conditions of Mr Ss agreement with Contractcars say that the fee isnt refundable if Mr 
S cancels. I understand why Mr S didnt want to accept the car but Im unable to say that 
Contractcars is responsible.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman