DRN-3553703
The complaint
Miss S complains that esure Insurance Limited disposed of her car without her consent after
making a claim made under her motor insurance policy. She wants financial compensation
for the loss this caused.
What happened
In May 2021 Miss S was involved in a car accident. She reported this to esure and it took the
car to be examined by its engineers. She contacted it again in June for an update. She
asked about the options for buying the car back, as it was driveable although deemed an
economic write-off by esure. She was told shed need to pay £225 to receive the car back.
Mrs J said she would think about it and get back to them.
Later in June 2021 Miss S received a cheque for £900 in full settlement of her claim. She
contacted esure to say she wanted the car back, but her car had been disposed of or sold by
this point. She complained to esure. It admitted it made a mistake for which it apologised
and offered £200 compensation.
Mrs J didnt think this was fair. She says she has been caused financial loss and
psychological distress as a result of esures error. Mrs J referred her complaint to our
service. Our investigator acknowledged the business was at fault but thought its apology and
compensation offer was reasonable.
Mrs J disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. It has been passed
to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in April 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Miss 
Ss complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach when a car is deemed a total loss under a motor insurance policy, as Miss Ss
car was, is that the insurer, in this case esure, becomes the owner of the salvage only after
the consumer accepts a settlement payment. If the consumer asks to keep the salvage, we
expect the insurer to allow this. The car remains the consumer's property and so they should
have the right to keep it if they wish to do so.
If the consumer decides to retain the salvage the insurer is entitled to deduct what it would
have sold the salvage for, from its settlement payment.
In Miss Ss case esure accepts it was at fault for allowing its salvage experts to sell her car
before she had agreed to accept a final settlement. Because esure is responsible for this
mistake we expect it to ensure she is placed back in the position she should be in, as far as
its able to. The car has been sold so it cant reasonably be expected to be returned to Miss
S. I note that esure says its sorry for its mistake, feedback has been given to the agent who
made the error and it paid her £200 compensation.
I have thought about whether esure treated Miss S fairly here.
Miss S describes how she has been left with no car and is in no financial position to buy one.
She says she kept the car well maintained and had it for around 12 years because it worked
well. The car had some cosmetic damage after the accident, but it was driveable. Miss S has
had to rely on others for lifts or use public transport that she says adds hours onto her travel
time.
I acknowledge Miss S found it difficult to replace her car with the money she received from
esure. If shes unhappy with its valuation of her car she should contact it to complain. But I
cant consider this point here as it didnt form part of her complaint to esure.
I have thought about the impact on Miss S of esure disposing of her car. I think it has
caused her inconvenience and distress by denying her the opportunity to buy back her car. I
have no reason to doubt Miss Ss comments that the car was reliable and has been difficult
to replace with the £900 she received. I also note that although there was some damage to
the car, this didnt prevent it from being driven. So, Miss S could have continued to use the
car.
Its reasonable to accept that Miss S found it difficult to get around without access to a car.
She used it to commute to work and for other daily activities. Finding alternative means of
transport has been inconvenient and caused her stress. Because of this I dont think esure
has acknowledged the full impact on Miss S by paying her £200 compensation.
Having considered all of this I dont think esure treated Miss S fairly when handling her
claim, or when compensating her for its mistake. Because of this I think its fair that it pays
her £400 compensation, in total, to acknowledge the inconvenience and distress it caused
her.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint and esure Insurance Limited should
pay Miss S £400 (in total) to compensate for the inconvenience and distress it
caused her.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Neither party responded with further comments or information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
In summary I dont think esure treated Miss S fairly when handling her claim and 
compensating her for its mistake when disposing of her car. So, it should provide a total 
compensation payment of £400. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Miss Ss complaint. esure Insurance Limited should:
pay Miss S £400 (in total) to compensate for the inconvenience and distress it
caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman