DRN-2225733
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Investment Funds Direct Limited (IFDL) didnt treat them fairly 
when it placed their orders to sell funds. They say, as a result, they lost over £2,000.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and were set out in our 
investigators conclusions, so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving my 
reasons for my decision.
Our investigator couldnt conclude that IDFL had done anything wrong and didnt 
recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr and K didnt agree. They said their advisor, who placed the orders on their behalf, wasnt 
aware of IDFLs internal cut-off time for orders and that this didnt seem to be mentioned in 
IDFLs literature.
IDFL agreed with our investigators conclusions, but it provided some more information 
about the advisors responsibilities.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr and Mrs Ks advisor gave instructions to sell the funds at 11.11am on 18 March. The 
valuation point, set by the fund manager, was 12pm. IDFL placed the orders by 12pm on 
19th March. I find it acted in line with its terms and conditions which say, at 9.12, that 
orders will be placed within the next two Valuation Points.
I dont find there was any obligation on IDFL to place the order in time for the first 
valuation point of 12pm on 18 March. But Ive considered whether it would have been fair 
and reasonable for it to do so. Its explained it has an internal cut off time, usually of 
11am, for funds with a valuation point of 12pm. This allows IDFL time to administer the 
number of trades it receives and to get them to the various fund managers by their 
required cut off times. I find this reasonable, bearing in mind the volume of orders it has 
to manage on a daily basis. So I dont find it acted unreasonably or unfairly in this case.
Mr and Mrs K think IDFL should have told them, and their advisor, about their internal cut 
off time. But I dont find it was under any obligation to do so. I say this particularly 
because valuation points and cut off times will vary from fund to fund and IDFLs cut off 
times can change without notice, depending on volumes. 
IDFL has set out what it thinks Mr and Mrs Ks advisors responsibilities are. But I dont 
find this is relevant to the outcome of this complaint which is about whether IDFL did 
anything wrong.
Its unfortunate that the fund price moved unfavourably for Mr and Mrs K after their advisor 
gave instructions to sell. But I dont find IDFL did anything wrong, so it follows that I dont find 
it needs to compensate Mr and Mrs K for the movement in price.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman