DRN-4499443
The complaint
Mr S complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plcs (D&G) engineers damaged his tv 
and his property whilst carrying out a repair, under his household warranty insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S made a claim to D&G to fix his tv. It arranged for two engineers to visit and carry out 
the repairs. He says one of the engineers was hostile towards him and had a complete 
disregard for his property. He says the engineer kicked his belongings out of the way, 
damaged the back of his tv and lost a screw. 
Mr S says he called the police while the engineers were at his home. He feels the police took 
the side of the engineers. When he contacted D&G he was told hed been aggressive and 
disruptive toward the engineers whilst they were carrying out the repairs. 
In its final complaint response D&G says where damage is caused by one of its repair 
companies, this damage is covered under the repairers insurance. It referred Mr S to 
contact its repairer directly and provided a contact number. 
Mr S didnt think hed been treated fairly and referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She says Mr Ss account of events and that of the 
engineers differ. As there are no independent witnesses, and no action was taken by the 
police, she didnt think there was evidence to show the engineers behaved inappropriately. 
She says the records show Mr Ss tv was repaired. And no evidence had been provided that 
showed damage had been caused to his property. 
Our investigator didnt think it was unreasonable for D&Gs contractor to insist on written 
correspondence due to the abusive behaviour it had highlighted. 
Mr S didnt agree with this outcome. He asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but Ill 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
D&G contacted its contractor to discuss what its engineers had reported following their visit 
to fix Mr Ss tv. Ive listened to the call recording from this discussion. 
During this call the contractors agent reads out the notes from the repair visit. He says Mr S 
had been causing trouble and was claiming that parts of the tv had been damaged. He 
referred to the police having been involved and it had been explained to the engineers that 
Mr S was going through a difficult time. The engineers reported that the tv was repaired, with 
the sound and picture working as expected. It was reported that, when asked, Mr S couldnt 
point out which part of the tv the engineer had broken. Following this conversation, the 
engineers left. 
Ive also carefully considered Mr Ss testimony. Specifically, that the engineer broke 
something on his tv, kicked his belongings out of the way, and lost a screw from the back of 
his tv. 
I dont doubt Mr Ss recollection of events. But this clearly differs from what the engineers 
reported. I havent seen any evidence to show that damage was caused during the repair 
visit. I havent seen a police report, but I note Mr Ss comments that he thinks the police took 
the engineers side. Based on this evidence I cant reasonably conclude that the engineers 
employed by D&G behaved inappropriately or caused damage to Mr Ss property. I note that 
Mr S hasnt disputed that his tv was successfully repaired. 
Having considered all of this, I dont think D&G has reasonably been shown to have done 
anything wrong. Im sorry Mr S was upset, but I cant fairly ask D&G to do anything more to 
resolve his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman