DRN-4311875
The complaint
Miss O, Mr O and Mr O complain about how AWP P&C SA handled their travel insurance 
claim. My references to AWP include its agents.
What happened
Miss O, her brother Mr O and her father Mr O had travel insurance. The insurer was AWP. 
Miss Os phone was stolen while the family were on holiday abroad and they got a police 
report. Miss O made a claim on the policy for the stolen phone and sent AWP the necessary 
supporting documents.
Miss O, Mr O and Mr O complain about how AWP handled the claim, which Miss O dealt 
with. In summary she said:
AWP kept asking her to resend documents shed already sent it. When AWP told her 
there were still supporting documents missing from her claim she phoned AWP and 
its representative found the documents which had already been submitted with the 
claim application.
AWP promised updates on the claim which didnt happen. Whenever she phoned 
AWP to chase she was passed from person to person and there was no one trained 
to deal with her claim. Shes been stressed chasing AWP and resending documents 
she didnt need to send and wanted her claim paid.
When Miss O, Mr and Mr O complained to us AWP hadnt assessed the claim. While the 
complaint was with us AWP settled the claim. It accepted there had been delays in its claim 
handling and offered £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused.
Miss O said she, her brother and her father wanted to continue the complaint as they didnt 
think £50 compensation was enough and AWP had only paid the claim when they 
complained to us.
Our investigator recommended AWP pay a further £100, so £150 compensation in total, for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service.
AWP didnt respond to our investigators recommendation so the complaint has been 
referred to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time of making my decision we havent heard from AWP with a response to our 
investigators recommendation, despite her chasing for a response and telling AWP that the 
complaint has been referred to me for a decision. In all the circumstances Im satisfied that 
its reasonable for me to make a decision on the evidence I have.
The regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And they 
mustnt unreasonably decline a claim.
I think AWP handled the claim unfairly, which AWP accepts, and I dont think its offer of £50 
compensation is enough. Ill explain why.
Ive seen evidence from Miss O that she sent the necessary documents for the claim when 
she made the claim. Shes also provided evidence that AWP asked her to resend documents 
shed already sent on at least two separate occasions. AWP hasnt disputed Miss Os 
evidence that when she called it about the documents, which AWP told her were still 
missing, its representative was able to see the documents had been submitted online with 
the claim.
I dont think the three months AWP took to pay Miss Os claim was wholly unreasonable. But 
I understand why, given her experience of not being able to progress the claim with AWP 
when she called it, that she, her brother and father felt they had to complain to us to get 
AWP to look at her claim.
In all the circumstances I dont think AWPs offer of £50 compensation for Miss O, Mr O and 
Mr Os distress and inconvenience was enough. Our investigator recommended that AWP 
pay £150 in total, including the £50 AWP had offered, AWP hasnt disputed that 
recommendation, and I think thats a reasonable amount.
Putting things right
AWP must pay a total of £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
its poor service, which includes the £50 it offered.
 My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AWP P&C SA to pay Miss O, Mr O and Mr O a total of 
£150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service, which 
includes the £50 it offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O, Mr O and 
Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman