DRN-3254575
The complaint
Mr P complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Moneybarn, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr P. The car here was about
four years old and had already completed about 65,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Moneybarn were responsible for its
quality. But Moneybarn say as the fault with this car occurred 13 months and 16,000 miles 
after Mr P took receipt of the car, its down to wear and tear and they shouldnt be held 
accountable for the repair.
When we consider whether goods are of satisfactory quality the relevant legislation says we
should also consider whether they have proved durable. Im not persuaded that a
reasonable person would think a cars timing chain and oil pump had proven durable if they 
failed at this mileage. I think theyre components that a reasonable person would expect to 
last the life of the car.
As the vehicle has now been repaired I dont think it would be valuable to get the opinion of 
an independent engineer on this matter. I think the evidence the engineer would have to 
consider would now be too limited.
Mr P first reported a fault with the timing chain in September 2020 and the supplying 
dealership have confirmed to us that the timing belt was stretched at this point. I think 
Moneybarn should have supported the complaint Mr P made at that time, for the same 
reason, and Ive not seen any evidence that they didnt. Im persuaded that was probably the 
case and I dont think Mr P has therefore contributed to any subsequent failure.
On balance, Im persuaded this car hasnt proven durable and hasnt been of satisfactory 
quality.
Putting things right
The relevant legislation gives the business one opportunity to repair the car. Mr P has now 
had the car repaired. Hes paid the £1,827.29 bill and the car was returned to him on 17 
December 2021. Moneybarn should therefore refund that money to Mr P and theyll need to 
add interest to it as Mr P has been deprived of that money.
The timing belt snapped on this car in April 2021 and Mr P didnt get the car back until 17 
December 2021. Its not fair for him to have been paying for a car he couldnt use and 
Moneybarn should therefore refund any finance instalments hes paid in that period ,or waive 
them if they were due but havent been paid. Theyll need to add interest to any refund.
Mr P has clearly been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to escalate his complaint to 
this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier and I think Moneybarn could 
have been more understanding of his circumstances; theyve continued to chase arrears 
since the investigator provided his view in favour of the Mr Ps claim. In the circumstances I 
think Moneybarn should pay Mr P £200 compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
to:
Refund the £1,827.29 Mr P paid to have the car repaired. Moneybarn should add 8% 
interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund (or waive) any finance instalments paid (or due) from the point the car broke 
down in April 2021 to the date the car was repaired in December 2021. Add 8% 
interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr P £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Remove any adverse information they may have reported to Mr Ps credit file in 
relation to this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahonOmbudsman