DRN-3710750
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr M approached Portal in April 2015 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. He says 
he was told by a friend that he could access his pension, so he wanted to look into this. He 
says he found out about Portal through an advertisement. 
Portal then contacted Mr Ms occupational scheme to, I understand, find out what his DB 
scheme deferred benefits were, the transfer value of them and how much tax-free cash he 
could release.
On 22 July 2015 Portal wrote to Mr M with some preliminary information about his options. It 
said that his DB scheme had a value of £30,812 and he could release £7,703 tax free cash 
from it. The letter also said he could do nothing, transfer and not take any benefits or transfer 
and take a cash lump sum and an income. 
On 30 July 2015 Portal completed a telephone fact-find. This gathered information about 
Mr Ms circumstances and objectives. This showed that he:
Was aged 55 and single. 
Owned his own property. This was worth approximately £120,000 and it was subject 
to a mortgage of £35,000. 
Was currently not working and he was in receipt of state benefits only.
He had cash savings of £2,000 which he was using to cover the shortfall in his 
income. 
He wanted to use the tax-free cash from his pension to purchase a car, he thought 
this would help him return to work.
Portal also carried out an assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
moderately adventurous. 
On 7 August 2015, Portal wrote to Mr M with some information about the proposed transfer. 
It advised Mr M not to transfer his pension benefits into a personal arrangement. It said that 
the critical yield (the growth rate required to match your guaranteed benefits with this 
provider) was 11.6% it would be against our recommendation to do this. Furthermore, 
you would be waiving your entitlement to a guaranteed pension of £2,214 per annum which 
is payable at retirement age 65.
However, this letter went on to say to If you still wish to go-ahead with pension release, we 
can still help you with this. As this is against our recommendation, we now need you to 
complete and return the insistent client form confirming you are aware of the benefits you 
would be giving up.
The letter also included an options form for Mr M to complete. The first option given was for
Mr M to Disregard our recommendation and continue as an insistent client. With the
second being to accept Portals recommendation and end the pension review.
An insistent client form was also included for Mr M to complete. This comprised three
declarations for Mr M to tick and agree to. These declarations:
Acknowledged the critical yield was unlikely to be achieved and included a brief 
summary of the projected benefits due under his existing scheme at age 65 that hed 
be giving up.
Set out briefly what hed receive instead by transferring  the tax-free cash figure and 
the potential income he might be able to obtain post retirement  and that hed have 
no entitlement to any further tax-free cash.
Acknowledged that transferring was against Portals recommendation.
There was also a section for Mr M to explain in his own words why he wanted to be 
an insistent client.
Mr M completed and returned the forms saying he wished to proceed as an insistent client,
In the section of the form to explain in his own words why, Mr M wrote To purchase a car so 
as I can return to work.
Portal then sent Mr M a suitability report on 27 August 2015. The cover letter said:
I am pleased to enclose a copy of your suitability report that includes my recommendation.
As of todays date, if you follow my recommendation you will:
Transfer your pension plan(s) to an (third party provider) income drawdown plan, 
whereby you will receive your tax-free cash lump sum of circa £7,703.
The first section of the full report said that I recommend that you do not transfer your 
existing pension plan and leave your pension funds where they are. However, you 
have elected to disregard my recommendation and you are aware that I will now treat 
you as an insistent client. As an insistent client, you have asked that I make a 
recommendation on how you may utilise your pension funds. 
The report then went on to outline the benefits that Mr M was giving up, his current situation 
and attitude and capacity to take risk, alternative ways to generate cash, the risks of the 
pension, information about pension schemes. The recommendation section again says that 
Mr M shouldnt transfer his pension but went on to say that As such I have considered a 
wide range of pension providers and recommend that your existing policy with  be 
transferred to an  (third party SIPP). And then went on to provide information about 
Mr Ms New Provider Recommendation and the recommended investments within this. 
Lastly the fees payable were shown. 
The conclusion, amongst other things said that: Due to this I recommend that you to transfer 
your current pension arrangements to the  (third party SIPP)  whereby you may release 
up to 25% of your pension funds as a Tax Free Cash Lump Sum of circa £7,703.
Mr M completed the application forms  which included a further declaration acknowledging 
he was proceeding as an insistent client  and the transfer went ahead on the basis of this 
recommendation.
The transfer value of the DB scheme was around £30,800 and Mr M took tax freecash of around £7,700. He invested the remainder in a range of funds. I understand Mr M 
has now withdrawn all of the funds. 
Mr M complained in 2021 to Portal about the suitability of the transfer advice because: 
There was a conflict of interest as the transfers needed to complete before Portal 
would be paid for the advice.
The advice focussed on releasing tax-free cash and didnt consider Mr Ms needs 
properly. The focus was on releasing this tax-free cash before any advice was given 
which influenced his decision. He wasnt asked about his future income or retirement 
needs in any detail.
It didnt provide sufficiently clear and understandable advice about Mr Ms options, 
much of it was generic and it didnt provide clear warnings about making the transfer. 
The advice didnt properly consider his alternatives to purchase a car or how to use 
any insurance payment from his old car which was written off. 
The transfer wasnt suitable. Mr M was reliant on the money from the DB scheme for 
his retirement and other options werent explored.
He wasnt an insistent client, and it wasnt reasonable for Portal to treat him as one. It 
shouldnt have facilitated the transfer of the DB scheme. Treating him as an insistent 
client was back covering.
Portal didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said:
There wasnt a conflict of interest and Portal was acting within the regulations of the 
time. There wasnt specific insistent client rules or regulations. 
The advice was suitable for Mr M and it didnt concentrate on the tax-free cash 
available. That said it did meet his aim of helping him to purchase a car. 
But Mr M didnt want to use his savings to purchase a car and there was no mention 
of insurance money, or any other means, of him being able to do this. So, it was 
reasonable that he transferred his DB scheme.
It was reasonable to treat Mr M as an insistent client. He confirmed at the time of sale 
that he wanted to proceed on this basis. 
Alternatives, such as debt management and other means to fund a car purchase 
were discussed. 
The funds he invested in were reasonable and met his attitude to risk.
The documentation was clear and fully informed Mr M about the transfer
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended Portal pay compensation. He said that it was established that the transfer 
wasnt suitable for Mr M. And he didnt think that Mr M was an insistent client.  So, Portal 
shouldnt have advised Mr M to transfer the value of the scheme.
Portal disagreed, saying that: 
The insistent client process was robust and met the regulators requirements. 
A full analysis of his circumstances was provided, and Mr M agreed to proceed with 
the transfer on this basis. 
The information clearly showed the transfer wasnt in his best interests and outlined 
the benefits he would be missing out on. 
Alternatives were fully discussed with Mr M at the time.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Portal's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Portal should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ms 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
At the time of the advice there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of
insistent clients. But there were Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules in the 
regulators Handbook which required Portal to act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client. In addition, COBS required Portal to provide 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading. So, Portals recommendation had to be 
clear, and Mr M had to have understood the consequences of going against the 
recommendation.
The letter Portal sent to Mr M on 22 July 2015 was headed Reviewing your pension  here 
are your options. It went on to confirm the transfer value of his DB scheme. It also said 
that a call would have to now take place to understand Mr Ms circumstances and that 
options would be discussed. 
Portal had only gathered some information about Mr Ms DB scheme at this point. But it was 
already strongly emphasising that the transfer would be the right course of action. It said that 
personal pensions could:  provide great tax incentives (which you would be taking advantage of with pension 
release) and if the right investments are chosen they can still perform very well for you
 If you decide to release some tax free cash from your pension then one of the things we 
would do is set up your pension so that you dont have to purchase an annuity when you 
decide to retire. This gives you much more flexibility in your choices at the time ... 
I think the contents of this letter suggests the approach already being skewed to a particular 
outcome. I dont think this was in line with the requirement to start by assuming the transfer 
was unsuitable.
And I dont think the emphasis placed on this outcome, before Portal had looked into the
DB transfer fully, was fair to Mr M or could be said to demonstrate Portal was acting in his
best interests. And I think the content of this letter was likely to affect Mr Ms thinking and
reasonably lead him to think at that stage Portal was recommending this option.
Portal then completed a factfinding call. But the emphasis of the information recorded in the
fact find was, in my view, the release of tax-free cash above all else. This was the first 
question under Client Requirements section. There is very little by way of questions about 
Mr Ms income needs in retirement. Indeed, the only mention of this seems to be one 
question saying What annual income will you require when you retire? which wasnt 
answered. 
The primary purpose of a pension is to provide benefits in retirement. So, the lack of any real 
consideration of Mr Ms retirement needs makes it difficult to say that enough essential 
information was obtained to make a suitable recommendation. And the repeated emphasis 
within some of the questions around the need for tax-free cash could very well have led 
Mr M into thinking that this what Portal thought was best.
The bigger issue in my view though is the correspondence that then followed this. The next
correspondence Portal sent Mr M was a letter on 27 August 2015 and the enclosed 
suitability report. This went on to say that, as Ive outlined above, if Mr M followed Portals 
advice he would transfer his pension and receive his tax free lump sum of circa £7,703. So, 
this is the cover letter that enclosed Portal full advice and it was summary of Portals advice 
and personal recommendation to Mr M. 
And in my view, shouldve made it clear that it had understood enough about Mr Ms 
circumstances for Portal to believe its advice was suitable and provided comparisons, or 
detailed information, in order for Mr M to make an informed opinion. But there was no further 
reason given in the letter itself for this recommendation or why Portal had reached this 
conclusion.
This letter enclosed the suitability report. Again, as Ive outlined above this did, in direct 
contradiction to the cover letter, say that Mr M shouldnt transfer his pension. But the only 
additional explanation of the recommendation was by saying A Critical Yield of 11.6% 
applies to this plan. That means any new plan would have to grow by 11.6% each and every 
year to achieve the same guaranteed benefits as your existing pension plan. Suggesting 
this was the reason for the recommendation made. But there was no further explanation or 
reasoning about this. I dont think its reasonable to assume that Mr M would have 
understood this. 
I think Portal was correct that the required critical yield was unlikely to be achievable. And its
worth mentioning here that the critical yield showing on Portals transfer analysis (TVAS),
where a full match of Mr Ms scheme benefits is taken is 11.6%, or 9.6% if tax-free cash istaken, both at age 65. And this meant that a transfer was not financially viable. But this isnt 
the only thing Id have expected Portal to have taken into account before making a personal 
recommendation. The critical yield is important, and a strong indicator of whether retirement 
benefits are likely to be better or not by transferring. But this isnt the only consideration for 
whether advice is suitable.
There can be reasons that it is in a consumers best interests to make a transfer, even if the 
retirement benefits will be lower. And Id have expected to see some consideration of these 
as Portal was making a personal recommendation to Mr M and for these considerations to 
be explained to Mr M so that he could make an informed decision. 
Portals recommendation letter does talk about the reason for the transfer, this was a car 
purchase. But I think its fair to say that this letter contained only a very cursory reference to 
this. I think its likely that Mr M saying he wanted to do this was accepted as reasonable 
without much investigation. And Portal accepted that his short-term need for this was a good 
enough reason to materially lower his retirement income without much analysis of it.  
There was also no detailed assessment provided about what alternative ways of raising the 
required money had been considered, or why these had been discounted. There was a 
section entitled alternative ways to generate cash, but this was very brief and seemingly 
generic. Im not persuade Mr Ms other options to meet this need were fully considered. 
There also doesnt seem to have been any consideration to Mr M taking benefits under his
existing scheme at that time. As Ive said, I acknowledge a TVAS was carried out. But none
of the information Ive seen indicates this was shared with Mr M. Neither of the letters sent in 
August 2015 make any reference to the information within the TVAS, beyond the critical
yield, or to it being included for review. And I havent seen any other evidence that it was
shared. So, I cant reasonably say that Mr M had the opportunity to review this document.
In any event though, Portal didnt look at the potential for immediate retirement. Mr M was
55. And in the scheme information section of the TVAS report, it was noted that 55 was the
earliest retirement age allowed by the scheme. So, it appears he was eligible to take benefits
under the DB scheme at that point. But that doesnt appear to have been talked about at any
stage of the advice process. Indeed, the TVAS report looked at what Mr M would be able to
take at age 57, as well as the assumed scheme retirement age of 65. But Ive seen no
reason for this or why instead it didnt cover what could be taken at age 55.
The TVAS report indicated that at age 57 Mr M wouldve been able to take tax-free cash of
£8,556 under the DB scheme and then receive a guaranteed escalating income of £1,375
per year. If hed taken benefits at age 55, these figures would likely have been lower. But I
think it is reasonable to assume that the tax-free cash wouldve been enough to provide the
amount Mr M wanted, or very near it. And hed have then received a guaranteed escalating
income. But again, Ive seen no evidence that this option was considered or discussed with
Mr M. And Ill reiterate Im not persuaded that there was a real pressing need for the tax-free
cash.
The suitability letter does not compare the pension that Mr M was giving up. The options did 
mention that the projected benefits Mr M could potentially take by staying in his existing 
scheme until age 65 were a pension of £2,214 per year and tax-free cash of £9,818. But 
there was no comparison within the recommendation between this and what Mr M may 
potentially receive by transferring (aside from immediate tax-free cash).
Without any of this information, or indeed any substantive reasoning being provided in 
writing for why Portal didnt recommend Mr M transfer, I dont see that Mr M could 
reasonably have understood why this was apparently Portals advice. So, I dont think Portal provided full and clear advice to Mr M. And as a result, I dont think he was in a position to 
make an informed decision  about the transfer or about being an insistent client. And so, I 
dont think the advice given by Portal, was suitable.
Insistent Client
Despite the advice being, in my view, incomplete and unsuitable, I think Portal then also
directed Mr M towards disregarding it anyway. In the options letter immediately after saying it 
didnt recommend transferring, in the next paragraph of the same letter, Portal promoted the 
option of still releasing money from Mr Ms pension as being something it could assist with. 
And the cover letter to the suitability report clearly refers to its recommendation being the 
transfer. I dont think that was appropriate or in Mr Ms best interests  particularly if Portal 
truly considered not transferring to be suitable.
Portal also enclosed forms, with the options letter for Mr M to complete, in order to go 
against this advice. And indeed, the options letter listed disregarding advice as the first 
option available to Mr M. I also dont think this was appropriate. If Portals advice was not to
transfer, I believe it shouldve given this advice, and the reasons why, and left it to Mr M to
consider this further. If he had then contacted it to see if it could still help, then itd have been
fair to share this information. But to promote this option at the point it did seriously
undermined the recommendation it says it was making.
I do acknowledge that the forms Portal provided included a section for Mr M to complete in
his own words to explain why he wanted to transfer. And I can see he did this, saying he
understood the effects of doing so. But given the lack of any reasoning with the
recommendation made and there being no evidence of any other comparison being provided
to this, I dont think Mr M was in an informed position or could in fact fully understand the
apparent risks. So, I think this statement holds less weight and I think was likely only made
because Mr M believed he could access some additional funds.
After Mr M insisted on proceeding with the transfer, Portal sent him a suitability report. 
Firstly, Im of the opinion that a suitability report shouldve been provided along with the 
advice not to transfer, before the option of proceeding on an insistent client basis was 
discussed. But in any event, I think the suitability report provided didnt go far enough to 
allow Mr M to make an informed decision and the covering letter was misleading.
The suitability report said several times that Portal had already recommended that Mr M not
transfer his policy and leave it where it was because of the benefits hed be giving up. But it
contained no real reasoning why it recommended this  so doesnt read like a
personalised recommendation.
There were some brief mentions of Mr Ms circumstances but these werent very detailed 
and really rest on his want to buy a car. I appreciate that Mr M may have been in a difficult 
situation, he of course may not have been, its hard to conclude this with any certainty given 
the brief information about his circumstances. And this may have seemed like a reasonable 
way to solve this. But there is very little commentary on why Mr M couldnt take on any form 
of borrowing, when he would return to work and how much a car would cost. There was no 
examination of his expenditure at all. And the advisers job here is to provide detailed advice 
about his circumstances. I dont think this happened here. 
As Ive outlined above a part of the report contained additional detail in respect of alternative 
funding options. It said using a loan, re-mortgage, disposable income or assets had been 
discounted as not financially viable. But I dont think this demonstrates a genuine 
consideration of these options in any depth.And so, I dont think the suitability report, even when it was provided, was sufficiently
detailed as a recommendation not to proceed. And even after receipt of this, retrospectively
after Mr M had already indicated hed proceed on an insistent basis, I dont think he had
been provided with enough information to make an informed decision about doing so.
The focus of the suitability report was also largely on the new provider that Portal was now
recommending as well as the portfolio mix it was suggesting and why it was doing so. And
the covering letter that accompanied the report clearly said that Portal was recommending 
that Mr M transfer his pension. 
 
This, I think, supports what Mr M has said  that his understanding was Portal was in fact 
recommending the transfer. At the very least it significantly muddied the waters. Which I 
think on balance likely led Mr M to believe that Portal felt the transfer was appropriate. And 
made it next to impossible for him to make an informed decision.
Portal was required to ensure that it treated Mr M fairly and that it acted in his best interests.
And Im not persuaded that it did treat Mr M fairly when it went to such lengths to assist Mr
W to identify as an insistent client.
I dont think the process was geared towards Mr M making an informed, considered
assessment of the reasons why he shouldnt be transferring. In this case I feel that would
have involved Portal providing the full recommendation to Mr M, allowing him to consider
this on his own and then revert to Portal if he still wished to proceed.
On the contrary, I would go as far as to say that Portals process was designed to facilitate
the transfer, with significant emphasis placed on the release of funds and how this could be
achieved from the outset. I dont think that providing Mr M with a means of proceeding
against the advice, without establishing why the apparent requirements were truly necessary
and why alternatives werent appropriate, demonstrates that Portal had his best interests in
mind.
Overall, I think this shows that Portal made it altogether far too easy for Mr M to agree that
he was an insistent client rather than allowing him time to think about the advice not to go
ahead with the transfer. And so, I dont think he truly could make an informed decision about
this.
Would Mr M have acted differently?
I dont know if Mr M used his tax-free cash to purchase a car and if he returned to work.  
But again, I believe the discussions around how he would use this money were more what 
he might do if funds were available  something which Portal prominently emphasised as an 
outcome from the outset  rather than something he really needed. And even if he did use 
the funds in the way that he had discussed with Portal, I dont think this confirms that this 
was truly a need or that he would always have transferred his OPS and taken tax-free cash 
even if Portal had used a more appropriate process. 
Taking this into account, I think, had Mr M been provided with more appropriate and robust 
advice around why the transfer was not suitable, he wouldnt have gone ahead. I know 
Portal maintains that it said the transfer was against its recommendation  which overall was 
in my view correct. But the process Portal used, including the suitability report ultimately 
issued after Mr M had been directed to the insistent client route, lacked sufficient clarity, 
reasoning and rigour  for all the reasons set out above.
And, in my view, this meant Mr M wasnt able to make an informed decision. If he had been
provided with more appropriate information and reasoning, so that he fully understood therisks and long-term implications involved in transferring his DB scheme and investing as he 
did, and hadnt been directed towards the insistent client route, I think he would have acted
differently and retained his deferred benefits. As a result, I think Mr Ms complaint should be
upheld.
Our Investigator recommended that Portal also pay Mr M £300 for the distress caused by
the unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr M has been caused distress and concern in
relation to his retirement planning. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened but for
the unsuitable advice. And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator
recommended is fair.
Summary
In light of the above, I think Portal should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, using
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Putting things right
Portal should pay Mr M £300 for the distress caused by the unsuitable advice. 
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr M whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for any new guidance /rules to be published. 
He didnt make a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want 
to wait for any new guidance. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr M. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for Portals unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would 
have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.For clarity, Mr M has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his/her/their likely 
income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Portal to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally requirePortal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr M any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr M any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr M the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman