DRN-3432724
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the advice he was given by Santander UK Plc (Santander) to invest 
into one of its products because of the low return he received upon its maturity. Mr K says he 
lost out financially and would like to be put in the financial position he was told he would be 
in at the initial sales meeting.  
What happened
Mr K invested into the Santander Capital Plus (Issue 9) for a six-year fixed term, which was 
a capital protected product. £2,945 was invested via an ISA and £30,555 as a Direct Share 
investment. The investments were made on 7 August 2014 and were to mature on 10 
November 2020.
Mr K became unhappy with the return he would receive upon maturity. In September 2020 
he complained to Santander that he would never have taken out the investment if he had 
been made aware that the investment paid out a minimum of 2.5% over the term of the 
investment. 
Santander responded to Mr Ks complaint on 27 October 2020. It didnt uphold his complaint 
and said:
The recommendations were suitable based on Mr Ks appetite for risk, personal 
objectives and needs along with his personal and financial circumstances. 
There was no evidence to suggest that Mr K had been told he would receive a 
minimum of 2% return per year.
It concluded the recommendation was appropriate for him. 
Mr K wasnt happy with the outcome and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. 
Briefly, she said:
Mr K had been looking to invest his money to get a better return than from his current 
account. Mr Ks previous investment experience of stock market investments 
suggested he had sufficient investment knowledge and the advice to invest in the 
stock market again wasnt unreasonable. 
Mr K had been willing to invest for growth for a minimum term of five years from risk-
based products. Mr Ks financial circumstances indicated he had the capacity for 
loss, but he had wanted to protect his capital. So, it wasnt wrong of Santander to 
have recommended a capital protected stock market investment with guaranteed 
growth. 
Santander had determined Mr K had a medium attitude to risk but because of his 
preference the product Santander had recommended had reduced that risk. The 
investigator was unable to find anything that would make Mr K think the product 
would pay out 2% per annum. 
Mr K said that at the time of the sale Santander had offered a bond which guaranteed 
returns of 2.5% per annum over six years. The investigator couldnt find any details of 
such a bond.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigator. He was convinced that he was told the product 
worked in a very specific way but didnt have any evidence to support his claim. He had 
wanted to invest into a secure product and not to gamble with his money. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When the evidence or testimony surrounding a complaint is incomplete or contradictory, I 
have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means I 
base my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr Ks recollection is that the product would guarantee a return of 2% per year giving a total 
return of 12% over the six-year investment term. Clearly, I cant know what was actually said 
to Mr K when the product was recommended to him. But Ive carefully considered his 
testimony alongside the documentation I do have from the time of the sale. 
Mr Ks circumstances and investment objectives
Santander has provided us with various documents from the time of the sale. Amongst 
others these include the financial report, the investment returns forecast, capacity for loss 
summary report and risk profiling questionnaire. The financial report shows there was a fact-
finding meeting on 29 July 2014 followed by a recommendation meeting on 7 August. There 
was also a telephone conversation on the 5 August. 
The financial report states that Mr K wanted advice because of low interest rates, and he 
wanted to discuss potential investment options to invest funds he held in deposit accounts to 
receive maximum growth potential. He wanted to invest a total of £33,500 over a minimum of 
five years. Mr K was retired with private and occupational pensions. He had a buy to let 
property which still had a mortgage but was financed by the rental income and was being 
advertised for sale. He owned his own property and had no planned expenditure. 
Mr K had investible assets of £134,302, £40,300 of which was agreed as a cash reserve and 
£56,324 was already invested. In response to 15 risk profiling questions Mr Ks initial attitude 
to risk was established as being medium meaning he was happy to take risks and have 
[had] taken substantial risks in the past with your investment decisions. He had previously 
invested in a Santander Max 70% Share Portfolio OEIC and UK growth OEIC (held within an 
ISA taken out in 2001 and sold in 2013) which were medium and high risk investments with 
greater exposure to equities than his then current holding of Santander Max 50% Share 
Portfolio OEIC which he invested into in 2010 and had made a gain of 33%. 
Mr K expressed concerns about the volatility he had experienced and the lack of capital 
protection with his existing investment. So, he would prefer a more calculated risk approach 
with any new investments because of his age and his savings no longer being inexhaustible 
now that he was retired. 
Its recorded that Mr Ks capacity for loss was discussed taking into account his initial risk 
profile, knowledge, and investment experience as well as his existing investment and it was agreed his attitude to risk was medium. But that for any new investment he would be 
uncomfortable with a medium risk profile because there would no element of protection 
against losses. He wanted to receive at least his capital at the end of the term. His 
investment objective was to consider investing over the longer term to try and achieve a 
better potential return for his money than savings deposits. 
The documents Ive referred to are detailed, and I think evidence the discussions had about 
Mr Ks previous and current investments as well as what he was now trying to achieve. In 
conclusion, Im satisfied it was established he was looking to obtain a better return than cash 
on deposit from a lower than medium risk investment with the capital protected. And taking 
all of the above into account, I dont think that was an unreasonable conclusion for 
Santander to have reached. 
Was the investment clearly explained to Mr K?
When advising Mr K Santanders adviser had two key responsibilities. To make sure that   
Mr K was given an adequate explanation of what he was investing in, and to make sure any 
investment recommended was suitable for his needs and circumstances. 
Structured investments can be designed to at least return the capital invested but arent 
without risk. So, although the investment was capital protected, the possibility of receiving a 
nil (or very low) return, apart from the minimum guarantee can be a real risk. 
And just because the capital was protected does not automatically mean the advice was 
suitable. So, the usual suitability tests apply. But Ill first look at whether the product was 
explained in a way Mr K could understand.
Mr K was advised to invest £33,500 into a fixed term investment  the Santander Capital 
Plus fund (issue 9)  as it offered the potential for higher growth than leaving it on deposit. It 
was described in the financial report as: 
a very low risk Structured Investment Product that offers an element of capital 
guarantee on maturity.At the same time, this product gives you the opportunity to 
benefit from the potential growth performance of the stock market in the future 
without exposing this £33,500 to direct bond/equity market volatilities.You are fully 
aware that our current fixed term cash deposit bonds could potentially provide higher 
returns if only the minimum guaranteed return of 2.5% on this investment is paid out 
on maturity.
It offered the potential to provide a return capped at 36% depending on the FTSE 100 share 
index (subject to averaging) remaining the same or growing in value during the investment 
term. If the FTSE 100 share index fell in value during this period you will receive a return of 
your original investment plus 2.5%. Examples of what returns could be expected were given 
if the FTSE 100 remained the same or increased or if it fell during the fixed term and that 
any growth above this minimum level is linked to the performance of the FTSE 100 Index 
and that the returns are paid at maturity, not annually.
Its recorded that the key features document and term sheet were discussed and attached to 
the report was a portfolio planner, fact find addendum, summary report which included the 
risk description and fund specific investment returns forecaster. 
Ive reviewed the term sheet which I think makes clear the product features and key dates of 
the product. It states the minimum return at maturity could be 2.5% and maximum could be 
36%. It explains the terms, the potential returns and risk and gave examples of those potential returns. The key features document also outlined the aims of the investment, the 
risk factors and explained how Mr Ks money would be invested. 
Mr K has said he was told the product would guarantee a return of 2% per year giving a total 
return of 12% over the six-year investment term. However, and in the absence of being 
present at the meeting and not knowing what was said, there is nothing to indicate that this 
was the case. I appreciate that Mr K says he was told the product worked in a very specific 
way but doesnt have any evidence to support his claim and this must be frustrating for him if 
that is his recollection. 
However, as explained above, I also have to take into account the evidence I do have and 
there isnt any reference to the type of guaranteed return Mr K has referred to. And I note   
Mr K had signed to confirm he had read and understood the information that had been given 
to him at the time of the sale. So, based on this there isnt enough for me to safely conclude 
that this is most likely what Mr K was told at the time of the sale. All of the documentation 
indicates otherwise and suggests the investment was clearly explained to him. 
Was the investment suitable for Mr K?
The investment had to be right for Mr K bearing in mind his circumstances and investment 
objectives. These include Mr Ks age, employment, his personal and financial 
circumstances, financial requirements, attitude to risk and his capacity to bear a loss. 
Because of the documentary evidence Santander has given us, Im satisfied that all of these 
were considered and discussed. 
The outcome of the discussions was that Mr K  because of his previous experience and 
investment knowledge  had a medium risk profile. But as a result of the volatility he had 
previously experienced, and his then current investment, its acknowledged he didnt want to 
take that level of risk with his new investment and wanted his capital protected from loss. 
Im satisfied that is what the Santander Capital Plus fund (issue 9) did offer and that it 
matched Mr Ks investment objectives and requirements. His capital was protected from any 
loss, but it offered the potential of benefiting from gains in the FTSE 100 over the term of the 
investment. Unfortunately for Mr K this didnt prove to be the case. But this doesnt 
necessarily mean the investment was unsuitable for him. And I cant see that the investment 
was akin to gambling. Mr K didnt suffer an actual financial loss of his capital as it was 
protected and potentially, he could have benefitted from the upside if the stock market had 
performed better.  So, I cant conclude that the investment recommendation was unsuitable 
for him.
I appreciate that Mr K is disappointed with the performance of his investment and the return 
he received. But in this case, Im satisfied that Mr K was provided with sufficiently clear 
information about how the investment worked and potentially performed. And I cant see he 
was given any guarantees as to what the returns would be in addition to the guaranteed 
minimum. So, in conclusion and in the individual circumstances of this complaint, I dont 
think Santander has done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 Catherine Langley
Ombudsman