DRN-2029354
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc declined his section 75 claim.
What happened
Mr S purchased a television using a credit card supplied by HSBC.
Within the first week of using the television, Mr S noticed a defect on the screen. He believes 
this was caused during the delivery and installation process, due to handling by the installer.
Mr S contacted the merchant and asked for a refund, which was refused. So, he contacted 
HSBC to make a claim.
HSBC attempted a chargeback and asked Mr S to obtain an inspection report to show that 
there was a fault with the television. Mr S didnt provide a report and HSBC advised him that 
it couldnt progress the chargeback further.
Mr S raised a complaint. He said it was unreasonable to require him to provide an inspection 
report. He also said hed made a claim under section 75, not under the chargeback rules. 
HSBC acknowledged that it had caused delay by attempting a chargeback and offered Mr S 
compensation of £50, which he accepted. HSBC then commenced a section 75 claim and 
asked Mr S to provide an independent inspection report to support the claim.
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He doesnt think its fair 
that he should have to pay for an independent inspection and said hed provided full 
evidence of the fault.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said it was reasonable for HSBC to raise a 
chargeback claim and that it was reasonable for HSBC to ask Mr S to obtain an inspection 
report as a means of showing that there was a fault. In relation to the section 75 claim, the 
investigator said that Mr S hadnt provided enough evidence to show that the television was 
faulty, and that HSBC hadnt responded to the claim unreasonably by asking Mr S to provide 
an independent inspection report to progress the claim.
Mr S didnt agree. He said hed provided images which showed the fault and that it was 
unreasonable to require him to provide an inspection report, which he said he couldnt afford. 
He said hed advised the supplier that the television was faulty within the statutory return 
period and said it shouldve collected the television and issued a full refund.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to decide whether HSBC responded fairly and reasonably to Mr Ss claim, Ive 
looked at the action it took I response to his request for a refund of the cost of the television 
which he said was faulty.
I can see that Mr S was unhappy that HSBC initially raised a chargeback claim rather than a 
section 75 claim. So, Ive considered whether it was reasonable for HSBC to do this.
A chargeback claim can be raised where goods supplied arent as described or are faulty. 
This applies to the circumstances of Mr Ss case, because he says that the television was 
faulty. A chargeback claim has to be filed within a time limit of the transaction, so Id 
generally expect a provider of credit to initiate a chargeback claim before a section 75 claim.
There are a number of conditions which need to be satisfied in order for a chargeback claim 
to be successful. The consumer must have tried to resolve the dispute with the supplier. I 
can see from Mr Ss correspondence with the supplier that he tried to obtain a refund but 
was unable to resolve matters. Once a chargeback claim has been started, and in cases 
where the claim relates to faulty goods, the consumer is expected to provide evidence of the 
fault.
Ive looked at the evidence that Mr S provided to the supplier and HSBC to show that there 
was a fault with the television. The supplier asked Mr S to provide clearer images, but Mr S 
didnt provide these. The supplier also asked Mr S to contact the manufacturer of the 
television to obtain confirmation that it was faulty, but Mr S hasnt provided any evidence to 
show that he obtained any information from the supplier to show that the television was 
faulty. Looking at the evidence that Mr S provided to support his claim, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for HSBC to ask for further evidence to support the claim. Because this further 
evidence wasnt forthcoming, I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to take the decision 
not to progress the chargeback claim further.
Ive also considered HSBCs response to the section 75 claim. In certain circumstances, 
section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services 
or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
It might be helpful if I set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
service provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair and reasonable way to resolve the complaint, I 
take section 75 into account. But that doesnt mean that Im obliged to reach the same 
outcome as, for instance, a court might reach if Mr S pursued a claim for breach of contract.
Ive thought about whether HSBC responded to the section 75 claim fairly and in particular, 
whether it was reasonable for HSBC to ask Mr S to provide further evidence that the 
television was faulty.
In order to uphold Mr Ss complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there had been a 
breach of contract, that he had provider sufficient evidence to show this, and that HSBCs 
response wasnt fair or reaosbsale.
Mr S says theres been a breach of contract because the television supplied to him was 
faulty. Ive looked at the evidence provided by Mr S, including the images and the 
correspondence between him and the merchant. Whilst I appreciate that Mr S believes the 
images are clear and show the fault, Im not persuaded that its possible to see a fault in 
these images.
Although Mr S says that he contacted the manufacturer, I havent seen any evidence from 
the manufacturer to show that the television is faulty.
Taking the available evidence into account, I dont think Mr S has provided enough evidence 
to show that the television is faulty. Because of this, I dont think HSBC acted unreasonably in asking Mr S to provide further evidence in the form of an independent inspection report. 
This wasnt provided, so I dont think theres enough evidence to show that the television is 
faulty or that theres been a breach of contract.
Ive also considered whether theres been a breach of contract due to the fact that Mr S 
wasnt provided with a refund even though he asked for one within 14 days. Under the 
Consumer Contract Regulations 2013, where a consumer purchases goods from a distance, 
the consumer has 14 days to request a full refund, provided that the consumer hasnt done 
anything to devalue the goods. Ive looked at the suppliers cancellation policy, which says 
the consumer can unpack the goods to inspect them, but that if the goods have been used 
(in the case of a television, installed and switched on), then it wont offer a refund because 
the goods have been used and the value diminished.
In this case, Mr S had the television installed and switched it on. This means he used in in 
accordance with the relevant regulations and the cancellation policy, so Im satisfied that 
theres no entitlement to a full refund. Um unable to say that the supplier has breached the 
regulations, so I cant ask HSBC to do anything in response to this aspect of the section 75 
claim.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded that HSBC has acted unfairly here. There 
isnt enough evidence to show that the television is faulty or that theres been a breach of 
contract, and I think it was reaosbsale for HSBC to ask Mr S to provide further evidence. 
Whilst I understand Mr Ss reasons for not obtaining an inspection report, its difficult to see 
how a section 75 claim can proceed without this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman