DRN-3245156
The complaint
Mr C complains HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly charged him interest on his credit card.
What happened
Mr C holds a credit card with HSBC. Mr C uses the card for both retail purchases and cash 
transactions. When Mr C makes a cash transaction, he regularly covers that cash 
transaction the same day, in full, to avoid interest.
Mr C made a cash transaction and covered the payment the same day along with an extra 
£500. A few days later Mr C made a further cash transaction, and again paid to his credit 
card that day, but this payment was £500 less than the cash transaction.
When HSBC sent Mr C that months statement, he noticed hed been charged interest. Mr C 
complained to HSBC and it responded to say it had applied Mr Cs £500 overpayment to 
other transactions on the card.
HSBC said it had followed an order of payments, as laid out in its terms and conditions. 
Because the £500 had been used to clear other outstanding balances Mr C hadnt paid the 
second cash transaction in full, so interest was charged.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with this response and brought his complaint to this service. Mr C said 
he always pays his credit card off in full, so he never gets charged interest on his purchases. 
Mr C thought HSBC should have kept the £500 overpayment on a separate cash ledger.
Mr C felt it was unfair for HSBC to use the £500 to pay off purchases that wouldnt attract 
interest and then charge interest on the cash transaction.
An investigator looked into things and didnt think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. The 
investigator thought HSBC had applied Mr Cs payments in line with guidance from UK Card 
Association and its own terms and conditions. The investigator didnt think HSBC needed to 
do more to resolve Mr Cs complaint. 
Mr C felt the outcome was unfair and not in the spirit of the consumer credit act. Mr C also 
said the order of payment guidance didnt mention retail purchases in an interest free period 
being paid off, so to do this was unfair.
Mr C asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Cs points around paying his credit card off in full every month and crediting 
money to cover his cash transactions, its clear Mr C does this to avoid interest. 
And I can understand Mr Cs frustration here, he overpaid money to a cash transaction but 
ended up being charged interest on the next cash transaction.
But I dont think HSBC has done anything wrong here. When Mr C paid the extra £500 to his 
first cash transaction there were already some retail purchases on his card. Following the 
overpayment, Mr C made further retail purchases.
HSBC used most of Mr Cs extra £500 to pay off these purchases. And HSBC did this in line 
with its terms and conditions. HSBCs terms say it will apply payments to:
any transactions, interest or charges that havent yet been included in your statement
Since Mr C pays his credit card off in full each month any new transactions arent included in 
his statement until its been produced. This includes retail purchases and cash transactions. 
And I think Mr C already benefits from this term.
Mr C makes payments to his card after using it for cash transactions, and HSBC applies the 
payments to these transactions, even though they arent showing on a statement yet. And it 
does this ahead of any retail purchases because cash transactions are more expensive.
If HSBC waited until the statement was produced before applying payments, Mr C would 
always be charged interest for any cash transactions he makes.
Where there are no cash transactions to pay, HSBC moves to the next most expensive 
transaction. This is what HSBC did with Mr Cs £500 overpayment, it used it to repay retail 
purchases not yet on the statement, these were the only other transactions on the card.
I think HSBCs terms allow it to use Mr Cs £500 to pay off retail purchases in an, effective, 
interest free period.
Mr C says he always pays his credit card in full, so holding the £500 on a cash ledger would 
be fairer. But HSBC doesnt know Mr C will always pay his credit card in full, so I think its 
fair for it to immediately apply any payments to the credit card.
Mr C makes frequent cash transactions, but, again, HSBC doesnt know Mr C will definitely 
make another cash transaction. Holding onto £500 of Mr Cs money, on a cash ledger he 
might not use again, doesnt seem fair.
And I wouldnt expect HSBC to administer Mr Cs credit card in a different way to other 
customers. HSBC has laid out the order of payments in its terms and conditions and I think 
its fair these terms apply to all its customers.
Mr C said what HSBC has done isnt in the spirit of the consumer credit act. I cant see 
anything in this act to say HSBC has treated Mr C unfairly and Mr C hasnt specified any 
particular section he feels applies to his situation.
Mr C asked for HSBC to refund the interest and pay £500 compensation. But, for the 
reasons above, I dont believe HSBC has done anything wrong. Because of this I wont be 
asking HSBC to do anything more to resolve Mr Cs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022. 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman