DRN-2455182
The complaint
Mr S complains that Everyday Lending Limited gave him misleading information about his 
loan repayments and unfairly applied a default to his credit file. 
What happened
In March 2019, Mr S took out a loan for £3,000 with Everyday Lending. 
In September 2019, Everyday Lending sent Mr S a statement following a discussion with him 
about arrears on the account. Mr S sent letters to Everyday Lending saying hed been led to 
believe the first interest payment would be one month after drawdown. The statement 
showed this wasnt the case. He said this had led to almost instant arrears and compounded 
problems, despite him making regular payments. 
Mr S felt Everyday Lending was bullying and harassing him by calling him several times a 
day. He said hed had to take time off from running his business because of the worry and 
stress caused. He wanted the loan to be put on hold and interest to stop accruing.
After another telephone conversation with Everyday Lending, Mr S made a written 
complaint. He still believed the interest charges had been miscalculated. 
Mr S had another conversation about the arrears with an advisor in branch, but Everyday 
Lending didnt respond to his complaint until May 2020, which was eight months after hed 
raised it. Hed also sent several further letters that hadnt been responded to. In the 
meantime, Everyday Lending had continued to pursue him for the debt and had placed a 
default on his credit file. 
Everyday Lending apologised for not responding to Mr Ss complaint sooner and offered him 
£100 to compensate him for this. But it didnt uphold his complaint. It said it had explained 
over the phone on 3 September 2019 how the arrears on the account had accrued. This had 
also been explained in branch on 10 and 27 September and his annual statement had been 
sent to him.
No payment had been received since August 2019 and Mr Ss account had defaulted at the 
end of February 2020. It said it wasnt able to remove negative information from his credit 
file.
Mr S remained unhappy, so he asked our service to look into his concerns. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. Information about the 
interest, monthly instalments and when the first payment was due was showing on Mr Ss 
loan agreement. Mr S hadnt kept up to date with his contractual payments and there were 
no further payments for six months before the account was defaulted. Mr Ss letters to 
Everyday Lending said he couldnt pay and gave no projections for a change in his financial 
situation. A complaint to a lender doesnt place the debt on hold. It was reasonable for 
Everyday Lending to have applied the default.
Mr S disagreed with our investigators view. He said he shouldnt have been granted the loan 
because he couldnt afford the repayments. A branch manager told him that payments would 
be taken from his business bank account. This verbal agreement had been broken. 
Everyday Lending failed in administering its own complaints procedure. So, his complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
Everyday Lending has a responsibility to treat its customers fairly and communicate with 
them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading. 
Mr S says he was led to believe the first interest payment would be one month after 
drawdown. He says this resulted in almost instant arrears and he couldnt understand why 
he wasnt able to catch up, despite making regular payments. 
The loan agreement Mr S signed on 12 March 2019 clearly sets out the amount borrowed, 
the number of monthly payments, the amount of monthly payments, the APR (annual 
percentage rate) and the duration of the agreement.
It says: The first Monthly Payment in respect of the Loan and interest will be payable on   
01-APR-2019 and subsequent Monthly Payments are payable on the same date in each 
month.
From what I can see, Everyday Lending tried to collect the first payment of £271.96 by direct 
debit but it was returned unpaid. Mr S paid this amount in three separate instalments later in 
the month. Further direct debits were also returned unpaid for May, June, July, August and 
September. Mr S made some payments by standing order later on in the month. But he 
didnt pay his full instalment amounts in June and July. He paid extra in August, but this 
wasnt enough to make up the shortfall. 
Ive listened to a recording of the telephone conversation that took place on 3 September 
2019. The Everyday Lending advisor explained how the arrears had accrued. He also 
explained that interest was applied on the outstanding balance. If a payment isnt made on 
time it will increase the interest as theres a higher outstanding balance.
The loan agreement also says that Interest will be calculated on the daily balance 
outstanding on the Account and applied to the Account monthly on the date the Monthly 
Payments are due.
So, Im satisfied that Everyday Lending gave Mr S clear information about when his 
payments would be due and how interest would be calculated when he took out the loan. He 
fell into arrears because he didnt keep up with his repayments in line with the terms of the 
agreement.  
Mr S says it was agreed verbally that his payments were due at a different time. He also 
says direct debits were called for on the wrong day and from the wrong bank account. But 
according to the loan agreement, repayments were due on the first of each month, starting 
on 1 April 2019. By signing this, Mr S agreed to be legally bound by its terms. It was up to  
Mr S to ensure he made his payments by the time they were due, whether this was by direct 
debit or a different method.    
Everyday Lending had a duty to treat Mr S positively and sympathetically if it was aware, he 
was experiencing financial difficulties.
 
Mr S said he was unable to pay in his letters dated September 2019. He said he was not 
working in his business and he would make arrangements to repay any correct outstanding 
amount when he was well enough to return to work. 
Its unclear whether or not the possibility of a payment arrangement was discussed in the 
conversations with Everyday Lending that followed. But the notice of arrears letter Everyday 
Lending sent Mr S in October gave a telephone number for him to contact if he was having 
difficulties so we can discuss your agreement and come to an appropriate arrangement. It 
also gave him information about organisations that could give free debt advice.
In the loan agreement, Everyday Lending made Mr S aware that one of the consequences of 
missing payments was for it to record adverse information about you with a credit reference 
agency. Notice of arrears letters sent in August and October 2019 included copies of a 
Financial Conduct Authority information sheet which says: Missed payments could affect 
your credit rating and make it more difficult to get credit in future. And the default notice sent 
in January 2020 said that if the overdue payment was not received within seven days we 
will have no alternative but to proceed with our default procedures. This letter also asked  
Mr S to phone to discuss the repayment of the arrears on his account.
So, Im satisfied Everyday Lending made Mr S aware that it would be willing to discuss an 
arrangement with him. And it also let him know that failing to keep up with the repayments 
could result in adverse information being recorded on his credit file. 
In February 2020, Mr S wrote to Everyday Lending in response to the default notice. He 
said: I will not be making a payment of £1,573.68 within the next 7 days. I have previously 
set out my current situation. At this point, Mr S was around six months in arrears having not 
paid anything towards the account since August 2019. It was clear he was still unable to 
make his contractual payments and it was apparent his relationship with Everyday Lending 
had broken down.
I appreciate it was frustrating for Mr S when Everyday Lending didnt respond to his letters of 
complaint. But having an open complaint doesnt mean that a debt will automatically be put 
on hold. And I havent seen anything to suggest Everyday Lending led Mr S to believe this 
would be the case. While Everyday Lendings communication could have been better, I cant 
say it was wrong to apply the default. 
Everyday Lending has offered Mr S £100 for the delay in responding to his complaint. 
Complaint handling isnt something this service is able to consider, according to the rules 
sent by the Financial Conduct Authority. So, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment on 
whether or not I think this is fair. 
Mr S has told us he feels the lending was unaffordable. But I havent considered this as part 
of this complaint because Mr S didnt raise it with Everyday Lending before he brought it to 
us. Mr S might want to raise a separate complaint with Everyday Lending about this if he 
hasnt already done so.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman