DRN-3793497
The complaint
Mr P complains that he was mis-sold two bonds by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), an 
appointed representative of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited (Gallium). He believes the 
bonds were mis-sold because he thought the bonds were low risk and he wasnt given 
appropriate risk warnings.
What happened
Between May and August 2017, Mr P invested £17,100 into a 3 Year Fixed Monthly
Income IFISA Bond and £4,000 into a 5 Year Fixed Monthly Income Bond with Basset and 
Gold Plc (B&G Plc). Sales of these bonds were dealt with by BG Ltd, a separate business 
from B&G Plc, the issuer of the bonds. 
BG Ltd arranged applications for investments in the bonds, through a website it operated. 
And it was responsible for advertising and marketing the bonds. Potential investors were 
also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bonds. 
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited 
(Gallium). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 
February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Mr Ps investment in the bond
Mr P came across BG Ltds website whilst looking for a savings product that would 
be safe, could diversify his investments and that would give him a reasonable rate of 
return.
Mr P applied for the 5 year bond via the BG Ltd website and the 3 year IFISA bond 
via by a paper application form for an ISA transfer.
Mr P held substantial holdings in investment ISAs and unit trusts. These were held 
via a platform and he invested in lower risk and more liquid holdings compared to his 
BG Plc investments. A significant amount of this money was invested in fixed interest 
securities, such as government and corporate bonds. 
Mr P was looking to invest in the bonds to diversify his investment and to invest his 
money with different providers in order to mitigate risk  and this is what he 
understood the investment to be as it was advertised as a diversified holding. 
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that 
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day 
lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into administration 
in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mr P 
has not had his invested capital returned to him.
The application process
Mr P applied online for the 5 year bond and via a paper application form for an ISA transfer 
into the 3 year bond.
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show the 
application journey that Mr P underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed to meet the 
rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on how to test whether the 
investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was certification, where Mr P 
was categorised as both an everyday investor and a high net worth investor. The second 
was the appropriateness test. 
I have also seen copies of the paper application form which shows a transfer from another 
firm to B&G Ltd. This was completed by Mr P and signed on 12 April 2017. Mr P completed 
a five question appropriateness test as part of this application, however he was required to 
go through the online process as detailed above to reach this position.
Galliums response to Mr Ps complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said Mr P had been given sufficient information 
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions, once Mr Ps 
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also 
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr Ps complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
Mr P met the requirements of both an everyday investor and a high net worth 
investor.
The application process in terms of the assessment of the appropriateness of the 
bond for Mr P was inconsistent with the FCAs rules or guidance and didnt gather 
sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Mr P wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Mr P to invest. For these reasons, both cumulatively 
and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to compensate Mr 
P for the loss he has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: 
It notes that Mr P met the requirements of a high net worth investor
The appropriateness test answers and these confirmations were sufficient for Gallium 
to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and experience of 
the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mr P had investments in a London Capital & Finance bond and a Wellesley bond. 
This shows he had relevant experience of similar products to the B&G Plc bonds.Mr P made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it, and did 
not choose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the 
concentration risk. So he would have proceeded with the investment regardless.
As theres been no agreement the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to 
consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of 
the bond.
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are 
relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting 
who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I 
have considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered 
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same reasons. In summary:
As previously mentioned Mr P completed a paper application as part of his ISA 
transfer. Whilst I've taken the paper application into account, I don't think it's fair for 
BG Ltd to rely on the answers given within it as Mr P had to go through the online 
application process to reach this stage of the ISA transfer. 
Im not persuaded there is enough evidence to show the bonds were appropriate. Mr 
P did at the time have existing minibond investments. He considered both these and 
the B&G bonds to be low risk. He had not yet experienced any losses in these bonds 
that would lead him to believe otherwise. I havent seen any evidence that he had 
any experience of unlisted securities or corporate debt similar to the bonds. As such, 
I wouldnt consider that his investment experience in his existing minibonds meant 
the B&G bonds were appropriate for him.The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bond was not an appropriate investment for Mr P. In the circumstances Mr P would 
either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have 
concluded it should not promote the bond to Mr P.
For these reasons my decision is that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. I am also satisfied 
Mr P would either not have proceeded to make the investment or would not have been able 
to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And 
so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mr P for his loss.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
P as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not invested in the bonds.
I take the view that Mr P would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr P's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mr P fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of each of Mr P's investments with that of the benchmark 
shown below.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay to Mr P £350 for the distress caused by the total loss of his investments.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
3 Year Fixed 
Monthly 
Income 
IFISA BondStill exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
5 Year Fixed 
Monthly 
Income BondStill exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr P agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take 
ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mr P that he repays to Gallium any 
amount he may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gallium totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If 
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr P wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr P's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr P would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr P in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman