DRN-2242984
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD didnt actually sell the PPI, but its 
accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep things 
simple.
What happened
Mrs C opened a store card account in a shop in 1998. At the same time, she took out a PPI 
policy.
If Mrs C had made a successful claim on the policy for injury, sickness or unemployment, it 
would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on her card each month. The policy 
also included some purchase protection insurance and life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mrs C disagreed 
with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Mrs Cs application form for the store card. It includes a section 
headed Payment & Purchase Protection (a form of PPI). Theres a brief description of 
the cover, and it says If you would like cover please tick the box below. Next to the box it 
says Yes, I want my Account covered by Payment and Purchase Protection Insurance 
and it continues Please debit my Account with the relevant monthly premium until further 
notice. Theres a tick in the box next to this, to indicate that Mrs C wished to take the 
cover.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Mrs C would have realised that the PPI 
wasnt compulsory. And I think she decided to take the cover, knowing that she had a 
choice  although I can understand how she may no longer remember this, so many 
years later.
Mrs C says AXA advised her to take out the PPI. But based on what we know about the 
way these policies were sold at the time, I think its unlikely that AXA would have provided 
advice or made a personal recommendation to Mrs C about the cover. This means it didnt 
have to check if it was suitable for her. But it did need to make sure it gave Mrs C enough 
information to enable her to decide for herself if she wanted PPI, knowing what 
alternative means shed have had of making her monthly repayments if she was unable 
to work.
I accept that its possible the information AXA gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have been. But as Ive explained, I think she chose to take out the PPI - so it 
looks as if she wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten that now. 
This means I need to decide whether I think its likely that better information about the 
policy would have made Mrs C change her mind about taking it out.
Mrs C has told us shed have been entitled to six months full pay, followed by six 
months half pay from her employer at the time if shed been off sick. But if shed made a 
successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, it would have 
paid a monthly benefit of 15% of what she owed on her store card. And it would have 
done this each month until her credit agreement ended, or she returned to work, or the 
outstanding balance at the time of her claim had been repaid - whichever was the 
earliest. So it would potentially have paid out for longer than Mrs C would have been 
entitled to full sick pay for. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition to any 
payments Mrs C received from her employer.
I acknowledge that Mrs Cs told us she had some savings when she took out the PPI. But 
from what shes told us, these were equivalent to less than a month of her pay. And the 
PPI would have allowed her to keep her savings, or use them to meet other day-to-day 
expenses.
Ive borne in mind that Mrs Cs told us she also had jewellery and a car. But I think its 
unlikely, on balance, that shed have wanted to sell those in order to make her monthly 
store card repayments. Shes also mentioned that she had a critical illness policy. But 
thats a different sort of insurance, and would have covered Mrs C in different 
circumstances from the PPI. And although Mrs Cs told us she could have relied on her 
husband financially if necessary, circumstances can change. And I cant be sure that Mrs 
Cs husband would have been in a position to help if the need had arisen. So taking 
everything into account, I think the PPI could have been useful to Mrs C.
I accept that its possible the information AXA gave Mrs C about the cost of the PPI could 
have been clearer. But Im satisfied that it would have been clear from the application 
form that there would be monthly premiums to pay for the cover. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that the policy was unaffordable for Mrs C. And as she was paying for it monthly, 
she could have cancelled it without any further cost if her situation changed.
Based on what Mrs Cs told us about her circumstances at the time, she was eligible for 
the policy, and she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things it 
didnt cover.
Taking everything into account, Im not convinced that better information about the PPI 
would have put Mrs C off taking it out. So I dont think shes lost out as a result of 
anything that AXA may have done wrong.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman