DRN-4162946
The complaint
Miss R complains that Lowell Portfolio I Ltd say she owes a debt relating to a credit card 
account.
What happened
Miss R had a credit card account with a company Ill refer to as V. Lowell purchased the 
outstanding debt on the credit card account in September 2019. 
Miss R says that there shouldnt be an outstanding balance owed to Lowell  thats because 
her late father paid off the debt in 2018 when it was still with V.
Lowell told Miss R that it had contacted V to ask if the debt had been repaid. It said V 
confirmed it had received a payment of £150 in July 2018. V told Lowell that they didnt have 
a record of the account having been repaid in full or a settlement agreed.
The Investigator looked into what both parties had said. The Investigator explained to Miss R 
that this service couldnt consider her complaint about the debt Lowell now owns that was in 
relation to two telecommunication accounts  thats because this service can only consider 
complaints about debt collecting where the original debt was owed under a regulated credit 
agreement. However, the Investigator let Miss R know that we could look at her complaint 
about the debt that originated with V. Upon review of all the available evidence, the 
Investigator thought that there was an outstanding balance owed on the account when 
Lowell purchased the debt, and so they didnt think Lowell had done anything wrong.
Miss R didnt agree. She felt shed provided sufficient evidence to prove that the outstanding 
balance had been repaid prior to Lowell purchasing the debt. And she asked for an 
Ombudsman to review matters.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything available to me, I wont be upholding Miss Rs complaint. I 
appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Miss R  as its clear how strongly 
she feels about what has happened. However, I will explain my reasons for the decision 
below.
In reaching my findings, I havent commented on every point of concern Miss R has raised. I 
dont intend to offend her by not doing so or mean any disrespect in taking this approach. 
This reflects the informal nature of this service. Instead, Ive focussed on the key issues I 
think I need to consider, in deciding on whether Lowell did anything wrong.  
The crux of the matter here is whether it was reasonable of Lowell to continue to pursue 
Miss R for a debt which she says was paid off in 2018. 
I can see that Lowell contacted V after Miss R let it know that the debt had been paid back in 
2018. I can see V responded to Lowell to say that the debt hadnt been repaid in full and that 
the last payment received was in July 2018 for £150. The last payment received by V of 
£150 wasnt enough to clear the outstanding balance on the account  and there was still 
£546.73 outstanding. 
I have looked at all of the evidence provided by Miss R. I can see from the evidence shes 
provided that multiple payments were made to V. But none of the evidence Miss R has 
provided shows me that the payments made to the account cleared the full amount due.  
Given that I havent seen any evidence to show the balance was repaid prior to Lowell 
purchasing the debt, I cant fairly say that Lowell has done anything wrong in reporting that 
there is still an outstanding balance due. 
Any complaint Miss R has about what happened prior to Lowell purchasing the account will 
need to be directed to V. 
I note that in response to the Investigators view, Miss R said that Lowell admitted to sending 
a payment of £545 to the telecommunication company instead of V. I have read the letter 
Miss R refers to, but I dont think Lowell has said this. Lowell has explained in the letter that 
it checked with the telecommunications companies and V to see if the companies had 
received a payment  but none of the companies had received a payment of £545. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss R  I know how important this issue is to her. And I know that 
she is adamant the account with V was repaid by her late father. But based on the evidence 
Ive seen, I cant agree that the account has been repaid in full prior to Lowell becoming the 
legal owners of the debt, and so I cant fairly conclude that Lowell has done anything wrong 
in saying Miss R still owes a balance on the account.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman