DRN-1633458
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint is about problems logging onto online banking.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
After making a previous complaint and receiving some compensation Mr and Mrs T 
say theyve experienced more problems logging onto online banking which havent 
been resolved even in branch.
It appears the previous complaint relates to widespread issues TSB experienced. But 
this current problem appears to only relate to Mr and Mrs Ts account. Although 
theyve tried to resolve things, including by resetting their profile, it isnt clear or 
established what is causing the current issue. Although TSB has suggested the issue 
might be caused by Mr and Mrs Ts browser sometimes being incompatible with its 
online system.
Furthermore although Mr and Mrs T say they need to access this account regularly to 
manage their finances, the account isnt used for day to day banking and shows only 
a limited number of transactions each month. Theres also no apparent direct 
financial loss arising from what has happened. Account information is also available 
to them in other formats such as through text alerts.
Overall although I understand Mr and Mrs Ts strength of feeling and frustration, 
I dont think its been established, on balance, that the current issue and problem is 
more likely caused by TSB, than not. And I dont think its been shown on balance 
that TSB has made an error. As a result I dont think on the available evidence that I 
can fairly or reasonably require TSB to do any more, including paying any 
compensation as Mr and Mrs T would like. Ultimately if Mr and Mrs T remain 
unhappy with the way their TSB account operates they are free to look for banking 
facilities elsewhere.
 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My Final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about TSB Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman