DRN-3837579
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the way Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax handled a claim she 
made in respect of a purchase on her credit card.
What happened
Mrs C bought theme park tickets using her Halifax credit card from a travel agent (the 
supplier) for use abroad in July 2020. However, due to the global Covid-19 pandemic her 
flights to the theme park destination were cancelled and the park temporarily closed.
Mrs C was offered an extension on the theme park tickets for the following year which she 
accepted. However, Mrs C had second thoughts about this at a later date so the supplier 
then offered her an 80% refund in line with its Covid-19 policy. Mrs C then contacted Halifax 
about things. Mrs C says Halifax advised her to return the tickets and ask for a full refund 
and then she could raise a claim for the 20% balance if unsuccessful. 
Mrs C returned the tickets and obtained an 80% refund but after looking into things Halifax 
would not refund Mrs C the remaining 20% either via chargeback or Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. Mrs C is unhappy with this and believes that Halifax had given 
her wrong advice and she would have been better off holding on to the tickets to use at a 
later date (she said there was a possibility she could have swapped them for 2022 tickets). 
Mrs C says she is at a financial loss due to the error of Halifax and wants it to reimburse her 
the 20%.
Our investigator didnt think Halifax had incorrectly advised Mrs C. And he thought there was 
no valid chargeback or Section 75 claim. So he didnt think it should refund 20% of the ticket 
price. He said the £100 it had offered her for poor service was fair and reasonable.
Mrs C wants the matter considered by an ombudsman. Since my involvement in the case 
she has now had the opportunity to listen back to the call she had with Halifax but she is still 
unhappy. In summary, Mrs C thinks Halifax failed to make it clear it couldnt advise her of the 
best approach, and that its actions have led to her financial loss.
I issued a provisional decision on this matter. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the disruption to Mrs Cs plans arising out of the events of the global 
pandemic. However, it is worth noting that Halifax is not the supplier of theme park tickets 
here  so its liability will be limited to what it is able to do in its capacity as the credit card 
provider. In that respect the key protections are in relation to chargeback and Section 75. So 
I have considered those in addition to what Mrs C was told when she initially spoke to 
Halifax.
Section 75
Section 75 means Mrs C is able to make a like claim against Halifax for breach of contract 
or misrepresentation by a supplier paid by credit card in respect of an agreement it has with 
her for the provision of goods or services. However, certain criteria apply to Section 75 in 
order for it to apply. I am satisfied those criteria are met here.
I note Halifax said Section 75 does not apply because Mrs C paid the supplier but the 
service was provided by the third-party theme park. However, there is a Section 75 claim in 
respect of any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier which took the credit 
card payment in exchange for providing its own services. So I have considered the nature of 
the agreement between said supplier and Mrs C.
We do not appear to have received the terms and conditions from Mrs Cs booking from 
either party. But I have asked our investigator to find an archived pre-pandemic copy. In the 
absence of any other evidence the parties wish to submit I think it is reasonable to rely on 
the contents of this along with the other evidence available.
From what I can see the theme park had to close due to the pandemic so as a way of 
allowing the contract to continue the supplier and Mrs C agreed to vary the original 
agreement by extending the original tickets until September 2021 so they could be used 
once the park re-opened (which it did in April 2021). This would not be a breach of contract.
Even if I accepted that the contract was not mutually varied by both parties I also note there 
is nothing in the contract with the supplier which persuades me Mrs C would have 
contractually been entitled to a refund from it due to the circumstances which arose. And 
what Mrs C has said reinforces that there was no refund policy that would have covered this 
situation even though the supplier gave her some other options.
All things considered, I dont think the suppliers failure to issue a full refund gives rise to a 
breach of contract.  So, with Section 75 in mind I dont think there is a breach which Halifax 
is liable to remedy here. And for the sake of completeness I note Mrs C has not alleged any 
misrepresentation at the point the tickets were sold  nor do I think there would be a valid 
claim under this ground in the circumstances here.
Chargeback
I have also thought about chargeback. Chargeback is not a legal right and the rules are set 
out by the particular card scheme  in this case Mastercard. I have considered the relevant 
card scheme rules and additional guidance published in light of the Covid-19 pandemic.
There is no requirement for Halifax to raise a chargeback, but in some circumstances it 
would be considered good practice to do so. In this case it appears the most appropriate 
chargeback rule would be that relating to services not being provided.
Here I dont think Halifax were acting unreasonably in not attempting a chargeback when 
Mrs C first got in touch with it around January 2021. I say this because I think it is unlikely 
the chargeback would have been successful for the following reasons:
when Mrs C contacted Halifax any chargeback in relation to the booking appears to 
have been outside of the 120-day time limit to raise a chargeback from the date the 
service was originally due to be provided; and
even if the chargeback were considered to be in time Mrs C accepted a reasonable 
alternative (extension of the ticket) as a resolution which was available for her to 
use at a later date (I understand the park re-opened in April 2021). Even if she changed her mind later this will not give her chargeback rights based on the relevant 
scheme guidance.
So ultimately, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to say that Halifax should refund 
Mrs C because of its failure to raise a chargeback when she first got in touch with it.
I know Mrs C went away and then claimed a refund with the supplier and came back to 
Halifax when she didnt get the full amount. At this point the nature of the chargeback would 
be more about a credit not being processed. But Halifax did not raise a chargeback then 
because the refund issued did not appear contrary to the contractual refund policy of the 
supplier disclosed at the time of transaction. In fact the refund issued by the supplier 
appeared to be more generous than this. So I dont think Halifax acted unfairly in not raising 
a chargeback at this point.
The initial contact with Halifax and customer service concerns
I have listened to Mrs Cs initial discussion with Halifax about what her options were and 
where she claims it misled her.
Halifax has provided us with what appears to be a call in two parts (Mrs C is passed to the 
disputes team for the second half of the call) where Mrs C discusses a possible claim with it 
in respect of the tickets. Mrs C indicates Halifax was not clear that it could not advise her of 
the best approach to take. Mrs C has essentially said that because of what Halifax told her 
she decided to send the tickets back rather than hold on to them (with a prospect of 
rebooking for 2022). 
I think it is important to note the context with which Mrs C approached the conversation. 
From what she says to the operator in the Halifax disputes team (which appears to be the 
key part of the call here) Mrs C is clearly not happy to keep the tickets with a view to using 
them later in 2021 or to wait until 2022 tickets go on sale. In fact she appears to have made 
her mind up that she wants to send them back for a refund. I note she says to the operator 
what is the best way of getting this money back. 
So while I agree Mrs C was seeking advice from Halifax I dont think the question posed was 
whether to send the tickets back or keep them. It was more about the process of trying to get 
a full refund. It follows that I dont think the agent would reasonably be expected to go into 
whether holding onto the tickets was possibly a better option (or clarify whether this was 
something they were even in a position to advise on). 
Mrs C has also indicated that Halifax failed to point out the risk of her not getting a full 
refund. But as I have already indicated  I dont think the context of how she approached the 
call was based on her consideration of an alternative option. And while the operator is clearly 
sympathetic and agrees Mrs C should not lose out for something that isnt her fault I dont 
think anything she says can be taken as a guarantee that a subsequent chargeback / 
Section 75 claim (once she has returned the tickets and requested a full refund) would be a 
success.
The overall impression I have is the conversation is very much couched in the possibility 
rather than certainty of getting a full refund.  The agent tells Mrs C we can take a look at it 
under Mastercard regulations to see if we can chargeback the full amount for you, that the 
Section 75 department can take a look at it to see what we can do under your consumer 
rights. And they use phrases like we can take a look at the other 20% (if Mrs C is unable to 
get more than the 80% back the supplier was currently offering). I accept that towards the end of the conversation the operator talks about Mrs C being 
entitled to a full refund  but in the context of the call I dont think this is to be taken as a 
guarantee any chargeback or Section 75 claim would succeed. I think this is clearly the 
operator showing empathy at the circumstances around the pandemic, the cancelled trip and 
how Mrs C has lost out through no fault of her own. I note that after this statement the agent 
says Halifax can look into it once Mrs C has all her evidence  which again underlines how 
there are no firm assurances given about the outcome of any chargeback or Section 75 
claim. So I dont think it is fair to say Mrs C would reasonably have come away from the call 
assuming the outcome of a subsequent claim was certain. 
Overall, based on the calls I have listened to I dont think it would be reasonable to say that 
Halifax has caused Mrs C a financial loss here. I know Mrs C says she thinks there is 
another call but Halifax dont appear to have one. Mrs C has considered making a further 
request for this information from Halifax but this will add further delays to this case and 
based on what I have heard I think that even if there were another call, based on what I have 
seen and heard so far  it is unlikely to persuade me that Halifax are reasonably at fault for 
Mrs C doing something she otherwise wouldnt have done, causing her a financial loss. 
I note Halifax did initially offer Mrs C £30 and then £60 compensation for some customer 
service failings. For example it appears that it didnt actually locate and listen to the calls in 
question before giving her an initial answer which caused her a lot of frustration as her main 
issue centered around what she was told on the phone. Mrs C also had difficulty getting 
further information about the calls from Halifax. Mrs C says Halifax has now offered her 
increased compensation of £100. I think this is a fairer amount for the frustration caused by 
the customer service issues that have occurred in any event so I will be directing Halifax to 
pay her this if it hasnt already done so. 
My provisional decision
I partly uphold this complaint and direct Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to pay Mrs C 
£100 compensation (if it has not done so already).
I asked the parties for their comments. Both accepted the findings of my provisional decision 
as a way of fairly resolving the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has added anything that gives me cause to change my provisional findings (as 
set out above). I still consider my findings to be fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
Halifax should pay Mrs C compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the customer service issues as detailed in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and direct Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to pay Mrs C 
£100 compensation (if it has not done so already).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman