DRN-2892921
The complaint
Mr A and Mr A, who are represented by Mrs A, complains that imposed unfair charges when 
he returned a car at the end of his finance agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
I note this agreement was in joint names, but for ease I will refer to Mr A in the singular in 
this decision. MBFS has accepted it incorrectly charged Mr A for extra days it believed he 
held the car and Mr A does not dispute the excess mileage charge or the cost of tyre 
sealant. In dealing with Mr As complaint MBFS accepted it had made errors and offered to 
reduce the bill by 15% bringing it down to £1,049.87.
It is clear there was some confusion at the point of return of the car and Mr A encountered 
some difficulty in handing it back. However, he did so within the term of the agreement and 
MBFS has recognised the dealer was wrong to seek the V5.
The main elements of the charges are for damage to the wheels and tyres. I am satisfied 
they were damaged and fell outside acceptable wear and tear. As our investigator has 
explained the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) provides industry 
guidelines on what would be considered fair wear and tear, when cars are returned at the 
end of a hire period.
Mr A says he had previously contacted MBFS about the wheels but received no response 
and believes the damage was covered under the warranty. I have seen no evidence of this 
and I can only base my decision on the material presented to me. I would add that I do not 
dispute Mr A did contact MBFS, but I have no detail of what was said.
The dealership while being approved by the manufacturer is separate from it and is not 
responsible for carrying out an inspection. That will have been done by the relevant arm of 
MBFS. That means that any comments made by the dealer have little or no bearing on the 
matter. Furthermore, there is no evidence as to what the dealer said about the car.
Under the agreement signed by Mr A he was responsible for any damage which falls outside 
fair wear and tear. The car was damaged and I consider the charge levied by MBFS to be 
fair and the 15% reduction recognises its failings in dealing with the return of the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman