DRN-3617990
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy Amtrust Europe Limited withdrew legal expenses insurance (LEI) 
cover having agreed to cover an employment claim she wished to pursue. Mrs C says 
shes missed out on the opportunity to take the case to an employment tribunal as a 
result, and shell have to accept a lower settlement amount. She also wants to be 
compensated for the distress shes experienced as she feels shes supplied medical 
information unnecessarily.
Any reference to Mrs C and Amtrust includes the actions of their representatives and agents.
What happened
Mrs C has a legal expenses insurance policy which is underwritten by Amtrust.
In October 2021, she submitted a claim as she wanted cover to 
pursue an employment claim for disability discrimination.
Amtrust asked Mrs C to provide further information  including medical 
information  so it could determine whether cover would be granted.
Mrs C expressed her angst at sharing her medical information but agreed to.
Mrs Cs legal claim was passed to Amtrusts panel firm of solicitors for 
consideration.
At the end of November 2021, the solicitors said the claim had reasonable 
prospects of success.
On 9 December 2021, the solicitors said cover would no longer be provided 
as Mrs C was an agency worker and this wasnt covered under the relevant 
section of the policy.
Amtrust apologised for not having spotted that Mrs C was an agency worker 
earlier on, and it offered £250 compensation. It also reimbursed Mrs C the 
excess fee shed paid and offered to delete the medical information. Its panel 
solicitors also offered to try and settle with the defendant (at no cost to Mrs C) 
as a goodwill gesture.
Mrs C brought a complaint to this service. Our investigator thought Amtrust 
should pay £500 compensation to reflect the difficulties Mrs C had experienced 
considering her disability.

Amtrust disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. And so, the 
complaint has been passed to me.
On 6 July 2022, I issued a provisional decision, in it I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im intending to 
reach a different outcome to the investigator, and Ill explain why.
Mrs C says shes missed out on the opportunity to take her claim to an employment 
tribunal because of Amtrusts actions, and that shell have to accept a lower financial 
settlement for her legal claim as a result.
From what Ive seen, having been told in mid-December that cover had been withdrawn, 
Mrs C was in contact with another firm of solicitors  and was discussing the matter with 
them. I understand Mrs C wants to provide medical information which shows she 
couldnt take her claim forward at that time because of poor health, but Im not 
persuaded this would change my thinking. I say this because as she was discussing the 
case with another solicitor during this same period, I think its reasonable to conclude 
that if she was able to instruct another solicitor, she was likely able to lodge the claim 
with the tribunal. Furthermore, Mrs C had until early January 2022 to lodge her 
employment claim with the tribunal meaning there was a period of approximately four 
weeks for her to do so  which I think was a reasonable amount of time. So, whilst I 
accept Amtrusts actions did eat into the time she had to lodge her claim, Im not 
persuaded it prevented her from doing so.
Mrs C has said that because she doesnt have legal representation through Amtrust 
shell have to accept a lower settlement. No doubt it was disappointing for Mrs C to be 
told she no longer had cover, but ultimately, she wasnt entitled to it in the first place as 
her type of employment, namely an agency worker, wasnt covered. If Amtrust hadnt 
made its mistake, Mrs C would have been told earlier on that she didnt have cover, 
and thatd she would have had to seek and fund her own legal representation. So whilst 
I agree Amtrust fell short in failing to identify early on that she didnt have cover, Im not 
persuaded its actions have prejudiced her position that it should be held responsible for 
her having to possibly accept a lower settlement.
The next issue relates to the impact that sharing medical information with Amtrust had 
on Mrs C. I recognise that Mrs Cs mental health and disability meant she found sharing 
her medical information particularly challenging. In determining what I think is fair 
compensation I have kept in mind that the information was shared with Amtrusts panel 
firm of solicitors who would be reviewing it in a professional capacity and would have 
been required to treat it sensitively. Its not my intention to diminish how Mrs C felt in 
sharing her information but by sharing it shes benefited from the panel firm of solicitors 
prospects of success assessment  which wasnt something she was entitled to under 
the policy.
Ive considered this, along with the panel solicitors offer to try and settle the legal claim 
with the other party and Amtrusts decision to reimburse Mrs C the excess fee. Im 
satisfied Amtrusts mistake added to what was already a challenging time for Mrs C, 
but Im not persuaded its reasonable to say the difficulties she experienced at that time 
are solely attributable to Amtrusts mistake. So, on balance, Im satisfied £250 is fair 
compensation, and I wont be recommending it increases this.
I know my provisional decision will be disappointing for Mrs C, but I hope she 
understands why my final decision is likely to be along these lines.
Mrs C supplied medical information which she considered showed how her 
mental health impacted her ability to submit a claim to the employment 
tribunal. 
Amtrust confirmed it had no further comments to make. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same, and Ill explain why. 
The new medical information from Mrs Cs doctor relates to the period January 2022 
onwards and it explains how the sad passing of a close relative in the first week of January 
exacerbated Mrs Cs ill health at the time. It goes on to say that Mrs C also contracted 
COVID in mid-January and became very unwell. 
Im sorry to hear of the struggles Mrs C faced during this time, but I must keep in mind that 
these events happened on or after the deadline for submitting a claim to the employment 
tribunal. So, Im not persuaded these events prevented her from lodging a claim. No doubt 
Mrs C was going through a very difficult time, but I dont think it would be fair to say Amtrust 
is responsible for her not having lodged her claim. As I explained in my provisional decision, 
as Mrs C was able to contact another solicitor in December 2021, I think it was more likely 
than not that she could have lodged the claim with the tribunal by the given deadline. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mrs C but based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied the offer 
from Amtrust is fair and so I wont be asking it to increase it.
My final decision
Amtrust Europe Limited has already made an offer to pay £250.00 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Amtrust Europe Limited should pay £250.00
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman