DRN-3709498
The complaint
Mrs Hs representative has complained, on her behalf, that The Pension Review Business 
Limited (PRB) unsuitably advised her to transfer her personal pension plan into a Self 
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), and that shes suffered financial loss as a result.
What happened
Mrs H was invited to undertake a review of her pension arrangements by PRB in early 2019. 
At that time, Mrs H was 47, married and employed. She had an intended retirement age of 
67.
In a suitability report dated 4 April 2019, Mrs H was assessed as having a low medium risk 
attitude and her existing pension plan with Aviva was recorded as being invested in a fund 
with 80% equity investment. It was valued at just under £18,000 and Mrs H wasnt making 
contributions to it at the time, nor did she envisage doing so in the foreseeable future.
PRB advised Mrs H to transfer to a SIPP with Intelligent Money. In support of that 
recommendation, it said that Mrs Hs existing plan was competitively priced in terms of 
charges, but that improved performance could be obtained through the replacement 
portfolios periodic rebalancing of assets. It also noted that Mrs H had been unhappy with the 
volatility and risk associated with her Aviva plan.
PRB recommended that Mrs H invest in the IM Optimum Growth and Income Portfolio, which 
had an annual management charge of 0.87%. The annual SIPP charge would be 0.95% of 
the value of the funds.
The suitability report indicated that there would be a slight reduction in death benefits upon 
transfer, due to the initial charges taken from the plan. It also noted that the performance of 
Mrs Hs existing plan had been 46.19% over the previous five years, whereas the 
recommended replacement fund had produced a return of 41.02% over the same period.
And due to the effect of charges, at the presumed growth rates of -1.3%, 1.7% and 4.7% pa, 
the new plan would need to outperform the existing plan by 1.01%, 1.02% and 1.07% pa 
respectively.
However, the report said that it had been agreed with Mrs H that this didnt represent an 
unrealistic proposition. It further said that the costs of the new portfolio were significantly 
more than those of Mrs Hs current plan, but that the reasons for switching were clearly 
documented  in that she would receive ongoing advice from PRB and the benefits of the 
way that the new fund and investment would be managed on her behalf. The costs as set 
out and included in the required growth figures didnt, however, include the further cost of 
ongoing advice.
The transfer completed on 18 April 2019.
Mrs Hs representative complained to PRB in August 2021, saying that Mrs H had incurred a 
loss of around £500 and wished to be placed back in the position shed now be in but for the 
recommendation to switch. But PRB rejected the claim, saying that the recommended switch 
had lowered Mrs Hs exposure to investment risk and maintained her required risk level 
through the portfolios rebalancing feature. This resulted in her being less affected by any 
turbulence in the financial markets.
Further, PRB said, the replacement plan had performed well and was covered by the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mrs Hs representative referred the matter to this service. 
One of our investigators considered it and thought that it should be upheld. 
In support of that position, she noted that Mrs H hadnt been actively seeking to switch her 
pension until shed been contacted by PRB, and then acted on its advice.
She considered the existing and recommended funds, but wasnt persuaded that the 
replacement portfolio was at significant variance, in terms of equity content and its passive 
nature, to Mrs Hs existing fund. She also said that the existing funds risk rating of 4 out of 
7, where 7 was the highest risk, wasnt unsuitable for someone with a low medium risk 
attitude.
Furthermore, the investigator said, even if the existing fund was deemed to present too high 
a risk, the first steps should have been to determine whether there were lower risk funds in 
Mrs Hs Aviva plan. But she hadnt seen evidence of this.
The investigator acknowledged that the SIPP portfolio gave Mrs H the opportunity to change 
her investment strategy over time, but this would have required ongoing management and 
advice for which she would have been charged.
With specific regard to the charges and fees, the investigator noted the overall 0.62% pa 
charge being levied on the existing plan (0.4% provider charge and 0.22% fund 
management charge), compared to the 0.87% pa fund charge and 0.95% pa SIPP charge of 
the new arrangement. In addition to this, Mrs H paid £650 in upfront adviser fees and would 
have paid a 0.6% pa ongoing advice fee.
According to illustrations produced, at Mrs Hs retirement the SIPP would have around a 
19% lower value than the Aviva plan at the same growth assumptions. Although the 
investigator noted PRBs comments that the SIPP would enjoy enhanced performance to 
counteract the effect of increased charges, the investigator was unconvinced by this 
argument, given what she considered to be very similar asset splits in the investment funds.
The investigator also didnt think that Mrs H would have needed the ongoing regular advice 
service, given that she was still 20 years away from retirement and that the replacement 
portfolio was meant to be managed on her behalf.
And although the investigator acknowledged that Mrs H had signed the fee agreement and 
had been made aware of all costs and charges, she nevertheless noted that Mrs H was an 
inexperienced investor whod been cold called rather than having actively sought a review 
of her pension arrangements. She said it was clear that Mrs H relied heavily on PRBs 
expertise to make her decision to switch her pension.
The investigator therefore recommended that PRB compare the notional value of Mrs Hs 
Aviva plan had she retained it with the actual value of the replacement SIPP. If there was a 
loss, PRB should either make this up in the SIPP, or pay it to Mrs H with a notional 
deduction for income tax.PRB disagreed, however, saying that it had rated the Aviva investment fund as 6 out of 10, 
where 10 was the highest risk, and that it was made up of 80% equities and 20% bonds. 
Mrs Hs risk rating was 5 out of 10, and so it reduced her exposure accordingly. And a 
lower risk fund would be expected to have lower growth than a higher risk fund, but with 
diminished downside risk.
Mrs H had access to all the relevant documentation throughout the process to be able to 
decide whether the switch was right for her, PRB said, and at no stage did she voice 
concern over the proposal.
PRB acknowledged that, although it could have investigated a lower risk fund within the 
Aviva plan, this would have meant lower growth for the plan and Mrs H liked the idea of how 
target dated funds worked. Aviva didnt have the option of a target dated fund which PRB 
would have considered suitable for her.
As to the matter of charges, PRB said that the 0.95% charge referred to in the suitability 
report was a mistake and that there was only a 0.87% fund charge on the plan. But this 
administrative error wouldnt have caused Mrs H any loss, it said. And even if Mrs H had 
remained with Aviva, she had requested a higher level of service and so an ongoing adviser 
fee would have been payable.
PRB also said that Mrs H hadnt been cold called and was in fact an existing client.
However, although PRB said that it rejected the investigators conclusions, it said it had 
nevertheless conducted the loss calculation line with the redress suggestion. This had 
demonstrated that, on the basis that Mrs H would have switched into a lower risk fund with 
Aviva  the Vanguard 60% Equity fund instead of the previous Vanguard 80% Equity fund  
and including ongoing fees, Mrs H had in fact gained by switching to the SIPP, in the amount 
of around £900.
The investigator acknowledged the points made by PRB, but wasnt persuaded to change 
her mind. In particular, she remained of the view that the actual difference between Mrs Hs 
Aviva investment and that in the SIPP didnt justify the switch. She also didnt think that the 
available evidence supported the position that, prior to being contacted by PRB, Mrs H had 
concerns about her pension arrangements. 
The investigator also said that Mrs H didnt recall being an existing client of PRB and that 
she was cold called. She requested evidence that Mrs H had contacted PRB to seek advice.
Regarding the loss calculation undertaken by PRB, the investigator clarified that she hadnt 
concluded that Mrs H should have switched into a lower risk fund  rather that if it had been 
concluded that she should have moved into a lower risk fund, there would likely have been 
options within Avivas range to accommodate this. But she remained of the view that Mrs H 
could suitably have remained in her existing fund.
In response, PRB submitted a Services & Payment Agreement it had set up with Mrs H in 
2014 when the Aviva plan was established. It said that this demonstrated that Mrs H was an 
existing client when it reviewed her pension arrangements in 2019.
It further considered that the change in Mrs Hs attitude to risk was a valid reason for the 
switch, and that the regulator took a dim view of advisers disregarding a clients attitude to 
risk and change in personal circumstances. The switch was the most suitable course of 
action, given her change in circumstances and reduced attitude to risk.
PRB also questioned the motivation behind the complaint, saying that Mrs H remained a client and had never previously raised any concerns about the advice provided. It considered 
that the complaint was likely led more by the representative than Mrs H.
In subsequent correspondence, PRB wished to bring attention to a decision which had been 
issued which it considered was very similar to this, and in which I, as the deciding 
ombudsman in that case, hadnt upheld the complaint. 
As agreement wasnt reached on the matter, the complaint was referred to me for review. 
I issued a provisional decision on the matter on 24 August 2022, in which I set out my 
reasons as to why I thought the complaint should be upheld. The following is an extract from 
that decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill firstly address the comments relating to the other decision which PRB has referenced. 
And whilst I do accept that there will sometimes be some similarities between certain cases, 
as PRB rightly notes itself, each case is determined on its own merits  regardless of 
whether such cases have been brought by the same representative.
Its also not for me to second guess the motivation behind the complaint here. Mrs H has 
brought her complaint to this service, as is her right, and so the complaint must be 
considered on the basis of its merits.
Addressing those merits then, I dont think I need to dwell on the matter of whether Mrs H 
was cold called or had been an existing client of PRB. The evidence provided by PRB does 
suggest that it had assisted Mrs H five years earlier, but the fact remains that I havent seen 
any evidence that indicates that Mrs H initiated the contact in 2019. As such, I think the 
investigators comment that Mrs H wasnt herself proactively expressing concern about her 
existing pension arrangement is valid. And more broadly, irrespective of who contacted 
whom, PRB still needed to provide suitable advice.
The switch couldnt reasonably be justified by a straightforward swap of one type of pension 
arrangement to another, which had the same objectives and investment risk. Even if I accept 
what PRB has said about the 0.95% charge being a mistake, the charges in the replacement 
SIPP were still higher than those in the Aviva plan. And the effect of this was exacerbated by 
the initial fee and any ongoing advisory fee.
So there had to be a material, and crucially, justified, difference in the replacement plan for 
there to be a sound rationale to switch. The investigator has said that the funds were broadly 
the same, and that any slight difference wouldnt have justified the costlier replacement plan. 
PRB has countered that both Mrs Hs circumstances and attitude to risk had changed, which 
was why the reduced risk fund was right for her.
Ive therefore thought about this carefully. Firstly, I agree with the investigator that any such 
required reduction in risk could reasonably have been managed by simply changing the 
investment fund within Aviva. I dont think Mrs Hs circumstances or investment experience 
meant that she needed a particularly exotic array of funds to choose from, and given the 
fairly modest fund value, I dont think the kind of elevated cost associated with target dated 
or lifestyling funds would reasonably have been justified. Its likely that there would have 
been a suitable fund from which to choose, as has in fact been evidenced by PRBs loss 
calculation, if it were the case that Mrs H needed to reduce her risk exposure. 
PRB has said that choosing a lower risk fund within Aviva would have limited the growth opportunities, but even in a portfolio which employed target dating and lifestyling, which as 
Ive said above, I dont think was justified given the cost, the size of the pension fund, and 
Mrs Hs remoteness from retirement, the reduction in risk exposure would have done the 
same. Lifestyling in particular can be extremely beneficial, but a more expensive plan option 
which included this type of facility could have been explored nearer to Mrs Hs retirement 
date.
Ive therefore then thought about the nature of the review and what PRB has described as 
the changes in Mrs Hs circumstances and attitude to investment risk which, it says, justified 
a move into a fund with reduced risk.
In doing so, Id firstly repeat what I said above, about the evidence not supporting the 
position that Mrs H contacted PRB for the review. Therefore, when phrases such as we 
agreed you wanted me to advise on the following appear within the suitability report, I think 
its fair to conclude that such discussion points are likely to have been introduced and led by 
PRB. And as to the areas for discussion themselves, I think its again more likely than not 
that PRB, rather than Mrs H, introduced concepts such as portfolios which rebalance their 
asset holdings, or the benefits of lifestyling and target dated funds.
Ive seen no mention of a change in Mrs Hs circumstances in the suitability report. I have, 
however, noted that she was concerned about the volatility shed witnessed in her pension 
fund. I think, given what happened to financial markets between 2014 and 2019, this is 
entirely plausible. So I accept that Mrs H would have been comfortable with the low 
medium categorisation, and that she may herself have discerned a difference between that 
and her attitude to risk five years earlier. 
PRB had risk rated Mrs Hs existing fund as being 6 out of 10, whilst Mrs Hs new attitude 
to risk was judged to be 5 out of 10. I think this type of differentiation can be quite marginal, 
but I do take on board what PRB has said about needing to correctly match the fund to the 
expressed attitude to risk 
One point (out of ten) of difference here was a significant contributory factor in Mrs H being 
moved to a plan which, on the face of it  due to the higher costs involved  would mean that 
in environments of the equivalent levels of growth, her pension fund would be almost 20% 
lower than it would have been had she remained with Aviva.
And Mrs H wasnt the professional here. She may have agreed with what she was being told 
by PRB, and consented to both the fee arrangement and the switch itself. I also note in the 
suitability report that PRB informed Mrs H that she should ensure that she was happy with 
the recommended fund and that the choice of fund could affect the charges payable. 
But the option of simply switching funds within Aviva was notably absent from the suitability 
report. In my view, had it been explained to Mrs H that her change in risk attitude, and the 
proposed switch to the SIPP and recommended fund, might now result in the above 
outcome - but that she could switch to a lower risk fund with Aviva at no additional cost - I 
think its more likely than not that she would have remained with Aviva, at least for the time 
being. 
I also dont think that Mrs H needed a regular ongoing advice service, given the size of her 
pension fund and the impact that such a service would have on her overall finances. PRB 
hadnt reviewed Mrs Hs pension arrangements for the five years since 2014, and so I must 
assume that its also of the same view. As Ive said above, Mrs H was 20 years from 
retirement. More regular reviews could have been implemented nearer her retirement date, 
or on an ad hoc basis as PRB thought necessary in response to changing market conditions.Putting things right 
My current view is that, in response to her concerns about the volatility in financial markets, 
Mrs H should have been advised to reduce her exposure to risk within the Aviva plan. The 
fund identified by PRB as being suitable for the purpose doesnt on the face of it seem 
unreasonable. Its the same type of fund, but with a reduction of the equity (so the volatile 
aspect) content to 60% from 80% in the previous fund. But I dont think any fees beyond 
those which would in any case have been taken from within the plan should be deducted 
within the calculation. 
Mrs H accepted my provisional findings, but PRB didnt, saying the following in summary:
It noted my comments about the motivation behind Mrs Hs complaint, but said it still 
felt strongly about the conduct of Mrs Hs representative.
It worked for a client/individual and it therefore charged for the time and advice it had 
given. Mrs H had agreed that shed like to have ongoing advice and felt that shed 
benefit from it. This would have kept Mrs H regularly informed, with twice yearly 
statements, and provided her with the opportunity to ask questions and make 
changes to her plan.
At each review, Mrs H had the opportunity to decline the service if she wasnt finding 
it useful. Mrs H was keen to receive the reviews, and fund size shouldnt dictate 
whether an individual has access to reviews. If this was the case, however, it 
enquired as to the cut off size for a pension fund for this kind of service. 
It had used its research to determine that 80% equity exposure was too high for 
someone like Mrs H with a level 5 risk attitude. This was why it recommended the 
intelligent money fund, which was a UK based company and would provide better 
service if Brexit affected the way people were able to contact overseas-based firms.
It had better diversification than the other Vanguard funds, which included property, 
gold and cash. This meant that Mrs H was better protected in case of market 
declines, which was of concern to her.
Clients with small funds should be treated in the same way as those with large funds, 
and everyone should have the opportunity to be well informed and looked after. 
Small funds in fact needed more attention as the client would be reliant on this for 
retirement.
It had considered other funds available within the existing plan, but Mrs H wasnt 
happy with the level of service shed received from Aviva and so it recommended a 
new provider. And if it had chosen the Vanguard 60% Equity fund, this wouldnt have 
been adding the diversification Mrs H had been interested in.
Mrs Hs remoteness from retirement was exactly why she could benefit from a target 
dated fund, and this was a facility employed by many employer pension scheme 
providers such as Royal London and B&CE.
Id relied upon my opinion in expressing concern over the suitability of target dated 
funds for Mrs H, rather than adhering to the regulators principles and guidance. It 
would be surprised if an IFA dropped a client because their pension had fallen 
below £20,000. It queried whether this would be treating customers fairly and it felt 
the regulator would also be concerned at this stance.
It agreed that Mrs H wasnt the profession party, which is why it had become 
involved. Full consideration had been given to the options to switch funds within 
Aviva and Mrs H had the option to provide [Mrs H] with the flexibility and range of 
options to control how [Mrs Hs] retirement pension fund is invested. Therefore, had Mrs H wished to move funds within Aviva, she was aware that she could do so based 
on the Aviva key features document.
In its suitability report, it had mentioned that Mrs H was very unhappy with Aviva and 
that it hadnt been able to provide her with advice, either in the past or in the future. 
No-one at Aviva was trying to help Mrs H, and it therefore recommended a new 
provider which Mrs H was happy to seek out from the whole of market advice.
It disagreed that Mrs H didnt need an ongoing regular review service, as this was 
explained to her and she was happy to proceed. Although it acknowledged that Mrs 
H was 20 years from retirement, she could access the pension benefits from age 55 
onwards. This therefore needed to be factored in, in terms of how it might affect Mrs 
Hs retirement fund.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted PRBs further comments, and to firstly address the point relating to the ongoing 
advice service, I accept that this can be beneficial, and that the size of a pension fund in 
itself shouldnt be the determining factor as to whether this is provided. And if its charged as 
a percentage of the fund rather than a fixed amount, I agree that the cost is neutral, 
irrespective of the size of the fund. 
But what I actually said in the provision decision was the charges in the replacement plan 
seemed in any case to be higher than those in the previous plan, and that this had been 
exacerbated by the ongoing costs. Had Mrs H deemed such a service to be of value, this 
could have been provided on her existing plan, and with a simple fund switch into something 
more appropriate.
However, I did also note that PRB had seemingly not considered regular reviews to have 
been of importance in the years between 2014 and 2019. And as I said in the provisional 
decision, other than being contacted by PRB in 2019, its unclear as to what otherwise might 
have prompted Mrs H to conclude that she needed that ongoing service when she hadnt in 
the previous five years.
And I think the same principle applies to her recorded unhappiness with the level of service 
provided by Aviva. Surely if Mrs H had been so dissatisfied, she would herself have sought 
financial advice rather than relying on an IFA to contact her.
As I said the provisional decision, its likely that Mrs H would have been well suited to a 
different fund with Aviva, without needing to switch to a new, costlier plan. Ive noted the 
comments about the enhanced customer service from a UK based company rather than an 
overseas one, but I think Aviva would have been able to answer most queries that Mrs H 
might reasonably have had about her plan or the fund in which it was invested. Again, I dont 
think the available evidence supports the position that, prior to being contacted by PRB, Mrs 
H had been particularly perturbed by any difficulties she might have had accessing 
information about her pension funds.
Similarly, I think the diversification that Mrs H apparently sought within her pension fund 
could have been adequately addressed within one of the pension funds provided by Aviva.
Turning then to the matter of target dating and lifestyling, I remain of the view that, given the 
size of Mrs Hs fund and the number of years to retirement, she simply didnt need to be 
paying the additional costs of these features. Lifestyling might reasonably be employed perhaps ten years out from retirement, but Mrs H was 20 years away from this and had 
demonstrated no inclination to access her pension benefits from age 55.
And to be clear, this isnt a matter of a client such as Mrs H having no access to financial 
services simply due to the size of her pension fund, as I think PRB may be suggesting that 
Ive implied here. Its a matter of proportionality and taking into account all of Mrs Hs 
circumstances to settle on a retirement solution that works for her. And in this instance, Mrs 
H was a mainstream investor, with no particular investment or pensions experience, and 
who would have benefitted most of all from a low cost plan which would have optimised the 
growth potential of her pension fund, without the additional costly features which I think have 
been unnecessarily, or certainly prematurely, included here.
As to the option of the fund switch with Aviva, which I said hadnt been explored in the 
suitability report, but would have been the rather more obvious and cost effective  and 
suitable - solution for Mrs M, PRB has said that the excerpt its quoted above is evidence that 
Mrs H was aware that she had this option. Im afraid I disagree. This wouldnt in my view 
reasonably have explicitly drawn the attention of an investor such as Mrs H to the possibility 
of switching within the Aviva plan. This needed to be covered in the suitability as not only an 
option, but, for the reasons given in both this and the provisional decision, the suitable 
course of action for Mrs H.
As such, my view remains that the direction in the provisional decision is the right outcome 
here. Ive thought carefully about the matter of reviews, but although, as set out above, I 
accept that they can be of value to every investor, I remain unpersuaded that Mrs H needed 
to pay an additional amount for these. I think fund growth was the more pressing need, and 
that a proportionate solution for Mrs H would have been the right type of pension fund, which 
could then have been revisited every few years, as had seemingly been PRBs approach 
previously, to determine whether this was still appropriate. 
Facilities such as lifestyling could then have been discussed nearer to Mrs Hs planned 
retirement date.
Putting things right
And so The Pension Review Business Limited should determine, as at the date of this 
decision, the notional value of Mrs Hs pension fund had she remained with Aviva but had 
switched into the Vanguard 60% Equity fund at the date of the transfer to the SIPP.
This should be compared with the actual current value, again at the date of this decision, of 
Mrs Hs SIPP. If theres a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mrs 
Hs SIPP. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs H as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to Mrs Hs 
likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 
15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct The Pension Review Business Limited to undertake the above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman