DRN-1377635
 
complaint
Mr C says Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr C took out a policy at the same time as he took out a credit card in 1998.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs case.
Where there isnt much evidence (as is the case here) or theres contradictory evidence for 
me to consider, I need to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities  that is to 
say, Ill consider what I do have, look at what both sides have said, and make a decision 
based on what I think most likely happened. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I explain why below.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr C said - that he wasnt aware the PPI was optional and 
doesnt recall PPI being explained. The credit card application required him to tick the box if 
he wished to apply for the PPI. The box is ticked on his form. And Mr C signed the form 
which suggests he agreed to its contents. The policy also has been described as an optional 
feature on the application. So, overall I think Mr C knew he was taking out PPI and knew he 
had a choice about doing so, even if he cant remember that now, many years later.
Lloyds said it recommended the PPI to Mr C so it had to take reasonable steps to ensure the 
policy was suitable for him. I have looked at Mr Cs circumstances at the time and I dont 
think it was an unsuitable recommendation. I say this because:
It seems that Mr C would have been eligible for PPI based on his age and his 
employment and residency status.
I havent seen anything to make me think Mr C wouldve been affected by any of the 
main things policies like these usually didnt cover  like existing health issues and unusual employment arrangements. So I dont think thered have been anything to 
stop him claiming the full policy benefit if hed needed to.
I think Mr C had a need for the cover this policy could have provided. I say this 
because Mr C told us he had been employed for less than six months at the time of 
the sale. Mr C thinks that he was employed on a permanent contract but may have 
been in a probation period as he had been employed for less than six months. 
Consequently, Mr C thinks he had no sick pay. And Mr C also told us he had no other 
means to rely on if he was too ill to work, or if he lost his job. The PPI wouldve paid 
out for up to 12 months in those circumstances. So, I think Mr C could have found the 
policy useful.
The policy appears to have been affordable and was comparable to other policies 
which offered similar benefits at the time. 
 
So I think the policy was suitable for Mr C. As well as checking the policy was right for Mr C, 
Lloyds also had to give him clear enough information about the policy so he could decide if 
he wanted to buy it. Its possible the information Lloyds gave him was not as clear as it 
shouldve been. However, for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable, Im not 
persuaded more information would have made a difference to his decision to take out the 
PPI.
Mr C told us that later on he became self employed and had a claim declined in 2002. He 
thinks the policy was miss-sold in 1998 because he wasnt told he couldnt claim for self 
employed work in the future. I look at the miss-sale at the time the policy was sold. At that 
time Mr C was employed and so I think the policy was suitable for him at the time the policy 
was sold. But I note in passing that the policy in 1998 did offer cover for the self employed.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. And I make no award 
against Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman