DRN-3352140
The complaint
Mr and Ms R are unhappy a claim for damage caused by an escape of water has been 
declined under their home insurance by Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (Accredited).
What happened
In January 2021 Mr and Ms R reported damage caused by an escape of water to Accredited, 
their home insurance provider.
Accredited arranged an initial inspection of the damage. A second inspection was also 
carried out by a leak detection specialist and the findings were sent to Accredited for 
consideration.
The claim was subsequently declined by Accredited. They said that based on the 
inspections that had been carried out, the leak was caused by the poor condition and failure 
of the sealant and grout in the shower, along with a crack in the shower tray. The failure of 
sealant and grout, and gradual damage and wear and tear, is excluded under Mr and Ms Rs 
policy.
Mr and Ms R didnt agree and said the grouting had been redone two years prior to the loss. 
As they remained unhappy, they approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint in part. She said Accredited had 
fairly relied on the exclusions to decline the claim as she was satisfied the information 
provided showed the damage was gradual wear, resulting in failed sealant and grout, which 
is excluded under Mr and Ms Rs policy. She also said that whilst Mr and Ms R mightve 
been under the impression from the first inspection that the claim would be covered, an 
insurer is able to carry out additional inspections to validate a claim and thats what 
happened in this case.
However, she said the policy terms cover tracing and accessing a leak, so Accredited should 
consider the costs of doing this. She also said that Accredited shouldve offered this when 
the claim was declined, so she also recommended £200 compensation be paid.
Mr and Ms R didnt agree with the investigators findings. They subsequently arranged for 
their own report to be completed, which our investigator then sent to Accredited to consider. 
However, this didnt change Accrediteds claim decision and they maintained the exclusions 
would apply. But Accredited said, along with considering trace and access costs, theyd 
reimburse the cost of the report as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator also considered the more recent report obtained by Mr and Ms R, but this 
didnt change her view of things. She said both Mr and Ms Rs and Accrediteds report 
showed there was failed grout and sealant and a cracked shower tray which she was 
persuaded was the cause of damage. She also said the shower valve could be a cause, but 
the amount of water escaping would have been insignificant, and in her view wouldnt cause 
the amount of damage present. She also said there werent any reports or evidence to 
support Mr and Ms Rs believed sequence of events  that the leak from the shower valve 
led to the floor bowing, the shower tray then cracking and the wall tiles then moving causing 
the sealant and grout to fail.
So, our investigator didnt think Accredited had acted unfairly by relying on the policy 
exclusions to decline the claim. And following her assessment, Accredited had agreed to 
consider trace and access, shed recommended they pay £200 compensation, and theyd 
agreed to reimburse the cost of the report Mr and Ms R had completed. She said this was 
fair and reasonable.
Mr and Ms R didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim decision
The policy Mr and Ms R have with Accredited has the following exclusions:
General exclusions
Gradually occurring loss
wear, tear or gradual deterioration; wet rot or dry rot or mould; spoilage, decay or 
decomposition; corrosion or rust; oxidation; erosion; leakage; any other gradually 
occurring loss; existing defect; dampness or dryness of atmosphere; condensation; 
smog or fog; or extremes or changes in atmospheric temperature.
The policy also excludes:
What is not covered
Loss or damage caused by:
-the failure or lack of grout and/or sealant
Based on the reports completed, Accredited say the exclusions in the policy apply, and as a 
result they have declined the claim. 
Ive considered all the evidence and information provided when reaching my final decision. 
This includes the inspection reports completed by Accredited, and the later report 
commissioned by Mr and Ms R.
The original inspection report arranged by Accredited said:
The leak repair hasnt been undertaken as the ceiling area need removing to try and 
locate the point of origin. If on removing the ceiling the leak cant be found, further 
T&A (Trace & Access) will be required in the FF bedroom or en-suite shower room.
Therefore, they didnt locate the cause of the leak at the time. And the follow up inspection 
by a leak detection specialist appointed by Accredited didnt locate any leaking pipes either, 
instead they reported:
Whilst carrying out our visual inspections we observed poor condition of silicone 
sealant sealant (sic), multiple areas of fractured wall tile grouting and multiple cracks 
in the wall tiling to the shower area. We also observed no sealant surrounding the shower hose connector which emerges from the shower area wall. We also observed 
a hairline crack to the shower tray.
They noted high moisture readings in the wall tiling areas, but not in the area of the shower 
mixer unit. And they said there was a faulty shower connector hose, but said this was 
unrelated to the reported issues.
They then went on to say:
Upon flood testing the shower area in the bathroom we observed water almost 
immediately enter into the bedroom ceiling below.
Upon re-flow testing the shower waste pipe (thus the shower mixer pipework being 
active) following flood testing of the shower area, the water stopped entering into the 
area below.
And they concluded:
On the basis of the above findings we are of the opinion that the water damage to 
the two bedrooms has occurred due to an escape of water relating to poor condition 
of silicone sealant, fractured wall tile grouting and cracked wall tiling to the shower 
area in the bathroom.
Having considered these images and reports, along with the conclusions reached by the 
leak specialists, Im persuaded by those findings reached. The images also support those 
conclusions, on balance, that the escape of water has been caused by the poor condition 
and wear and tear of the sealant and grout, and cracks present. So, I dont think Accredited 
was unfair to rely on these reports or to apply the exclusions in the policy terms to decline 
the claim.
Mr and Ms R have referred to a video recording taken which they say shows the leak is from 
a leaking pipe, rather than due to failure of sealant or grout. Accredited have said:
You can see the water dripping through the gap onto the pipe giving the illusion the 
leak may be from the pipe but it is quite clear it is coming through the gap.
Ive seen the video and Im in agreement with Accrediteds conclusions here. There are drips 
from the pipe, but they are as a result of drips coming through from the gap above, then onto 
the pipe and then from the exterior of the pipe. So, Im satisfied this shows that it isnt the 
pipe itself that is leaking.
Based on the inspections and reports carried out by Accredited, I dont think they acted 
unfairly by relying on the exclusions in the policy to decline the claim based on the 
information at the time.Mr and Ms R have since had their own report carried out. They say this shows the shower 
control unit was leaking, they say this then led to the floor bowing and the shower tray 
cracking. They say this then led to the wall tiles moving which has resulted in the seals and 
grout failing. Mr and Ms R say this is the sequence of events, rather than gradual damage 
and/or wear causing failed sealant and grout, and a shower tray crack, which then caused 
damage.
However, the report doesnt conclude that. Instead it says:
Our equipment has indicated indicated (sic) this is not a pipework leak.
However testing suggests the seals and grout are not watertight.
Our engineer also detected a minor crack in the shower tray.
An escape of water was also found from the control and components on the shower 
unit indicating the seating of the valves has failed.
And they went on to conclude:
Our engineer found an escape of water from the shower enclosure seals and a 
crack in the shower tray. An escape of water was also found from the control and 
components on the shower unit indicating the seating of the valves has failed. These 
components were only found to leak when the shower is in use.
Our equipment also indicated low wet readings surrounding the boxing in the 
bedroom on the ground floor. When investigating further, areas of interest were found 
on the external rendering.
However, this could be water tracking from seals/cracked shower tray, our equipment 
was unable to determine this through the heavy insulation between voids.
And the repairs they suggested, along with checking the external wall (as they suspected 
rainwater ingress via the cracked external render), were to replace the shower tray which is 
cracked and defective seals and grouting with the shower enclosure once remedial works 
have been completed.
So based on this, the report indicates the cause of the leak was from the poor condition 
shower seals and grout and cracked tray. Whilst the shower valve was leaking, and could be 
a cause or contributory cause, thats not concluded in the report as the sole cause of 
damage. In my view, its not sufficient alone to cause the damage that has occurred, and the 
report concluded the escape of water was from the poor sealant and grouting and cracked 
shower tray and recommended replacing and reinstating those items. So, in my view, both 
reports indicate wear and tear and poor condition of the sealant and grout (and cracked 
shower tray) is the main cause of the damage.
I note Mr and Ms Rs believed sequence of events, that the valve leak has then resulted in 
the floor bowing, the shower tray consequently cracking, wall tiles then moving and then the 
sealant and grout failing, rather than gradual damage and deterioration to the sealant and 
grout and from the shower tray crack. But the report doesnt conclude this. And based on the 
information Ive seen, on balance, Im persuaded the cause of damage is the wear and tear 
and poor condition causing failure of the sealant and grout and the crack in the shower tray. 
And Im not persuaded that this leak from the diverter valve caused the sequence of events 
Mr and Ms R have hypothesised, which they say solely then led to the failure of sealant and 
grout (and crack in the shower tray).With this in mind, I dont think Accredited has acted unfairly by declining the claim by relying 
on the exclusions it has.
Trace and access
Whilst our investigator didnt think Accredited had acted unfairly by declining the claim, she 
said trace and access was covered under Mr and Ms Rs policy, and Accredited shouldve 
considered this, even though they were declining the escape of water damage claim. 
The policy terms say:
We will also pay the costs you have to pay to trace where the water or oil is leaking 
from, including the cost of repairs of walls, floors or ceilings. The most we will pay for 
tracing where the oil or water is leaking from is ten thousand pounds (£10,000).
Accredited later accepted the policy covers trace and access after our investigator issued 
their findings. As this is covered under the terms, Im in agreement that Accredited should 
consider the trace and access part of the claim as it has now agreed to do.
But as Accredited hadnt considered this when they shouldve, our investigator also 
recommended they pay Mr and Ms R £200 compensation for this. Im in agreement with this 
recommendation and that this would be a fair and reasonable amount of compensation in 
the circumstances.
The cost of Mr and Ms Rs report
When forwarding the report Mr and Ms R commissioned to Accredited, our investigator 
asked them if there was any cover under the policy terms which would meet the cost of this.
Accredited said that as the report was carried out in good faith, they would meet the cost of it 
as a gesture of goodwill. I think that is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Accredited Insurance 
(Europe) Ltd to:
Consider Mr and Ms Rs trace and access claim in line with the policy terms
Reimburse the cost of Mr and Ms Rs independent report
Pay Mr and Ms R £200 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman