DRN-3422090
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, wont refund to him the 
money that he paid for some holiday accommodation. His wife is also involved with his 
complaint and hes being represented by a claims management company.
What happened
Mr B used his Barclaycard credit card in May 2015 to pay £770.57 towards the cost of some 
holiday accommodation. He signed an agreement with the holiday company which said that 
he was entering into an accommodation purchase agreement for one week in a specified 
hotel together with up to four weeks of accommodation in an establishment provided by the 
holiday company.
He used his Barclaycard credit card in March 2016 to pay £1,623.61 for some other holiday 
accommodation. He signed a resort membership application and an agreement with another 
company for two weeks in a one bedroom apartment in a specified resort. 
His representative made claims to Barclaycard under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 in September 2018. It apologised to Mr B that it had failed to send him a 
letter about the progress of his complaint and credited £25 to his account  but it asked him 
to provide further information to prove the breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
suppliers. Mr B wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He said that both 
purchases were for pre-purchased accommodation and that he didnt have any evidence to 
suggest that Mr B and his wife werent able to make use of both of the products purchased  
so he didnt t think that Barclaycard acted unfairly when it decided not to uphold his section 
75 claim. He didnt think that the arrangements created an unfair relationship between the 
debtor and creditor and that it didnt look like Mr B had purchased a timeshare product.
Mr Bs representative, on his behalf, has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It said that a full substantive response would follow when it had received 
instructions from Mr B but no further information has been provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;
to be able to uphold Mr Bs complaint about Barclaycard, I must be satisfied that 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the holiday companies and 
that Barclaycards response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable  
but Im not determining the outcome of Mr Bs claim under section 75 as only a court 
would be able to do that;
Mr B entered into agreements for one week in a specified hotel together with up to 
four weeks of accommodation in an establishment provided by the holiday company 
and for two weeks in a one bedroom apartment in a specified resort  Ive seen no 
evidence to show that that accommodation wasnt provided to him;
Barclaycard asked Mr B to provide further information to prove the breach of contract 
or misrepresentation by the suppliers but he didnt provide that evidence to it  and 
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that theres been a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation in these circumstances;
Mr Bs representative says that there was an unfair relationship between Barclaycard 
and Mr B under section 140A  that section gives a court the power, amongst other 
things, to require a creditor to repay any sum paid by the debtor under a credit 
agreement if it determines that theres an unfair relationship between the debtor and 
the creditor;
Mr B used his credit card to pay for the two sets of holiday accommodation and Im 
not persuaded that the evidence shows that there was an unfair relationship between 
Barclaycard and Mr B in these circumstances;
much of the information provided by Mr Bs representative relates to purchases of 
timeshare products but Im not persuaded that Mr B had purchased timeshare 
products;
its clear that Mr B has concerns about the accommodation that he purchased  and I 
sympathise with him for that  but I consider that Barclaycards response to his 
claims was fair and reasonable; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Barclaycard to refund to 
Mr B any of the money that he paid for the accommodation, to pay him any other 
compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr B s complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman