DRN-3545744
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Think Money Limited (thinkmoney) hasnt reimbursed him for his loss 
after he was the victim of a scam.
What happened
On 6 September 2021 Mr C received an email he believed to be from a builder hed 
employed to work on his home. His son had been speaking to the builder for some time at 
this point arranging the work they were due to carry out. The email asked him to make a 
payment of £10,000 before work would commence the next day.
Mr C tried to make the payment online but was locked out of his account due to him using 
the incorrect security information. He called thinkmoney to make the transfer which allowed 
him to make it using an alternative security process as a one off. During this call, thinkmoney 
asked Mr C questions about what the payment was for and who it was to.
After the payment had been made Mr Cs son received a message from the builder. They 
told Mr C their email account had been hacked and they could see someone had sent emails 
from the account and then deleted them. They established Mr C had been the victim of an 
email intercept scam, where a scammer had pretended to be the builder and had requested 
the deposit was paid to their account instead of the builders. The £10,000 Mr C had sent 
had been paid to the scammer.
Mr C reported the matter to thinkmoney, but it didnt feel it was liable for Mr Cs loss as hed 
authorised the payment and it had followed his instructions. But, it acknowledged there was 
a significant delay in acknowledging his complaint and offered him £50 for this.
Mr C brought the complaint to our service and our investigator upheld it. They felt 
thinkmoney ought to have recognised that Mr C was the victim of a common scam when it 
spoke to him and prevented it from being made. Thinkmoney didnt accept this. It said email 
intercept scams werent common and it couldnt have recognised Mr C was the victim of a 
scam based on its conversation with him.
As thinkmoney didnt accept the investigators findings, the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law and regulations  plus good industry practice and thinkmoneys own terms 
and conditions  suggest it has a duty of care to protect its customers against the risk of 
fraud and scams so far as reasonably possible. It might be negligent and liable for 
reasonably foreseeable losses if, in breach of that duty of care, it fails to act on information 
which ought reasonably alert an authorised payment institution to potential fraud or financial 
crime by, or against its customer.
But, the Payment Services Regulations 2017, alongside thinkmoneys own terms and 
conditions, also indicate it should execute and authorise payment instructions without undue 
delay. And as a starting point there is a presumption that liability for authorised payments is 
on the payer, even where it mightve been made as part of a scam.
Theres no dispute in this case that Mr C authorised the payment to the scammer. But 
thinkmoney has confirmed the payment was picked up by its fraud team. When Mr C 
contacted it by phone to make the payment due to an unrelated issue, thinkmoney, in line 
with its fraud prevention processes, carried out some checks with Mr C before it allowed the 
payment to be made. As its not in dispute thinkmoney recognised the payment as a potential 
risk, its for me to decide whether I think thinkmoney did enough when it spoke to Mr C to 
satisfy itself the payment was genuine.
As part of the additional fraud checks carried out by thinkmoney, Mr C was asked who the 
payment was going to, he confirmed his builder, and he was asked if hed paid them before, 
he confirmed he hadnt. He was then asked where the money had come from, which he 
answered. Im satisfied these questions were part of its fraud processes, because it didnt 
need to know this information in order to follow his payment instruction.
I dont think these questions went far enough for thinkmoney to reasonably satisfy itself Mr C 
was not the victim of a scam. Its clear Mr C believed he was making payment to a builder, 
but I wouldve expected thinkmoney to go further in asking him what contact hed had with 
the builder, how hed received their payment details and if theyd recently changed.
I say this because email intercept scams are common and well recognised scams where an 
individual receives an email they believe to be from a supplier asking for payment, but the 
bank details provided are the scammers. And Id expect thinkmoney to be aware of, and on 
the look out for common scams such as this one and ask relevant questions related to how 
this type of scam tends to be perpetrated. Upon identifying a scam risk as it ought to have 
done here, I wouldve expected it to have provided information and warnings about how this 
type of scam tends to work and how Mr C could best protect himself. For example, when it 
established Mr C had only received payment details via email, I wouldve expected it to 
recommend he contact the builder directly to confirm and I wouldve expected it to explain 
why.
Thinkmoney has argued that email intercept or invoice scams arent common. It feels it isnt 
reasonable to suggest it couldve recognised Mr C was the potential victim of a scam based 
on what he told it  that he was paying his builder. But I disagree - thinkmoneys own 
website talks about the importance of every customer verifying any information it receives 
via email. It doesnt go into detail about this particular scam, but it does direct its customers 
to a third party government website which does provide details of invoice scams and how 
individuals can protect themselves from them. It sets out that this type of scam is 
characterised by someones builder contacting victims with amended bank details requesting 
payment. I can also see that as far back as 2016, the Financial Conduct Authority, Actionfraud and 
various media platforms have published information online about email and invoice intercept 
scams and how they tend to be perpetrated. So I dont accept this scam isnt common or 
well known as thinkmoney has suggested. 
Thinkmoney has said even if it had adequately questioned Mr C and warned him about this 
type of scam and how its commonly perpetrated, it wouldnt have made a difference. But, if 
thinkmoney had sufficiently warned him about how this type of scam tends to work, given all 
it would take to verify the details is a call or message to his builder via his son, Im not sure 
on what basis thinkmoney believes Mr C wouldnt have done this. I think any reasonable 
person would likely carry out this additional check to avoid the potential loss of £10,000.
Overall, based on the evidence and information available to both thinkmoney and Mr C at 
the time the payment was made, I think its likely Mr C wouldnt have made the payment he 
did to the scammer. As thinkmoney has missed an opportunity to stop the payment being 
made, I think its liable for his loss.
Ive also considered in this case whether I think Mr C shares any liability for his loss by way 
of contributory negligence. But from the evidence hes provided it appears that the 
scammers accessed the builders genuine email account to send correspondence to Mr Cs 
son (who was dealing with the situation on Mr Cs behalf). The email the scammer sent 
seems to reflect the amount required as a deposit theyd previously agreed, the email 
address and signature were genuine and the language and writing style were in line with 
other emails. And, the payment was being requested on the date Mr C had expected to pay 
it.
Overall, I dont think anything stood out in the email requesting payment that ought to have 
seemed unusual or an obvious sign of a scam to Mr C or his son given I wouldnt expect 
either to have an in depth knowledge of common fraud and scams and how they tend to be 
perpetrated. I dont think Mr C shares any liability for the loss in this case.
Thinkmoney has acknowledged it didnt respond to Mr Cs contact regarding the fraud as 
soon as it couldve. Mr C has also said he had some difficulty contacting it over the phone 
and needed to report the scam via social media channels. I can see this wouldve been 
frustrating given the stress he was under at the time. Overall I think the £50 thinkmoney has 
offered is sufficient compensation.
Putting things right
Think Money Limited should reimburse Mr C the £10,000 he lost as a result of a scam. It 
should apply interest to this amount at a rate of 8% from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
If it hasnt already it should also pay Mr C the £50 compensation offered for the customer 
service provided.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Think Money Limited to pay the redress outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman