DRN-3561594
The complaint
Mr F complains that Embark Services Limited (Embark) who administer Mr Fs SIPP (self-
invested personal pension) have incorrectly calculated a Lifetime Allowance (LTA) charge. 
What happened
Mr F has a SIPP which is administered by Embark. Mr Fs SIPP holds commercial property. 
Mr F has a LTA of £1,000,000. A benefit crystallisation event (BCE) in 2016 had used up 
94.7% (£850,694.56) of the LTA. Mr F turned 75 in March 2021 and Embark needed to 
undertake a test against the LTA  theres a final test at age 75 in respect of any 
uncrystallised defined benefit pension rights; any uncrystallised defined contribution rights 
and any growth in a drawdown plan since it had been set up.  
Embark calculated that the value of Mr Fs pension benefits as at his 75th birthday was 
£1,098,073.27 which was an increase of £247,378.71 since 2016 and would use an
additional 19.79% of Mr Fs LTA. Deducting the remaining LTA meant that Mr Fs total
pension provision exceeded the LTA by £181,628.71. Where a LTA test is done at the 
members 75th birthday any amount over the available LTA is taxed at 25% rate. So 
Embark calculated a 25% LTA on the excess £181,628.71 equated to a £45,407 tax 
charge.
Mr F didnt agree and put forward a number of reasons why he considered Embark hadnt 
calculated the LTA charge correctly and the tax due should be some £4,250 less. In 
summary he thought the value of the commercial property held in the SIPP had been 
overstated and costs that would be incurred on a sale of the property should be deducted. 
Mr F also said Embark hadnt properly liaised with him to get all the information needed. And 
Embark had incorrectly determined that deferred property management payments werent 
allowable by HMRC and had to be paid to the property manager immediately. Making that 
payment when it wasnt due left insufficient funds to meet the SIPPs mortgage payments. 
Mr F wanted Embark to reassess the tax due and seek a refund for any overpayment from 
HMRC, return the property management charges to the SIPP and apologise and pay 
compensation for the time hed spent dealing with the matter. 
Mr Fs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who issued his view on 27 April 
2022. He didnt uphold the complaint. He said from what hed seen Embark had carried out 
the LTA test correctly. Embark had to follow HMRCs guidance. The calculations were 
carried out correctly, the property was valued by a qualified professional and all immediate 
costs which ought to have been deducted were. Satisfactory reasoning had been provided in 
a timely and transparent fashion to Mr F in respect of any costs which couldnt be 
considered. 
The investigator referred to the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992 (TGCA). The 
investigator had considered section 272 which set out that market value meant the price 
which the asset might reasonably be expected to fetch on a sale in the open market. The 
investigator also referred to what HMRCs Pensions Tax Manual (PTM) said about the LTA: 
Nature of the lifetime allowance charge
The lifetime allowance charge is a charge to income tax, but the amount on which it is
charged is not income under the taxation provisions generally. The charge is, broadly, a
recovery of tax relief previously given, measured against the value of an individuals tax
relieved pension savings. The charge is separate from any income tax due on any
pension payments actually made.
This treatment means that an individual will not be able to set any allowances,
losses or reliefs against the lifetime allowance charges, and that the amount will not
count as pension income, or any other kind of income, for the purposes of the UKs
bilateral double taxation conventions.
The investigator highlighted what was said about not setting any allowances, losses or 
reliefs against the LTA charge. He went on to say that Embark had relied upon a current 
market valuation provided by a RICS (Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors) which was a 
reasonable market value for the asset. The investigator thought deducting disposal costs 
would be an artificial reduction of the true value of Mr Fs pension fund as the property 
wasnt being sold and might not be sold during his lifetime. 
Mr F asked the investigator to reconsider. In particular Mr F referred to section 38 of TCGA 
which said the costs of disposal were allowable in computing the capital gain on disposal. 
Mr F didnt agree with the argument that disposal costs shouldnt be deducted as the 
property might not be sold during his lifetime. He said, on that basis and if the property was 
never sold, it had no value and shouldnt be set against the LTA as an asset of the pension 
fund. Mr F pointed out that the outstanding mortgage balance had been offset for the 
purposes of calculating the gain subject to the LTA. 
He said his key concern was that Embark and the investigator had interpreted HMRC 
guidance differently to Mr Fs interpretation but neither Embark nor this service had sought to 
clarify with HMRC whether his approach was allowable. Embark had used the same 
valuation method for the BCE in 2016 but no objection was necessary as the fund value was 
then below the LTA. 
Mr F said he didnt understand what the investigator had said about it being a one or the 
other situation with the deferred property management charges. Mr F said whether unpaid 
or paid the property management charge would be deducted from the fund value. The 
management company is subject to corporation tax and liable on the invoice value either 
way. Embark had said it couldnt allow the deferred payment as HMRC would view it as a 
connected party loan. Mr F didnt agree and said the connected party guidelines permitted 
such a transaction. And it was vital to recognise the LTA charge was a personal not a 
corporate tax liability. 
The investigator considered Mr Fs comments. The investigator referred to an example set 
out in the PTM relating to a commercial property held in a SIPP subject to a mortgage. And 
which didnt suggest future potential future costs of disposal were included. He didnt agree 
that just because an asset isnt being disposed of it had no value. The funds invested in a 
pension fund have a value even if theyre not sold. The associated costs of disposing of 
those funds arent deducted from the value as they arent being disposed of at the time. 
The investigator considered what Mr F had said but he wasnt persuaded to change his view. 
He said, given that Mr F was a director of the management company, Embark was right that 
he was a connected person  in accordance with the definition in section 993 of the Income 
Tax Act 2007 of connected persons. The investigator agreed with what Embark had said 
about Mr Fs request to delay paying property management expenses  that Mr Fs company was a connected party and so all services provided by them to the scheme must be on a 
commercial basis. The investigator maintained that Embark, as the scheme administrators 
and if no regulations mandate that they act in a particular way, are within their rights to 
manage the scheme they offer in a way they deem to be appropriate, within reason. It wasnt 
unreasonable for a scheme administrator to pay a liability which is due. 
Mr F remained unhappy. He didnt agree that the PTM mandated the appropriate method for 
valuing the assets. And he pointed out that the loan had been to the pension scheme not the 
other way around  that is a loan made by the pension scheme  which was allowed. Mr F 
said he was going to seek guidance direct from HMRC. 
The investigator asked Mr F how he wanted to proceed in so far as his complaint was 
concerned  refer the complaint to an ombudsman; withdraw the complaint; or get back to us 
once hed heard from HMRC. Mr F said hed prefer to wait to see if he could get a 
determination from HMRC. Mr F didnt then hear from HMRC within the timeframe he 
expected and he requested in June 2022 that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman. 
Weve recently checked with Mr F who told us that hed received a reply from HMRC to the 
effect that they dont offer guidance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered everything Im not going to comment on each and every 
point thats been raised. Based on what Ive seen I agree with the investigator and the 
reasons he gave as to why Embark hadnt done anything wrong. I dont have much to add to 
what the investigator has already said. 
The starting point is the PTM and what is says about the LTA  an income tax charge which 
is separate from any income tax due on any pension payments actually made. Theres 
specific reference to not being able to set off any allowances, losses or reliefs against the 
LTA charge. 
I also note the example set out in the PTM and referred to by the investigator. It gives no 
indication that, in valuing a commercial property for the purposes of the LTA, the potential 
future disposal costs should be taken into account. I recognise the example relates to 
valuing a pension fund for the purposes of obtaining LTA protection under Individual 
Protection 2014 (IP 2014) and not valuing a pension fund for the purposes of a BCE at age 
75. But I dont immediately see any particular reason why a different method of valuing a 
commercial property held in a pension plan would apply where theres a BCE. 
 
I havent been able to find anything in the PTM which supports what Mr F has said  that 
deductions can be made to reflect disposal costs. So, from what Ive seen, I dont think, 
using the up to date market value (less any outstanding mortgage but without any allowance 
for disposal/sale costs) is inappropriate. 
Mr F has referred in particular to TCGA. Embark agrees that the valuation must be in 
accordance with that Act and has cited section 272 of TCGA which says: 
Valuation: general
(1)In this Act market value in relation to any assets means the price which those 
assets might reasonable be expected to fetch on a sale in the open market.Mr F relies on section 38 of TCGA. It says in so far as is relevant here:
Acquisition and disposal costs etc
(1) Except as otherwise expressly provided, the sums allowable as a deduction from the 
consideration in the computation of the gain accruing to a person on the disposal of an asset 
shall be restricted to
(a) the amount or value of the consideration, in money or moneys worth, given by him or on 
his behalf wholly and exclusively for the acquisition of the asset, together with the incidental 
costs to him of the acquisition or, if the asset was not acquired by him, any expenditure 
wholly and exclusively incurred by him in providing the asset,
(b) the amount of any expenditure wholly and exclusively incurred on the asset by him or on 
his behalf for the purpose of enhancing the value of the asset, being expenditure reflected in 
the state or nature of the asset at the time of the disposal, and any expenditure wholly and 
exclusively incurred by him in establishing, preserving or defending his title to, or to a right 
over, the asset,
(c) the incidental costs to him of making the disposal.
(2) For the purposes of this section and for the purposes of all other provisions of this Act, 
the incidental costs to the person making the disposal of the acquisition of the asset or of its 
disposal shall consist of expenditure wholly and exclusively incurred by him for the purposes 
of the acquisition or, as the case may be, the disposal, being fees, commission or 
remuneration paid for the professional services of any surveyor or valuer, or auctioneer, or 
accountant, or agent or legal adviser and costs of transfer or conveyance (including stamp 
duty) together
(a) in the case of the acquisition of an asset, with costs of advertising to find a seller, and
(b) in the case of a disposal, with costs of advertising to find a buyer and costs reasonably 
incurred in making any valuation or apportionment required for the purposes of the 
computation of the gain, including in particular expenses reasonably incurred in ascertaining 
market value where required by this Act.
Section 38 is in Part III of TCGA which deals with computation of gains. As Ive set out 
above, section 38 appears under the heading Allowable deductions. 
Capital Gains Tax is a tax on the profit made when an asset is sold or disposed of. Its the 
gain on the value thats taxed not the amount of money thats actually received. Where the 
asset is a property, certain costs, including those of selling the property (such as estate 
agents and legal fees) can be deducted. 
Section 38 TCGA is about how that gain should be calculated or computed. I dont think its 
about the market value of an asset as such. In accordance with section 38 (1) (c) the 
incidental costs of making the disposal can be deducted in computing the gain. And section 
38 (2) goes on to set out what can be included in those incidental costs. 
I dont think that must mean that, in valuing the commercial property held in Mr Fs SIPP, the 
costs of a future disposal of the property must be taken into account and deducted from the 
market value. So Im not convinced that section 38 operates in the way Mr F suggests. 
From what Ive seen, I dont think Embark did anything wrong by valuing the commercial 
property held in Mr Fs SIPP in accordance with section 272 of TCGA. That is using the market value  the price the property might reasonably be expected to fetch on a sale in the 
open market  and without making any deduction for disposal costs. So Im not going to say 
that Embark needs to do anything more such as seeking a refund from HMRC.
 
As to the property management costs, Mr F has said the investigator got things wrong and 
that the loan wouldve been to the pension scheme and not the other way around. I think 
here Mr F is referring to the possibility that a loan made by a pension scheme to a connected 
party would be an unauthorised payment which isnt permitted and can result in 
unauthorised payment tax charges. Whereas the non-payment of a liability by the pension 
scheme could amount to a loan to the scheme.  
But I think the point remains that Mr F is a connected person and so, if the pension scheme 
was borrowing money from him or a business connected to him, the borrowing must be at 
arms length and at a commercial rate. But I dont think that anything much turns on this 
point. I dont think Embark did anything wrong in paying a liability which it considered was 
due. 
As Ive mentioned Mr F has approached HMRC. I note what hes said about HMRC not 
providing any helpful guidance. But I think ultimately if Mr F considers hes paid too much tax 
he ought to be able to take that up with HMRC, if not by way of an enquiry but by requesting 
a refund on the basis that hes overpaid tax. But even if thats not the case I cant uphold Mr 
Fs complaint because from what Ive seen and my understanding of the position I dont think 
Embark has done anything wrong. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F on behalf of 
Mr Fs SIPP to accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman