DRN-1862489
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Aviva Insurance Limited mis-sold him a home emergency insurance 
policy covering his heating system.
All references to Aviva include the agents it has appointed to handle claims.  
What happened
Mr D bought a home emergency insurance policy online in December 2017. The policy 
included a boiler health check and an annual gas boiler service, which an engineer attended 
to complete in January 2018. 
Following some confusion about whether Mr D would have to pay for an annual gas boiler 
service in February 2019, an engineer attended at Mr Ds property and said he couldnt 
access the boiler because it was in a cupboard. Mr D says the engineer told him the boiler 
hadnt been serviced the previous year either  it had only been inspected. 
Unhappy, Mr D complained to Aviva, saying his policy had been mis-sold to him and asking 
for his premiums to be refunded. 
Aviva said it wouldnt be refunding any premiums to Mr D, so he brought his complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator didnt think Aviva had mis-sold the policy. Mr D didnt agree, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ds home emergency insurance policy clearly state that 
Mr Ds agreement has two separate parts. The policy says the boiler health check and 
annual gas boiler service are not provided by Aviva  they are provided by a different 
company, under a separate contract.
Although Mr D pays his insurance premiums to Aviva, this doesnt mean Aviva is legally 
responsible for everything Mr D is complaining about. Aviva didnt appoint a contractor to 
maintain Mr Ds boiler. Instead, a different business which is regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority in its own right, is responsible for carrying out the boiler health check and 
annual gas boiler service. 
When making this decision, I can only comment on matters which Aviva is responsible for  
and thats the sale of Mr Ds policy  not the provision of the boiler health check or annual 
gas boiler service.  
When selling this policy, Aviva had a responsibility to make sure Mr D was provided with 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading, to enable him to make an informed 
choice about whether to buy the policy. 
Ive reviewed the sales journey Mr D would have followed when buying the policy online. I 
can see Mr D would have been asked to confirm some assumptions about the type of boiler 
he had, to make sure cover could be provided. 
The sales process goes on to outline the key features of the insurance cover, as well as the 
significant policy exclusions, before referring customers to the policy documentation for full 
details of what is and isnt covered. 
Im satisfied, based on the information Ive seen, that Aviva sold this policy correctly. 
I understand Mr D was subsequently unhappy with how the boiler health check and annual 
gas boiler service were carried out, but this doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold to him.
While Mr Ds insurance policy excludes cover for boilers where its not possible for an 
engineer to work on it safely and/or it is impractical to access it, I dont think this means Mr D 
could never benefit from the policy. Aviva hasnt refused to accept cover for the boiler  Mr D 
just needs to arrange for access to be made to the boiler before an engineer can work on it. 
Mr D has had the benefit of cover while the policy has been in force, regardless of whether 
any successful claims have been made, so it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask Aviva to 
refund any premiums to him. The likelihood of any future claims being accepted or declined 
isnt relevant to whether I think the policy has been sold correctly. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr D but I wont be directing Aviva to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2020.
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman