DRN-3822499
The complaint
Mr N complains that AXA Insurance UK plc mishandled a claim on his motor insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to AXA, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include claims-
handlers and others insofar as I hold AXA responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
Mr N had a vehicle insured on a policy with AXA. Unfortunately, in February 2022, his 
vehicle and a third partys were involved in an incident. 
In May 2022, AXA settled the third partys claim for about £2,700.00 and told Mr N. Mr N 
complained to AXA that it had paid too much.
In mid-July 2022, AXA told Mr N of his right to bring his complaint to us  which he did 
without delay.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that the 
costs were fair, and AXA had acted in a fair and reasonable way.
Mr N disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The third partys vehicle was parked on a side road with the ignition switched off. It 
was parked too close to his vehicle.
The incident caused a minor scratch to the third partys vehicle. 
A few days after the incident, police issued a crime reference number. At night, the 
third party opened the bonnet of his vehicle and intentionally caused more damage. 
Mr N had video footage of this, which he sent to AXA.
The third partys vehicle remained driveable.
AXA wouldnt give him a breakdown of the repair which he paid for. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The third partys vehicle dated from about 2008 and had a recorded mileage of about 
140,000. AXAs engineer later reported that, before the incident in February 2022, the 
vehicle had a value of about £2,780.00. I have no reason to doubt that.
Whilst the third partys vehicle was parked very close to Mr Ns vehicle, Mr N has said the 
third partys vehicle had its ignition switched off. Mr N hasnt denied that he was responsible 
for the vehicles coming into contact. So I dont consider that AXA treated Mr N unfairly by 
holding him responsible for the incident.
From the video, I find that someone removed something from the front of the third partys 
vehicle. But I dont find that the third party caused further damage to his own vehicle.
Ive seen an engineers report with photographs of the third partys vehicle. From that, I find 
that the third partys vehicle had damage to its front and a wing. The photographs include 
some with the bumper removed, showing damage to the support behind the bumper. 
I dont find that AXA treated Mr N unfairly by treating all that damage as consistent with  
and caused by - the incident in February 2022.
The report estimated the cost of repair at over £2,000.00 including VAT. That was a high 
percentage of the pre-accident value. So I dont consider that AXA treated Mr N unfairly by 
accepting that the third partys vehicle was a total loss and settling his claim by paying a total 
of about £2,700.00.
Theres no evidence that Mr N paid or contributed to that settlement. AXAs settlement of the 
claim is likely to cause his future premiums to be higher than they wouldve been if there had 
been no claim. 
However, I havent found that AXA treated Mr N unfairly. So I dont find it fair and reasonable 
to uphold this compliant or to direct AXA to do any more in response to it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct AXA Insurance UK plc to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman