DRN-3899902
The complaint
Dr A complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) dealt with a claim she made 
under her home insurance policy. In particular how the assessor dealt with the assessment 
of the damage and feels the subsequent report is inaccurate. 
Any reference to Aviva includes its agents. 
What happened
Dr A has a home insurance policy with Aviva which covers her contents for accidental 
damage. 
Dr A says she accidentally spilled a soft drink on the arm on her sofa which then soaked into 
the arm of the sofa. She says the liquid went onto the carpet too. 
Dr A tried to clean it up but wasnt able to get the staining to come out. She says the leather 
on the sofa eventually started to peel as a result. 
So she reported the accident to her insurer. Aviva sent its assessor to Dr As property to 
inspect the damage. Dr A was told she didnt have to agree to having a test clean by the 
assessor if she didnt want to have one and so she refused. Dr A says the assessor was 
rude and abusive and did the test clean anyway. 
Dr A reported the issue with the assessor to the insurer who told the assessor to leave the 
premises. 
The assessor reported that the carpet would need to be replaced but the sofa could be 
successfully cleaned. Dr A wasnt happy with the assessors report and so requested 
another assessor to attend the property. 
In the meantime Dr A had complained to Aviva regarding the attitude of the assessor, and 
how the claim had been dealt with. And so a second assessor didnt attend and the claim 
was put on hold. 
Aviva said it accepted there had been areas where the service it provided hadnt been at the 
standard it would have expected such as when calls werent returned. And to apologise for 
this Aviva offered to pay Dr A £25 in recognition of the frustration caused. With regards to 
the conduct of the assessor Aviva said whilst it didnt dispute Dr As version of events there 
wasnt enough evidence to take any action against the assessor but it had provided 
feedback to the assessor and would track whether any similar complaints were made going 
forward. 
Dr A wasnt satisfied with the response from Aviva. She felt it hadnt been honest about what 
happened during the course of the claim and so she brought her complaint to the financial 
ombudsman. The investigator looked into things for Dr A. He said he didnt think Aviva had 
acted unreasonably or unfairly in its handling of the claim. He said the terms of the insurance 
policy say the insurer can settle the claim by repairing the items and so Aviva has acted in 
accordance with the policy. 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 16 December 2022 where I explained 
why I intended to ask Aviva to pay more compensation. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I have seen no reason to 
depart from the findings in my provisional decision.
I have received a large amount of documentation and its not my intention to go through 
each document or point raised. I have looked at the main crux of the complaint and detailed 
my findings below. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, or inconsistent, as it is here, I must make my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities, that is, what I think more likely than not happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
I understand Dr A has strong views about what has happened and I can empathise with the 
situation. I have read and considered everything I have received carefully. It is important to 
explain our role is to look at whether Aviva has acted within its terms and conditions, and 
treated Dr A fairly. 
The assessor 
I know Dr A is unhappy that Aviva havent done more to acknowledge and deal with the 
behaviour of the assessor. And I am sorry for what she must have gone through in her own 
home. 
Having reviewed the information I received from Aviva and Dr As testimony about the 
incident I have been unable to find any evidence to corroborate what Dr A has alleged about 
the assessor. I dont doubt Dr As version of events but in the absence of any independent 
evidence, I am unable to direct Aviva to take any further action. I note Aviva have provided 
feedback to the assessor and will continue to monitor whether any such allegations are 
made in the future. I think this is reasonable in the circumstances. 
The claim 
Dr A has said she would prefer to have her items replaced rather than repaired. But Avivas 
policy terms give it the option to decide whether to replace items or pay the cost of repairing 
the item. So I cant say it has done anything wrong by attempting to have the sofa cleaned. 
And I havent seen any reason to direct it to do anything differently. 
I have seen evidence that Dr A has been offered a cash settlement if she wants to take this 
instead. So Im satisfied a fair alternative has been offered to Dr A if she isnt happy with 
having the sofa professionally cleaned. 
The terms of the policy allow Aviva to decide whether to repair, replace, or offer a cash 
settlement for the claim. With this in mind I dont think Avivas decision, based on its own 
experts findings, was unreasonable. 
Communication 
I dont think Aviva communicated with Dr A as clearly as it should have done. In the initial 
call the agent on the phone explained that an assessor would come out to assess the damage and measure the area if necessary. Its clear from listening to the call that Dr A was 
expecting the carpet and sofa to be replaced since she asked whether Aviva would arrange 
a replacement, or whether she can go into a shop and purchase it herself. Dr A also queried 
the timescale for accepting the claim. The agent on the phone answered Dr As questions 
but I dont think she explained clearly that there are steps to go through before items are 
replaced; and that Aviva would look to repair items before considering replacement, as per 
the terms of the policy. So I dont think Aviva gave Dr A a clear explanation as to why it 
wasnt replacing the sofa initially. And this was understandably frustrating and confusing for 
Dr A. 
Responses 
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or arguments they wanted me to 
consider. Dr A provided a response detailing some concerns that she had yet to receive 
settlement of the claim despite the passage of time, with the sofa becoming more damaged 
as time goes on. In addition her premiums have increased but the claim remains open. Dr A 
will need to contact Aviva separately about this as it doesnt form part of the original 
complaint. And so I am not able to consider it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Dr A provided further commentary on the circumstances of the complaint but no new 
evidence or information. And so my findings about this complaint havent changed. 
Putting things right 
Aviva offered Dr A £25 for the shortcomings in service before she brought her complaint to 
this service. I award an additional £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Dr A 
because of the way it handled her claim, communicated with her, and failed to adequately 
manage her expectations. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I direct Aviva Insurance Plc to put things right by doing what Ive said 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Dr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman