DRN-4084481
The complaint
Miss K has complained that Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited (VMMF) is holding her 
liable for a credit agreement she took out to buy a new phone. Miss K says she didnt 
receive the phone shed ordered. 
What happened
Miss K ordered a new phone using a fixed sum loan agreement from VMMF on 27 
November 2022. The phone cost around £400 and the agreement was to be paid back over 
two years. Miss K says she received a package on 8 December 2022, but the phone that 
was delivered was a different model to what she ordered, it wasnt new, and it was 
damaged. Miss K contacted VMMF on the same day to complain. 
VMMF asked Miss K to send photos of the phone and the packaging, which she did. It 
looked into Miss Ks complaint. It said the supplier dispatched the correct model, and that it 
didnt have stock of the phone model Miss K received. It said there was no evidence the 
packaging had been tampered with. And that the phone model Miss K received came from 
abroad. So it didnt uphold Miss Ks complaint, and she brought it to our service to consider. 
She says she doesnt want to pay for a phone she didnt receive. She says shes been a 
VMMF customer for 10 years. This was the third phone shed ordered. 
Our investigator looked into Miss Ks complaint. She asked for evidence from VMMF the 
correct model was dispatched such as proof of the item being scanned, or that a review of 
CCTV had taken place. She also asked if thered been any other reports of goods switched 
in boxes. She asked if the handset had been blacklisted or if it had since been unlisted. And 
she asked if the phone was usable and whether it could provide details of any usage or sims 
linked to it. Our investigator also asked Miss K some questions and she said the courier 
gave her the parcel but didnt ask for a signature. She says she wasnt expecting the phone 
on the 8 December 2022. And she says the packaging wasnt closed properly. 
Our investigator didnt think Miss K had switched the correct model with a damaged one 
from abroad. She said Miss K had provided clear, consistent answers. And that VMMF 
hadnt supplied all the evidence shed asked for. So to resolve the complaint she thought 
VMMF should end the agreement and refund Miss K what shed paid towards it, together 
with interest. She also said shed expect VMMF to refund any associated tariff charges that 
hadnt been used. 
Miss K accepted the assessment, but VMMF didnt. VMMF said it completed all its checks 
with the warehouse and that the supplier didnt stock the phone Miss K says she had 
delivered. It highlighted the outer packaging didnt show signs of being tampered with. It also 
said the warehouse provided evidence of the phone that was allocated to be dispatched.
The complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
VMMF is seeking payment under a regulated fixed sum loan agreement, and our service is 
able to consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. VMMF is the creditor and 
so is also responsible for dealing with claims for breach of contract or misrepresentation 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The supplier is connected to 
VMMF which is why VMMF has been able to respond to questions about the delivery of the 
goods.
Theres a lack of evidence here. On the one hand, VMMF has said the supplier doesnt stock 
the phone that was delivered to Miss K. It says the right phone was sent, and that theres no 
clear sign of the delivery packaging having been tampered with. 
On the other hand, Miss K reported the problems with the delivery the day she received the 
goods. She says shes bought various phones from the supplier connected with VMMF over 
the last 10 years and not had an issue. Shes been responsive to VMMFs requests, and her 
testimony has been consistent. Theres been nothing in her testimony or actions Ive seen 
that point towards her having misled VMMF.
Ill never know exactly whats happened. And where the evidence is incomplete I have to 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
There are only a few possibilities. The phone could have been switched by Miss K, by the 
courier, or by someone at the suppliers warehouse. Our investigator asked for information to 
help her decide what is the most likely thing to have happened. Having reviewed the pictures 
of the packaging she didnt think the most likely thing to have happened is that the courier 
switched the phone. Having looked at photos of the packaging, I agree it looks to be in 
decent condition. There are no obvious signs of it being tampered with. So Im not 
persuaded the most likely thing is that the courier has switched the phone. But Im not going 
to rule out that possibility. It looks like VMMF (or the connected supplier) has a process in 
place for reviewing photos with delivery issues. Its not unheard of for these things to 
happen. 
Moreover, we asked for further evidence from VMMF around what checks the supplier 
undertook, whether there had been other reports of similar scenarios happening. And details 
of what happens when the goods are dispatched. We also asked for details of the usage of 
the phone that was supposed to be delivered. VMMF only responded to say it completed its 
checks and that the supplier didnt stock the phone Miss K says she was sent. And it said 
the warehouse provided evidence the phone that was allocated to be dispatched to Miss K, 
but it didnt supply further supporting information. 
Without further explanations or supporting documentation its hard for me to know whether 
for example, theres been no reports of phones being switched in the warehouse, or whether 
there are regular reports. I accept the supplier doesnt supply the phone Miss K received 
anymore. But thats not whats in dispute. The thing thats in dispute is whether or not at 
some point in the delivery chain, the phone may have been switched. Given Miss K has 
been forthcoming with what weve asked, and VMMF hasnt supplied much supporting 
documentation or responded to all our questions, Im going to stick with the 
recommendations our investigator made, because VMMF hasnt done enough to make me 
decide otherwise. Ive not seen enough to show the correct phone was delivered, or that it wouldnt have been 
switched at some point. So, on balance, I think this should be treated as a breach of contract 
VMMF is liable for. And I think the fairest way to put things right now will be to end the 
agreement and refund Miss K any payments shes made. Shell then be put back in the 
position she would have been in had she not ordered the phone or taken out the agreement. 
Putting things right
Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited should end the agreement with nothing further to pay. It 
should refund any payments made under the agreement together with annual interest at 8% 
simple from the dates the payments were made to the date of settlement. Any adverse data 
relating to the agreement should also be removed from Miss Ks credit file. 
If VMMF considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Miss K how much tax its taken off. It should also give Miss K a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Ill leave it to VMMF to decide if it wishes to obtain the phone which Miss K received for 
further investigation. Miss K should make it available if required.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Virgin Media Mobile Finance 
Limited to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman