DRN-2454799
The complaint
Mr S has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) damaged his boiler when
undertaking a first service after hed taken out a HomeCare policy with it and he had to pay
another engineer to fix it.
Ive previously issued a provisional decision in this case. In response to this I received 
further comments from BG which Ive taken into consideration, and to which Ill refer below.
What happened
The background to this complaint has been provided in our investigators view so I wont
repeat it in detail. In summary, Mr S maintains that BGs engineer, when conducting a first
service of his boiler, damaged it and said it was broken. Mr S says that the boiler was
working fine before BGs engineer visited. He had to pay an independent engineer £200 to
get it working again as soon as possible as BG couldnt come to do a repair for four days.
The fault was a disconnected cable.
Mr S wants BG to reimburse him the £200 he had to pay his own engineer and for loss of
earnings for his wife who had to cancel a work commitment, and to pay him compensation
for distress and inconvenience.
BG denies that its engineer was responsible and argues that the boiler was broken before he
arrived. It says that its engineers report states that he attended between 14:00 and 15:15 on
25 September 2019. He reported as follows:
Coded no ch/hw on arrival, clearances not met, flue not sealed AT RISK, Passed to Com.
BG says it therefore declined to cover Mr Ss boiler because of a pre-existing fault, which it
was entitled to do by virtue of the following provision in its HomeCare policy:
If we find its not on the approved list or it has a pre-existing fault, well either:
Tell you what needs to be done to fix it  and how much it will cost
Offer you a different product or level of cover
Or, cancel your agreement or product
Mr Ss policy had cost him £264. BG asked him if he wanted to continue with the policy
minus the cover for his central heating, which it says represented £174 of the total premium.
This would leave Mr S with cover for plumbing, drains, and home electrics. Mr S declined
this, so BG refunded him the full £264 hed paid BG. The policy had been taken out on 17
March 2019, so Mr S wouldve received approximately six months of cover.
As Mr S wasnt satisfied with BGs refusal to reimburse to him what hed had to pay another
engineer to fix what he says was BGs fault, he brought his complaint to this service. Our
investigator didnt consider that there was any evidence to support Mr Ss claim that the
boiler was working before BGs engineer arrived and therefore that it was BGs engineer who
was responsible for the cable becoming disconnected and the boiler ceasing to work.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators view so his complaint was passed to me. I issued a 
provisional decision upholding Mr Ss complaint. Having received comments from BG in 
response to this Im now able to issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im maintaining my provisional decision to uphold Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Theres a lack of evidence to support either the fact that the boiler was working before BGs
engineers visit, but not afterwards, or the fact that it was already broken before he arrived. I
believe this to lie at the heart of the complaint. In such circumstances, I have to make a 
decision on the basis of the balance of probabilities - what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened.
I consider it more likely than not that Mr Ss boiler was working before BGs engineer arrived.
Ive come to that view having taken account of the following:
Mr S made an appointment with BG for his first service on 20 September. This was
some six months after hed taken out the policy, and under the policy this service
shouldve taken place within 42 days of that date, but I dont consider that has any
relevance in this case. The appointment was arranged for 25 September. So there
was a five day gap between the making of the appointment and the appointment
date. BG has provided a note dated 20 September which states All OK and another 
dated 25 September timed at 06.51 which states All Off. It relies on these to support 
the engineers documented comments that there was no central heating or hot water 
on his arrival at 14.00. But BG hasnt explained how this record came to be made 
before the engineers arrival, or why Mr S wouldve contacted BG ahead of the 
engineers arrival to report that his heating and hot water were off, but then later to 
say that they were working before the engineer arrived, and then to have raised a 
complaint via web chat. 
When BGs engineer visited and declared that the boiler wasnt working and told Mr
S that another BG engineer wouldnt be able to come to fix the problem until 29
September, Mr S says he couldnt go that long without heating and hot water
because he had a family including young children.
I consider it unlikely if his boiler hadnt been working when he made his appointment 
on 20 September, that hed have been prepared to wait for five days for a BG 
engineer to come on 25 September when he wasnt prepared to wait for four days for 
a BG engineer to come to fix the boiler on 29 September. Mr S was prepared to pay 
an engineer at emergency rates to get his boiler working again, such was the 
importance of having hot water restored as soon as possible.
In response to our investigators view, Mr S has said that when BGs engineer 
arrived, Mrs S had been in the bath. I think it more likely than not this was hot, and 
not cold.
Mr S says his engineer identified that the problem was a disconnected cable. BG has 
said in its response to my provisional decision that Mr S hadnt provided any 
substantiation of the work carried out by his engineer to evidence that the problem 
was a disconnected cable. However the engineers invoice confirms that it was for the fixing of loose electrical cable. On the other hand, BGs engineer didnt provide 
any information as to why he thought he boiler might not be working, so theres 
nothing to contradict what Mr Ss engineer has said. I have no reason to believe that 
the invoice from Mr Ss engineer doesnt accurately reflect the work he did.
 
Mr S says that his engineer identified the loose cable as being the reason for the 
boiler not working in about a minute.  So it would appear that this was reasonably 
obvious. When BGs engineer attended, he was there for 75 minutes. If Mr Ss boiler
hadnt been working when BGs engineer arrived, I consider it surprising that for the
duration of his visit he didnt notice a disconnected cable. BG has said that as this 
was a First Service visit a thorough check of the whole system is carried out which 
supports the length of time for which the engineer was in attendance, during which he 
found a number of faults which rendered it not suitable for BG to take under contract. 
Yet I consider it surprising that something as obvious as a disconnected cable wasnt 
noticed. 
I therefore consider it more likely than not that Mr Ss boiler had been working until BGs
engineer arrived, and that theres no other reasonable explanation for the boiler then not 
working other than something that BGs engineer did. I dont consider that Mr S acted 
unreasonably in employing another engineer if BG wasnt able to send another engineer for 
four days, leaving Mr S and his family without hot water.
As a service, we tend not to make awards based on loss of earnings. But we can award
compensation if we consider that the upset and inconvenience suffered by a customer is
more than the normal inconvenience people suffer when something goes wrong. In this
case, I dont consider that the inconvenience they suffered was of such a degree as to
merit compensation. They would have had to have accommodated BGs visit. That is a
normal inconvenience for which we wouldnt generally award compensation. And they were
able to get hold of another engineer that same evening. So I think the inconvenience, trouble
and upset wouldve been relatively minor.
Because of the issues it identified with Mr Ss boiler, BG wasnt prepared to take it under 
cover. As Mr S didnt want to maintain a policy with reduced cover, BG therefore refunded 
his premium in full. This reflects the fact that BG will no longer be providing the cover that Mr 
S paid for. BG has argued that this refund offsets what Mr S had to pay his own engineer. I 
dont consider thats fair. As Ive found that BG was responsible for the failure of Mr Ss 
boiler, I dont think it reasonable that Mr S should suffer the financial detriment of having to 
pay for it to be repaired.  I therefore consider that BG should reimburse this £200 cost to Mr 
S.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im upholding Mr Ss complaint and I require British Gas 
Insurance Limited to reimburse to him the £200 he had to pay to his own engineer.
I also require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay interest on this sum at the simple rate of 
8% a year from the date Mr S paid his engineers invoice to the date payment is made to 
him.
If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should 
also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 28 January 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman