DRN-3758215
Complaint
Mrs B, on behalf of Mrs J, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) allowed
unauthorised transfers to be made from her accounts.
Background
Mrs J has accounts with NatWest. In this complaint, she is represented by her daughter,
Mrs B. It is alleged that in 2012 Mrs Js son illicitly gained control of her account using a
third-party mandate. This allowed him to make substantial transfers from those accounts to
his own. A police investigation followed. Mr J has now been charged with offences relating to
those transfers and is awaiting trial.
Mrs B says that NatWest shouldve recognised that Mrs J was being defrauded and taken
appropriate steps to protect her. She describes its failure to prevent the fraud as grossly
negligent.
The sequence of events that led us to this point are as follows:
In August 2012, Mrs J was hospitalised and treated for deep vein thrombosis. While 
in hospital, there were concerns that she appeared confused and forgetful. A scan 
was performed that showed evidence of poor blood flow to the brain  a symptom of 
a condition known as vascular dementia. A cognitive assessment was performed to 
objectively determine the extent of Mrs Js cognitive impairment. This involved her 
answering a series of questions put to her by a clinician who would assign the patient 
a score out of 100. A score of 88 and above is considered normal and anything 
below 83 is considered abnormal. Mrs J was given a score of 60 out of 100, which 
indicated a high degree of cognitive impairment. She was given the diagnosis of 
vascular dementia.
In September 2012, a third-party mandate was signed by Mrs J. This gave Mr J 
authority to make use of her account. Typically, this would have to be done in person 
at a local branch and be witnessed by a bank employee.
Around the same time, Mrs B was in contact with Mrs Js local branch. Mrs J 
apparently had no debit card or cheque book and couldnt access her money. When 
making inquiries on her behalf, Mrs B discovered that Mr J had set up internet 
banking on the account. Mrs J had no use for internet banking, so she asked branch 
staff that that facility be cancelled.
In December 2012, after an exchange of emails with staff at Mrs Js local branch, Mrs 
B requested that it flag up any unusual activity with her.
In June 2013, Mr J registered a Lasting Power of Attorney with the Office of Public
Guardian. This appeared to have been executed by Mrs J and gave him a wide-
ranging authority to manager her financial affairs.
In May 2015, the adult social services team in Mrs Js local authority area determined 
that shed lost mental capacity.
In October 2018, Mrs B discovered that the balances on Mrs Js accounts were much 
lower than she expected. Once she determined what had happened, she notified the 
Office of the Public Guardian and the police. Two investigations were conducted. The 
Office of the Public Guardian went to court and had Mr J removed as attorney in April 
2020. The court appointed Mrs B as attorney instead.
Following a police investigation, the Crown Prosecution Service decided to charge Mr 
J with fraud in connection with around £138,000 worth of transfers out of Mrs Js 
accounts.
The essence of Mrs Bs complaint is that NatWest shouldnt have allowed Mr J to take
advantage of Mrs J. She says it was put on notice of the need to monitor Mrs Js accounts
closely when she emailed and asked that it flag up any unusual account activity with her.
She doesnt think its likely that Mrs J signing the third-party mandate was witnessed by a
member of staff at NatWest. But even if it was, she argues that it wouldve been apparent
that Mrs J didnt have the mental capacity to give informed consent to such an arrangement.
Shed been diagnosed with vascular dementia by that point and so it was highly unlikely
shed have understood the implications of signing the document. If, as NatWest claims, the
document was completed in the branch, the bank employee wouldve been able to recognise
that there were potential concerns in respect of Mrs Js capacity.
Finally, even if that wasnt the case, the account was clearly not being used in the way one
would expect if it were under the control of a customer matching Mrs Js profile. NatWest
shouldve recognised that and intervened. If it had done so, it wouldve significantly reduced
Mrs Js losses.
Mrs B has also made some additional observations. Shes said that the third-party mandate
was only intended to be a short-term instrument and that it shouldve automatically been
voided at the point a Power of Attorney was registered with the Office of the Public
Guardian.
NatWest investigated Mrs Bs complaint but said it wouldnt refund the transactions. It said it
wasnt aware of the background circumstances or the changes to Mrs Js health. It followed
its own process when the third-party mandate paperwork was completed. It has very limited
contemporaneous records of this due to the passage of time. The branch manager who co
signed the paperwork and (it is claimed) witnessed Mrs J signing it, has no recollection of the
meeting.
Mrs B was unhappy with NatWests response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
It was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigator said that the
transactions made from Mrs Js account were authorised on the basis that shed signed the
third-party mandate. He thought it was likely that Mrs J signing this document wouldve been
witnessed by a bank employee on the grounds that it had a well-established process that
staff were expected to follow.
He didnt think that NatWest had any reason to know that there was a potential problem with
Mrs Js mental capacity following her diagnosis of vascular dementia. Mrs B hadnt explicitly
told them about this and he didnt think there was any reason to assume that branch staff
wouldve been able to observe behaviour that suggested she might not be cognisant of the
action she was taking in signing the third-party mandate. Finally, he didnt think that the
payments Mr J made from the account were so large or unusual that they wouldve justifiedan intervention on the part of NatWest.
Mrs B disagreed with the Investigators opinion. She said that the Investigator hadnt
considered that Mrs J had been diagnosed with vascular dementia in 2012 and the impact
this had on her mental capacity. She also said that the third-party mandate was superseded
by the Power of Attorney when it was registered by Mr J.
Because Mrs B disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint was passed to me 
consider.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued provisional findings on 30 September and said:
I should say at the outset that I recognise that Mrs J has been the victim of a cruel 
and opportunistic fraud and the role Mrs B has had to play in piecing together what 
happened. But my role here is limited to considering the actions and inactions of the 
bank.
This isnt a straightforward case to decide. There is some uncertainty regarding the 
facts. I have considered all the available evidence (including the comments from Mrs 
B), but I cannot know for sure what happened. For example, it is not possible to 
produce definitive proof that Mrs Js signing of the third-party mandate was witnessed 
by the branch manager. In such circumstances, I must reach a decision on the 
balance of probabilities.
The regulations that apply to this case (the Payment Services Regulations 2009 and 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017) say that NatWest cant hold Mrs J liable for 
any transactions unless she authorised them. Its likely, from the evidence that has 
been provided and the fact that it has led to a criminal prosecution, that there were 
multiple transactions made from these accounts that Mrs J didnt consent to on an 
individual basis.
However, it is possible in law for an account holder to give someone else authority to 
carry out transactions on their behalf so that they would be legally responsible for 
them, even if they didnt physically make or give explicit permission for each 
individual payment. NatWest can hold a customer responsible for any spending that 
happened because they gave someone else permission to carry out transactions on 
their behalf.
Third-party mandate
I agree that NatWest shouldve had concerns when asked to accept the third-party 
mandate and that this shouldnt have been applied to the account in 2012. 
Unfortunately, Im not convinced it wouldve prevented the fraudulent transfers from 
taking place if it had handled things differently.
When Mrs J signed this document in branch, Id expect an employee of the bank to 
be on the lookout for the risk that she was being taken advantage of, to check that 
she understood the significance of the document she was being asked to sign and to 
ensure that there was a generally sensible reason for one being put into place. The 
evidence Ive seen suggests that Mrs J wouldnt have presented as someone with full awareness of the significance of signing such a document. A few weeks earlier, shed 
scored very poorly on a cognitive assessment which required her to answer some 
straightforward questions. I think its unlikely that a person who scores so low on that 
test couldve given satisfactory answers to a bank employee in response to any 
general questions about the proposed arrangement.
For that reason, I dont think the third-party mandate shouldve been added to the 
account. NatWest could instead suggested a different mechanism if Mrs J needed 
someone to manage her finances on her behalf, such as Power of Attorney. A Power 
of Attorney imposes some legal obligations on the person who is granted the power 
and the process of setting one up has some basic safeguards. Although there is no 
strict requirement that legal professionals be involved, it is a requirement that the 
document be signed by a certificate provider who is satisfied that the donor 
understand the purpose of the LPA and that there is no fraud or undue pressure used 
to induce them to sign.
It doesnt look as though the Power of Attorney was registered with NatWest in 2013,
although it was registered with the Office of the Public Guardian. Where a valid 
Power of Attorney is in place, its not unreasonable for the bank to treat transactions 
made by the attorney as being authorised. Unfortunately, Mr J doesnt appear to 
have found it difficult to get a Power of Attorney. If the bank had told him that this was 
the only legitimate way for him to be granted authority to manage Mrs Js finances, I 
think its likely thats what hed have done.
I wouldnt have expected a bank employee to go beyond simply declining the request 
to put the third-party mandate in place. Although we now know with the benefit of 
hindsight that Mrs J was being targeted for fraudulent purposes, I dont think NatWest 
couldve recognised that risk based on what it knew at the time. I think any further 
steps (for example, notifying the police or the local authority) wouldve been 
excessive. It would also remove some of the concerns about her capacity once a 
Power of Attorney was in place given that its an instrument that, by its very nature, 
permits a third-party to manage the financial affairs of the donor where they cant do 
so themselves.
Other issues
Ive also considered whether NatWest ought to have intervened to question any of 
these payments before allowing them to be processed. Good industry practice 
required it to engage in monitoring of its customers accounts and to be on the 
lookout for out of character or unusual transactions that might have given the 
indication of an enhanced risk of fraud.
Ive looked at the statements for Mrs Js account and I can see that Mr J made 
regular payments from the account over an extended period. As a result, there was 
no sudden change in account use or any individual payment that was so out of 
character that it ought to have prompted action on NatWests part.
If NatWest had been aware of Mrs Js diagnosis, Id have expected it to monitor the 
account more closely. I can see that Mrs B did email NatWest regarding Mrs Js 
health in 2012, but none of that correspondence indicated that there might be a 
concern about her mental capacity. Furthermore, although she sent a second email 
to a NatWest employee in December 2012 asking that any unusual activity be drawn 
to her attention, this request didnt raise the possibility that Mrs J might have lacked 
mental capacity at that point or that there was a risk that Mrs J might be taken 
advantage of by Mr J.Although I think its more likely than not that Mrs J wouldve struggled to process the
information she was being provided with about the third-party arrangement and the 
bank shouldve recognised her potential vulnerability, I dont think thats enough to 
say that NatWest shouldve assumed that there was a permanent cognitive 
impairment or that shed been diagnosed with vascular dementia.
For the sake of completeness, Ive also considered the other points that Mrs B 
raised. The third-party mandate doesnt appear to have been intended to act as a 
mere short-term instrument, as Mrs B has argued. Theres nothing on the document 
itself or in NatWests records to suggest that was the case.
Mrs B has also raised the issue of whether Mr J notified NatWest about the Power of
Attorney hed registered. Its not clear that he ever did. I can understand why she 
suspects it may have been notified, although it says its records dont show that it 
was. Mrs B is correct that this would supplant the third-party mandate. However, I 
dont think it would make any difference to the outcome of this complaint. If it had 
been registered, Mr Js withdrawals from the account would still have been lawfully 
authorised, but that authority would simply come from a different source. It wouldnt 
have had any effect on his ability to continue to take money from Mrs Js account in 
the subsequent years.
I know that this will be a hugely disappointing outcome for Mrs B on behalf of Mrs J. 
Mrs J has been the victim of a cruel and cynical fraud. But I cannot find a reasonable 
basis on which to conclude that NatWest should be held responsible. Even if I accept 
that it shouldnt have applied the third-party mandate to the account, I still dont think 
it wouldve prevented Mrs Js losses.
Mrs B disagreed with my provisional findings. She said that it shouldve been of greater 
concern to NatWest that Mrs J wasnt taken to her local branch. She thinks its unlikely that 
the third-party mandate wouldve been put in place if shed done so because shes well 
known to staff there. Instead, Mrs J was taken to Mr Js local branch. Mrs B says this means 
there was a conflict of interest because the manager of that branch had an existing business 
relationship with Mr J (i.e. he was a customer whose account was based there). 
She argues that the ease with which Mr J was able to have the third-party mandate applied 
to the account simply emboldened him to later pursue an application for Power of Attorney. 
She says that the mere fact that Mrs J was scammed later in a similar way doesnt negate 
the original abuse and scam.
Ive reconsidered all the evidence on this case in the light of Mrs Js response. Unfortunately, 
Im not persuaded to depart from the findings set out in my provisional decision. Ive already 
accepted the argument that the branch staff didnt handle things as they should have done. 
Even if the meeting had taken place in a different branch, Im not convinced things wouldve 
transpired differently.
Its possible that staff at her local branch wouldve been more protective of Mrs J and her 
account. But I think its likely theyd have done something similar to the course of action I 
suggested in my provisional decision  that is, explain the need to ensure that Mrs J had 
capacity to grant authority to a third party and perhaps recommend alternative 
arrangements, such as a Power of Attorney. And theres nothing to suggest that Mr J 
wouldve faced any obstacles in obtaining one.
I agree that the scam Mrs J was subject to isnt negated by the fact that Mr J was able to 
carry out a similar action soon afterwards. Fundamentally, Mrs J is still the victim of fraud. But it is relevant in terms of determining whether the bank can fairly be considered the cause 
of Mrs Js losses. If Mr J had registered a Power of Attorney with the bank at the time, I think 
it wouldve been reasonable for the bank to have treated the withdrawals as authorised and 
to have regarded account activity with less suspicion on the basis that it was taking place 
within the formal framework of a Power of Attorney.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman