DRN-2801499
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S are unhappy with the way Zurich Insurance PLC handled a flood claim 
under their home insurance policy and that it later cancelled the policy for fraud.
What happened
Mrs S and Mr S made a claim to Zurich in May 2018 after their home was flooded following a 
period of heavy rain. The flood water was contaminated with sewage. Theyd only moved 
into the property the previous December. So they still had a lot of items stored in boxes in 
the garage.
Zurich accepted the claim and instructed a drying company who visited the property two 
days later. A loss adjuster visited shortly after.
In August 2018 Mrs S and Mr S claimed for damaged contents stored in their double garage 
totalling over £13,000.
In November 2019 Zurich said Mrs S and Mr S had disposed of items before its supplier 
could inspect them. Mrs S and Mr S said the supplier had just told them to provide a list of 
the damaged items and hadnt asked for photos of them.
Zurich also said that some of the items claimed for werent damaged as a result of the flood 
or werent damaged at all.
It also said that according to Mr S the flood water in the garage had reached his knees 
whereas in video footage the water was just a few inches above ground. Mr S said hed 
meant that the water outside the property was up to his knees.
In April 2020 Zurich told Mrs S and Mr S their claim had been fraudulently exaggerated. So it 
cancelled the policy from the date theyd supplied the final list of damaged contents. 
They brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld it. He accepted Mr S 
had overstated the level of water in the garage. But he didnt think it was clear that the 
policyholders had intentionally tried to exaggerate the claim. He thought the claim should be 
considered by Zurich subject to the policy terms and conditions and the fraud aspect of the 
claim should be withdrawn.
As Zurich didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For Zurich to decline the claim and cancel the policy for fraud it must show that there was 
a dishonest attempt by the policyholders to deceive it into paying for something they 
werent entitled to. When looking at fraud cases I bear in mind that fraud is a serious 
matter. So if thats what the business thinks has happened, I might require more evidence 
than usual. Theres no need for the insurer to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. 
But it does need to show strong and persuasive proof that its more likely than not that the 
policyholders claim is fraudulent. For the avoidance of doubt, its not our role to decide 
whether or not a customers claim is fraudulent. What we look at is whether a business 
reached a reasonable decision about this. 
Zurich was entitled to cancel Mrs S and Mr Ss policy if theyd knowingly exaggerated the 
claim. Zurichs allegations were set out in its letter to Mrs S and Mr S of 7 April 2020. Ive 
considered those allegations in turn.
depth of floodwater
Mr S told Zurich the floodwater was halfway up his legs. But the video footage he sent Zurich 
showed water just reaching the level of his trainers.
I can see from photos of the brickwork outside the house that flood water must have been 
about the level of knee height at one stage. Mr S said the garage was lower than his house 
and he didnt go into the garage until the water level had gone down. Bearing in mind that 
the flood water was contaminated and his house would have been the main priority, I think 
its understandable that he didnt go into the garage until the flood water had subsided. Im 
not persuaded that the video footage proves that Mr S lied about the water level.
98 damaged items
Zurich said there was no evidence of damage to most of the 98 items claimed for. It 
accepted that thered been water damage to four items only  a pair of trainers, a vacuum 
cleaner, dolls house and trampoline.
I note that Zurichs drying company reported:
Extensive damage to the items in the garage too. Boxes of stuff as they have not long 
moved in the property. Some electrical equipment such as a lawn mower.
It also said an inventory was required. Unfortunately for Mrs S and Mr S the drying company 
seems to have been under the impression that it wasnt its responsibility to prepare a list of 
the damaged contents. So this wasnt done. But its comments do lead me to believe that 
there were a large number of damaged contents. I also note after Zurichs loss adjuster 
visited the property in June 2018 he put a reserve of £10,000 on the garage contents. So I 
dont think it was fair of Zurich to say that there were only 4 damaged items in the garage as 
opposed to 98.
no sign of water damage to some items claimed for
Zurich gave the example that there was no sign of water damage to various items including 
childrens books. Its provided photos to us of the books in a cardboard box. Several of the 
books look mouldy and water damaged to me. It also thought the box a television was said 
to have been in didnt look water-damaged and the television might not have been in it 
anyway. Mr S says the television was in the box and there are water lines on the box. 
Its often hard to tell from looking at electrical items whether theyve been damaged by flood 
water. Some but not all of the items claimed for do look water-damaged to me. With others 
its hard to be sure from photos. All in all, I dont think theres sufficient evidence to prove 
fraud here. I think its more of a claims issue to be dealt with as part of the normal claims 
process.r
Zurich said of further concern was the fact that Mrs S and Mr S had disposed of some items 
before its drying company had completed their first inspection shortly after the flood. Mrs S and Mr S say the drying company had been to the property to drop off a dryer before they 
disposed of anything and they had permission from the loss adjuster to do so. They said 
they mainly took advantage of their councils free collection service for contaminated clothing 
and bric a brac. This doesnt seem unreasonable to me. In view of the number of items still 
left in the garage I dont think this shows an intention to exaggerate the claim. Its more an 
issue of Mrs S and Mr S being able to demonstrate their loss which is a separate issue.
Overall Im not persuaded that Zurichs evidence of fraudulent exaggeration is strong 
enough. So I think Zurich should reinstate the policy, remove any finding of fraud from any 
database and reconsider Mrs S and Mr Ss flood claim.
For clarification, I am directing that Zurich now reconsider the claim, subject to the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy. Those terms and conditions include the various policy 
limits. I see that at one point Zurich referred to there being a limit of £5,000 for contents in 
the garage. That limit only applies to theft claims. I havent considered the actual terms of 
settlement, that is the amount in dispute for the garage contents. Its my view that if the 
parties cant reach agreement over that, then the actual amount of the claim hasnt been 
considered by this service so Mrs S and Mr S will be able to make a further complaint about 
it if they wish but I hope that wont be necessary.
Ive looked at whether Zurich should pay Mrs S and Mr S for the trouble and upset it caused 
them by unfairly cancelling their policy. It has already offered £600 compensation for delays. 
This is in the region of what Id have awarded for all the trouble and upset caused to them. 
So Im not going to require Zurich to pay any more in this respect.
Putting things right
As Im satisfied that Zurich cant reasonably decline the claim on the basis it was fraudulently 
exaggerated, it should reinstate the policy and reassess the claim in line with the policy 
terms and conditions.
Zurich should also amend any internal and external databases to remove its record of fraud 
and cancellation. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Zurich Insurance Plc to take the steps set out in the 
Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman