DRN-2727793
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Lloyds Bank PLC has refused to compensate them for an 
exchange rate loss.
What happened
Mrs P says she tried to make a transfer out of her account on 23 October 2020, but the 
money didnt leave her account. She says she tried to speak to Lloyds on the telephone 
about the transfer but couldnt get through. Mrs P says she did speak to Lloyds the following 
day and the payment was made but due to exchange rate differences she suffered a loss of 
about £60. She would like compensation for the loss and says Lloyds offer of £25 doesnt 
cover the cost of calls from France where she lives.
Lloyds says its paid £25 for the problems Mrs P had in speaking to it but says it has no 
record of the transaction on 23 October 2020.
Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The 
investigator didnt think there was a record of the transaction on 23 October and didnt think 
it possible to say what happened that day. The investigator thought it unfair for Lloyds to 
repay the exchange rate loss and thought the compensation amount appropriate for part of 
the complaint.
Mrs P doesnt accept that view and in summary says if she could have spoken to someone 
on the 23 October 2020, then the transaction could have gone through without the loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Lloyds has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I appreciate Mr and Mrs P will be disappointed with my decision.
I have looked at Lloyds records and Im satisfied that there is no record of Mrs P attempting 
or making the transaction on 23 October 2020. Im also satisfied that Mrs P hasnt provided 
any evidence that the payment was made on that date. So, I cant fairly hold Lloyds 
responsible for the payment not being made on that day.
I appreciate Mrs P was unable to speak to Lloyds about the transaction that day and that 
there were long call wait times. Im satisfied Lloyds has fairly apologised for those difficulties 
and paid what I think is a fair and reasonable compensation amount of £25.
The key issue is the link between those call times and the transaction. I think on balance its 
impossible to say that if Mrs P was able to speak to Lloyd that day, the transaction would 
inevitably have gone through. I can see that Mrs P accepts that certain transactions are held 
for security checks and that she thought that may have been the position that day. I also 
think that it was Mrs Ps decision not to make or retry the transaction on 23 October 2020. I 
appreciate her concern that it may have been duplicated but overall, I think that was her 
choice.
It follows that I cant fairly order Lloyds to repay any exchange rate loss in these 
circumstances and also think that Mrs P could have considered alternative methods of 
communicating with Lloyds. I appreciate Mrs P says the compensation doesnt cover the call 
costs, but I have not seen any evidence about what the costs were, and, in any event, I find 
that Lloyds compensation offer was for the inconvenience that was caused rather than the 
call costs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman