DRN-3700627
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy with the settlement offered by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited in 
relation to a claim on her home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms Cs property suffered damaged following an escape of water. She contacted her insurer 
and the claim was accepted but its taking a long time to sort out. And shes unhappy with 
the settlement offered and the likely disruption. 
Ms C said another loss adjuster had re-assessed the damage. But theyd missed out various 
things from the scope of works, including the damaged carpets. Ms C said it should include 
carpets in the bedroom, hallway and stairs. Sections of the carpet had already been taken 
away so she didnt know why it hadnt been included in the settlement figure. And shed like 
a breakdown of whats been included.
Admiral said it was sorry to hear Ms C was unhappy with the settlement offered. The amount 
was for buildings cover only. Itd also offered a settlement for the carpet following a review 
by its flooring experts. 
Admiral said it wasnt possible to provide a full schedule of works as the full extent of the 
damage wasnt clear at this stage. So the schedule was subject to change pending full strip 
outs. And Admiral said the policy only provided accommodation cover or loss of rent while 
the property was uninhabitable. And the policy didnt pay compensation for travel costs. 
Ms C wasnt satisfied with Admirals response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. Our investigator could see the full extent of the damage 
wouldnt become clear until further strip-outs and flooring removal had taken place. But 
Admiral had calculated the costs at just over £7300 subject to change following the full strip 
out. 
Our investigator couldnt see that Admiral had offered to carry out the repairs using its own 
contractors. So she didnt think it was fair to offer a settlement based on its own figures. And 
she said Admiral should settle on the quotes provided by Ms C instead. And it should contact 
the companies involved to validate the costs so the claim could move forwards.
Our investigator didnt feel thered been any loss of rent. And alternative accommodation 
hadnt been necessary as the property hadnt become uninhabitable due to the leak. But she 
did feel the insurer needed to review the settlement offered for the damaged carpet as it only 
seemed to include one room. 
To put things right our investigator said Admiral should review the cash settlement offered on 
Ms Cs contractors rates and consider any further damage uncovered after strip outs. And 
Admiral should review the carpet assessments and consider the carpet damage in all 
affected rooms. 
Admiral didnt agree with our investigator. So its asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
Admiral said the carpets had suffered wear and tear before they were water damaged. And 
itd been unable to agree the strip out costs from the quotes provided by Ms Cs own 
contractors.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Ms C has experienced. It mustve been very 
distressing to suffer considerable damage from a leak. And although Admiral has accepted 
the claim on her home insurance policy the repair work still hasnt started due to a dispute 
over the settlement offered.
So Ive looked carefully at everything Ms C and Admiral have said to see if the insurer has 
treated Ms C fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the home insurance policy.
This complaint is about the amount offered by Admiral and what the settlement is intended to 
cover. There may be other work identified during the initial repair stages. And Admiral is 
disputing the claim for damage to the propertys fitted carpets.
When looking at cash settlements I wouldnt normally expect an insurer to offer a greater 
amount than it would cost to complete the repair work through their own contractors. But on 
this occasion I cant see that Admiral has offered to provide their own contractors to 
complete the repairs.
I understand the insurer recommended a cash settlement as Ms C had already obtained a 
quote at the beginning of the claim. So I think it would be fair for Admiral to deal with the 
cash settlement to Ms C based on the quotations provided by her own contractor. If Admiral 
requires further information about the scope of works identified it should get in touch with 
Ms Cs contractors for the necessary evidence to validate the quoted costs. 
Its likely the full extent of the damage wont be clear until the strip out begins. And this was 
confirmed when the insurers adjuster visited the property at the beginning of the year. There 
is damage to a number of areas including the entrance, lounge, bathroom, stairs and 
landing. 
So Id expect Admiral to deal with any additional costs that resulted from the escape of 
water. And I can see Admiral has acknowledged the amount offered to Ms C was subject to 
change pending the full extent of the damage becoming evident. 
Admiral are disputing Ms Cs claim for damage to carpets at the property. It seems to have 
only offered a settlement for the carpet in one room. And the insurer feels some of the 
damage is the result of wear and tear. But Ive not seen any evidence to support this. And I 
understand sample areas of carpet were removed  which wouldnt normally have been 
necessary unless theyd also suffered water damage  and cant be re-laid as a result.
I feel its more likely, given the impact an escape of water would typically have, that carpets 
in other areas were also damaged as a result of the insured event. So Admiral should 
reconsider Ms Cs claim for damage to other carpeted areas in line with the terms and 
conditions of the home insurance policy. 
Although the property damage and subsequent repair work will undoubtedly cause 
considerable inconvenience to Ms C, Ive not seen sufficient evidence to suggest the 
property would be uninhabitable due to lack of heating, cooking or washing facilities. So I cant ask Admiral to provide alternative accommodation under the current circumstances.
I can see Admiral has offered Ms C a total of £650 compensation for the poor service shes 
received. I think thats a reasonable amount in the circumstances. And its in line with the 
sort of award our service would suggest.
Putting things right
Admiral has accepted Ms Cs claim for the damage to property. But it hasnt yet agreed a full 
settlement figure or made any payment to Ms C. So to put things right Admiral should review 
the cash settlement offered to Ms C, based on the initial quotations offered by her own 
contractors. 
The settlement should be uplifted to take into account any additional damage identified 
during the strip-outs, provided that Admiral receives satisfactory evidence the additional 
work was required because of the escape of water.
Admiral should also reconsider the carpet assessments to take into account damage in all 
the rooms affected by the escape of water.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
should carry out the steps identified in the section putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman