DRN-3604627
The complaint
Mr S complained that UK Credit Limited irresponsibly provided him with an unaffordable 
loan.
What happened
UK Credit provided Mr S with a loan as follows:
Date Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
repayableLoan status
11 June 
2018£1,500 36 months £85.09 £3,063.24 Repaid November 
2020
During a phone call, Mr S told UK Credit that the loan was for home improvements. 
Mr S said, through a representative, that UK Credit didnt properly undertake affordability 
checks before providing the loan.
When Mr S complained to UK Credit it didnt uphold his complaint.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint. She thought the checks UK Credit 
carried out were proportionate but that the information UK Credit had gathered showed that 
Mr S most likely wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. So our investigator 
felt this was a complaint we should uphold and she set out the steps UK Credit needed to 
take to put things right.
UK Credit disagreed with the investigators view. In summary, it mainly said our investigator 
had based her decision on historic default information. It was satisfied that Mr Ss current 
financial situation was stable when he applied for the loan and it was affordable for him. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles and questions I need to think about when deciding 
whether to uphold this complaint. Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a 
borrower can afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Checks must be borrower focused - in 
other words, it wasnt enough for UK Credit to think only about the risk of not getting its 
money back. UK Credit had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr S and think 
about whether repaying the loan would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for him. 
A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably repay 
the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
 the lower a borrowers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
higher repayments from a particular level of income)
 the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact that the total 
cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments for 
an extended period).
This can mean that, in the early stages of a lending relationship, especially where the loan 
amount is relatively small compared to the borrowers income, less thorough checks might 
be reasonable and proportionate. If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried 
out, I need to consider if a loan wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether UK Credit did what it needed to 
before agreeing to lend to Mr S.UK Credit gathered some information from Mr S before it agreed the loan. It asked about 
his income and what he paid towards his housing costs. UK Credit factored into its 
calculations an amount that reflected the typical monthly expenditure someone in Mr Ss 
position might reasonably expect to pay according to national UK averages worked out by 
the Office for National Statistics. UK Credit also checked Mr Ss credit file to see how much 
he was already paying to other creditors and gain an understanding of his credit history.
Mr S told UK Credit that he was earning £1,845 each month. UK Credit verified that income 
using an online credit checking service. Mr S said he paid £400 rent per month. UK Credit 
presumed that Mr Ss other expected normal living expenses would likely be around the 
average figure for someone in similar circumstances which worked out at approximately 
£1,035  which seems reasonable to me. 
After reviewing the information on the credit report it obtained and speaking to Mr S, 
UK Credit made allowance for Mr S paying around £50 each month towards a credit card. It 
was aware he was also making repayments towards historic debt that showed up on his 
credit report as defaulted accounts and a county court judgement. 
Based on the information Mr S supplied, and the results of its checks, UK Credit concluded 
that Mr S should have around £173 left over each month after paying his credit card and 
making his repayments on the new loan. Even though this didnt include any allowance to 
reflect the payments Mr S told UK Credit he was paying to clear historic debt, I think its fair 
to say that with this amount of disposable income, the loan monthly repayments would still 
have looked affordable for him. 
Our investigator thought that the checks UK Credit carried out were proportionate  and 
I agree. 
Even so, UK Credit still needed to think about the bigger picture. 
I've carefully listened to a call recording of the discussion between UK Credit and Mr S when 
the lender probed at some length into the reasons for the adverse history it could see in the 
credit checks it had carried out. Thinking about what Mr S said during the call, and looking at 
the credit checks that UK Credit acquired, I dont think they revealed enough information for 
me to be able to say it should have put off a responsible lender from providing this relatively 
small loan to Mr S. I say this because, although it was evident that he had a record of 
historic problematic debt, there werent any particular warning signs to show that he was 
currently in serious financial difficulty or already having problems managing debt. 
The credit checks UK Credit obtained showed that Mr S wasnt involved in any sort of 
arrangement with creditors, there was no record of any defaults within the previous 
12 months and bankruptcy wasnt flagged up. He appeared to owe only £146 on a single 
credit card that he was managing within its credit limit and he wasnt using any overdraft 
facilities. Mr S had no other unsecured loans apparent and he had recently paid off a mail 
order account that he had managed well as far as UK Credit was able to see during the 
period reported on in the credit report.    I've taken into account that there was a county court judgement shown in his credit history. 
Whilst this was a serious black mark on his credit file, it dated back to 2015 so it didnt 
necessarily provide much useful information about his current financial situation. To my 
mind, the gap of almost three years was long enough for Mr Ss circumstances to have 
changed significantly during that period and he explained on the phone that since then he 
had been promoted at work and his financial situation had improved. 
There were six defaults shown on his credit history dated between 2012  2017 and 
although these were concerning, they werent enough in my view to have prompted a 
responsible lender to have declined this loan application. Mr S had previously disputed some 
of the defaulted accounts shown on his record and said he had heard nothing further about 
them. So I can understand why paying those accounts wasnt a priority for him, especially 
when it didnt look like the debt owner was seeking to enforce the debt. He was making 
regular payments towards the debts he had accepted responsibility for. I think UK Credit was 
reasonably entitled to think that in the absence of other evidence to show that Mr S was still 
having the sort of money problems that led to his previous financial difficulty, there was no 
fair reason to think he wouldnt be able to afford the relatively small monthly repayments for 
its loan. 
 
Overall, I think its fair to say that all the information UK Credit had gathered tended to 
suggest that Mr S seemed to be managing his credit without any signs that he had a serious 
debt problem. I think that view is supported by the fact that Mr S said he generally paid more 
than the minimum monthly repayments on his credit card, which suggested he had some 
flexibility in his finances. 
It wouldnt be unusual for someone applying for this type of lending to have other debt or 
even an impaired credit history. And these wouldnt necessarily be fair reasons to decline a 
loan application. I dont think the overall amount of debt shown on Mr Ss credit checks was 
excessive having regard to his income or that anything else revealed in the credit checks 
UK Credit carried out was enough for me to say that a responsible lender shouldve realised 
it needed to find out more before lending.
It was fair for UK Credit to decide Mr Ss lending application based on the information it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. I dont think it was unreasonable for UK Credit to 
provide the loan as there wasnt anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Mr S 
wouldnt be able to repay it in a sustainable way. The loan appeared to be affordable looking 
at Mr Ss income and expenditure. And I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required 
UK Credit to probe any more deeply into Mr Ss finances or ask Mr S to prove what he was 
declaring (by requiring him to send in his bank statements for instance) or check other 
information sources to verify what he had told the lender (or omitted to say) about his 
financial circumstances. 
I accept that Mr Ss actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information UK Credit obtained. But in order to uphold 
this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. In this case, I dont 
think that UK Credit did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to Mr S. And I havent 
seen enough to make me think that UK Credit acted towards Mr S in any other way that 
wasnt fair and reasonable. So for these reasons, Im not planning on upholding Mr Ss 
complaint. I appreciate this is a disappointing outcome for Mr S but hope setting out the reasons as Ive 
done will help explain how Ive reached my conclusions. In case its useful to know, theres 
information about how to get free debt advice and other support on our website  or we can 
provide contact details if Mr S gives us a call.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr Ss representative acknowledged safe receipt of my provisional decision and sent it on to 
Mr S. I have heard nothing further from UK Credit. 
The deadline I set for responses has now passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed 
with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. As no further comments 
have been received in response to my provisional decision that change what I think about 
this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman