DRN-4094307
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) failed to update his title. 
What happened
Mr M sent a request to change his title by post to Nationwide on 20 October. Nationwide 
rejected the request as it didnt hold a copy of Mr Ms signature for its records.
On 2 November Mr M complained about this through Nationwides web chat facility and at 
the same time confirmed that his preferred channel of communication was email.
Nationwides branch manager tried to call Mr M to action the request as a matter of urgency. 
Mr M contacted Nationwide again via web chat on 4 November to reiterate that contact was 
required by email only. Nationwide acknowledged its mistake by contacting Mr M over the 
phone and offered £30 compensation. Nationwide then wrote to Mr M on 15 March 
confirming what documentation was required to have Mr Ms name changed.
Mr M was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.
Nationwide say it rejected Mr Ms request as he was a new customer and didnt yet hold a 
copy of Mr Ms signature for its records and so it was unable to deal with Mr Ms request until 
it was satisfied the signature on the change of name form was verified with some sort of 
identification such as a passport or driving license.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Nationwides request for Mr M to confirm their identity was reasonable before it changed his 
title as it is obliged to do this to protect the data and accounts of its customers. They thought 
the £30 compensation offered to Mr M was fair for the inconvenience caused by not 
communicating by email.
Mr M disagreed. He says other banks were able to update a title via online banking or 
banking app facilities and that there is no reason why Nationwide shouldnt be able to verify 
his identity through either of these methods. Mr M has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr M has experienced and see if Nationwide has done 
anything wrong or treated him unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr M back 
in the position he wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
In this case Mr M is unhappy that Nationwide wont action his request to change his title until 
it can verify his signature. The process Nationwide has for doing this requires Mr M to visit a 
branch of Nationwide with some sort of original or certified ID which shows his signature. 
This is inconvenient for Mr M.
I appreciate Mr Ms experience with other banks is such that he was able to update his title 
online or through banking app facilities. But the title change request he submitted in this 
case was through the post. So the only way Nationwide would be able to verify the request 
came from him is through his signature and as it didnt have Mr Ms signature on file it was 
unable to verify that the request came from him. 
I accept that this may be inconvenient for Mr M and not what he wants, but this is 
Nationwides procedure and its not for me to tell Nationwide how it should verify its 
customers identity. And I dont think it is unreasonable that Nationwide insist on 
authenticating Mr Ms signature before actioning his request when ultimately this is for his 
own protection. So I dont think Nationwide has done anything wrong here or treated Mr M 
unfairly.
And I think the £30 compensation Nationwide offered Mr M for contacting him by phone is 
fair as I dont consider the inconvenience Mr M suffered sufficient to justify an award above 
this.  
So it follows that I do not think Nationwide has treated Mr M unfairly and I do not uphold his 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman