DRN-2835274
The complaint
Mrs S complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to decline a claim for water 
damage under Ss buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs S owns the property through company S and took out a buildings insurance policy with 
AXA in 2019. 
The building was rented to a tenant who carried out renovation works. And upon doing so, 
removed a false wall that had stood for over 50 years, and found water damage. So, Mrs S 
made a claim. 
AXA sent a surveyor to inspect the damage and declined the claim following this. They said 
damage hadnt been caused by a one-off insured event, and wear and tear had caused the 
issues over a long period. They said the flat roof above was in a poor condition which 
enabled rainwater to run through into the building. They also considered the internal damage 
but said this had occurred over a long period and wasnt caused by a one-off insured event. 
Mrs S disputed this. She said the flat roof had been replaced six years prior to the claim and 
was regularly maintained. She also said the surveyor didnt take account of the fact the 
damage was only noticed internally after the false wall had been removed. And she wasnt 
aware there was an issue prior to this.
Mrs S complained to AXA about the claim decision and delays in them responding to her 
complaint. 
AXA maintained their position on the claim decision, but they paid her £50 compensation for 
the trouble and upset the delays caused. Mrs S didnt agree and argued AXA should pay the 
claim under the accidental damage section of the policy. She said she paid £4,000 to repair 
the damage inside the property and feels AXA should cover this. As no resolution could be 
reached that Mrs S was satisfied with, she brought a complaint to this service. 
An investigator here considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She felt 
AXA acted fairly by relying on the surveyors report to decline the claim. Mrs S didnt agree. 
She said damage was only found after the false wall had been removed, and had she known 
sooner, she would have done something about it. She also didnt think the surveyors report 
was fair or independent as AXA had employed them. And that our investigator had relied on 
AXAs version of events rather than taking a balanced view. 
Mrs S maintained an insured event took place as water had got into the property and caused 
damage behind the false wall  that was only noticed when it was removed by the tenant. 
Our investigator responded to say she was more persuaded the condition of the flat roof had 
caused the issues, and that a one-off insured event hadnt occurred. As Mrs S didnt agree, 
the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S said she isnt making a claim for repairs to the flat roof. From the case notes I 
understand new felt was going to be installed by her onto the flat roof to prevent any further 
water ingress occurring. 
Mrs S thinks AXA should cover the internal damage because damage only became apparent 
once the tenant had removed the false wall that had stood in the building for over 50 years. 
Therefore, she had no way of knowing there was an issue prior to the wall being removed. 
She also said the flat roof had been replaced six years prior to the claim and had been 
maintained regularly. 
AXA declined the claim and referred to the policy. They said a one-off insured event hadnt 
occurred, and damage was caused as a result of wear and tear due to the condition of the 
flat roof over time. 
My starting point here is Ss policy, which says: 
Buildings section
 What is covered 
If any property is damaged by any of the following causes, we will pay you for 
the value of the property at the time it is damaged or the amount of the 
damage, or at our option reinstate or replace the property or any part of it. 
The policy goes onto provide the causes of damage or  the insured events  in which cover 
will be provided to the insured. So, for a claim to be met, one of the causes set out within the 
buildings section of the policy must occur as a one-off event. 
Ive seen the report AXA relied on to decline the claim. Mrs S didnt think it was fair for AXA 
to rely on this as the surveyor was appointed by them and therefore not independent, and 
they hadnt taken account of the fact the false wall had been removed, which is when the 
damage was first noticed. I take Mrs Ss points here and I do appreciate her concerns, but 
its standard industry practice for an insurer to validate a claim by appointing an expert to 
carry out a report. 
Its common for an insurer to have a standing relationship with a company of surveyors 
given the nature of the industry. And I think its fair for an insurer to rely on a report provided 
by experts, but Id expect them to also give fair consideration to any evidence from the 
insured which disputes the findings  such as their own expert report. 
In this case, Ive only one expert report available that Im able to consider. Though its 
important for me to explain that Ive given careful consideration to all the submissions made 
before arriving at my decision. 
Ill now turn to the report AXA relied on to decline the claim. And, whilst I appreciate this will 
come as a disappointment to Mrs S, Im currently most persuaded by this in the absence of 
any further expert report disputing these findings. The report says no insured event 
occurred, damage was due to the condition of the flat roof and wear and tear was the cause. 
It's clear to me from the photos within the report the damage has occurred over a period. I say this because of the extent of the damage Ive seen, and the opinion on this given by the 
expert. Whilst it isnt disputed that damage occurred over a period, what is in dispute is 
whether Ss policy should cover the claim for the internal damage. 
The accidental damage section under Ss policy sets out what is and isnt covered. The 
surveyor said the damage was caused internally by rainwater ingress over a period, due to 
the condition of the flat roof. Under the accidental damage section, cover is excluded for 
damage relating to wear and tear, and rain. 
As above, for a claim to be met, a one-off insured event mustve caused the damage. And 
Ive not been persuaded any of the causes set out within the policy occurred here. Rather, 
based on the information I have, damage has occurred over a period due to the condition of 
the flat roof and not due to a one-off insured event. So, I dont think AXA acted unfairly by 
declining to meet the claim for the internal damage. 
Mrs S said she only became aware of the damage once the tenant removed the false wall 
which I accept. I say this because Mrs S also told us a window in the property had to be 
fitted inside out given the position of the false wall. But, whilst the damage was only noticed 
after the wall had been removed, as above, for the claim to be met, a one-off insured event 
must be the cause of damage. And, Ive not been persuaded thats the case here.
There are occasions where we might say its reasonable for an insurer to pay a claim, if the 
damage caused is covered by the policy  and the insured isnt aware of it. We might do that 
if, for example, a water pipe has been slowly leaking over a period and the insured had no 
way of knowing until mould started to appear. But this is different. The only part of the policy 
this could really be considered under is accidental damage. 
Accidents by their very nature are sudden and unforeseen. This damage didnt happen 
suddenly, so even if it was unforeseen it wasnt caused by an accident. So, I cant require it 
to be considered as one. 
Mrs S also said the flat roof had been replaced six years prior to the claim and was regularly 
maintained. I dont dispute this. But I find it more likely than not based on the evidence 
available, the internal damage was due to wear and tear over a period and not by a one-off 
insured event. So, I wont be directing AXA to do anything further here. 
I accept my decision will come to disappoint Mrs S. But my decision ends what we  in 
attempting to resolve her dispute with AXA  can do for her. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman