DRN-4053360
The complaint
Mr A complains Barclays Bank UK Plc unfairly closed his accounts, prevented him from 
accessing his educational stipend, discriminated against him, and unfairly recorded a CIFAs 
marker against him.
What happened
Mr A held a current account and a savings account with Barclays. Barclays issued him with 
notice that his accounts would close in mid-2021, although his current account closed 
sometime after the expiry of the notice period. 
Several events happened around this time:
Multiple large sums credited Mr As current account in July 2021 that were reported 
as fraudulent. The majority of the payments were promptly sent to a trading account 
which looks to have been held by Mr A. 
Barclays asked Mr A questions about how these payments were made. He said he 
didnt know about the payments, but they werent satisfied by his explanation and 
recorded a CIFAs marker against him.
One large sum credited the current account shortly before it closed. Mr A says this 
was his educational stipend. Barclays asked for proof of his entitlement to the 
payment, and he provided various documents.
Several small sums debited Mr As current account balance in October 2021 after the 
account had closed. He says he didnt make the payments.
While Barclays held the stipend, they allowed Mr A to make several withdrawals in 
October 2021. They released the remaining balance to Mr A in November 2022.
Mr A raised multiple points during the course of his complaint. I want him to know I have 
considered everything he has said carefully, but I find it only necessary to comment on the 
points I find pertinent. In summary: 
He says his current account was accessed without his knowledge. He told Barclays 
he lost funds in his trading account due to an investment scam around the same time 
as the unrecognised payments going in and out of his Barclays account. When he 
discovered his loss on his trading account, he noticed payments going in and out 
which he didnt recognise, but he didnt know they came from his Barclays account.
He says he only discovered what had happened later on. He says his email account 
was compromised around that time and he lost log in credentials. He also said he 
experienced a similar situation in the past when an account he held in another 
country was compromised and funds were taken. 
He feels Barclays discriminated against him, both over the phone and when he 
attended branch when trying to access funds in his account.
He says the CIFAs marker prevented him from opening an account with a different 
bank.
Our investigator partially upheld Mr As complaint. They issued a view and a subsequent 
response to Mr A. They found:
Mr As explanation to Barclays about how his account was compromised wasnt 
clear. He told Barclays he hadnt lost his phone when they spoke to him about the 
fraudulent payments  the same phone used to make the payments to his trading 
account and to log onto his account multiple times on the days the unrecognised 
payments hit his account.
Mr A later told our service he lost his phone around the time of the activity in 
question. But this still wouldnt explain how his phone and account security was 
passed to carry out the payments. Card payments were also made which spent some 
of the funds derived from the unrecognised payments, which meant his card details 
would also need to have been compromised.
Barclays reviewed Mr As accounts in line with their legal and regulatory obligations. 
They decided to close his accounts after completing their review and gave him 
notice. Mr As account remained open due to an error and until it was flagged for a 
further review. On completing their further review Barclays closed the account with 
immediate effect. They had acted in line with their terms and conditions.
Barclays met the threshold CIFAs requires of its members to record the marker. Mr A 
hadnt provided a credible explanation as to how someone couldve passed his 
mobile phone and mobile banking application security. Although he said he stored 
log in details on keychains, this wouldnt explain how someone bypassed security on 
those keychains.
Mr A referred to branch CCTV as evidential to his belief he was discriminated 
against. Unfortunately, CCTV from that time wouldnt be available any longer. But 
Barclays were entitled to ask Mr A for documentation related to the funds they held 
and their reason for closing his accounts was understandable. So, they hadnt treated 
him unfairly.
 
Barclays released the correct balance to Mr A. They had shown they allowed him to 
make several withdrawals in October 2021, which reduced the balance they held 
from his stipend.
Barclays records show Mr A provided documents in support of his entitlement to the stipend in October 2021, but they only released the funds on 17 November 2022. 
Barclays agreed to pay 8% simple interest per annum on the balance they held from 
December 2021 until they released the funds, which is a fair outcome. Barclays also 
agreed to refund the small payments that debited his account after it had closed. 
Mr As complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision on in my capacity as an 
ombudsman. 
Since then, our investigator clarified a contradiction in their view. In their view they said 
Barclays should pay eight percent simple interest per annum from December 2021 but also 
said from October 2021. They confirmed to Mr A that their recommendation was to pay from 
December 2021, and this is what Barclays had agreed to pay.
Mr A responded and said he didnt receive the correct balance when his funds were 
released. He only recalls being allowed to make two withdrawals  which were wages from 
two different employers. He said he would provide evidence in support but wanted to wait 
until he fully recovered from an injury to one of his fingers. 
I asked our investigator to send Mr A his bank statement showing the final balance in his 
account before the withdrawals were made. I was sorry to hear about his finger, so I afforded 
him an additional week to provide extra information for me to consider. I didnt think it was 
reasonable to wait longer than this, given his injury doesnt prevent him from communicating 
with our service, as evidenced by his recent contact. The deadline for him to provide further 
information has passed, so Ive gone on to make a final decision on his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint in part. But Im not recommending Barclays do 
anything more than they agreed when accepting our investigators recommendations
Barclays recorded a CIFAs marker against Mr A. Their concerns were triggered by the 
receipt of fraud reports related to the multiple payments he received into his account, which 
he says he didnt recognise.
To record a marker, CIFAs standard of proof must be met. This requires Barclays to have 
had reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or 
attempted. In summary, Barclays couldnt apply a CIFAs marker based only on suspicion 
without supporting information and evidence.
But there is a difference between whats required for a firm to record a CIFAs marker and the 
standard of proof required to convict someone of fraud or another financial crime. The 
information and evidence do not need to establish Mr A was guilty of fraud beyond a 
reasonable doubt. Nor do Barclays need to have contacted the police to report Mr As 
conduct.
So, I must consider whether the standard of evidence is enough in the circumstances of Mr 
As complaint for the CIFAs marker to remain. On balance Im satisfied there is sufficient 
evidence to show that the standard was met.
Barclays received fraud reports about the payments. After reviewing Mr As responses to Barclays and to our service, as well as the evidence on file, his version of events isnt 
credible. Ill explain why:
Mr A claims to have not checked his account until he was informed that it was to 
close, so according to him he didnt notice the very unusual activity that was taking 
place. But Barclays records clearly show his account was accessed using a mobile 
phone which was registered to his account using the other mobile phone he 
registered when he opened his account. Both mobile devices were then used to 
access his account at the time in question and in the subsequent days before he 
received notice that his accounts would close. 
Mr A previously acknowledged having two mobile phones on the call he had with 
Barclays employee. Listening to that call Im satisfied he failed to provide a plausible 
explanation as to how someone could have used both mobiles to log into his 
account. This would have required them to know the passcode for both devices as 
well as his mobile phone security.
Mr A told Barclays employee he hadnt lost either phone. So quite why he is now 
saying he did lose a phone is hard to reconcile. I would expect him to have known 
whether he lost his phone or not when he spoke to Barclays considering his 
conversation was contemporaneous to the time of the unrecognised activity on is 
account and when he now says he lost his phone. I dont find what he has said 
persuasive. And, I have borne in mind that losing one mobile phone account wouldnt 
explain how his other mobile was used to log onto his account.
Much of the payments which were reported as fraud were sent to a firm which Mr A 
admits to having an account with. I find it more than coincidental that the payments 
were sent to that firm, and Mr A hasnt denied those payments credited his trading 
account. He told Barclays he checked his trading account and had lost all the funds 
he held. He also said he remembers seeing unrecognised payments crediting and 
debiting his trading account but didnt know the payments originated from his 
Barclays account. But I havent seen evidence to establish that his trading account 
was subject to an account take over.
M A told Barclays on the phone that the day many of the unrecognised payments 
credited his Barclays account, he was at a party with friends. Ive considered this but 
I dont find this is a plausible point of compromise. Whoever was at the party would 
have needed to know his mobile security, banking application security and to have 
also accessed his trading account to have made off with the funds. And this scenario 
still wouldnt account for his mobiles being used to log into his account multiple times 
after the day in question.
Mr A said he stored log in details on key chains, but no persuasive explanation has 
been given as to how someone could have accessed that information. Neither would 
this explain how his mobile phones were used. He referred to an account he held in 
another country being compromised in the past, but this doesnt explain how his 
Barclays account was accessed without his knowledge or permission. Its possible he 
is the continued target of sophisticated fraudsters accessing his online security 
details, card information, as well as physically accessing his mobile phones  but 
without strong evidence to support this scenario, its unlikely.
Barclays have important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when an account 
is opened. They can broadly be summarized as a responsibility to know their customer, 
verify their sources of income, and where possible to detect and prevent financial crime.Barclays will review accounts to comply with its responsibilities. And its common industry 
practice for firms to restrict access to funds to conduct a review - doing so helps prevent 
potential harm that might otherwise result. Im satisfied Barclays were entitled to ask Mr A for 
proof of his entitlement to his educational stipend and to prevent him accessing that payment 
at the time. This is particularly the case considering the large sums which previously credited 
his account and his lack of a persuasive explanation as to how his account could have been 
compromised without his involvement.
Mr A says he was discriminated against because of his racial background, and I dont doubt 
his feelings on this matter. But I have listened to the phone call he had with the Barclays 
employee who asked him questions about his account activity. While Mr A may have found 
the nature of their conversation uncomfortable, he was asked appropriate questions. I say 
this because of the strong evidence Barclays held which pointed to his account being  
accessed using his registered devices, which would point to his involvement.
Mr A said he was discriminated against in branch when he needed access to funds. I was 
sorry to hear that he struggled financially at that time. However, based on my experience as 
an ombudsman, its unlikely CCTV from that long ago still exists. Even so, Barclays notes 
recorded from when Mr A was in branch indicate he was unhappy about not being able to 
withdraw his funds, that he disputed the amount left over from the stipend, and he was 
unhappy about being asked for further proof of funds.  This must have been a difficult 
situation for him, but it appears Barclays needed further proof because the evidence he sent 
didnt directly verify the payment in question. So, Im satisfied Barclays decisions regarding 
the payment were motivated by their responsibility to establish Mr As proof of entitlement 
and not because of his racial background.
Mr A disputes the balance of funds which Barclays eventually released to him. But Im 
satisfied Barclays have shown they released the correct sum. They had allowed Mr A to 
withdraw funds on several occasions which reduced the balance they held. Their 
contemporaneous records say they allowed him to withdraw £228.37 on 12 October 2021, 
which comprised his wages from one employer and a small sum which constituted the 
balance that had previously been in his savings account (£7). And their records say they 
allowed him to withdraw £100 on 26 October 2021. 
I see Mr A received an earlier payment from his other employer on 24 September 2021, 
which was spent via a cash withdrawal on 30 September 2021 and several direct debit 
payments. This was before he received his educational stipend, so I cant see how this 
reduced his balance after the stipend credited his account. Im satisfied the available 
evidence indicates Barclays didnt make an error in how they calculated the balance they 
released to Mr A.
Barclays acted reasonably by initially preventing Mr A accessing his stipend, but they have 
not provided a satisfactory explanation as to why they took so long to review his situation 
again and to release his funds. Considering all the information I have seen, had Barclays 
reviewed their position promptly they ought to have taken the decision to release his balance 
on 1 December 2021. So, I find that Mr A should be awarded 8 percent simple interest per 
annum on that balance from 1 December 2021 until 17 November 2022 when his funds were 
released.
Barclays offered to refund the small payments Mr A disputed making after the account 
closed. As they have agreed to do this, I find they should refund those payments.Putting things right
Subject to Mr A accepting this decision, I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
pay him 8% simple interest per annum on the final balance they held, calculated from       
1 December 2021 to 17 November 2022. If Barclays considers that theyre required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell 
him how much theyve taken off. They should also give him a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
pay him the sum of £3.97 which represents the total of the payments he raised as 
unauthorised.
My final decision
I have decided to uphold Mr As complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr A 
compensation according to my direction above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman