DRN-3194179
The complaint
Mr C complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC refused his credit card repayment 
proposal, recorded a default, didnt contact him for 12 months then transferred his debt to a 
debt collection agency. 
What happened
Mr C held a credit card with Tesco with a limit of £9,000. He contacted Tesco in late 2019. 
He said due to a change in his circumstances he couldnt afford to make the required 
repayments. Tesco stopped charges and interest and asked Mr C to complete a statement 
of income and expenditure to see what he could afford to pay.
Mr C returned the statement and asked Tesco to consider a repayment proposal of £50 per 
month. Tesco wrote back to Mr C declining his offer. They asked for an increased offer and 
said they would take further action if this wasnt received. Tesco then wrote to Mr C again in 
December 2019 to say that his account had been terminated.
In December 2020, Mr C applied for a re-mortgage to raise funds to repay the debt with 
Tesco. But his application was declined. He said that Tesco had recorded information that 
showed him as a bad risk.
In January 2021, Mr C received more letters from Tesco. They said they were transferring 
his account to a debt collection agency. Mr C wasnt happy, so he wrote to them to complain. 
He said they hadnt contacted him at all since December 2019. He was also unhappy that 
theyd defaulted and terminated his account which prevented him from securing a re-
mortgage.
Tesco said theyd done nothing wrong when they recorded the default on Mr Cs credit file. 
They said Mr C hadnt offered an alternative repayment proposal in December 2019. But 
they did apologise for not contacting him sooner. They agreed they shouldve contacted him 
to try and arrange a payment plan with him. They apologised and offered compensation of 
£50.
Mr C wasnt happy with Tescos response and thought theyd treated him unfairly. So, he 
referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint. 
She agreed that Tesco hadnt acted fairly. She thought that Tesco should increase their 
compensation offer by £150, change the default date recorded to June 2019 and refund all 
interest and charges from March 2019. She also thought they should take the debt back 
from the debt collection agency and agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr C.
Tesco didnt agree with our investigators view. So, they asked that Mr Cs complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
I reached a different outcome to that of our investigator. Because of that, I issued a 
provisional decision on 4 November 2021  giving both Mr C and Tesco the opportunity to 
respond to my findings below before I reached a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
Section 7 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) details how a business should deal with a consumer in financial difficulties. 
So, in looking at Mr Cs complaint, Ive considered whether Tesco applied those 
rules.
Ive looked at Mr Cs account statements. Between May 2018 and January 2019, Mr 
Cs balance rose to just above the limit. He made monthly payments on time for 
slightly more than the minimum required. 
Mr C missed a payment in March 2019. So, minimum payments increased to include 
these arrears. Mr C then made monthly payments of between £100 and £200, but 
these were below the minimum required. A payment was missed in November 2019. 
Payments stopped from January 2020 onwards. Its also relevant that Mr C didnt use 
his credit card at all after 9 January 2019. 
Tesco say they spoke with Mr C on 19 March 2019. He said he was expecting funds 
and would clear the arrears. They spoke again on 2 April 2019 when those funds 
werent received. On each occasion, Tesco recorded a promise to pay marker in 
their records. Tesco say, there was no indication of long-term financial difficulty.
Tesco show they wrote to Mr C 15 times between April and November 2019. These 
letters detailed Mr Cs arrears and charges Tesco had made. They said what could 
happen if arrears werent paid and gave details of where Mr C could get independent 
free debt advice. They asked Mr C to contact them. This is what I would expect 
Tesco to do in these circumstances.
Tesco also provided records showing they attempted to call Mr C more than 100 
times between April and September 2019. It appears these calls were unsuccessful. 
So, Im satisfied that Tesco tried to do everything they could to contact Mr C to 
discuss his account and circumstances. Tesco then sent a default notice to Mr C on 
24 October 2019.
Mr C contacted Tesco in November 2019. He said his circumstances had changed 
and he couldnt afford the required payments. He wanted to agree a payment plan. 
Tesco agreed 30 days breathing space and asked him to complete a financial 
statement to see what was affordable. Mr C completed this and offered payments of 
£50 per month. But Tesco didnt accept Mr Cs offer. They said Mr Cs financial 
statement showed he had a monthly surplus of £74. They asked him to make a new 
offer.
Section 7 of CONC says that lenders should consider consumers in default or arrears 
difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. Examples include:
Suspending, waiving, or cancelling any further interest and charges  Tesco 
refunded two £12 charges in November 2019. They stopped charging interest 
from January 2020 onwards.
Allowing arrears to be deferred  On the basis that Tesco continued to issue 
statements to Mr C showing an increasing minimum payment, Ive seen no 
evidence or letters to suggest that arrears were deferred.
Accepting token payments  Tesco didnt do that here as they refused Mr Cs 
payment offer.
Inform the consumer about free debt advice with details  Tesco did that 
here.
Not refuse reasonable affordable repayment proposals  Mr C offered £50 
per month having calculated a disposable income of £74. This doesnt feel 
unreasonable to me as it only left him £24 per month to cover unforeseen 
costs. 
Not pressure borrowers to make unreasonably large payments  Tesco continued to issue statements requiring an increasingly large minimum 
payment. By May 2021, the minimum figure requested reached £3,838.
I found nothing to suggest that Mr C submitted a revised repayment offer. So, Tesco 
wrote to Mr C on 30 December 2019 with a notice that his account had been 
terminated. Tesco recorded the default with the credit reference agencies in January 
2020. Tesco were entitled to do that. 
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says when a consumer is at least three 
months behind with their payments then a default may be registered. And it would 
expect a default to be registered by the time the consumer is six months behind. Mr 
C didnt cover minimum payments from February onwards. So, I would expect a 
default to be registered here by August 2019  6 months from when the first arrears 
occurred. But Tesco didnt do that. 
This means the default wont be removed from Mr Cs credit file until January 2026 
rather than August 2025. I think Tesco need to address this.
Mr C said his repayment offer was all he could afford. Im persuaded that was the 
case. So, I dont think that Tesco acted fairly when they refused this. 
Tesco didnt contact Mr C again until December 2020 when they sent a further 
payment reminder. This was followed by letters telling Mr C that his debt had been 
passed to a debt collection agent. While Tesco are entitled to transfer the debt, I 
dont think they acted fairly by not contacting Mr C for 12 months. Tesco have 
accepted this, apologised, and offered compensation of £50.
I dont think Tescos lack of action feels fair here. I think they shouldve done more to 
support Mr C. Had they accepted his original offer; his debt wouldve been reducing. 
While I accept that the amount offered was less than they wanted, Mr Cs 
circumstances couldve been reviewed at regular intervals.
I agree with our investigator that Tesco should increase their compensation offer 
given their shortfalls in support. They left Mr C in the dark by not following up with 
him. Im sure Mr C wouldve been very worried about the situation and Tesco didnt 
help with that. I also agree that Tesco should amend the default date with the credit 
reference agency. But I think this should be changed to August 2019, as Ive 
explained above.
I also think it shouldve been clear to Tesco that Mr C was in financial difficulties 
earlier. While they say theyd spoken to him in March and April 2019, the use of his 
account was enough to suggest this. I think it was clear by April 2019 when Mr C had 
missed a payment and didnt pay the minimum required after. Hed also failed to 
clear arrears despite his promise to pay. The account was over the limit and hed 
stopped using his card. So, I dont think Mr C needed to expressly say anything for 
Tesco to reach that conclusion.
While our investigator thought charges and interest should be refunded from March 
2019, I dont agree. I think it wouldve been reasonable to stop these from May 2019 
onwards.
I also dont agree with our investigator that Tesco should take Mr Cs account back 
from the debt collection agency. I think they were entitled to transfer it in these 
circumstances, and I dont believe this will adversely impact Mr C. He should be able 
to agree an affordable repayment plan with the debt collection agent without incurring 
additional costs.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I asked both parties to respond with any new information or 
comments they wanted me to consider. 
Mr C acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision. He said he wasnt currently in the 
best of health and could only afford repayments of £50 per month. He confirmed he is 
prepared to establish a payment plan on that basis.
Tesco said they feel the outcome they reached was fair and reasonable. They said Mr C 
wasnt in arrears until March 2019. But payments were received in April, May and June 2019 
that would cover the average payment. So, they believe Mr C was only ever one month in 
arrears. They said the default was deferred to give Mr C time to propose an appropriate 
payment arrangement. 
While I accept the facts of what theyve said, it remains that Mr C continued to be in arrears 
as a result of the missed payment in March. And despite his promises to pay, he was unable 
to clear these. Having considered Tescos terms and conditions, Im satisfied this constitutes 
a breach and Mr C would therefore be considered to be in default of the agreement.
Tesco also said theyd never reject a payment from a customer and Mr C was welcome to 
make even token payments at any time. While that may be true, Mr C wanted to agree a 
formal payment arrangement, and Tesco turned down his offer. So, in the absence of any 
other arrangement, I can appreciate why Mr C didnt make further payments.
Tesco pointed out that the first default trigger  the missed payment  didnt happen until 
March 2019. So, they dont believe it would be fair to refund charges and interest from May 
2019. They said they wouldnt be expected to freeze Mr Cs account until the termination 
date.
I dont agree with Tesco on this point. Section 7 of CONC is clear on the forbearance and 
due consideration that should be considered in the circumstances where financial difficulties 
were apparent. Mr C stopped using his card from January 2019. His account balance 
exceeded the limit available to him and he failed to clear his arrears in March and April 2019, 
despite promises to pay that were made. I believe this was sufficient to suggest he was 
struggling and in financial difficulty. So, for Tesco to comply with the requirements of CONC, 
I believe the application of interest and charges shouldve been suspended earlier than they 
were.
On a final point, Ive reconsidered the default date suggested in my provisional decision. I 
suggested the default shouldve been recorded from August 2019. But Mr Cs first action of 
default was in March 2019  the missed payment. In view of the ICOs guidance, Ive 
decided that any default shouldve been recorded no more than six months from that point. 
So, I shall be reflecting that within my final decision.
Ultimately, other than the default date change, Ive not been provided with anything that 
persuades me to change my provisional decision. 
Mr C should be aware that Im not asking Tesco to take his account back from the debt 
collection agency. So, he should ensure that any offer of repayment is made to them  not 
Tesco.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I require Tesco Personal Finance PLC to:
Pay compensation of £150 to Mr C in addition to the £50 already offered.
Amend the default date registered with the credit reference agencies to September 
2019.
Refund the amount owed with all charges and interest applied from May 2019 
onwards.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman