DRN-3880125
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) is holding him liable for a 
credit card that he says he didnt apply for or benefit from.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, Ive summarised them 
briefly below.
In March 2020, a credit card was successfully applied for from NatWest in Mr As name. 
In November 2022, Mr A contacted NatWest and disputed the credit card. He told NatWest 
that hed not applied for the credit card or carried out any of the transactions on it. 
NatWest looked into Mr As claim but didnt agree that hed been the victim of an identity 
theft. It therefore didnt uphold his complaint and held him liable for the outstanding balance.
Mr A remained unhappy with NatWests response, so he brought his complaint to our service 
for an independent review. 
Mr A says that prior to credit card application, a neighbour offered to obtain a bounce back 
loan for him through a connection they had in the bank for a 20% fee if the loan was 
obtained successfully. Mr A agreed to this and provided all the relevant personal information 
and identity documents.
After the loan was paid, Mr As neighbour then put him in touch with a relation of theirs to 
help him set up a business. Again, Mr A provided all the relevant personal information and 
identity documents for this to be set up.
Mr A says that after this took place, he began to receive credit cards, debit cards and 
documentation through the post in relation to numerous financial products: one being the 
credit card subject to this dispute. He says that once he received these, he was threatened 
by the third-party to hand over the cards and their associated PINs.
An Investigator looked into the evidence and testimony provided by both parties but 
concluded NatWest hadnt made an error in holding Mr A liable for the debt. They felt that 
Mr A had likely been aware of the application for the credit card and had handed over control 
of that credit card to a third-party willingly. He therefore found that Mr A had provided his 
authority to a third-party to use the account and carry out the transactions in dispute.
Mr A disagreed with the Investigators assessment. So, the matter has now been passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I think its important to comment on the fact that Mr As character is somewhat 
challenged by the fact that hes obtained credit in questionable circumstances. 
While I suspect there is an element of naivety on Mr As part, I also suspect that he wasnt 
entirely honest in allowing the application for the bounce back loan that led to his personal 
information being provided to a third-party.
I do find Mr A testimony persuasive; in that he provided a third-party with his personal 
information and identity documents to apply for financial products. And I do find it likely that 
this led to the credit card, taken out with NatWest, being applied for. But Im not persuaded 
that this was done without Mr As knowledge or consent.
Having reviewed the evidence provided by NatWest, its clear that the correct personal 
information was used to make application for the credit card: this includes Mr As genuine 
address and telephone number. This means that Mr A was likely aware of the application 
being made as various documents and verification communications were sent to both Mr As 
email address and telephone number.
This is further supported by Mr As evidence supplied where hes provided communications 
from NatWest in relation to the credit card in dispute. Hes also supplied communications 
between him and the third-party hes alleged took the products out where Mr A has sent 
photographs of the NatWest credit card being received at his home address. I cannot see 
any messages between Mr A and the third-party to suggest he wasnt expecting the cards or 
asking it they knew anything about them.
This would suggest that Mr A knew about the credit application and even received the card 
and PIN used to make the disputed transactions. There is no evidence that Mr A reported 
the receipt of this card as fraudulent at the time he received it to NatWest or the Police.
Mr A has told our service that supplied these cards and PINs due to threats being made 
toward him and his family if he didnt hand them over. But Ive seen no evidence to support 
this. The messages Mr A has provided between him and the third parties show no 
indications of coercion or threat. In fact, the messages appear civil in nature and give the 
impression the third-party was assisting Mr A rather than forcing him to carry out action. 
Mr A says that these threats were carried out verbally over the telephone, but again, I have 
no evidence to support this testimony  and the messages dont support this being a likely 
scenario.
Furthermore, NatWest has provided evidence that in February 2021 it referred Mr A to 
branch to confirm his identity. On 22 February 2021, Mr A attended branch with identity to 
confirm he was the account holder. There are no notes to suggest Mr A reported the card or 
transactions at that time as fraudulent.
For the above reasons, I think its more likely than not that Mr A was aware of the application 
made for the credit card. And I also find it likely that he handed over both card and PIN to the 
third-party willingly. This means, whether Mr A carried out the transactions or not, he did 
provide his authority to use the card and PIN for the transactions in dispute. I therefore dont 
find it unreasonable that NatWest has held Mr A liable for them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman