DRN-3118498
The complaint
Ms E complained to Santander UK Plc when they reported a missed payment on her loan to 
the credit reference agencies, despite a payment deferral having been agreed.  
What happened
Ms E took a loan out with Santander in February 2018. The loan was agreed over a term of 
60 months with fixed repayments of £307.76 due on twenty-sixth day of each month.
Ms E called Santander on 4 May 2020 to apply for a three-month payment deferral on her 
loan. She explained that due to the impact of the global pandemic, her income was to be 
reduced which meant she needed to make some savings. Santander took her application 
details and said that she would receive email confirmation within two days. They confirmed 
this wouldnt impact on Ms Es credit file.
Ms E called Santander again on 26 May 2020. She said that despite her request, a loan 
repayment had been claimed by direct debit that day, which she didnt have funds to cover. 
Santander said that a three-month payment deferral had been agreed and would start with 
the payment due 26 June 2020. They offered to arrange for the May payment to be reversed 
and confirmed this wouldnt impact on Ms Es credit file.
On the same call Ms E discussed how interest relating to the deferral period would be 
treated and Santander provided an explanation. This differed to what Ms E was originally 
told and resulted in a complaint being raised. Santander agreed Ms E had been misinformed 
and resolved Ms Es complaint.
In July 2020, Ms E noticed that Santander had reported a missed payment on her credit file. 
This related to the payment that was due in May 2020. So, she complained to Santander. 
She said she was told that the payment deferral wouldnt impact on her credit file.
Santander upheld Ms Es complaint. They agreed shed been given the wrong information. 
They confirmed the payment deferral agreed applied to the payments due in June, July and 
August 2020. This meant the missed payment in May was reported on her credit file. They 
said they wouldnt be able to remove this. But they apologised for her being misinformed and 
sent her a goodwill payment of £100.00.
Ms E wasnt happy with Santanders response to her complaint. She wanted them to remove 
the missed payment from her credit file as she thought it was clear that the first deferred 
payment shouldve been in May 2020. So, she referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought Santander hadnt acted fairly here. She said Santander should 
remove any adverse information reported on Ms Es credit file. But she felt the compensation 
already paid by Santander was fair and didnt think they needed to offer any more.
Santander told this service that as Ms E had been provided with incorrect information about 
her credit file, they would be removing the adverse data for the period June to September 
2020. This offer was presented to Ms E by our investigator. But Ms E didnt think this was 
enough to resolve her complaint. She said the adverse information had now been reported 
for over a year when it shouldnt have. So, she asked that her complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders on 2 April 2020 which 
explained what it expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising out 
of the global pandemic. It provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on the 
consumers credit file because of the payment deferral.
Santander have confirmed that Ms E first applied for a three-month payment deferral for her 
loan repayments on 4 May 2020. Ive listened to a call recording from this date when Ms E 
first applied. Santander confirmed there would be no impact on her credit file although they 
didnt confirm when the deferral period would start. They did confirm Ms E would receive 
email confirmation informing her of the outcome of her application. 
Ms Es next loan repayment was due on 26 May 2020. Due to changes in her income, she 
believed she wouldnt be able to afford this payment. She had explained to Santander how 
her income would be impacted. So, although neither Santander nor Ms E referred 
specifically to the payment due in May, I think it was reasonable to conclude that Ms E might 
have a problem affording this.
Ive also listened to the call recording from when Ms E contacted Santander on 26 May 
2020. This was prompted by her May payment being claimed by them. Ms E clearly 
explained what she believed had been agreed. Santander told her she could claim back the 
May payment and confirmed that Ms Es credit file wouldnt be impacted.
It isnt the role of this service to ask a business to alter their procedures or processes or 
impose improvements on the level of service offered to their customers. These aspects fall 
firmly within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable in 
the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual 
circumstances of Ms Es experience with them.
I think its clear Ms E wanted and needed to include her May payment within the deferral 
requested. While I accept that Santanders systems may have meant this couldnt be 
achieved within the timescales available to them, I dont think its fair for Ms E to be impacted 
by that. So, I agree with our investigator here. I believe that the fairest outcome wouldve 
been for Santander to apply her request from the point it was received  i.e. 4 May 2020. 
This wouldve ensured that the payments due in May, June and July were deferred.
Santander have now confirmed they will remove any adverse information reported from Ms 
Es credit file for the period June to September 2020. And I believe this is the right thing to 
do. But as I understand any data reported actually relates to the payment missed in May 
2020, I shall be making it clear that Santander need to ensure this reference is removed.
Santander have already paid £100 to Ms E by way of an apology for their mistakes. 
Compensation is a personal thing. What is seen as reasonable by one party may not be 
considered so by another. I appreciate Ms E did experience some inconvenience and 
distress. But I think the amount offered feels fair in all the circumstances here. I realise that 
Miss E doesnt agree. But it isnt the role of this service to make awards in order to penalise 
Santander for their mistakes here. Any award is considered based upon the impact 
Santanders mistake had upon Ms E. And I think Santanders offer does that here.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Ms Es complaint.
I require Santander UK Plc to ensure that any adverse data reported on Ms Es credit file in 
relation to the missed payment in May 2020 and the payment deferral period agreed is 
removed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman