DRN-3430406
The complaint
Miss G complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) have 
declined a claim shes made under her pet insurance policy. Shed like the claim to be re-
considered and paid out.
What happened
Miss G has a pet dog, who she insures with Red Sands - the policy commenced in February 
2021. In June 2021 Miss Gs dog was unwell so she took her to an emergency vet, 
unfortunately the dog was diagnosed with anterior eye uveitis. 
Following the diagnosis, Miss G made a claim to Red Sands. But Red Sands declined the 
claim, under the pre-existing condition clause. Miss G disagreed and said that her dog had 
previously had conjunctivitis  she was supported in this by her vet. Red Sands re-assessed 
the claim, but they did not change their mind. So, Miss G brought her complaint to this 
service.
One of our investigators considered the matter, they said Red Sands had acted in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy when declining the claim. They were satisfied that the 
first clinical signs of eye uveitis were present before the policy inception, so therefore it was 
considered a pre-existing condition. And they thought it was reasonable of Red Sands to rely 
on the pre-existing term and condition to decline the claim.
Miss G disagreed and asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman  so its been 
passed to me to consider.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why below.
Miss G took out her insurance policy with Red Sands in February 2021. The terms and 
conditions of the policy set out what is and isnt covered. 
Under the paragraph what isnt covered it says:
Any claim or costs for or relating to a pre-existing condition(s) or for an accident,
injury or illness that first showed clinical signs at any time before the commencement
date of the policy or within 14 days of the commencement date.
The policy wording then goes on to define clinical signs and it says:
Clinical signs mean any observable changes in a pets normal healthy state, condition, 
appearance, bodily functions or behaviour; observed visually, diagnostically or otherwise.
Ive looked at Miss Gs dogs medical notes and I can see that prior to the policy inception 
she suffered with her eyes  but she wasnt diagnosed with anterior eye uveitis. However, 
some of the symptoms that were described in the medical notes from August 2019 and May, 
June 2020 match the clinical signs of eye uveitis. These signs include, squinting, avoiding 
bright lights, cloudiness of the eyes, discharge, blueish or cloudy appearance of the cornea. 
Given what the policy wording says above, and that these signs were noted before the policy 
inception  Im satisfied that Red Sands has declined the claim because of a pre-existing 
condition. 
I appreciate Miss Gs vet has written to Red Sands to explain that the dog has never 
suffered with eye uveitis previously. But as the policy wording explains, a diagnosis doesnt 
need to have been made for it to be classed as a pre-existing condition. Instead if there were 
clinical signs of an illness that had occurred previously to inception, that match the 
symptoms of the illness, injury or accident being claimed for  then it will be classed as pre-
existing.
I understand this isnt the answer Miss G was hoping for and I sympathise with her, I know 
this has been stressful for her. But Im satisfied the terms and conditions are set out clearly 
in the policy documents, so Miss G shouldve been aware of them at inception, and I think 
Red Sands has acted fairly in rejecting the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Rachel Killian
Ombudsman