DRN-2020078
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Lloyds in 1995. Around the same time, they took out 
a PPI policy to protect their monthly mortgage payments. Lloyds was trading as C&G at the 
time, but Ill just refer to the business as Lloyds in this decision to keep things simple.
Mr and Mrs B say they applied for the policy following a phone call from Lloyds. The 
mortgage was in Mr and Mrs Bs joint names. The policy covered Mr B. The initial monthly 
premium was around £33. If Mr B had made a successful claim on the policy for accident, 
sickness or unemployment, it would have covered Mr and Mrs Bs monthly mortgage 
payments (which were initially around £337) for up to 12 months. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Where, as in this case, the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide what 
I thinks most likely to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds needed to make it clear to Mr and Mrs B that they had a choice about whether to 
take out the PPI. Mr and Mrs B havent contended that they didnt realise the PPI was 
optional. And based on what we know of the way Lloyds sold these policies at the time, 
Im satisfied, on balance, that this would have been made clear. 
But Mr and Mrs B say that Lloyds made an unsolicited phone call to them and spoke to 
Mr B about PPI. Mr B says he was left concerned about payment risks following the call. 
And he says he felt concerned following the continual reference by C&G to protecting 
[his] mortgage payments for complete peace of mind and he says he ultimately felt 
pressured into taking out the insurance for fear of somehow losing the property. He 
considers that the risk was greatly exaggerated.
I dont doubt that Lloyds may have outlined the advantages of having PPI and the risks 
of not taking it. But pressure is a different matter, and I cant fairly conclude, based 
purely on what Mr and Mrs B say, that unfair pressure was put on them to take the cover.
The mortgage was a serious long-term financial commitment. Mr and Mrs Bs home 
would have been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. PPI provided 
a dependable means of ensuring that their monthly repayments were protected even if 
Mr B couldnt work. So, I can see why they might have felt PPI was useful cover. Ive 
also borne in mind that they were paying for the policy monthly, and could have 
cancelled it at any time without further cost if they had second thoughts about their 
decision to take it. But as it was, Mr and Mrs B kept the policy for many years. 
On balance, I think its most likely that Mr and Mrs B decided to take out the PPI because 
they wanted the protection and peace of mind that the policy offered. And I think it was 
added to their mortgage because they decided to take it, knowing that they had a choice.
It isnt in dispute that Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B. This means it had a 
responsibility to check that it was suitable for them. But it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time.
I acknowledge that Mr Bs told us that hed have been entitled to at least six months pay, 
from his employer if hed been off sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to 
any payments Mr B received from his employer, and potentially for longer. Mr and Mrs B 
have also mentioned that they had significant savings at the time. But Ive borne in mind 
that theyd chosen to preserve those savings, rather than taking out a smaller mortgage. 
And a successful claim on the PPI would have removed the need to use their savings to 
make their mortgage payments if Mr B had been off sick or lost his job. So they could 
have left their savings intact, or used them to meet other expenses. Taking everything 
into account, I think the PPI could have been useful to Mr and Mrs B.
The monthly cost of the PPI was clearly set out in the policy schedule. So Im satisfied 
that Mr and Mrs B would have known how much theyd need to pay for it. And as Ive 
mentioned above, since they were paying for the PPI monthly, they could have cancelled 
it at any time without further cost if their circumstances changed or they decided they no 
longer wanted the cover.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover (for example, 
unusual working arrangements or existing medical conditions). But from what hes told 
us about his circumstances at the time, its unlikely Mr B would have been affected by 
any of these. So I dont think better information about them would have put Mr and Mrs B 
off taking the policy out.
Ive taken account of all Mr and Mrs Bs comments, including what theyve said about not 
having been told that PPI was available elsewhere. But Lloyds wasnt obliged to tell Mr and 
Mrs B about products that may have been available from other providers. So this doesnt 
change my conclusion. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B. Its clear that they feel strongly about their complaint. 
But for the reasons Ive set out, I dont find that the policy was mis-sold.
This means I dont think Mr and Mrs B have lost out as a result of anything Lloyds may have 
done wrong.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B because:
When the policy was sold, Lloyds expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  so it should have told Mr and Mrs B about 
that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr and Mrs B, that was unfair.To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think thats fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman