DRN-3212616
The complaint
Miss H complains Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) lent to her irresponsibly when it
increased her overdraft limit. She also considers it treated her unfairly when it continued
applying charges and interest, while she was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 30 November 2021. I provisionally 
upheld the complaint and set out what Halifax needed to do to put things right. And I invited 
both parties to let me have any final comments. A copy of my provisional decision is below. 
What happened
Miss H held an account with Halifax with an overdraft limit  over the years the limit was
increased over 20 times. Rather than list each increase here, I have set out some of the
increases:
- March 2014 - £800
- August 2014- £1,000
- August 2016 - £1,200
- December 2016 - £1,550
- July 2017 - £1,800
- July 2017 - £1990
- August 2017 £2,340
- August 2017  £2,440
In December 2019, Miss H contacted Halifax about her overdraft  she complained that the
lending shed been given wasnt affordable and had contributed to her financial difficulties.
Miss H felt Halifax ought to have been aware that it wasnt appropriate to lend to her from
the information on her account. She said her actual income and expenditure didnt justify the
lending and she was struggling to manage.
She wanted Halifax to address her complaint and offer her some assistance  she asked it
to freeze charges and interest to stop the situation on her account from getting any worse.
Halifax issued a response on 29 April 2020. In summary, it was satisfied it had lent
responsibly, explaining it had used the details Miss H had given about her income and then
used a credit scoring system to confirm the lending was affordable. However, it said it would
pay £146.72 to cover the charges that had been applied to the account since it had received
her complaint on 19 December 2019.
Halifax had issued a formal demand for the overdraft in March 2020 and suggested Miss H
contact its collections team to discuss repayment options.
Miss H didnt accept Halifaxs decision. She reiterated the lending was unaffordable and
added that shed been writing to it since December 2019, pursuing her complaint and asking
for assistance. However, she hadnt got a response for several months and instead Halifax
continued to charge her, demanded repayment of the overdraft, recorded a default and sold
the debt to a new business. I shall refer to the new business as P. As Miss H didnt think
this was fair she referred her complaint to us.
Our adjudicator investigated and issued two assessments. The first assessment said Halifax
ought to have realised Miss H was experiencing financial difficulty by November 2016 and it
shouldnt have increased her overdraft lending from that point. The adjudicator later
reconsidered the complaint and said Halifax ought to have realised there was a problem
much sooner, from 14 August 2014, when it had increased her overdraft limit to £800. The
adjudicator recommended Halifax needed to rework Miss Hs account so that any charges,
interest and fees applied as a result of the overdraft limit being above £310 from 14 August
2014 were removed. He also said that if no debt remained after the account was reworked
Halifax should remove the default it had recorded on the credit file.
Miss H said that while she was prepared to accept the second assessment, she was
concerned P had also recorded a default  she wanted Halifax to tell P to remove this.
Halifax didnt accept the second assessment but said that it would like to make Miss H an
offer in line with the adjudicators first assessment but with some differences. Ive set out a
summary of this below:
It was unable to use a calculation or use a tool to calculate refunds of any fees and
charges above the £900 limit. It wished to offer to refund all fees and charges relating
to the overdraft, that were charged from November 2019, irrelevant of the balance.
The refund would be £2,964.28 and this figure was more than if it re-worked the
account.
This figure would result in the debt with P being settled in full, and surplus funds
returned to Miss H.
Miss H already had an overdraft limit in place before November 2016. In its view
there was no guarantee Miss H would have been able to repay the overdraft debt
that was outstanding at that point (£800), considering Miss Hs financial difficulties
(even if it had offered her treatment strategy to support her). It couldnt be certain a
default wouldnt have occurred even if it hadnt lent to her further after the 30
November 2016. Considering this, it wouldnt remove the default, but it would 
backdate it to 30 November 2016.
It said that although it understood Miss H has two defaults showing on her credit file,
only one default should be live, which was Ps. And any financial organisation
viewing her credit file would know theres only one default for the debt.
It had responded to Miss Hs complaints, sending three final response letters (20
April 2020, 4 August 2020 and 23 October 2020). So, it wouldnt be offering any
further compensation beyond the refund set out above.
It wished to clear up any misunderstanding that may have arisen with the
adjudicators assessments. Miss Hs overdraft was increased to £800 in March 2014
and not August 2014. This is supported by the information on her account
statements.
The offer was put to Miss H and was rejected. Miss H believes Halifax treated her unfairly
and what its proposed doesnt go far enough in putting things right. So, I will now make a
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Overdraft lending
Halifax will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we considerwhen looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when lending and
applying overdraft charges. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this
decision. But its worth commenting that in offering to go back as far as November 2016, I
think Halifax has to a point recognised its lending wasnt affordable. But I dont think this date
is the correct point from which it needs to put things right. Having carefully considered
everything provided, Im intending to find that Halifax acted unfairly when it continued
charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it increased the overdraft limit to £800
in March 2014. I dont think the additional lending was appropriate in Miss Hs circumstances
and Ill explain why.
I think by this point, it ought to have been clear that Miss H was in no position to sustainably
repay what she already owed within a reasonable period of time. She had an overdraft limit
of £300 and was consistently in the limit (at the top end) in the months leading up to the
£800 limit being assigned to her. I think this pattern suggested she was relying heavily on
borrowing to get by and Halifax ought to have taken steps to verify Miss Hs income and
financial situation before assigning the £800 limit. I say this because the new limit was
almost three times her existing limit and more than her monthly income when averaged out.
This information would have been available to Halifax.
The account was hardly ever in credit and on the rare occasion it went into credit, it would be
overdrawn again almost immediately. In the months leading up to the increase, the account
had gone over the authorised limit several times, resulting in unplanned overdraft fees
(December, January, February and March). So, I think it was clear that increasing Miss Hs
limit would cause her harm and shed struggle to manage any additional lending. Indeed, on
taking the additional lending, Miss H then exceeded the new limit the same month and
incurred charges.
Having thought about everything, I think that Halifax didnt treat Miss H fairly and she lost out
because of what Halifax did wrong. And this means that it should put things right  Ill say
more about this below.
Default
I note Halifax has declined to remove its default. But given that I have found that any lending
above £300 wasnt appropriate and a refund of charges and interest would result in
completely repaying what Miss H owes P and leave a surplus, I cant see any reasonable
basis for keeping the default on her credit file.
I know Miss H still has the issue of the default which P has recorded. I cant direct Halifax to
require P to remove it, as its not party to this complaint  P is a separate entity. However,
theres nothing stopping Miss H from approaching P with the information that Halifax has
been asked to remove its default.
Customer service
Miss H doesnt think Halifax has treated her unfairly. Shes provided copies of
correspondence she sent to Halifax in December 2019 and the emails chasing a response. I
note that in some of these chasers Miss H explains shes lost her job due to depression and
so there was no income coming in to maintain the account. The outstanding balance on her
account was in excess of £2,500. Faced with these letters I think Halifax ought to have been
proactive and got its financial difficulties team to contact Miss H. But I note that Miss H also
said in some of her correspondence that she didnt want to contact the banks collections
team until she considered her complaint resolved. 
I can understand Miss H felt frustrated particularly when she hadnt had a response to her
complaint, but it is the case that Halifax would have needed to undertake an income and
expenditure assessment, in order to see what help it could give her to assist with anyimmediate pressure she was under. But even if it had contacted her, I cant be sure Miss H
would have engaged. I also note that by the time Halifax did respond it paid the charges
covering the period December 2019 to April 2020 (when it responded to the complaint)
thereby addressing any direct financial loss during these months. So, overall I dont propose
to award any compensation for this particular aspect.
Putting things right
In this case, I intend to ask Halifax to do the following to resolve this complaint  I think this
is fair:
1. Rework Miss H account so that all interest, fees and charges applied in respect of the
overdraft increase above the original £300 limit since March 2014 are refunded.
2. Use the refund to clear the debt with P.
3. If theres a residual balance after P has been paid (its anticipated there will be), pay
this to Miss H along with 8% simple annual interest from the date the account was
closed to the date of settlement.
4. Remove any adverse information from Miss Hs credit file in connection with the
overdraft limit above £300, including the default it recorded.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and order Bank of Scotland
plc to resolve this complaint in accordance with what I have set out in the putting things
right section above.
Halifax responded to say that it had nothing further to add in response to my provisional 
decision. Miss H responded to say that she accepted my provisional decision but on the 
customer service aspect she wished it to be noted that she had approached Halifax once 
before for help, but it had reinstated charges and interest after a month. And she was afraid 
to engage with it after shed complained, as it could be construed as her accepting the whole 
debt that had arisen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given both parties have accepted my provisional decision I see no basis to depart from it. 
Halifax didnt treat Miss H fairly and I have explained why she lost out because of what it did 
wrong. Its only right it should put things right and Ive set out what it needs to do to resolve 
the complaint. 
 
I hope Miss H can now move on from this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Bank of Scotland Plc to:  
1. Rework Miss H account so that all interest, fees and charges applied in respect of the
overdraft increase above the original £300 limit since March 2014 are refunded.
2. Use the refund to clear the debt with P.
3. If theres a residual balance after P has been paid, pay
this to Miss H along with 8% simple annual interest from the date the account was
closed to the date of settlement.4. Remove any adverse information from Miss Hs credit file in connection with the
overdraft limit above £300, including the default it recorded.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman