DRN-3600094
The complaint
Ms C has complained about how ITI Capital Limited (ITI Capital) administered her 
investment account.
What happened
Ms C says the service ITI Capital provided was poor, including poor data security, delay and 
errors with dividends, statements not being sent and ITI Capital not providing updates or 
responding to requests for these. Ms C also says ITI Capital took too long to transfer her 
holdings to another provider and didnt close her account as it shouldve done.
ITI Capital replied to Ms Cs complaint and accepted it delayed Ms Cs transfer and offered 
her £150 for this. Ms C wasnt satisfied that this addressed all her issues.
Our investigator considered the complaint. Our investigator thought, in brief:
The transfer was requested in early August 2020 and didnt complete until in December. 
As transfers like this should take no longer than 30 days, this one took too long. 
The delay of three and a half months didnt cause financial loss but did cause Ms C 
concern as well as the inconvenience of having to chase things up. ITI Capital should 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Dividends paid on 24 September 2020 by a company Ill call A and on 16 October 2020 
by a company Ill call F were instead paid to Ms C only on 15 October 2020 and 
5 November 2020 respectively. So ITI Capital should pay Ms C simple interest on the 
dividend sums for the period in between at the rate of 8% per year. 
ITI Capital had to verify Ms Cs details and was entitled to do so in the way that it did 
despite her data security concerns. But ITI Capital shouldve responded better to the 
emails Ms C sent raising her issues. Had it done so, it wouldve decreased her worry in 
the months she was waiting. In failing to respond as well as it should, ITI Capital caused 
Ms C more frustration.
ITI Capital failed to close Ms Cs account as it shouldve in response to her request. So it 
should now close her account.
ITI Capital should refund to Ms C, with simple interest at a rate of 8% per year from the 
date charged until the date repaid, any charges made on her account since the date her 
account shouldve closed, which is 1 September 2020.
Ms C had kept other records to use for her tax returns and so hadnt lost out from not 
getting statements from ITI Capital and she hadnt requested tax certificates in the way 
she needed to. So ITI Capital shouldnt compensate her for not sending such certificates 
to her. But ITI Capital should now send Ms C a statement / tax certificate for her holdings 
prior to the transfer.
ITI Capital did not respond to the investigators findings. Ms C did not raise any objections or 
further points in response to the investigators findings.
As ITI Capital did not reply, the matter could not be resolved informally. So it has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in the absence of persuasive arguments to the contrary, Ive arrived at 
the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
In brief summary, ITI Capital didnt give Ms C the service it should have. Whether or not its 
process for gathering information was reasonable, its failure to reply to Ms Cs concerns 
added to and prolonged those concerns. The transfer took longer than it should. The 
payment of dividends was delayed. ITI Capitals responses and updates to Ms C werent as 
they should have been. Notably it failed to respond properly to her email enquiries, leaving 
many unanswered - causing inconvenience and concern.
So I uphold Ms Cs complaint and I think ITI Capital should put things right. 
Putting things right
Ive had nothing from Ms C or ITI Capital to suggest that what our investigator suggested 
wouldnt be fair and reasonable redress in the particular circumstances here. 
With that in mind, and taking everything into account, I conclude ITI Capital Limited should:
Pay Ms C simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on the dividends from company A for 
the period between 24 September 2020 and 15 October 2020 and from company F for 
the period between 16 October 2020 and 5 November 2020. 
Refund to Ms C any charges made on her account since 1 September 2020, which is the 
date her account shouldve closed, with simple interest at a rate of 8% per year from the 
date of each charge until the date of my decision.
Send Ms C a statement and tax certificate covering the period before the transfer.
Pay Ms C £350 for the distress and inconvenience it caused her by its failings.
Close Ms Cs ITI Capital account and provide her with written confirmation that it has 
done so within one month of receiving her acceptance of my decision.
If any sum above isnt paid to Ms C within one month of ITI Capital Limited receiving from us 
notification of Ms Cs acceptance of my decision, ITI Capital Limited should also pay Ms C 
simple interest on any outstanding sum at the rate of 8% per year from the date of my 
decision until the date ITI Capital Limited pays Ms C the relevant amount.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, and in light of all Ive said above, I uphold Ms Cs complaint and 
order ITI Capital Limited to put things right in the way Ive explained.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman