DRN-4281325
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M have complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
unfairly declined a claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M contacted RSA to make a claim when their shower tray was removed and 
extensive rot was found. RSA considered the claim and declined it. It said the policy didnt 
cover an escape of water where it was due to the sealant or grout failing. 
When Mr M and Mrs M complained, RSA maintained its decision to decline the claim. It said 
the damage wasnt the result of a one-off event and there was also evidence that Mr M and 
Mrs M were aware of the escape of water sooner than they had acted.
So, Mr M and Mrs M complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
She said RSA had demonstrated there were clear signs to indicate further investigation was 
required sooner than Mr M and Mrs M took action. She said it was reasonable for RSA to 
decline the claim.
As Mr M and Mrs M didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr M and Mrs M made the claim for an escape of water when, following the sealant around 
their shower failing and being replaced on multiple occasions, the shower tray was removed 
and extensive rot was found in the joists beneath it. Mr M and Mrs Ms contractors said the 
floor was sloping and this was the result of water leaking through for some time, possibly 
several years, causing the joists to rot. Mr M and Mrs M said they replaced the sealant 
multiple times because it kept cracking, but it was only much later that the shower tray was 
removed and the issues with the sloping floor and the joists were then found.
RSA declined the claim because of an exclusion in the policy where the damage from an 
escape of water was due to the failure of the sealant or grout. Looking at the reports from Mr 
M and Mrs Ms contractors these said they had replaced the shower sealant on multiple 
occasions. When RSA replied to the complaint, it said the damage was the result of wear 
and tear and there was evidence Mr M and Mrs M could have acted sooner. Mr M and Mrs 
M disagreed with this and have said they took action when they were aware of an issue.
RSA gave Mr M and Mrs M examples of the damage it thought they could have been 
reasonably aware of and acted sooner to deal with. These included discolouration and 
bubbling/ flaking plaster in the hallway and plaster eroding in places where the paintwork 
had failed. The skirting board had also become detached, bowing away from the wall 
because of absorbing water. It said these werent evidence of a one-off event or something 
that happened overnight. It said these were an indicator of a long-term water leak.
Looking at the photos taken by RSAs surveyor, I think these were consistent with the issues 
RSA identified as visible signs of damage. I also think it was reasonable for RSA to decide 
these werent the result of a one-off event, but instead something that Mr M and Mrs M could 
have acted on sooner. Im aware Mr M and Mrs M have said they had the sealant replaced 
on multiple occasions as it kept cracking and that they also said, after the sealant was 
replaced one time, they also touched up the paint work in the hallway where it was bubbling 
and thought the issue had been resolved. However, RSA identified other visible signs of 
damage, such as the skirting boards, which it said indicated a need to investigate further.
Having considered the evidence, I think it was reasonable for RSA to decline the claim. Mr M 
and Mrs Ms contractors and RSAs surveyor identified that the leak was likely to have been 
ongoing for some time, possibly years. There was also evidence of visible signs of damage 
that indicated further action was required before the shower tray was later removed and the 
rot was found. So, having thought about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or 
require RSA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman