DRN-3400125
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy that MoneyGram International Limited (MoneyGram) allowed her to send 
money to a scammer.
What happened
Ms H has said around June 2020 she met someone online she entered into a romantic 
relationship with. This person, who turned out to be a scammer, told her he needed her to 
send money to his sick family members in another country. Around six months after they 
started speaking she says the scammer started to threaten and intimidate her into sending 
money by claiming he had family members in government organisations and she would be in 
danger if she refused his requests for money.
Between July 2020 and February 2021, Ms H sent over £33,000 to the scammer using 
MoneyGram. In total shes explained she made 12 payments, between one week and two 
months apart. The payments ranged between around £1,000 and £4,000.
Ms H feels MoneyGram ought to have spotted she was vulnerable and stopped her from 
making the payments she did to the scammer. She feels it failed in its duty of care to her. 
MoneyGram feels it followed the correct procedures when following Ms Hs payment 
instructions so doesnt feel its liable for her loss.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. As Ms H didnt accept this the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law and regulations  plus good industry practice and MoneyGrams own terms 
and conditions  suggest it has a duty of care to protect its customers against the risk of 
fraud and scams so far as reasonably possible. MoneyGram might be negligent and liable 
for reasonably foreseeable losses if, in breach of that duty of care, it fails to act on 
information which ought reasonably alert a prudent authorised payment institution to 
potential fraud or financial crime by, or against its customer.
But, the Payment Services Regulations 2017, alongside MoneyGrams own terms and 
conditions, also indicate it should execute and authorise payment instructions without undue 
delay. And as a starting point there is a presumption that liability for authorised payments is 
on the payer, even where it mightve been made as part of a scam.
Theres no dispute in this case that Ms H authorised the payments. So Ive taken the above 
obligations into account when deciding if MoneyGram acted fairly and reasonably when it 
followed her instructions. And having done so, I dont think it reasonably ought to have 
recognised anything unusual in the payments Ms H is asking it to refund. 
As a starting point this type of payment service is typically used for individuals to send 
money abroad, often to individuals they know. Due to the nature of this service people 
sending payments dont often have a longstanding relationship with the payment service or a 
regular pattern of use and Ms H didnt in this case. So its often not possible to establish a 
change in behaviour. The fact alone that Ms H started using the service isnt something I 
think MoneyGram reasonably ought to have recognised as suspicious. And although Ms H 
did make 12 payments in this case, these payments were made weeks and months apart. 
And, they appear to have been made at several different branches. So I dont think the 
amount of payments she made or their frequency reasonably ought to have alerted 
MoneyGram to a problem either.
Ms H has described herself as vulnerable and has explained she believes she was 
vulnerable because she was the victim of the scam. And I can understand why the nature of 
this particular scam, especially given how emotionally involved she was with the scammer, 
not to mention the subsequent threats she endured, wouldve left her feeling very vulnerable. 
But MoneyGram could only act on vulnerability that is apparent to it. 
In this case, it appears that Ms H didnt discuss the payments with staff when she made 
them. So I dont think there has been a situation in this case where MoneyGram interacted 
with Ms H and reasonably ought to have identified that she was vulnerable. Ms H has also 
told us she was coached by the scammer to provide persuasive cover stories about what the 
payments were for and who they were to. And this cover story did in fact persuade staff 
when questioned about other payments she made to scammer through other similar 
services. So even if there had been more involved contact with MoneyGram when the 
payments were made, Im not persuaded this wouldve likely led to the scam being 
uncovered. Overall, I dont think MoneyGram ought reasonably to have recognised the 
payments were unusual or that Ms H was the victim of a scam.
Ms H has also mentioned that MoneyGram should have a name matching service in place. 
What shes mentioned doesnt apply to this type of service. But, in order to collect payment 
the recipient wouldve had to have had certain information that as I understand it Ms H 
provided to them as part of the scam. So overall it seems MoneyGram did follow its 
processes as it shouldve.
Im sorry to hear of what Ms H went through. I can see it mustve been really difficult and 
emotionally distressing for her. But MoneyGram hasnt acted unfairly in this case so isnt 
liable for her loss.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman