DRN-3914890
The complaint
Mr O complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) failed to assess his claim and 
reimburse him for items stolen whilst he was abroad. He says hes lost out financially and 
suffered distress and inconvenience.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr O took out Damage Refund Insurance with IPA. The purpose of the 
policy was to protect Mr O against costs and losses incurred whilst hiring a car abroad. 
Regrettably, during his trip Mr Os hire car was broken into and items stolen from the boot. 
Mr O reported the incident to the police and in November 2019 made a claim under his 
policy. The items stolen were four electronic devices, a watch, a bag and some clothing.
IPA asked Mr O to substantiate his claim and provide proof of ownership of the items. Mr O 
explained the electronic devices were gifts. He provided purchase receipts from the donors, 
but IPA said this was insufficient to assess his claim as it did not prove ownership. It asked 
Mr O to provide gift receipts and corresponding bank statements for the purchases. Mr O 
thought it was unreasonable to expect him to provide gift receipts retrospectively. And he 
said he no longer had receipts for the other items stolen. He felt hed provided IPA with 
everything he humanly could and asked for his claim to be assessed.
In December 2020, Mr O complained to IPA. IPA didnt uphold his complaint, maintaining it 
was unable to assess his claim without further evidence. Mr O referred his complaint to our 
service. Initially, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. After further comment from Mr 
O, our investigator asked IPA to pay the claim for the sundry items. In an email to our 
service in July 2022, IPA agreed to pay for the bag and clothing to the value of £140.10. But 
Mr O remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
Having reviewed the complaint, I issued a provisional decision to both parties. In it I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The burden of proof lies with the claimant to show theyve suffered losses covered 
under the policy. So its reasonable for IPA to request documentation from Mr O to 
substantiate his losses. Mr O made a prompt report to the police and provided as 
much evidence as possible to support his claim. The bulk of the claim was for higher 
value items  a watch and electronic devices  all classed as valuables and personal 
possessions under Mr Os policy. The policy also refers to the need for additional 
documentation in relation to personal possessions, although additional 
documentation isnt specified further.
Mr O explained to IPA that the electronic items were gifts. IPA said he would need to 
provide gift receipts and corresponding bank statements matching the purchases. Mr 
O was advised to contact the shops and ask them to provide gift receipts. Mr O said 
he couldnt provide gift receipts retrospectively. But he was able to provide purchase 
receipts for the items. IPA said these did not prove ownership. So I have to think 
about whether it was fair for IPA not to progress Mr Os claim for this reason.
On balance, I dont think it was. It seems IPA wouldve been prepared to accept gift 
receipts and corresponding bank statements. But Mr O was clear that he didnt buy 
the items originally, some of which were bought some years previously and in 
different countries. So I dont think it would be reasonable to expect him to be able to 
provide such evidence in such circumstances. And in any event, even if gift receipts 
had been obtained at the time of purchase and, along with historic bank statements, 
were available, I dont see that these would prove ownership by Mr O any more than 
purchase receipts from his donors and his consistent testimony. So I dont think Mr O 
was treated fairly by IPA regarding the electronic devices.
The other valuable claimed for was a watch. In December 2020 Mr O told IPA hed 
supplied them with all the information he could humanly get and asked them to 
assess his claim based on the information hed supplied. Ive not seen any further 
description of the watch, any identification of the particular brand or model, or any 
other evidence to demonstrate ownership. So on balance, I dont think IPA treated Mr 
O unfairly regarding this aspect of his claim.
Sundry items
These items  a bag and some clothing - could reasonably be assumed to be part of 
a travellers standard baggage. So Im pleased to see that IPA has now agreed to 
pay £140.10 for this part of Mr Os claim.
Putting things right
In terms of putting things right, Ive thought about whether I should direct IPA to 
assess Mr Os claim in light of my findings, or simply to settle it. Overall, I think IPA 
had ample opportunity to assess the claim on the evidence provided. I think it should 
have done so and shouldve accepted the majority of the claim, aside from the watch. 
So my intention is to direct IPA to settle the claim in relation to the four electronic 
devices and sundry items, in line with the policy terms and limits.
IPA should also add 8% simple interest to the total settlement figure. Ive thought 
about which dates should apply to that interest award. From what I can see Mr O had 
provided the purchase receipts to IPA by March 2020. For the remainder of the year 
there were further requests for information, relating to matters for which Mr O was not 
claiming (damage report and damage invoice) as well as further requests for gift 
receipts. It seems Mr O responded to IPA in December 2020, clarifying that he was 
only claiming for personal possessions and asking for his claim to be assessed on 
the information hed supplied. So I think that at this stage IPA shouldve assessed his 
claim. Allowing for a little time to complete their assessment, I think a fair date from 
which interest should be paid is 1 February 2021. So IPA should add 8% simple 
interest per annum to the total settlement figure, from 1 February 2021 until the date 
of settlement.
Customer Service
Its clear that IPA made a number of requests, often repetitive in nature, for additional 
evidence. I can appreciate this wouldve been frustrating for Mr O, who simply 
wanted his claim dealt with and felt hed provided all he reasonably could. Mr O 
asked for his claim to be assessed on the evidence provided, which IPA didnt do. I 
think the repeated requests, lack of clarity about the progression of his claim and ultimate refusal to make an assessment did cause additional distress and 
inconvenience, over and above that which would normally be expected for any 
customer having to make an insurance claim. So I think IPA should also pay Mr O 
£150 compensation to reflect this.
Mr O responded to my provisional decision saying that he was willing to accept 
reimbursement for the stolen items but that he did not think £150 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience was sufficient. He referred to the length of time the claim had been 
outstanding, the mental energy spent pursuing the matter, and IPAs refusal to assess his 
claim based on the information hed provided. He felt that £150 would not act as a deterrent 
and encourage IPA to deal with customers fairly and promptly in the future.
IPA did not respond to my provisional decision directly, but did indicate acceptance of the 
provisional decision by copying me into an email to Mr O, asking him to confirm the account 
details where he wished to receive payment.
In light of these communications I now think it is appropriate to issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold this complaint.
Both parties have indicated they accept my provisional decision in respect of the settlement 
of the claim. 
Mr O has made further representations regarding the amount of compensation for distress 
and inconvenience. I appreciate Mr O feels £150 doesnt adequately compensate him for his 
experience. And I understand he feels the sum would not act as a deterrent. However, its 
not my role to award higher compensation as a deterrent, but rather to award compensation 
where I find a businesss mistakes have had a negative impact on the consumer, as I think 
they have here. Ive no wish to minimise Mr Os experience, which I accept has been far 
from satisfactory. But overall, I think £150 is the appropriate figure to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Putting things right
To put things right, IPA should:
Settle the claim in relation to the four electronic devices and sundry items, in line with 
the policy terms and limits. 
Add 8% simple interest to the total settlement figure from 1 February 2021 until the 
date of settlement.
Pay Mr O £150 in compensation.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Inter Partner Assistance SA to settle 
Mr Os claim and pay compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman