DRN-3311139
The complaint
Miss C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard and increased the limit 
on her credit card without adequately checking that she could afford the repayments. She 
further complains that Barclays refused to write off any part of the debt due to her medical 
issues.
What happened
Miss C had had a credit card with Barclays since 1984. In 2016 she started having problems 
with her physical and mental health. Between 2016 and 2019 she was receiving hospital 
treatment, and was diagnosed with a further condition in 2019 impacting her ability to work 
fully. She says this affected her ability to make spending and budgeting decisions. 
During this time her credit card balance increased from zero in mid-2016 to £11,100 by 
September 2019. She says her income went down over this period. By this time she had 
contacted a debt advice charity to assist with her debt repayments. As a result the account 
was frozen and she went onto a repayment plan. I understand that the debt was sold to a 
third party in August 2022.
She contacted Barclays in April 2021 asking if it would write off all or part of the debt for 
medical reasons. She provided medical evidence. However Barclays said it couldnt write off 
all or any part of the debt although agreed the account would remain frozen and she could 
continue making payments through the advice charity. Miss C then further complained that 
due to her medical condition her spending pattern became unexpected and out of character 
and Barclays should have noticed this. However it increased the limit on her card three 
times, in October 2016, April 2018 and December 2018.
Barclays said the credit limit was raised but that her account was kept in good order with no 
missed payments. In November 2020 It wrote to her to advise that the credit limit, following a 
review, had been raised higher than it should have been, and paid her compensation of £75. 
I understand that this was done following a review of its procedures and all account holders 
with credit limit increases during the period 2014 to 2020 were contacted. This didnt mean 
they all had unaffordable increases imposed as it took a blanket approach.
Miss C has supplied a credit report as of November 2021.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman our investigator said that although the first credit 
limit increase appeared to be affordable he wasnt satisfied that Barclays had done proper 
checks before increasing the limit in April 2018 and December 2018.
Barclays disagreed and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Barclays complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss C 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss C would have been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances at the time of each application, was there a point 
where Barclays ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Miss Cs 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt 
have provided further credit?
I have analysed all the statements on Miss Cs Barclaycard account from January 2016 until 
September 2019 when it was frozen. All the increases in the credit limit were unsolicited. 
Miss C was given an opportunity to reject the increases though it is perhaps understandable 
why they she didnt respond to any notices she received about them. The increases were 
then applied automatically. Barclays increased the credit limit three times as follows:
first increase
This was on 31 October 2016, from £5,700 to £7,200. This was also after her medical 
condition had been diagnosed and she started having treatment. At the time of this increase 
the balance on the account was £299 and during 2016 had been as low as £12. So there 
were no unusual payments nor any great increases in the balance. There was no indication 
from the account that she was struggling to make any payments. If Barclays had carried out 
any detailed check of Her income and financial circumstances it wouldnt have shown any 
problems with being able to afford the payments. Miss C hadnt told Barclays about her 
medical condition because she didnt feel the need to at the time.
Whilst observing that Miss C clearly didnt need her limit increased, I think Barclays made a 
fair decision in increasing the limit at this stage.
second increase
This was on 30 April 2018, from £7,200 to £8,200. Miss Cs account balance had by now 
increased to £4,253, a substantial amount. But it was still well below the former limit, so the 
only effect of increasing it further would have been to encourage her to spend more. And 
whilst the spending pattern wasnt unusual in that the balance never jumped by large 
amounts, it was nevertheless steadily increasing by £3-£400 each month. 
Barclays has told us that apart from checking the account was in good order i.e. no missed 
payments it didnt carry out any further checks. Instead in relied on a credit reference 
agencys confidence factor for individual consumers. This is an approximation of whether 
the consumers income is enough to cover all of their outgoings as well as a measure of the 
likelihood the consumer will default on additional borrowing based on the profiles of 
customers from a similar background, locality, age and borrowing history.
However it has confirmed that the agency didnt have an up-to-date figure for Miss Cs 
income, relying instead on the figure from last time she had applied for any credit.
I think in light of the proposed increase and the quite sharp increases in the balances on the 
card, Barclays didnt carry out proportionate checks. What those checks would have 
revealed is difficult to say. I know that by October 2019 she had contacted the debt advice 
charity, and according to a budget drawn up for her in September 2021, she had very little disposable income. According to her credit report created in November 2021, at the time she 
had another credit card, a store card and a bank overdraft, but I dont know whether, on pure 
pounds and pence calculation she would have been assessed at being able to afford the 
limit increase. This is bearing in mind that Barclays would have needed to anticipate that she 
would be using the entire limit, something she hadnt done until then.
But I bear in mind that this wasnt Miss C asking for further credit. And the evidence is that 
by this time she was severely affected by her medical condition and its likely that her income 
wouldnt have increased very much, if at all, since 2016. I also bear in mind that over half her 
income came from tax credits and a disability living allowance/personal independence 
payment.
So I think its likely that if Barclays had carried out further checks on Miss Bs circumstances 
it wouldnt have increased the limit at this stage.
third increase 
This was on 31 December 2018, from £8,200 to £11,200. So far as I can see Barclays didnt 
carry out any checks for this apart from relying on the credit reference agencys confidence 
factor. Yet by then her debt had increased in just eight months from £4,253 to £6,758. 
Looking at Barclays chart of Miss Cs account, I can see that the balance on it increased 
dramatically from the time of the first increase in October 2016, when it was £299. Yet 
Barclays thought it appropriate to increase the limit by another £3,000 in eight months, 
without checking further. And bearing in mind that by September 2019, the balance was 
£11,100, this seems to me to reinforce the point that increasing the credit limit on this 
account whilst the debt was rising sharply only served to encourage spending up to the limit.
I bear in mind again that the increase was unsolicited and applied automatically. I dont think 
it served Miss Cs interests, and that had Barclays carried out more checks and reviewed the 
account more carefully, it wouldnt have increased the credit limit.
Ive noted that Barclays said in November 2020 that its increases in credit limits were higher 
than they should have been. However as I note this was applied across the board to 
customers with unsolicited limit increases, I dont think any particular review was carried out 
of Miss Cs case. So I wont take into account the compensation paid in this respect.
medical issues
Miss C didnt tell Barclays about her medical issues until April 2021. I dont think it had any 
way of knowing about this before that date, Ive noted that while the increase in spending 
was relevant to increasing the limit, I dont think there was anything which might have 
caused Barclays to contact Miss C about her spending. And whilst I understand that Miss C 
would like Barclays to write off the balance on medical grounds I dont think that there is 
sufficient evidence to persuade me that Barclays should do this. 
Putting things right
As I dont think Barclays should have increased Miss Cs credit limit to £8,200 and then to 
£11,200, I dont think its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which 
exceeded the £7,200 limit. However, Miss C has had the benefit of all the money she spent 
on the account so its fair that she should pay this back. Therefore, Barclays should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to 
balances above £7,200. If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss C along with 8% 
simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement. Barclays should also remove all adverse information recorded after 30 April 
2018 regarding this account from Miss Cs credit file. 
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Barclays should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Miss C for the remaining amount. Once Miss C has 
cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 30 April 2018 in 
relation to the account should be removed from her credit file. 
As Barclays has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back the 
debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is carried 
out promptly. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Cs complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to 
provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman