DRN-3841442
The complaint
Mr J complains that Derbyshire Home Loans Ltd, and agents acting on its behalf, are asking 
him to pay a debt arising from a mortgage which he didnt take out. He says hes a victim of 
fraud.
What happened
In 2008 a mortgage was taken out with Derbyshire Home Loans Ltd, trading as Salt, in 
Mr Js name. The mortgage was for around £220,000, payable on an interest-only basis for 
16 years. It was taken out to buy a property for £244,000.
No payments were ever made to the mortgage. Derbyshire Home Loans (DHL) went on to 
take possession of the property but then had a number of difficulties selling it. The property 
was eventually sold in early 2018, for £220,000  leaving just over £125,000 outstanding on 
the mortgage.
In 2018, Mr J received a letter from solicitors acting for DHL, asking him to get in touch about 
the mortgage. He did so, and said he didnt know anything about the mortgage: he had 
never had a mortgage, had never heard of nor visited the mortgaged property, and had been 
living at his current address for some 20 years. 
Mr J was contacted again about the debt, and in 2021, through a representative, he 
complained. DHL said Mr J had taken out the mortgage in 2008 through an independent 
broker, with whom its records said he had met face to face, and Mr J had signed documents. 
It didnt uphold the complaint.
Through the same representative, Mr J asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to look into 
his complaint. Our Investigator didnt think the evidence showed that Mr J hadnt taken out 
the mortgage, so she said DHL hadnt done anything wrong in asking him to pay the 
resulting debt.
Mr J didnt accept that conclusion and asked for an Ombudsman to review the matter. His 
representative pointed to what she considered to be various anomalies in paperwork and 
further enquiries that might be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the Investigator did, for much 
the same reasons. 
Ive looked very carefully at the available evidence in this case, including Mr Js and his 
representatives comments. I accept that various information on the completed mortgage 
application form doesnt reflect Mr Js circumstances. There is clear evidence that Mr J has 
lived at his current address for more than 20 years, for example. There was also some 
confusion with the address of the mortgaged property, because it had recently been divided 
into two flats. 
However, these inconsistencies, of themselves, dont lead me to conclude that Mr J didnt 
take out the mortgage. I must consider all the available evidence and circumstances. 
The mortgage application and offer show that the mortgage was taken out through an 
independent mortgage broker, who recorded that they met with Mr J in person. An 
accountants certificate confirming Mr Js income was provided to DHL, stamped by a firm of 
chartered accountants. A passport, energy bill and water bill in Mr Js name were presented 
and certified as genuine by the broker to prove his identity and address. A firm of solicitors 
did the conveyancing, which included certifying the mortgage deed, dealing with the 
certificate of title, and disbursing the mortgage money. Land Registry records show that the 
lease to the property was registered in Mr Js name in 2008.
The broker was responsible for verifying the identity and address of the mortgage applicant 
and gathering relevant information. DHL was entitled to rely on this in assessing the 
application. Mr J appears to accept that his genuine passport was used in the application: he 
says he mislaid his passport and got a replacement, but later found the first one. I note 
however that the copy passports he has provided to us dont include a replacement issued 
soon after the mortgage application was made, in around 2008 or 2009. The passport issue 
dates are 2002, 2004, and 2015, and the 2004 passport was used for the mortgage 
application. There is also nothing to indicate that the energy bill used in the application was 
anything other than genuine, with Mr Js correct address and in his name and that of his ex-
partner with whom he was living at the time. 
Another utility bill was also presented to support the application, in Mr Js name but at a 
different property, where Mr J says he has never been. The utility provider has said he was 
only registered there for a very short time. That may be suspicious, but it doesnt necessarily 
mean the bill wasnt genuine (it was dated January 2008, around the time of the mortgage 
application)  and it was certified by the broker.   
The broker had its regulatory authorisation revoked in 2009, and I understand the solicitors 
are no longer operating. But I havent seen any evidence to show that they committed fraud, 
in this case or other cases. Ive also carefully considered a number of documents purporting 
to have been signed by Mr J in connection with the mortgage. Im not a handwriting expert, 
but I dont think there are significant differences between the signatures on the mortgage 
documents and Mr Js genuine signature on his passport, for example, such that DHL should 
reasonably have been alerted to the possibility that the mortgage applicant might have been 
someone other than Mr J. 
Mr Js representative has said there are a number of avenues that could be explored further 
in order to get to the bottom of what happened. The Financial Ombudsman is an informal 
dispute resolution service. My role is to determine complaints on the evidence and 
arguments provided to me. It is not to carry out in-depth investigations into who might have 
lived at particular addresses or to verify the source of deposit money.  
In all the circumstances and on balance, I find I cant fairly conclude that Mr J didnt take out 
the mortgage, or that DHL shouldnt be entitled to seek payment from him for the resulting 
debt.
I understand that Mr J has been in touch with both the police and Action Fraud; my decision 
doesnt prevent him from pursuing the matter through them or other channels.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman