DRN-1957261
The complaint
Mrs D complains that RCI Financial Services Limited imposed unfair charges when she 
returned a car at the end of a finance agreement.
What happened
In the summer of 2019 Mrs Ds finance agreement came to an end and her car was collected 
by an agent acting for RCI. Subsequently RCI sent her an invoice for £1,019. This was made 
up of £463.20 excess mileage charge and the balance was for damage to the car. Mrs D 
complained about the damages charge and RCI agreed to forego the £50 valeting charge. It 
said that the state of the car had an effect on its resale value and RCI believed it had lost 
£1,500 on the sale.
Mrs D brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended it be upheld in part. Mrs D said she hadnt been made 
aware of the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guideline which had 
been used to identify damage which went beyond fair wear and tear. She also said that she 
had the car checked by the dealer and was told it was in good condition.
Our investigator noted that the agreement signed by Mrs D stated: you are responsible for 
any loss or damage to the goods, whether or not such loss or damage is your fault. As such 
she had agreed to cover the cost of any damage that went beyond fair wear and tear. The 
car had been evaluated by a third party using BVRLA guidelines which was standard 
practice. 
He reviewed the report and agreed that the damaged areas went beyond fair wear and tear 
save for one area. He didnt think the photograph of the front right door showed that the chip 
and dent were chargeable. RCI agreed, but Mrs D didnt. 
She said she hadnt received a copy of the BVRLA guidelines and so wasnt able to identify 
if the car had conformed. She also said the agreement allowed for fair wear and tear and 
she believed the damage was within fair wear and tear. She also said the values for her car 
had dropped which would account for the lower sale price. She felt that RCI had used the 
situation to extract money. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mrs D feels aggrieved, but I find myself in agreement with our investigator. I 
will explain why.
Mrs D signed a contract in which she agreed to pay for any damage which went beyond fair 
wear and tear. When RCI wrote to her on 25 May to notify her that the agreement was 
coming to an end in July it explained about possible damages charges. I said it would use 
the BVRLA guidelines and it said these were available on its website. I am satisfied that Mrs D was given reasonable notice of what was expected. If she wished to have repairs carried 
out before collection she could have done so.  I would add that even if Mrs D and the car 
repaired to an acceptable standard I suspect it would have cost as much as the sum 
charged by RCI.
I have reviewed the collection report and the photographs and I am satisfied that the areas 
of damage fall beyond what the BVRLA guidelines define as fair wear and tear. These 
guidelines set out in as an objective fashion as possible what is and what is not acceptable. 
Regardless of those guidelines I can see that the damage is what I consider any reasonable 
person would regard as beyond fair wear and tear. The photograph of the right front door 
damage isnt sufficiently clear to establish that it is chargeable and so I think it right that this 
be removed from the invoice.
I cannot comment on the sum achieved on the sale of the car and how that was reached. 
Quite simply RCI have followed the terms of the agreement and Mrs D is responsible for the 
cost of damage which goes beyond fair wear and tear. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and direct RCI Financial Services 
Limited to reduce the charge by £48. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman