DRN-3683803
The complaint
D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) declined to authorise a bank transfer it says 
should have proceeded.
D is represented by its director, Mr K.
What happened
Mr K attended his local branch to arrange for a CHAPs payment of £1,028,437.53 to be 
made to Ds solicitors, in order to complete a property purchase.
The branch staff asked Mr K to sign a form to authorise the transfer, and to show 
identification. Mr K produced his driving license, but the branch staff noted Mr Ks signature 
on the form differed to the signature on his license. Mr K says he explained that he uses 
different signatures on banking and other documents for security purposes, but the branch 
staff still declined the transfer. Mr K says he was told to call his relationship manager (RM) 
who could authorise the transfer if he wanted, but that the RM declined to do so.
Mr K said there could have been very serious consequences for him, had the transfer not 
proceeded. But that another of Ds directors attended branch later that day and successfully 
instructed the transfer. He then filed a complaint with Lloyds.
Lloyds issued its final response to the complaint on 31 March 2022. It said there had been 
no error, and that the branch manager was concerned and wanted to protect the account. 
But it paid D £50 in compensation for the inconvenience of having to make another trip, 
because it said he hadnt been given the option of escalating the matter to his RM.
Mr K didnt accept what Lloyds said, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator though didnt uphold his complaint. He said Lloyds hadnt acted unreasonably in 
declining the payment and that it was right to pay £50 for failing to refer Mr K to his RM.
Mr K didnt agree. He made various representations setting out why he felt Lloyds was 
wrong to decline the transfer. Among other things, he said he was a regular visitor at that 
branch and had been for a number of years. And that Lloyds had no reasonable grounds to 
decline the transfer. He said it could have cost him hundreds of thousands of pounds, had 
he failed to complete the property transaction. Mr K asked for an ombudsman to review the 
matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr K thinks Lloyds should have been satisfied with his identification: he 
presented photographic identification, explained the discrepancy between the signatures and 
demonstrated his second signature in branch. Hed also been a regular visitor of the branch 
over a sustained period of time, so it stands to reason that he might expect branch staff to 
recognise him. 
However, I cant reasonably say Lloyds acted unfairly in declining to make the transfer. The 
payment was for over £1,000,000, and Mr K presented identification that showed a 
discrepancy in his signature. That alone is enough to give a bank cause for concern about 
the authenticity of a transfer. That Mr K was a regular visitor to branch doesnt mean Lloyds 
should ignore potential security flags, such as a signature mismatch, particularly when such 
a large sum of money is at stake.
While Lloyds paid D £50 for failing to refer Mr K to his RM, Mr K has pointed out that he was 
referred to his RM, but that his RM declined to intervene. Lloyds has explained that the RM 
had discretion to authorise the transfer, and again I dont think he acted unfairly in declining 
to exercise his discretion. He was presented with a situation whereby the staff in branch had 
security concerns about a large transfer, and I dont think it was unreasonable for him to 
defer to the branch staff given the nature of their concerns. 
In fact, I think that was quite sensible: banks owe a duty of care to safeguard their clients 
accounts and our service expects them to take reasonable precautions to prevent 
unauthorised transactions. Notwithstanding that, while Mr K says he stood to lose hundreds 
of thousands of pounds if the transaction didnt go ahead, there was a simple alternative 
available to D: for the other account signatory to attend branch. That option was taken and 
there was no loss to D, save for the time it took the 2nd signatory to attend branch. And I note 
Lloyds has compensated D for that inconvenience.
While I havent listed all of Mr Ks submissions in this decision, I have given them all due 
consideration. But I must balance that against Lloyds security obligations. And I cant 
reasonably say Lloyds treated D unfairly by declining the transfer, even if Mr K considers 
their actions to be overcautious.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman