DRN-1727202
The complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, won't refund to him the money 
that he paid for some jewellery.
 What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator - so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision. 
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold Mr Ws complaint about Halifax, I 
must be satisfied that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
of the jewellery and that Halifax's response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or 
reasonable. Im not determining the outcome of Mr Ws claim under section 75 as only a 
court would be able to do that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr W bought the jewellery overseas in September 2012 from a jewellery store and 
paid £3,259.37 for it using his Halifax credit card and he says that he also made a 
cash payment and traded in a gold chain;
he says that he bought the jewellery on the understanding that it was made of gold 
but that when he tried to sell it in July 2019 he was told that it was fake - so he 
claimed a refund from Halifax;
he's not been able to provide the receipt for the jewellery, any written description of 
the jewellery from the time that he bought it or any other documentary evidence to 
show that the jewellery store told him that the jewellery was made of gold;
he says that the store advertised that it sold gold jewellery and that he wouldn't have 
paid £6,000 for jewellery that wasn't gold;
he says that he's got other points that he wants to raise about his complaint - but he 
hasn't provided any further evidence since then in support of his complaint;
I sympathise with Mr W because the jewellery is not gold when he understood that it 
was and that it's not worth as much as he was expecting it to be - but I'm not 
persuaded that he's provided enough evidence to show that there was a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the jewellery store;
I consider that Halifax's response to his claim was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Halifax to refund to Mr W 
any of the money that he paid for the jewellery or to take any other action in response 
to his complaint.
 My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I don't uphold Mr W's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman