DRN-4041079
The complaint
Mr K complains that the vehicle he acquired financed through a conditional sale agreement 
with Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance, wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. 
What happened
In May 2022 Mr K acquired a second-hand vehicle financed through a conditional sale 
agreement with Close Brothers. Mr K part exchanged his old vehicle for £1,000.
Mr K started to experience problems with the vehicle almost immediately. He said several 
lights weren't working and the boot did not lock as they were seized. He returned the vehicle 
the day after collection and the lights were replaced. He said at the time of making this 
complaint the locks still haven't been fixed.
In August 2022 Mr K returned the car to the dealership because there was a leakage from 
the front of the vehicle and a hissing noise. He said the air filter and O ring were changed. 
Mr K said he didn't receive any paperwork for these repairs.
In January 2023 Mr K was driving with his son and partner when he said he felt a sudden 
drop in the car and pulled over at the nearest garage. The garage told him that the vehicle 
was scrap as there was corrosion and part of the chassis had a hole which meant the frame 
was then unable to support the weight of the vehicle. He contacted the dealership who 
advised that this was a manufacturing fault which the manufacturer was liable for. Mr K 
contacted the manufacturer who advised him that there was a recall on the vehicle model 
but Mr K's car was one year too old for the recall. The manufacturer advised that whoever 
had previously owned the car had taken it in for the safety check part one but had never 
completed part two.
Mr K said he wasn't advised of this when he acquired the vehicle. And brought a complaint 
to Close Brothers. Close Brothers commissioned an independent inspection.
In its final response letter Close Brothers said it was not able to offer assistance in seeking 
repairs to the vehicle as the independent engineers assessment confirmed the faults 
presented were not from the point of sale. It said as such it couldnt hold the dealer liable for 
the faults presented. Mr K wasn't satisfied and brought his complaint to this service. He said 
as the inspector had advised the corrosion would happen over a long period of time he 
believed this would have been present at the time of the MOT prior to him acquiring the 
vehicle.
Our investigator concluded that the vehicle wasn't of satisfactory quality at the point of sale 
and recommended that Mr K should be able to reject the car. Close Brothers didn't agree 
and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the reasons 
explained below.
The finance agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such this 
service can consider complaints relating to it. The relevant law says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
Close Brothers, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr K - whether it was of satisfactory quality at 
that time will depend on several factors, including the age and mileage of the car and the 
price that was paid for it. The car supplied to Mr K was 13 years old, had been driven for 
approximately 66,000 miles and had a price of £8,999. As such I would expect the vehicle to 
have some existing reasonable wear and tear present. 
In its response to our investigator's view Close Brothers said in cases of corrosion, age is a 
more significant factor than mileage covered. It said the investigator noted the manufacturer 
provided a warranty for this issue which was for 12 years. It said this would mean the 
manufacturer concluded that if this level of corrosion occurred within that 12-year timeframe, 
it would likely be a fault resulting from the known corrosion issue. Close Brothers then said it 
could reasonably be said that the manufacturer concluded that after that time, which would 
cover the age of Mr K's vehicle, 14 years, it would not be reasonable to say that a known 
fault was the cause.
 
It's not disputed that there is a severe problem with the chassis of the vehicle. There is 
excessive corrosion which will require major repair to make the vehicle roadworthy.
An independent inspection was carried out on the vehicle in January 2023 at 74,582 miles. 
The report said:
o we can confirm that the offside rear chassis rail and mounting bracket for 
the rear leaf spring has failed due to excessive corrosion. 
oAs this type of failure occurs over a long period of time, we do consider that 
this issue was developing to a degree since the point of sale, however, we do 
not feel would have been evident from an MOT point of view and would not 
have been a point of failure at that time and therefore we do not consider that 
this issue, taking into consideration the time and mileage covered by the 
vehicle since the point of sale, would have been evident at that point and do 
not consider the selling agent is responsible for the costs of repairs.
The vehicle passed an MOT test just prior to Mr K acquiring it and there were no advisories 
related to the corrosion of the chassis reported at that time. Mr K has said that corrosion 
must have been evident at the time of the MOT although he accepted that the hole would not 
have been present. He said he was mis-sold a car with a false MOT.
It's not my role to determine whether the MOT was carried out correctly. And the role of an 
MOT is to ensure the vehicle's roadworthiness using road safety and environmental checks. 
It can inform a purchase decision but does not determine whether a car is of satisfactory 
quality for the purposes of a finance agreement. 
Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within the car 
must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will 
also depend on several factors. Mr K had only had the vehicle for seven months when it 
failed. I accept the vehicle wasnt new and that reasonable wear and tear would be present, but I 
think a reasonable person would have expected it to have lasted longer than it has done. I'm 
not disputing the validity of the independent report or the technical evidence therein. But I 
find the conclusions drawn to be unclear. The report says this type of failure occurs over a 
long period of time but then goes on to say that the issue was developing to a degree since 
the point of sale. And Close Brothers said this in its final response to Mr K. 
In its response to our investigator's view Close Brothers said:
In relation to the issue being present at the point of sale, the professional engineer 
noted that the issue would have been developing but would not be the dealers 
responsibility. 
It is of course the case that any corrosion issue of this extent would have not fully 
developed within the customers usage, as corrosion takes place over long periods of 
time. The issue in question here is whether this meant that the vehicle was not of 
satisfactory quality at sale. The vehicle passed an MOT and was able to cover 8,500 
miles since sale, indicating it was fully functional for an extended period of time.
Were not able to confirm the conditions in which the vehicle was used and kept and 
those factors can also increase the rate of corrosion. Most vehicles of this age may 
have some level of corrosion and each vehicle would have a point where that passes 
from a sign of wear and tear, to a mechanical issue in need of rectification. It is clear 
here that this vehicle passed that point after significant usage by the customer and at 
an age where problems can be expected to occur.
As I mentioned above the pass or failure of an MOT is not a benchmark for satisfactory 
quality for the purposes of a financial agreement. Although he had covered around 8,500 
miles since he acquired the vehicle I don't agree with Close Brothers that it was fully 
functional for an extended period of time, as the problem occurred after only seven months. 
And I don't think a reasonable person would consider seven months to be an extended 
period of time in the life of a car. If this type of problem occurs over a long period of time I 
think it likely that it was present at the point of sale and Close Brothers itself has pointed out 
above.
Mr K asked a separate independent garage to look at his vehicle. Its report said:
oWe were asked to assess this vehicle following issues noticed on the chassis. 
This vehicle is known unfortunately for this type of corrosion issue and many 
have been repaired by the manufacturer. 
oSadly this year falls outside the current age limit that the manufacturer are 
reviewing under goodwill. The corrosion is in the same areas near the shock 
mountings as other similar vehicles and has corroded to the point this has 
snapped into two pieces. To repair this would need a substantial chassis 
piece manufactured including the spring mounting point. 
oGiven the age and the mileage of the vehicle this repair would outweigh its 
current value. As the customer has bought this within the last six months and 
the corrosion is so excessive we have recommended that they go back to the 
seller for a resolution. 
As the investigator noted there is a difference in the reported dates of failure, but it wasnt 
within the first six months.I've also looked at photos and video of the rust corrosion provided by this garage. Looking at 
these photos I think a reasonable person would conclude that the corrosion present had 
been developing for quite a long time. 
This particular corrosion issue is known to the manufacturer. It was a design flaw and as 
mentioned by Close Brothers and the independent garage customers were offered free 
warranty repair for vehicles up to a certain age and Mr K's vehicle didn't qualify for repair.
When the hole developed on the chassis Mr K contacted the dealership. In his complaint to 
this service Mr K said 
oThey advised me they had owned the same car and it was a manufacturing 
fault which the manufacturer are liable for and advised me to contact them.
When Mr K spoke to the manufacturer it said the previous owner had taken the car in for the 
safety check part one but didn't complete part two. Mr K said he wasn't advised of this when 
he bought the car. He said he went back to the dealership again but was told as he was out 
of the 30 days warranty the dealership wasn't liable. 
I find Mr K's testimony credible. And it does lead me to believe the dealership was aware or 
ought reasonably to have been aware at the time of the sale that there was an historical 
corrosion issue, including product recall, with this vehicle. This seems to be the case 
especially as the dealership mentioned ownership of the same vehicle to Mr K and advised 
him to contact the manufacturer directly when he raised the matter. I do understand the 
points Close Brothers makes concerning the 12-year timeframe for the manufacturers 
warranty and that older vehicles may have some level of corrosion. And to an extent I agree 
with this generally. But the corrosion with this model was a known issue with the 
manufacturer, and was likely known or ought reasonably to have been known by the 
dealership prior to sale, so it seems reasonable to have expected the dealership to have 
inspected the car chassis prior to its own purchase or prior to selling the vehicle on. 
Mr K has also complained that the lock at the rear of the vehicle was damaged and that he 
has been chasing the dealer to get it resolved. He said at the time of the complaint that the 
lock still hadn't been fixed. I can see from contact notes provided by Close Brothers that it 
was aware of this issue but I can't see that it was resolved.
This is a finely balanced complaint because Mr K had the car for only a short period of time 
before it failed though he had been able to drive 8,500 miles and the car was 13 years old 
when supplied. But I consider it to be clear from the evidence that the issue of corrosion of 
the chassis was more than likely present or developing when the car was supplied to Mr K. 
Im not persuaded it started in the time between the vehicle being supplied to Mr K and it 
failing. And while reasonable wear and tear would be expected on a car of this age this was 
a known issue in the model and the independent inspection confirmed that the corrosion was 
in the same area of the car as the known issue. I believe the dealership knew or ought 
reasonably to have known about it. I think it likely that had it checked with the manufacturer 
the dealership would have discovered that the previous owner had only had the vehicle 
partially tested for it. So I'm persuaded that the vehicle supplied to Mr K was not of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale and he should be allowed to reject it.
Mr K has told the service that he's discovered other people may be having similar difficulty 
with the dealership. My role here is to look at the individual circumstances of this complaint 
so I am unable to comment on others experiences.
Putting things right Mr K hasnt been able to use the car since January 2023 so I don't believe he should have to 
pay for it from that point. Mr K told the service that this situation has caused him stress and 
worry so it should compensate him with £250. 
Im aware that the car is due an MOT on 9 May 2023 but is currently not in a roadworthy 
safe condition. Im instructing Close Brothers to collect the car and I recognise this may not 
be possible before 9 May. In order to be fair and reasonable to Mr K he will not be liable for 
any further costs that may arise e.g. from impending MOT, and Close Brothers should refund 
these to Mr K upon provision of evidence if he has to pay anything in that regard. 
Mr K is concerned that he will have the vehicle in his possession without an MOT and this 
would void insurance whilst its on his property. It maybe helpful to Mr K to discuss the 
situation and complaint with his insurance provider and/or to investigate his options 
regarding registering his vehicle as off the road (SORN). 
In order to put things right Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance 
should: 
1. end the agreement with nothing further to pay
2. collect the car at no further cost to Mr K. If collection is after 9 May Close Brothers 
should refund any costs incurred by Mr K that may arise e.g. from impending MOT, 
upon provision of evidence.
3. refund the Mr Ks deposit/part exchange contribution of £1,000
4. refund all monthly payments from January 2023 to the date of settlement as the 
customer reasonably stopped using the car at this point
5. pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement.
6. pay a further amount of £250 for any distress or inconvenience thats been caused.
7. remove any adverse information from the customers credit file in relation to the 
agreement. 
My final decision 
Your text here Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr 
K to accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2023.  
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman