DRN-2703930
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) wouldnt open another account for him.
Mr B is being represented in this complaint by his son. For ease of reference, Ill refer to both 
Mr B and his son as Mr B.
What happened
Mr B is a long-standing customer of BoS and has a current account, a basic bank account 
and a savings account with them. Mr B wanted to open another basic bank account with BoS 
so he could use this for online transfers.
Mr B says he phoned BoS and was told he could only open a basic bank account if his 
application for a current account had been declined. In July 2020 he applied for a current 
account, and this application was declined. BoS then told him that he couldnt open another 
basic bank account because he already had the maximum number of this type of account.
Mr B has complained that BoS declined his application for a current account, without telling 
him why, and they wont open any further accounts for him. BoS didnt agree theyd done 
anything wrong, so Mr B brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said BoSs terms and conditions only allowed a customer to have two basic 
bank accounts  one in a sole name and one in joint names. So she didnt think BoS had 
acted unreasonably by not opening a second basic bank account in Mr Bs sole name.
The investigator also said BoS had followed their process when dealing with Mr Bs current 
account application  assessing his eligibility in line with this process. And she didnt think 
BoS had done anything wrong by not opening this account when Mr Bs application didnt 
pass the process. So she didnt think BoS needed to do anything more.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. He said he didnt think BoS had treated him fairly 
because theyd set their own rules, not an independent third party arbiter. And he didnt 
think that BoS treating all customers the same was acting fairly.
Mr B also said that, as a long-standing customer of BoS, he is known to them so their 
account opening procedures and eligibility processes are completely irrelevant to the 
situation at hand. And he doesnt think there are any valid reasons why an application for a 
current account shouldve been declined. 
Mr B has also said that it wasnt appropriate that BoS ran a credit check on him in the first 
place because he didnt give any consent for this, and he wasnt applying for any borrowing 
 he was just applying for an account to be transferred from a basic bank account to a 
current account so he could open another account.
So hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I address this complaint, I think it would be beneficial to set out the scope of what Im 
looking at when making my decision. Its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to 
determine what rules a financial business can have in place. A financial businesss rules will 
be set in conjunction with their regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). What Im 
considering is whether those rules have been fairly applied.
And when looking at whats fair, Im considering if BoS have applied their rules to Mr B in the 
same way they would for any other customer i.e. whether the rules have been applied 
consistently and whether Mr B has been subject to a different set of rules than any other 
customer. This is what I consider to be treating customers fairly.
Finally, Mr Bs representative has referred to a large number of other complaints hes 
brought to us, and the outcomes of those complaints. Each complaint is considered on its 
own merits, and what may or may not have happened to other complaints brought by the 
same customer has no bearing on this complaint. So Im considering the evidence on this 
particular complaint only and looking at whether Mr B has been treated fairly and reasonably 
in all of the circumstances. 
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
Mr B has three existing accounts with BoS; a current account, a basic bank account, and a 
savings account. He wanted to open an additional bank account and had identified that 
another basic bank account would be suitable for his purposes.
A basic bank account is a type of current account intended for people who dont qualify for a 
standard current account. They have straightforward and limited facilities and dont allow for 
any form of borrowing  there isnt an overdraft facility on a basic bank account.
The Payment Account Regulations 2015 set out the eligibility for a basic bank account. To 
be eligible a customer must either not hold a basic bank account with any provider OR not 
be eligible for a current account provided by the basic bank account provider.
BoSs terms and conditions state that our Basic Account is for customers who  do not 
qualify for one of our other bank accounts. There are limits to the number of accounts you 
can have and what you can then do. You can have up to two Basic Accounts; one account 
must be in your sole name and one in joint names. Given this, Im satisfied that BoSs terms 
are in line with the Payment Account Regulations, so I dont consider these to be unfair.
Because of this, and because Mr B already has a basic bank account in his sole name, I 
dont think that BoS have done anything wrong by saying that he cant open another basic 
bank account with them in his sole name. However, this doesnt stop Mr B from asking BoS 
to open a basic bank account in joint names.
Turning to Mr Bs application for a new current account; its not disputed that BoS said that 
Mr B didnt meet the criteria to be able to open one. A financial businesss criteria is 
commercially sensitive, so I wouldnt expect BoS to explain to Mr B exactly what part of the 
criteria hes failed, and what hes need to do to be able to pass the criteria. So I dont think 
BoS have done anything wrong by not doing this.As part of their application process, BoS will check the credit file of the applicant. And in 
making the application for a current account, Mr B was agreeing to them doing this. Its not 
for me to say that BoS shouldnt do this check when processing an application; as Ive said 
their process is something theyve done in conjunction with the FCA. But, as current 
accounts can go overdrawn, and an overdraft is a lending facility, I dont consider the 
checking of a credit file to be unreasonable.
And, while I appreciate that Mr B is a longstanding customer of BoS, I wouldnt necessarily 
expect BoS to have different criteria in place for different customers. I dont think its 
unreasonable for BoS to apply the same criteria to any application for a new current account, 
regardless of whether its made by a new customer or by one whos been a customer of BoS 
for a number of years. So I dont think BoS have treated Mr B unfairly by not applying a 
different set of eligibility criteria to his application to that they would apply to other customers 
application. So I wont be asking BoS to review their decision.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman