DRN-2541021
The complaint
Mrs K has complained about how Advantage Insurance Company limited handled a claim 
she made on her motor insurance policy. Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs K was involved in an incident in December 2019. Following this incident, she made a 
claim to Advantage to repair the damage to her car.
Advantage accepted Mrs Ks claim and arranged for her car to be booked in to be repaired 
by one of its approved repairers. In January 2020, Mrs K took her car to the repairer and was 
given a courtesy car to use while her car was being repaired. But the same day she was 
asked to return the courtesy car as the repairer didnt have all the parts needed to repair her 
car. Mrs Ks car was still driveable, so she took it back and waited to be booked in for repair 
when the parts arrived.
Mrs K said she received little confirmation or update on when the parts were arriving and 
when her car would be repaired and chased the repairer for information on when theyd be 
received. Her car was booked in for repair in March 2020 and she expected to have her car 
returned and repaired a week later. Unfortunately, not all the parts were available again and 
Mrs Ks car wasnt repaired and returned to her until about a month after it went in.
Mrs K wasnt able to collect her car due to the coronavirus pandemic and her needing to 
shield due to her health, so her car was delivered to her home address. Shes said when she 
assessed her car, she found a number of problems with it and thought the inside smelt of 
tobacco.
Mrs K wanted these issues fixed but didnt want her car to go back to the same repairer. 
Advantage wanted another chance to repair the damage. To resolve the issue, Advantage 
agreed to arrange an inspection of Mrs Ks car by an independent engineer in May 2020. In 
June 2020, the inspection was carried out and the engineer found a number of outstanding 
issues that needed repairing. Due to the estimated cost of the repair, Mrs Ks car was written 
off and Advantage settled her claim paying her the market value of the car.
When Advantage decided to write her car off Mrs K thought she had 30 days to find a 
replacement. But she was contacted just 10 days after being told this, and seven days after 
receiving the payment on her claim and informed that the repairer needed to take 
possession of her car as the claim had been settled. Mrs K purchased a replacement car the 
following day.
Mrs K wasnt happy with the service provided throughout her claim and raised two 
complaints with Advantage while it was progressing. She said the service caused her a great 
deal of distress and inconvenience and that this had affected her health. She wasnt happy 
the first repair wasnt effective. She thought the process took too long and that the repairer 
was unhelpful. And she thought her car was taken off her too soon after her claim was 
settled and that she felt forced into accepting this course of action by the repairer which 
caused further distress and inconvenience after an already stressful experience.
Advantage agreed they could have done better on this claim. They acknowledged the 
service around the first repair wasnt up to standard, and that the repair itself wasnt 
satisfactory. They also acknowledged that the information given about when Mrs K needed 
to return her car was unclear. Advantage offered a total of £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it had caused Mrs K throughout the claim.
Mrs K wasnt happy with this offer and brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators 
didnt recommend Mrs Ks complaint be upheld. She thought Advantage hadnt offered Mrs 
K a good service throughout the claim and understood that this would have caused distress 
and inconvenience to her that could have been avoided. But she thought that Advantages 
offer of compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs K disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She broadly agreed with the facts 
of our investigators assessment of her complaint but didnt think shed taken into account 
the impact this had had on her and thought Advantage needed to increase its offer of 
compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Ks complaint. I understand this wont be the answer 
she was hoping for, but Ill explain my reasoning below.
Im satisfied Mrs K had a reasonable expectation that her car would be repaired and 
returned to her in the same condition it was in before the incident. This is essentially what 
her policy covers her for. And this didnt happen here. When the car was returned to her 
there were a number of outstanding issues and shes said the car was returned smelling of 
tobacco. 
Im satisfied its fair that Advantage should get another chance to resolve the dispute so I 
can understand why it wanted another look at the car and another chance to repair it. But I 
can see why Mrs K didnt want her car to go back to the same repairer. It hadnt carried out a 
satisfactory repair and returned her car smelling of tobacco. Im satisfied that arranging an 
independent engineer to look at Mrs Ks car was a reasonable way to move the claim along. 
The extent of the additional work the independent engineer found meant that it was no 
longer economically viable to repair Mrs Ks car. The most Advantage will pay Mrs K on a 
claim is the market value of her car, so I m satisfied its decision to write the car off and not 
attempt a second repair was reasonable and in line with the policy terms.
There were delays in this claim, and it took just over six months from Mrs K raising the claim 
for it to be settled. However, some of the delays I think were out of Advantages control. 
Initially the repair was delayed because parts needed ordering and I dont think it would be 
fair to hold Advantage responsible for this. Although I think there could have been better 
communication around this.
The coronavirus pandemic also played a part in the delays to this claim. There was a delay 
in being able to arrange the independent engineers inspection as fewer were working during 
the pandemic. I dont think it would be fair to hold Advantage responsible for this delay 
either. Although it could be argued that this inspection wouldnt have been needed had 
Mrs Ks car been repaired to the correct standard the first time around.After Advantage made the decision not to attempt to repair Mrs Ks car the second time, it 
paid her the market value of the car in a reasonable timeframe. Mrs K said she was told 
shed have 30 days to find a new car after her claim was settled, but her car was collected 
just seven days after Advantage made payment to her.
When Mrs Ks claim was settled and Advantage paid her the market value of her car, the car 
became Advantages property. This is within the terms of the policy, and so I dont think 
Advantage did anything wrong by collecting the car. But I do think Advantage gave Mrs K the 
impression that she would have 30 days to find a new car, which wasnt the case. I can 
appreciate that when the repairer contacted Mrs K much sooner, this would have caused 
additional stress as Mrs K had already had a stressful claim journey and had clearly told 
Advantage how important having a car was for her.
Fortunately, Mrs K was able to get a new car the following day, so she wasnt without a car 
for long. But I can understand having to find a new car in such a short period of time would 
have been a really stressful experience.
Throughout this claim, I think Advantage has caused distress and inconvenience to Mrs K, 
and I think much of this could have been avoided. During the first repair I think there could 
have been better communication about the parts being needed and a first trip to the repairer 
could have been avoided. This started the relationship off on a poor footing, and following 
this, things didnt improve, but got worse.
The first repair took longer than expected and ultimately Mrs Ks car was returned to her not 
properly repaired. I think Advantage were within their rights to want to repair the car again, 
but Im satisfied that ultimately instructing an independent engineer to look at the work that 
needed doing and then paying Mrs K the market value was fair.
Throughout the claim Mrs K has had the use of her car, or a courtesy car, but I appreciate 
shes had to do a lot of chasing and has at times felt forced to accept an action that she 
wasnt happy with. And as mentioned above, I think she was incorrectly given the impression 
she had longer to look for a new car than she actually did.
All this has caused Mrs K distress and inconvenience. Shes said this meant she had to take 
time off work and that it has affected her health and doesnt think the £250 compensation 
offered is enough to recognise that. I understand Mrs Ks strength of feeling here, and it can 
be difficult at times to determine the correct level of compensation to offer. But looking at the 
situation, while Mrs K will be disappointed, Im satisfied that £250 is a reasonable offer of 
compensation in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman