DRN-2725439
The complaint
Miss W complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) unfairly declined her travel 
insurance claim. 
What happened
Miss W made a claim on her travel insurance policy in 2018, after becoming unwell with 
acute cholecystitis whilst in the USA.
IPA declined Miss Ws claim. It said she had misrepresented her position by failing to 
disclose accurate information about her medical history. And it said that had that 
misrepresentation not occurred, it would not have offered her a policy. 
Miss W complained. She said she hadnt misrepresented her position, and said the 
conditions IPA advised she should have disclosed were unrelated to her acute cholecystitis. 
But IPA maintained its position, so Miss W referred her complaint to this service.
Miss W reiterated her concerns and said shed been caused a considerable amount of 
emotional distress. To put things right, she told us that she wanted IPA to cover her medical 
bill and reimburse her medication costs. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened but explained Miss Ws medical 
records did show that she had failed to disclose information about her medical history to IPA. 
So they said that in line with the Consumer Insurance Disclosures and Representations Act 
2020 Miss W had misrepresented her position, and IPA hadnt acted unfairly in declining her 
claim. 
Miss W disagreed and reiterated her original concerns. She also said that IPA had 
constantly changed its reason for declining her claim. And that she wasnt asked to fill out a 
medical questionnaire when her policy renewed. So, as no agreement was reached, the 
matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a consumer applies for an insurance policy theyll be asked a variety of different 
questions. The answers to those questions will be used by an insurer to assess the risks that 
the consumer may present. And, in turn, to decide whether its prepared to cover that risk. 
Under the Consumer Insurance Disclosure and Representations Act 2020 (CIDRA), 
Miss W had a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when answering 
IPAs questions. And in the event that a misrepresentation did occur, under the Act IPA also 
had certain actions it could take to remedy matters. 
I can see that when Miss W took out her policy in June 2017 she was asked the following:
Within the last 5 years has anyone you wish to insure on this policy suffered any medical 
condition, (medical or psychological disease, sickness, condition, illness or injury) that has 
required prescribed medication or treatment including surgery, tests or investigations?
And prior to her policy renewing in June 2018, I can also see that Miss W was informed of 
the below, and asked to let IPA know if any of it applied to her: 
Please be aware that your current insurance policy will not be suitable for renewal if anyone 
you wish to insure on the policy has:
(a) Suffered any medical condition that has required prescribed medication or treatment 
including surgery, tests or investigations within the last 5 years; and/or
(b) Is awaiting diagnosis, treatment, tests or investigations for any medical condition, or 
suffering symptoms that have not yet been discussed with a doctor
If either of the above situations apply, please let us know as your cover may be affected.
Both of those questions were, I think, clear and specific, and I note Miss W didnt disclose 
any medical conditions in response to either. So given IPA declined this claim on the basis 
that Miss W failed to disclose problems relating to her abdomen and medication relating to 
anxiety, Ive looked at what the medical evidence shows.
Miss Ws GP records show a history of problems related to her abdomen; with entries from 
2016, 2017 and 2018 referring to this. They also show an investigative procedure was 
carried out in relation to those ongoing problems. And entries from 2018 show that a referral 
for further investigation into her history of abdominal problems was made. So, based on 
what had been asked of Miss W at both inception and renewal, I dont think it was 
unreasonable of IPA to conclude that she should have disclosed her history of abdominal 
problems. 
The GP records also show an entry from May 2018, which cites that Miss W was suffering 
from anxiety. The same entry sets out that Miss W was referred for psychological therapy, 
and that she was prescribed an antidepressant too. So again, based on what Miss W was 
asked, I dont think it was unreasonable of IPA to conclude that she should have disclosed 
this either. 
Separate to the above, Miss Ws GP records also show that she was prescribed medication 
for insomnia in April, May and November of 2017. And again in March, June and September 
of 2018. 
I understand that Miss W says the reason for her claim (the acute cholecystitis that she 
experienced in the USA) was unrelated to any of her medical history or pre-existing 
conditions. But based on what both her medical records show and what she was asked to 
declare at purchase and renewal, I cant fairly conclude that she took reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation.
IPA has shown this service that it would not have offered Miss W a policy had it not been for 
her misrepresentations. And so, in light of the action available to it under CIDRA, I dont think 
it was unreasonable of IPA to conclude that Miss W had been reckless with her answers and 
proceed with the remedial action it did.
I am aware that Miss W thinks IPA has given three different reasons for declining her claim; 
a pre-existing medical condition, an alcohol induced episode; and, the failure to complete a 
medical questionnaire at renewal. I have already addressed the pre-existing medical condition declinature above. However, in 
relation to the alcohol induced episode, this appears to be a matter of misunderstanding. 
As our investigator previously explained, a third party (a debt collection agent related to 
Miss Ws medical bills in the USA) spoke to IPA and asked it to disclose the reasons for its 
decision not to pay Miss Ws medical costs. IPAs internal notes reveal it was unable to 
disclose the specific reasons for its declinature to the third party. But, its notes do show that 
it gave the third party some general examples of why claims are sometimes declined  and 
one of those examples was alcohol. 
Given it was the third party that told Miss W IPA had declined her claim because of alcohol 
abuse, I think it reasonable to assume that there had been a misunderstanding in the above 
conversation. I recognise that the third partys apparent misunderstanding led to 
unnecessary confusion and concern for Miss W. And although I am not able to hold IPA 
responsible for this, I do hope Miss W is able to take some reassurance from the explanation 
I have given here. 
I appreciate Miss W says she wasnt asked to complete a medical questionnaire when her 
policy automatically renewed in 2018. However, as I set out above, prior to it automatically 
renewing she was told her policy wouldnt be suitable for renewal if anyone wishing to be 
insured on it had suffered any medical condition that [has] required prescribed medication 
or treatment including surgery, tests or investigations within the last 5 years. And/or, if 
anyone was awaiting diagnosis, treatment, tests or investigations for any medical condition, 
or suffering symptoms that [have] not yet been discussed with a doctor. She was also asked 
to let IPA know if either of the above situations applied, because her cover may be affected.
So I cant agree that Miss W wasnt given the opportunity to furnish IPA with information 
about her medical history at the point her policy renewed either. And although I empathise 
with her current position, for the reasons given above I will not be interfering with IPAs 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman