DRN-2798284
The complaint
Mr E, through his representative, complains that Phoenix Life Limited gave him unsuitable 
advice regarding two pension policies. He says he was wrongly advised to contract out of 
the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS). And he wasnt made aware of the 
risks and costs associated with the policies.
What happened
Mr E was advised to start two pension policies by Abbey Life in 1988. Abbey Life is now 
part of Phoenix Life Limited, and I will refer to it as Phoenix Life through this decision.    
Mr E was advised to start a Retirement Annuity Contract (RAC) in May 1988. And a 
personal pension which he took out in July 1988. This was used to contract him out of 
SERPS.
Both policies were transferred to another pension provider in July 2011. Mr E took the 
benefits from both policies in September 2017.
Mr E complained to Phoenix Life through his representative in January 2020. In summary, 
the representative said that Phoenix Life shouldnt have exposed Mr E to the risks of a 
lower retirement income as a result of contracting out of SERPS. This involved giving up a 
guaranteed income in favour of a pension linked to the stock market. The representative 
said that Mr E wasnt informed of the risks associated with the policies and the costs 
involved.
Phoenix Life partially upheld the complaint. It said it believed both policies were partly 
invested into the international fund, an adventurous fund. Phoenix Life said it couldnt 
justify this funds selection, and it would carry out a calculation to determine the value the 
pensions would have been had they been invested appropriately. It subsequently made 
an offer to Mr E. 
However Phoenix Life didnt uphold the other aspects of the complaint. It said Mr E was in 
his mid-twenties at the time of advice, which was below their pivotal age. This meant it 
thought at the time that contracting out of SERPS was likely to be beneficial for Mr E.  It 
said the risks associated with unit-linked investments, and the charges thatd applied to 
the plans were all explained in the literature provided at the point of sale. 
Mr E didnt accept Phoenix Lifes offer and the complaint was referred to us. One of our 
investigators considered it. The investigator said that no evidence had been found that Mr 
Es employer had offered an occupational pension scheme. And he said Mr E was well 
below the pivotal age at the time he contracted out. Against the background of market 
conditions at the time, the investigator thought it would have been considered that Mr E 
had a realistic possibility of improving on his SERPS benefits by contracting out. He 
thought the advice to contract out of SERPS was suitable.
In relation to the charges and costs, the investigator referred to the booklet that would have 
been given to Mr E at the time that he contracted out. He said this explained the charges 
applied to the plan. In particular that the annual management charge was 0.75%, and this 
was deducted from the fund itself and was reflected in the funds price. There was an annual 
policy charge which would now be £31.63 per year. He said this would have been lower at 
the plans inception and increased with inflation over time. He said in the context of this 
charge applying on both plans and given their total value in 2011 (at the time they were 
transferred), it would have represented a charge of 0.16%, which he didnt think was 
excessive.
The investigator said that the RAC was initially invested 25% in a managed fund, 25% in a 
property fund, and 50% in an international fund. And that he noted Mr E instructed for all 
future contributions to the RAC to be invested in the managed fund from June 1996. He said 
the SERPS plan was invested 50% in the international fund and 50% in the property fund. 
The investigator said that no documentation was available from the time of the initial advice 
that recorded Mr Es attitude to risk. However he thought Mr Es instruction to switch the 
RACs future contributions into the managed fund, which had a risk score of 55 out of 100, 
gave a general indication that Mr E was willing to accept a medium degree of risk.
The investigator thought that, looking at the combination of funds overall, investing 50% of 
both pensions in the international fund presented too great a risk given he thought Mr E was 
prepared to invest at medium risk. The investigator considered the redress calculations 
completed by the firm, and he thought they were calculated in line with the ombudsman 
services approach to these circumstances. 
Taking all the above into account, the investigator thought Phoenix Lifes offer to 
compensate Mr E for the unsuitable advice to invest in the international fund was fair. 
However he didnt think the advice to contract out of SERPS was unsuitable.
Mr Es representative said that Mr E didnt accept the investigators findings. The 
representative said the most important consideration in advice to contract out of SERPS and 
give up valuable guaranteed benefits was not age, or earnings, but risk. It said the key 
questions were: (1) was Mr E informed of the risk that contracting out of SERPS could 
substantially reduce his income in retirement?; and (2) if he had been informed of that risk, 
would he have been willing to accept it? It said in both cases the answer was no. 
The investigator responded to say that the policy booklets 'in or out of SERPS' and 'personal 
retirement plan', were provided at the time of advice. Both explained that the chance of the 
growth projected was based on assumptions which were explained. And that the pension 
with Phoenix Life was a unit-linked investment and its value could go down as well as up. 
Mr Es representative said that when being advised to give up guaranteed, inflation-
protected retirement income risk capacity and being warned of the risk of a reduced income 
throughout retirement were more important factors than age and earnings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and largely for the 
same reasons.
Theres no contemporaneous documentation recording Mr Es circumstances at the time of 
the sale. However it hasnt been suggested that a retirement annuity contract, in itself, was 
unsuitable for Mr E, because for example he didnt want to make provision for retirement. 
And no evidence has been provided to suggest that Mr Es employer at the time that he started the pension plans offered him an occupational pension scheme. So I dont think 
either plan was unsuitable because Mr E would have been better off joining such a scheme. 
To give some brief background to contracting out of SERPS, in the late 1980s the 
government decided to allow individuals to contract out of the SERPS. It wanted to give 
individuals more choice, and shift pension provision from the state to the private sector.
Where an individual contracted-out of SERPS using a personal pension, a proportion of their 
National Insurance contributions were re-directed into a personal pension plan. One of the 
key issues was to decide what level of rebate applied. If the rebates were set too low then 
the SERPS pension given up would likely be worth more than the investment within the 
personal pension. If the rebates were set too high, then the government would be paying 
more than it needed to, to offset the cost of its SERPS liabilities.
The level of rebate for contracted-out individuals was set by the government after taking 
advice from the Government Actuarys Department (GAD). In addition to the rebate level 
suggested by GAD, the government initially added an additional 2% annual incentive 
payment, that would apply until 1993.
The rebate percentage level was set as standard for all. This meant it was more attractive 
for younger individuals to contract-out than those who were older, as they had less time
before retirement to benefit from investment growth on their rebates.
The government gave no advice as to who should be advised to remain in SERPS and 
those for whom it was expected that contracting out would be beneficial. So the actuaries 
at various pension providers carried out comparisons of the projected benefits from SERPS 
against the personal pension arrangement (based on LAUTRO set assumptions of likely 
future investment returns) to decide who would likely benefit. The ages where the 
providers advice as to whether to contract out or not would likely be beneficial were called 
pivotal ages. 
As the investigator said, at the time of contracting out Mr E was in his mid-twenties, and he 
was well below the relevant pivotal age. As far as Im aware, the firm hadnt then set any 
minimum salary requirement. However although we dont have a record of Mr Es earnings 
at the time, the level of rebates paid into the SERPS policy suggest Mr E was earning well 
above the lower earnings limit. So I think it would have been reasonable for the firm to have 
taken the view that Mr E would likely be better off at retirement by contracting out of SERPS.
However there were no guarantees. And as Mr Es representative has said, by contracting 
out, Mr E was being advised to give up guaranteed, inflation-protected retirement income.  
So I agree that Mr E was exposed to the risk that the benefits from the personal pension 
could be lower than he would otherwise have obtained from SERPS. And that Mr E should 
have been alerted to the risks of contracting out. 
Mr Es representative has referred to the advisers obligations under the LAUTRO rules; in 
particular to give Mr E all the information that was relevant to his dealings with him and use 
his best endeavours to enable Mr E to understand the nature of the risks involved. It said
when advising on the suitability of the contract, the adviser was also obliged to have regard,
in particular, to Mr Es financial position generally, to any rights he may have had under an 
occupational scheme or SERPS, and to all other relevant circumstances. And it said that 
under the common law, the adviser also had a duty, amongst other things, to act with 
reasonable skill and care.I accept that the adviser was acting in the context of these obligations. However the 
advice to contract out was given over 30 years ago. There were lesser regulatory 
requirements on the documentation that firms were obliged to complete at the time.
Where, as here, the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I have to make my decision 
on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
As Ive said, no contemporaneous documentation is available recording the circumstances 
of the advice given. Clearly, its also very difficult to say with any reasonable degree of 
certainty exactly what was and wasnt discussed about the risks of contracting out with Mr 
E. 
Phoenix Life has provided a copy of documents it says would have been given to Mr E at 
the time he was advised. The investigator referred to these documents as I set out above. 
On the one hand, like the investigator, I think there was sufficient information to have alerted 
Mr E to the charges associated with the pension policies. And I think the documents did 
alert Mr E that there were some risks involved. 
However on the other, I accept there were no explicit statements or warnings that the 
personal pension benefits could be lower; instead it was only implied from the risks that 
were disclosed. 
Ultimately, however, as Mr Es representative has said, the key question is what Mr E would 
likely have done if hed known of the risks presented by contracting out, and that it could 
lead to a lower pension?
For the reasons I explained above, at the time that Mr E contracted-out in 1988 I think it 
would have been reasonably thought  and based on conservative assumptions  that 
given his age, he would likely be better off at retirement by contracting out of SERPS. Mr E 
wasnt guaranteed to be better off by contracting out of SERPS. There was some risk 
involved. But in my view the risks presented to Mr E would have appeared to be relatively 
low at that time. Contracting out wasnt a permanent decision, and Mr E could contract back 
into SERPS in the future.
As the investigator said, Mr E was initially invested in a combination of funds. And he 
subsequently contacted the firm in June 1996 to instruct it to invest all future contributions 
in the managed fund. He thought this suggested that Mr E was willing to take a medium 
risk, given this was a medium risk fund. I think the instruction in 1996 does indicate that Mr 
E was thinking about what funds he wanted to invest in at that time. And I think it does 
indicate that he was willing to take at least some risk, and wasnt risk averse. 
So taking all the above into account, I think contracting out of SERPS was suitable for Mr E 
at the time, given I think he was likely willing to take some risk. And I dont think, on 
balance, its likely that Mr E would have made a different decision had he been given more 
information about the risks. 
Phoenix Life said it couldnt justify Mr E investing in the international fund given it was an 
adventurous fund. It made an offer that assumed Mr E had a balanced attitude to risk. The 
investigator thought that the combination of funds invested into presented too great a risk 
overall, given his view that Mr E was likely to have been willing to take a medium degree of 
risk. The investigator said he thought the offer was calculated in line with our approach, 
and that the offer was fair.  No further evidence has been provided to suggest that the offer 
is inappropriate. Like the investigator, I think the combination of funds presented too great 
a risk in the circumstances. Phoenix Life Limited has updated its calculations to a current value  its offered Mr E £1,390.94. Taking everything into account, I think the offer is fair 
and reasonable.
My final decision
Phoenix Life Limited has made an offer to Mr E of £1,390.94. I think the offer is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. My final decision is that Phoenix Life Limited should pay 
Mr E £1,390.94. 
If payment isnt made within 28 days of Phoenix Life Limited being informed of Mr Es 
acceptance of this decision, it should add interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum from 
the date of this decision to date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman