DRN-4377232
The complaint
Mrs W complains about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) handled a 
claim under her home insurance policy.
References to LV include their agents who handle claims.
This decision covers Mrs Ws complaint to this Service raised in July 2023 and LVs final 
responses dated April 2023 and a subsequent response dated September 2023, setting out 
their offer to Mrs W to resolve the complaint. 
What happened
In July 2022 there was a fire at a neighbouring property to Mrs W, which caused damage to 
her property. Mrs W contacted LV to tell them about the damage and lodge a claim. LV 
appointed a supplier (F) to manage the claim, inspect the damage and prepare a scope of 
works to repair the damage. Mrs W chose the option of a contractor (R) appointed by F to 
carry out the work. While Mrs W didnt think R carried out all the items in the scope of works, 
she didnt consider the matter further. 
However, when her policy came up for renewal in February 2023, the premium increased 
from £22.25 per month to £106.94 per month. She also learnt, from the Claims History 
section of the Statement of Fact issued as part of the renewal documentation, the cost of the 
claim for the damage was £22,276.78 which she thought would have led to the increase in 
premium.
Mrs W was also concerned at the cost of the claim itself, from her experience as a surveyor 
working in the construction industry. She contacted F to request a breakdown of the claim 
cost so she could understand how the cost had been calculated. F provided a schedule of 
works showing the breakdown of costs. F noted the rates charged were set by LV. Mrs W 
challenged several items on the schedule, saying they hadnt been completed. F responded 
to Mrs W, having discussed the points raised with R. 
However, Mrs W wasnt satisfied with the response, so she complained to LV (initially 
through her broker). She said not all the work in the scope of works was completed. As a 
surveyor, she thought the value of work actually completed should have been at a cost of 
about £5,000  not the £22,276.78 recorded as the claim cost. She wanted the cost of the 
claim to be reduced and then a consequential reduction in her annual premium.
LV responded in June 2023 to say they were still considering his complaint and giving Mrs W 
referral rights to this Service. 
Mrs W then complained to this Service. She was unhappy at the significant increase in her 
premium, thinking the cost of the claim was exaggerated. She said F and R were paid for all 
the work included in the scope of works, even though not all the work turned out to be 
necessary or was completed. As a qualified surveyor, she thought the value of the work 
completed was about £5,000  not the £22,000 or so charged. Shed also had to pay the 
policy excess even though the damage was due to the fire at her neighbour. She wanted F 
and R to be held accountable for their actions and for the cost of the claim to be adjusted to 
what she thought should be the correct amount. She also wanted her premiums to be 
reduced and a refund for the overpayment of premiums since renewal. She also wanted 
compensation for the time shed spent pursuing her case and the distress caused to her.
Following her complaint to this Service, LV issued a final response in September 2023. They 
accepted the cost of the claim was incorrect, saying it was in the process of being amended, 
as was the scope of works which would be sent to Mrs W. LV also said the claim costs might 
have affected the renewal premium, so if any adjustment was needed (from amendment to 
the claim cost and scope of works) it would be notified to Mrs W through her broker, and she 
would receive a refund. LV also sent Mrs W £200 by way of apology for what had happened.
Mrs W, while noting the offer to amend the claim cost, scope of works and refund any 
consequential change to her premium, wasnt happy with the £200 compensation offered. 
She didnt think it adequately covered the hours shed spent pursuing matters.
As Mrs W wasnt happy with LVs offer to resolve the complaint, our investigator then 
considered the complaint. He upheld the complaint. He thought it wasnt disputed the claim 
cost had been recorded incorrectly. While it wasnt part of this Services remit to investigate 
the actions of F and R as they werent businesses regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). But their actions as the agents of LV could be considered. The investigator 
thought the offer from LV to revisit Mrs Ws property and assess the extent of repairs carried 
out and then adjust the claim cost was fair. And if a premium adjustment was then required, 
they would reimburse Mrs W for any overpayment of premium charged. The investigator 
thought this was fair, but LV should add interest to any refund. The investigator also thought 
the £200 compensation offered by LV was fair.
Mrs W disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review 
the complaint. In disagreeing, Mrs W raised several points. First, she thought she had been 
the victim of fraud from the claim cost being incorrectly. Second, she thought the incorrect 
claim cost would have massively increased the premium for the policy. Thirdly, she didnt 
think £200 compensation was adequate, given the significant amount of time shed spent 
pursuing matters, notwithstanding the figure wasnt based on the time shed spent at the 
hourly rate she earned from her job. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether LV have acted fairly towards Mrs W. It isnt to directly 
assess the actions of either F or R, specifically on the issue of the claim cost. F and R act as 
agents of LV and the costs of a claim are borne by LV (not Mrs W) as the contractual 
arrangements are between the three parties (not with Mrs W). If, as Mrs W has alleged, 
there is potential fraud in the claim costs, thats a matter for LV and/or F to consider.
Mrs W has a contract of insurance with LV, so my role is to consider the actions of LV as the 
insurer. I can consider the indirect impact of the claim costs being incorrect, insofar as they 
affect the level of premium charged by LV at the subsequent (2023) renewal of the policy. 
Its important to note that the cost of a policy at renewal (the premium charged) is influenced 
by a range of factors, including the claims history and the value of any claims. But the cost of 
a policy may also be affected by other factors, for example an insurers assessment of risk, 
and the overall incidence and cost of claims. Ive also noted recent media coverage of the 
general increase in insurance premiums. Its also the case that simply making a claim is 
likely to increase a premium, regardless of the cost of the claim.Looking at the circumstances of the case, LV accept not all the items included in the scope 
of work were actually carried out. From what Ive seen, this would seem to be a control 
failure by F, in that they didnt adequately check the amount they were invoiced by R. Thats 
not a matter for me to consider, its between F and R and, by extension, between LV and F. 
Coming back to the case and what LV have now offered as a resolution to the complaint, LV 
accept the cost of the claim was incorrect, saying its being amended, as is the scope of 
works to be sent to Mrs W. As the key area is a disagreement about the scope of work and 
what work was actually carried out against that scope, I think that offer fair and reasonable.
The second element of LVs offer is they acknowledge the claim costs might have affected 
the renewal premium, so if any adjustment needs to be made (from amendment to the claim 
cost and scope of works) it will be notified to Mrs W through her broker, and she will receive 
a refund. Again, I think this is reasonable as it addresses Mrs Ws concern that the incorrect 
claim cost has significantly affected the premium.
On this point, while its for LV to tell Mrs W what impact on the premium might arise from 
amending the claim cost, Ive seen internal LV exchanges where the impact on premium 
from different (lower) claim costs has been calculated by the Underwriting Team. Looking at 
the figures, the impact on the annual premium is relatively small  it isnt the case that the 
proportionate reduction in claim costs leads to the same proportionate reduction in the 
annual premium. The latter reduction is much smaller than the former, as a proportion. This 
indicates the cost of a claim (as opposed to a claim being made and other factors) isnt the 
main factor driving the increase in premium  so its not the case, as Mrs W believes, the 
incorrect claim cost had a massive impact on the premium.
The third element of LVs offer - and third element of Mrs Ws disagreement with our 
investigators view  is the level of compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes 
suffered from what happened. As LV accept the claim cost recorded is incorrect, then I 
agree Mrs W has suffered distress and inconvenience from having to challenge the claim 
costs with R, F and LV. I dont doubt, given her professional background, she has spent a 
significant amount of time pursuing her concerns. While Ive concluded LVs offer to amend 
the claim costs and scope of work, in addition to recalculating the premium to reflect these 
amendments, is fair and reasonable, I do think Mrs W should be compensated for the 
distress and inconvenience shes suffered.
The approach we adopt as a Service to distress and inconvenience is set out on our website 
and Ive thought about this in that context. Mrs W recognises our approach isnt to make a 
calculation based on the amount of time spent at what would be a consumers rate of pay 
from their occupation. Ive considered the specific circumstances of the case together with 
our approach as a Service and concluded that £200 would be fair and reasonable.
My understanding is that LV have already paid Mrs W the £200 they offered. That being the 
case, given my conclusion its a fair and reasonable offer, I wont be asking them to take any 
further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mrs Ws complaint in part. I 
require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to:
Amend the claim cost and scope of work to reflect the actual work carried out on Mrs 
Ws property.
Calculate an amended premium for Mrs Ws policy, based on any amended claim 
cost and scope of work and refund any difference in premium to Mrs W.Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited should also add interest, at a rate of 8% 
simple, on the amount of any amended premium refunded to Mrs W.
If Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited consider that theyre required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mrs W how 
much theyve taken off. They should also give Mrs W a certificate showing this if she asks for 
one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman