DRN-3608884
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about Elderbridge Limiteds actions when locating payments made 
towards their loan.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a loan for around £90,000 in 2008. In January 2016, the loan was 
transferred to Elderbridge.
Mr and Mrs M fell into arrears with the loan and, around June 2020, agreed a payment plan 
with Elderbridge. The payment plan committed Mr and Mrs M to making a payment of £750 
every month from July 2020 to June 2021. Mr and Mrs M missed a payment in 
September 2020 but was able to repay it. However, in December 2020, Mr and Mrs M 
missed a payment entirely. 
In January 2021, Elderbridge contacted Mr and Mrs M about the missing payment from 
December 2020. Mr and Mrs M confirmed they would check with their bank what had 
happened but reassured Elderbridge the payment for January 2021 had been paid. 
Elderbridge said they hadnt received a payment since November 2020.
In April 2021, Elderbridge informed Mr and Mrs M that they couldnt locate the payments 
made towards their loan from the last three months. Elderbridge asked Mr and Mrs M to 
provide their bank statements from the last three months to help them trace the missing 
payments. Mr and Mrs M were concerned about providing the statements in full but offered 
to supply Elderbridge with redacted statements to show the payments had been made. 
Elderbridge insisted they needed the statements in full, and so Mr and Mrs M complained.
Later in April 2021, following Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, Elderbridge confirmed they had 
received the payments but couldnt apply them to Mr and Mrs Ms loan account until they 
supplied the statements as requested. In June 2021, Elderbridge credited Mr and Mrs Ms 
loan account with the missing £2,250 and adjusted the loan account to reflect the payments 
being made on time.
Since the complaint has been with our service, Elderbridge reviewed things and offered 
Mr and Mrs M £150 compensation for the miscommunication. Our investigator explained that 
as Mr and Mrs M had defaulted on their payments, it was reasonable that Elderbridge asked 
for bank statements  as theyd be required to assess Mr and Mrs Ms affordability. Our 
investigator agreed the miscommunication did happen, as Elderbridge asked for the 
statements to locate the payments  so he thought £150 compensation was reasonable to 
recognise this distress. Our investigator also noted that, despite not making further 
payments towards the loan, Mr and Mrs M hadnt set aside the monthly payments to be able 
to repay it when the complaint is resolved. Therefore, our investigator couldnt fairly conclude 
that Mr and Mrs M would have continued to make payments as they should have had the 
error not occurred.
Mr and Mrs M responded to our investigators view and said they couldnt conclude the 
matter until they were assured that communication going forward would be better. They also 
asked for a copy of the account information from the beginning of the loan. 
Our investigator responded and confirmed that he had considered the circumstances of what 
had happened but couldnt make promises on behalf of Elderbridge as to how they may or 
may not communicate in the future. He also gave information on how Mr and Mrs M could 
locate the accounts history as requested.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept our investigators view, and therefore the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, its important to note that when customers enter a loan agreement with a business, 
there is an agreement in place that payments will be made in line with the repayment terms. 
Mr and Mrs M broke the terms of the agreement when they missed a payment in 
December 2020. 
The rules and regulations in place throughout Elderbridges lending relationship with 
Mr and Mrs M required them to carry out an assessment of whether they could afford to 
repay what they owed in a sustainable manner. When the account fell into arrears  because 
Mr and Mrs M missed a payment  I find it reasonable that Elderbridge decided to review the 
affordability. There isnt a prescribed list of checks a lender should make when assessing 
affordability. But the kind of things Id expect them to consider include the borrowers 
income, spending history and other financial commitments, the amount and frequency of 
payments and the borrowers personal circumstances. 
I appreciate Elderbridge initially asked Mr and Mrs M for a copy of their bank statements to 
locate the missing payments  and I do consider this information to be incorrect. I appreciate 
Mr and Mrs M said a number of different Elderbridge representatives requested this; 
however, by their offer of compensation, I consider Elderbridge have acknowledged their 
error. In the circumstances of whats happened here though, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Elderbridge to request the bank statements of Mr and Mrs M. I consider the 
bank statements would have given a clearer insight into whether this loan remained 
affordable for Mr and Mrs M  and Ive explained above why that was essential due to 
Mr and Mrs M missing a payment.
I recognise this situation may have caused some distress  especially as it appeared 
Elderbridge had lost Mr and Mrs Ms payments at one point. But once the payments were 
located, Im satisfied the account was reworked as if they had been made on time. 
Therefore, Elderbridge put Mr and Mrs M back in the position they would have been in, had 
the miscommunication not happened.
Ultimately, Mr and Mrs M are contracted to make repayments to Elderbridge on a monthly 
basis. They didnt do that  and continue to accrue arrears by not putting the intended 
money aside while the complaint has been ongoing  and therefore Elderbridge were well 
within their rights to review things
Putting things right
I think the £150 compensation is a fair reflection of the distress caused in the circumstances and I wont require Elderbridge to increase their offer or do anything differently to put things 
right. I also consider, as Mr and Mrs M still owe an outstanding balance, Elderbridge are 
entitled to offset the compensation amount from the current owed balance if they wish.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
To put things right, if they havent done so already, Elderbridge Limited should pay Mr and 
Mrs M £150 compensation (which can be offset against the outstanding balance) to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience caused by the miscommunication. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman