DRN-3199973
The complaint
Miss C complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) have mishandled her 
legal expenses insurance claim.
RSA use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses policy and manage claims on 
their behalf, so any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including 
the acts or omissions of such intermediaries.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the reasons set 
out below.
First, I can see that Miss C has raised concerns about the solicitors handling her legal claim. 
However, solicitors are regulated by a separate body, and so any complaint about them 
would need to be directed to the Legal Ombudsman. Our role is to assess the insurers 
handling of the claim in light of the policy terms to determine whether theyve fulfilled their 
obligations reasonably, and dealt with the claim fairly. So I will not be commenting on any 
acts or omissions of the solicitors within this decision.
The terms and conditions of Miss Cs policy require her legal claim to enjoy reasonable 
prospects of success (i.e. in excess of 51%), which is a term commonly found in legal 
expenses policies. Such terms are not inherently unfair, as they ultimately prevent claims 
being made that a policyholder would be unlikely to fund themselves (because a litigant 
would not likely fund a legal claim with their own money if theyd received advice that their 
claim was likely to fail, for example). 
RSA instructed panel solicitors to assess Miss Cs claim for her employment dispute, but 
they determined that it did not enjoy reasonable prospects of success. I appreciate that 
Miss C may not agree with the solicitors legal assessment of her claim. But as it stands, I 
havent seen that she has submitted a more favourable assessment to show that her claim 
does have reasonable prospects of success. 
Our service is not able to consider the quality of legal advice provided by solicitors. And 
generally, we consider it is fair for the insurer to rely on the advice of appropriately qualified 
legal professionals, unless there is anything to suggest that the legal advice provided was 
patently wrong, such that it was unreasonable for the insurer to rely on it. 
However, there is nothing in this case to suggest that the legal advice was patently wrong. 
Having reviewed the prospects assessment, I can see that it is detailed and well-reasoned. 
So, theres currently no basis on which to conclude that RSA have acted unreasonably by 
relying on it to decline the claim. I appreciate Miss C may have a different opinion and may 
not think it is correct. But her own views on this matter cannot reasonably outweigh the 
assessment of the solicitors; for example, even where a policyholder is herself legally 
qualified, she cannot act as an independent expert in her own cause. 
So, given that the panel solicitors concluded that Miss Cs claim did not hold reasonable 
prospects of success  and given that she has not submitted any alternative legal opinion to 
show otherwise  Im satisfied that RSA have fairly declined her claim in line with the policy 
terms and conditions. 
Miss C has also complained about delays in the handling of her claim. But having reviewed 
the timeline of events, Im not persuaded there were any unreasonable delays in RSA 
reviewing her claim. 
Miss C submitted her claim 16 May 2019. It was received by RSA on 20 May 2019 and 
instructions were given to panel solicitors on 7 June 2019 after documents were received 
from her a few days prior through the post. I appreciate it took a few weeks and that Miss C 
would have liked things to have been done sooner, as she had a deadline in which to submit 
her ET1 form to the Tribunal. But the assessment of a legal dispute by an insurer can take 
time and is not often instantaneous, and I can see that RSA also referred Miss C to their 
legal helpline for assistance in submitting her claim form to the Tribunal. Ive also considered 
all other aspects of RSAs handling of Miss Cs claim. And Im not persuaded there are any 
significant failings in the service provided that would warrant an award of compensation in 
these circumstances.
I note that Miss C has also raised concerns about how RSA handled and responded to her 
complaint. However, complaint handling is not an activity regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (i.e. it is not the provision of a financial service, for example, or listed as any other 
regulated activity by the FCA). Therefore, it is not something this service is able to consider. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Miss C, but I dont consider that RSA 
have done anything substantially wrong, so I will not be directing them to take any further 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman