DRN-3707958
The complaint
Mr M and Ms O complain Amtrust Europe Limited wont provide a pro-rata refund for two 
Legal Expenses and Rent Guarantee policies. As the government changed the process for 
eviction proceedings during the pandemic, they say the insurer changed the basis of cover 
effectively invalidating it.  
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as the terms of the policies only provided for a 
refund if they had been cancelled within the 14-day cooling off period. And as Mr M and Ms 
O hadnt attempted to claim, they hadnt suffered a loss. Mr M and Ms O disagreed and 
asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman  they said the insurer had refused to 
continue to guard against rent default, and it admitted it wasnt providing cover. 
I wrote to Ms O informally to explain I was minded to agree with the investigators findings, 
but to also expanded on the reasoning.  I was satisfied that cover was still being provided 
but it was contingent on certain conditions being met. Ms O disagreed as insurance had 
been taken out to mitigate against risk and the insurer stated risk was only mitigated under 
certain conditions, which involved them taking a risk on whether they were covered or not. In 
summary, they do not agree the insurer is offering cover if they state they will remove that 
cover as and when they decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out a summary of the 
complaint, I have read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I dont uphold 
this complaint for the following reason:
Mr M and Ms Os rent protection policies have always been contingent on certain 
conditions being met  they never simply covered for rent default alone. Section 2 of 
the Cover section explains:
The Insured is covered for Rent arrears owed by the Tenant(s) under the 
Tenancy Agreement during the Period of Insurance and up to the Maximum 
Amount Payable, where an Insured Event occurs and the Insured is, where 
appropriate, pursing Legal Action under this Insurance Certificate. 
Legal Action is defined as:
The pursuit of civil legal cases for damages or injunctions against the 
Tenant(s) or Guarantor for repossession of the Insured Property and the 
recovery of costs within the Territorial Limits arising from an Insured Event.  
It is true the government changed the process for being able to evict a tenant, 
effectively making it longer than before. And I accept it took a little while for Amtrust 
to confirm what that meant for Mr M and Ms Os policies. And for a short period of 
time, it wasnt clear how cover would be provided as it was unclear what changes the 
government was going to make through the emergency legislation. But that was 
outside of Amtrusts control.  
Having considered the correspondence and what happened, Im not persuaded 
Amtrust ever withdrew cover, in the way Mr M and Ms O suggest, or at all. Cover 
under the policy was contingent on legal action being taken.  And following the 
emergency legislation, that remained the case. In an email dated 31 March 2020, it 
was confirmed that rent guarantee payments will be made:-
oafter the landlord has actively engaged in mediation with the tenant, and 
ohas been unable to reach an agreement to deal with any rent arrears, and
oARC have issued a notice for possession to the tenant. 
Mr M himself acknowledged, in his email of 27 March 2020, that his understanding of 
the new legislation was that eviction orders must provide three months notice rather 
than the previous two months notice, but that was not an eviction ban itself. 
Given, as acknowledged by Mr M, that evictions could still take place but with a 
longer notice period, and the conditions set out above, Im satisfied rent guarantee 
claims could still be made. In effect, there were no real changes to the terms and 
conditions  a legal process was required to claim before the changes, and a legal 
process was required afterwards. There might have been some additional 
requirements around attempted mediation, but that is far from removing cover and 
doesnt amount to effectively invalidating the cover provided.
Im satisfied cover was still in place and that was clear from the correspondence. And 
as Mr M and Ms Os request to cancel policies was outside of the 14-day cooling off 
period, I find no basis on which to ask Amtrust to provide a refund of premiums. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms O to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman