DRN-3166333
The complaint
Mr M complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE (hereafter Great Lakes) unfairly declined 
his travel insurance claim.
What happened
Mr M purchased a Staysure annual travel insurance policy, underwritten by Great Lakes, on 
2 January 2020. Having done so he went on to arrange two trips. 
The first was a trip to Italy, which was booked on 17 January 2020 and due to start on 
17 May 2020. And the second was a trip to Germany, which was booked on 
5 February 2020 and due to start on 23 June 2020.
However, on 17 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against 
all but essential travel because of Covid-19. Mr Ms GP also went on to advise him to shield 
because of the risks Covid-19 could present to him. 
Mr M made the decision to cancel both trips. He was able to recover many of his costs. But 
as he was unable to recover the costs of his hotels in Italy and Germany, he made a claim 
on his travel insurance policy.
Great Lakes declined the claim. It said the policy only covered cancellation against a set list 
of insured perils, and the circumstances surrounding Mr Ms claim didnt fall within those. 
Mr M complained, but as Great Lakes maintained its position he referred his complaint to 
this service. 
An investigator looked at what had happened and said Mr M wouldnt have been covered 
under the policy if he either cancelled his trips because of FCO advice or travelled against 
that advice. They didnt think that was fair or reasonable and recommended the complaint be 
upheld. 
Mr M agreed with that opinion and said hed have been in the same predicament had he 
cancelled because of his GPs advice too. He also said his flights to Italy had gone on to be 
cancelled by the airline, and that although Great Lakes had provided further information 
about claims caused by or related to Covid-19 at a later date, that hadnt been available to 
him at the point he took out his policy. 
Great Lakes disagreed with our investigators opinion. It said the circumstances surrounding 
Mr Ms claim were based on non-insured events, no policy could provide cover for every 
unforeseen eventuality or risk, and Mr Ms policy had been priced accordingly in relation to 
the level of cover it provided. So, as no agreement was reached the matter was passed to 
me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision setting out why I did not think Mr Ks complaint should be 
upheld. That decision now forms part of this final decision, and it read:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Our investigator has already identified and set out the relevant industry rules and guidance 
which apply to the specific circumstances of this complaint. The relevant policy 
documentation here includes the policy terms and conditions and the Insurance Product 
Information Document (IPID) too.
The IPID, which is designed to provide consumers with a summary of essential information 
about their policy in a way that is easy to understand, say the following on page two: 
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office as advised against all travel or all but essential travel. For further 
details, visit (website provided).
The policy terms and conditions say the following on page 15:
Section 1 Cancellation
Cancellation applies for booked trips taking place within the period of cover that you are 
forced to cancel because of one of the following, which are beyond your control, and of 
which you were unaware at the time you booked your trip or purchased the cover (whichever 
is later) 
a) you, a close relative, traveling companion or any person with whom you have 
arranged to stay during the trip suffers unforeseen illness, injury or, death.
b) you abandon your trip following a delay of more than 12 hours to the departure of 
your outward trip that is covered within Section 5 Travel Delay.
c) you or any person with whom you plan to travel being called for Jury Service or being 
summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a professional or advisory 
capacity).
d) you being made redundant, provided you qualify for redundancy payment under 
current legislation applicable within your home country.
e) your presence is required by the Police because of accidental damage, burglary, 
flooding or fire which has affected your home, and has occurred within 48 hours 
before the start of your trip, when the damage is in excess of £1,500.
f) the Foreign and Commonwealth Office issue a directive against all, or all, but 
essential travel to your trip or destination because of an earthquake, fire, flood or 
hurricane. 
Mr Ms trips werent cancelled for any of the above reasons, so his claim isnt covered under 
the terms and conditions of his policy. I have looked at the remaining sections of Mr Ms 
policy, but I dont think he held any cover which wouldve paid benefit in the circumstances 
he found himself in.  
In addition to the above, the terms and conditions also set out the following on page 41:
General Exclusions  applying to all sections
No section of this policy shall apply in respect of:
24.  Your travel to a country or specific area or event to which the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office, or the World Health Organisation (WHO), or similar governing body 
have advised against all, or all but essential travel.
Our investigator felt it would be both fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to pay Mr Ms claim 
because he wouldnt have been covered if he cancelled due to FCO advice or travelled against that advice if able to do so. I appreciate why such a position might be reached in 
some limited situations, say, for example, where policy documentation was unclear in 
directing policy holders to certain exclusions. However, even if I thought that were to be the 
case I think there are other reasons why this complaint shouldnt be upheld.
In setting out whats not covered under the cancellation provisions of his policy, the terms 
and conditions say as follows on page 17:
What is not covered: under Sections 1 and 2
16. prohibitive regulations by the Government of any country, or delay or amendment of the 
booked trip due to Government action.
Its hard to say with any certainty that there was one specific reason for Mr Ms claim. I think 
a combination of factors, such as the spread of Covid-19, the FCO advice, and the 
government restrictions both in the UK and abroad are all likely to have impacted to some 
degree on the cancellation of his trips.
Mr Ms trips were both due to start after 23 March 2020  the date the UK restrictions on 
movement were announced. Specifically, they were due to commence on 17 May 2020 and 
23 June 2020 respectively, so would have fallen within a period of time in which there were 
widespread restrictions on movement and people were only permitted to leave their homes 
for specified reasons. Consequently, I think it likely that the trips would have been impacted 
by this, given their planned commencement dates. 
So, not only were the reasons for the cancellation of Mr Ms trips not covered as listed, 
insured events under his policy, I think its likely that the prohibitive regulations term I cited 
above would apply to the circumstances of his claim anyway. And it is for these reasons that 
Im not currently persuaded I can fairly direct Great Lakes to accept this claim.
Responses to the provisional decision
Great Lakes responded to the provisional decision and confirmed it had no further comments 
to make.
Mr M responded to the provisional decision at length and expressed his disappointment with 
it. In summary he said Great Lakes had presented itself as straightforward, reliable and fair, 
and it had described its travel insurance policy as comprehensive. He said his wife had a 
policy with a different insurer and shed had her claim accepted. And he said he was 
surprised that Great Lakes had offered him the opportunity to take out further cover amid the 
spread of Covid-19, the result of which cast doubt on his existing policy paperwork. 
Mr M also said a number of factors had led to him cancelling his trip and Great Lakes had 
tried to make his claim as difficult as possible. He said the combination of the policy, Great 
Lakes description of itself and its decline of his claim was breach of contract under common 
law and the Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977. And he asked that his complaint be 
reconsidered. 
So I now need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I have also taken into account the relevant law when reaching my conclusions. 
Mr M is understandably disappointed with the findings in my provisional decision. It is clear 
that he feels very strongly about what has happened and I appreciate how frustrated he is 
with the way he says Great Lakes presents itself and his policy. 
Travel insurance policies are not designed to cover every eventuality. I wont repeat the 
specific cancellation cover provided by Mr Ms policy here  because I addressed this in my 
provisional decision  but I think it important to note that not every insurer will provide cover 
for the same things. The matter I am deciding in this complaint is in relation to Mr Ms policy, 
and while I understand the frustration he has at his wifes claim being accepted by another 
insurer, it would be inappropriate of me to make any findings about this.
I acknowledge the concerns Mr M has raised about a change in paperwork and the errata 
Great Lakes issued to the policy involving changes around Covid-19 exclusions. But the 
prohibitive regulations term I drew attention to in my provisional decision formed part of 
Mr Ms original contract of insurance, and so I am not persuaded the change in policy terms 
makes a difference to the outcome of this particular complaint.   
Mr M has cited various events as having contributed to the reasons for his cancellation. As 
Ive previously addressed, I think it is hard to say with any certainty that there was one 
specific reason for his claim. Having considered the cover available under his policy I still 
remain of the opinion that the reasons for his cancellation were not covered as listed, 
insured events. And I remain of the opinion that I think it likely the prohibitive regulations 
term would have applied to his claim.
I would like to highlight that the above is in no way intended to imply that I think it was 
unreasonable of Mr M to have cancelled. It is just that his reasons for doing so were not 
covered under his policy. Again, I appreciate the strength of feeling Mr M has about matters 
and I am aware that Great Lakes offered him the opportunity to take out additional cover. But 
Mr M did not do this and I must decide this complaint on the cover he had in place and the 
claim he made against it at the time. 
The very nature of having to make an insurance claim can present some level of 
inconvenience, but based on the evidence in this complaint Im not persuaded I can fairly 
conclude that Great Lakes tried to make Mr Ms claim as difficult as possible. And in view of 
the reasons given above and within my provisional decision I cant fairly conclude that his 
declined claim or his policy represent a breach of common law or constitute an unfair 
contract term either. 
I genuinely empathise with the position Mr M finds himself in but I remain of the opinion that I 
cannot fairly direct Great Lakes to accept this claim.  
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman