DRN-3687293
The complaint
B, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc has refused to refund it for 
transactions it says it didnt authorise.
B is represented in this complaint by Mr J, its director.
What happened
B had an account with a supplier, which Ill call T. B regularly made card payments to T for 
materials. In January 2022 Mr J says he realised that payments had been made to T which 
he had not agreed to, so he contacted Barclays. Over the next month Mr J raised a series of 
disputes with Barclays about at least seven payments to T which took place between 
February 2020 and July 2021. Mr J believes that somebody at T has used his card details 
without permission to make the payments.
Barclays raised several separate fraud claims for B, and asked Mr J to complete fraud 
disclaimer forms for each claim. Only two of those forms were returned  relating to five 
transactions which took place between August 2020 and July 2021  and so Barclays only 
fully investigated those payments. Having done so, Barclays did not agree that there was 
evidence of fraud or that a third party had made the payments without authorisation. 
Barclays did though pay B £50 to recognise that the information it provided about temporary 
credits could have been better.
Mr J was unhappy with Barclays response, and so he referred Bs complaint to us. He also 
noted that he felt Barclays had been rude to him on the phone.
One of our Investigators looked at what had happened. Overall they were not satisfied there 
was evidence to show that the transactions were fraudulent. They also explained they could 
not see any clear evidence that Barclays had been rude to Mr J. And that in any case, as 
this complaint is being made about Bs account, and B is a limited company, it would not be 
appropriate to make any award for distress even if there was evidence of rudeness, as a 
limited company cannot experience distress.
Mr J disagreed, so Bs complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the Investigator previously set out. 
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking B is 
responsible for any payments that were authorised and isnt responsible for unauthorised 
payments. So Ive considered whether or not the evidence shows that B authorised the 
payments. 
Im satisfied that Bs genuine card details were used to make the disputed transactions. But 
the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Barclays to 
hold it liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more 
likely than not that B consented to the payments being made. I recognise that Mr J has said 
categorically that he didnt authorise these payments on behalf of B. But Ive had to look at 
what the available evidence showed Barclays, to decide whether or not Barclays acted 
unfairly when it refused a refund. 
During its investigation Barclays contacted T to ask it for evidence that the payments were 
authorised. T responded to say that the payments in dispute matched up with invoices it had 
issued to B, it also provided an extract from its internal systems which showed it had spoken 
to Mr J when some of the payments were made. Barclays has also noted that the disputed 
payments cover an extended period of time, and that throughout this time Mr J was regularly 
viewing Bs account in the mobile banking app, so Barclays has questioned why it took so 
long for Mr J to notice these payments.
Mr J has said that he believes somebody at T has been using Bs card details without 
permission. Hes provided an email that he says is from an employee at T to support this. 
But I have some concerns about this email, it has inconsistent dates on it, does not include 
the senders full name or details of their position at T, and doesnt include any detail about 
specific transactions. It also cannot be verified as genuine as Mr J has said this person has 
asked not to be involved any further. Mr J has since said that an individual who works at T 
has been arrested in connection with these transactions, but has provided no evidence to 
support this assertion. And given that Barclays contact at T has confirmed that the 
payments match with invoices that were issued to B, if there were someone at T making 
payments without authorisation then several other people at T would also have to be both 
aware of the fraud and willing to cover it up, which seems unlikely.
I also have to bear in mind that some of the transactions in dispute here were only able to be 
made because funds had recently been deposited into Bs account. And Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that any payments were attempted and then returned or refused due to insufficient 
funds. This suggests that whoever made the disputed payments must have had at least 
some awareness of the available balance on the account, and its difficult to see how a third 
party at T could have known that information.
Mr J has said that the volume of payments going through Bs account meant that he simply 
didnt notice the disputed payments until late 2021. But its difficult to see how he could not 
have noticed them given that they were for significant amounts and, he says, did not relate 
to any order made with T.
With all this in mind, and given Bs existing trading relationship with T, I dont think its 
unreasonable for Barclays to have concluded that it is more likely B authorised the 
transactions. It follows that Barclays is entitled to hold it liable for them.
Regarding the customer service Mr J received when he called Barclays, Ive not seen 
anything to show that Barclays was rude or said anything inappropriate to Mr J. And, in any 
case, as noted by our Investigator, Mr J is not the customer here, B is, and as a limited 
company B cannot be upset or distressed if there was any rudeness.So, overall, Im satisfied that Barclays has treated B fairly, and I wont be asking it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman