DRN-2150630
The complaint
Ms J complains that N26 Bank GmbH (N26) recorded a CIFAS marker against her 
name. CIFAS is the UKs fraud prevention agency.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief summary of some key events here.
In March 2019, Ms J opened an account with N26. On 28 April 2019, the account was 
credited with funds totalling £1,088, which were then withdrawn at cash machines and 
used to make several card payments. The funds were later identified as fraudulent  
meaning the holder of the account where the funds originated hadnt authorised the 
payment that Ms J received.
By way of an email sent on 7 June 2019, N26 explained to Ms J that they had closed 
her account and that if she had a positive balance on it, she should contact them. Ms J 
responded saying that her card and mobile phone had been lost/stolen in March. She 
requested the return of funds she said had been paid into her account. She also said 
she thought it was unfair of N26 to close her account.
Ms J later discovered that N26 placed a CIFAS marker against her name because of the
£1,088 that was credited to her account. Ms J complained to N26 about this. In short, 
she said she knew nothing about the funds credited to her account on 28 April.
N26 investigated Ms Js complaint. They said they were provided information by 
another institution about the £1,088 credited to Ms Js account. Having reviewed this, 
they said they were obliged to report it to CIFAS.
Unhappy with N26s decision, Ms J referred her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators didnt uphold the complaint. He thought N26 had acted fairly. Ms J didnt 
agree with the investigators findings, so she asked for an ombudsman to consider the 
case.
In July 2020, I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Im satisfied that the payments made to Ms Js account with N26 were fraudulent 
and werent authorised by the respective account holder. Their own bank would 
have investigated these payments before reaching that conclusion.
Ms J may not have been directly involved in the credit of the funds. However, Im 
not persuaded that she had no knowledge of the payments and withdrawals.
I dont find Ms Js testimony about what happened to her N26 card in March to be 
reliable, as she has provided different explanations at different times.
In her response to N26s email explaining they would be closing her account, she said that 
her mobile phone and card had been stolen in London in March. However, in a second 
email to N26, she changed her testimony stating that she had in fact lost her mobile phone 
and card. When Ms J contacted our service about her complaint, she said that she didnt 
know if her mobile phone and card had been lost or stolen, but thinks it was probably 
stolen.
Ms J also hasnt been entirely clear about when she became aware her card, as she says, 
was lost/stolen. In her first email to N26 she gave the impression it was in March. 
However, in her second email, she said she hadnt realised her card was missing until N26 
informed her about her account closure in June. When Ms J contacted our service, she 
said when her mobile phone and card were lost/stolen she, didnt take much notice of 
it, suggesting that she knew before N26 notified her.
Having carefully considered Ms Js testimony, Im not persuaded its credible because of 
the inconsistencies. Moreover, even if Ms Js card was lost/stolen  which I dont accept  
in late March, the person who found/stole the card didnt credit Ms Js account with the 
funds concerned until 28 April. I find it unlikely that a fraudster would wait almost a month 
before doing this, as they wouldve run the risk of the card being blocked  which 
surprisingly Ms J didnt do.
Even if I were to accept Ms Js testimony, there is evidence that contradicts her 
assertion that she had no knowledge of the payments and withdrawals in question.
Looking at Ms Js statements, I can see that there were at least three ATM withdrawals in 
April and May 2019. These withdrawals wouldve required Ms Js genuine card and PIN. I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest that Ms Js PIN was compromised in any way. So, 
Im persuaded that its more likely than not that Ms J made these withdrawals herself or 
provided her card and PIN to a third party to do so.
Sometime in May 2019, Ms Js card was used to make a payment at a grocery store, 
which again, I think was made by Ms J, or a third party she provided her card to. I say this 
because the grocery store is located in the area in which Ms J lives. I find it highly unlikely 
that  if Ms Js testimony is to be accepted  the person who found/stole her card in 
London, would use it miles away, coincidentally, in the area in which Ms J lives.
Lastly, I also think its unlikely that a fraudster would have made payments to a 
random account, unless they had access to it to be able to use the funds.
Taking all the above points together  I think there would have been good grounds 
to report the events here to the police to investigate, and that N26 were therefore 
justified in placing a CIFAS marker against Ms Js name.
N26 didnt respond to my provisional decision. Ms J responded to say that she disagreed. 
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, Ms J says she lost her mobile phone and card 
sometime in March, but assumed they were stolen, as the location feature on her mobile 
phone was switched off when she attempted to locate it. At the time, she didnt know how the fraud process worked, so she didnt think about blocking her card. She also points out 
that the reason she had requested the remaining funds in her N26 account was because the 
funds were meant to be credited to another account.
Ms J adds that she has paid for a service, which shows that her N26 account and email 
passwords are on the dark web, which explains how the alleged fraudsters accessed her 
accounts and found out where she lives. Finally, Ms J says that the evidence against her is 
coincidental, as the alleged fraudsters have made it seem as if she had a part in the fraud. 
She says if she was aware of the fraudulent activity happening on her account, she wouldve 
flagged this with N26.
Ive considered Ms Js points, and I acknowledge she doesnt accept my findings, but I still 
think N26 had good grounds to report the events in question to the police to investigate, and 
that they were therefore justified in placing a CIFAS marker against her name. 
Even if Ms Js account details were on the dark web as she claims, this doesnt explain how 
her PIN was obtained. The ATM withdrawals which took place in April and May 2019, 
wouldve required Ms Js genuine card and PIN. No evidence has been provided showing 
that Ms Js PIN was compromised in any way. Moreover, it seems highly unlikely to my mind 
that a card stolen in London, would then be used miles away  at a grocery store  in the 
same area where the victim of the theft lives.
Taking all the circumstances into consideration, Im not persuaded that N26 need to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman