DRN-3282485
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited gave them misleading 
information about their policy excess, when selling them a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S arranged their home insurance policy through Atlanta (a broker). The quote 
was obtained on-line, and the sale was completed via a follow-up phone call. The policy 
renewed the following year. 
Mr and Mrs S went on to make a £407 claim for lost freezer food, after they suffered a power 
outage. The insurer accepted the claim. After the £100 compulsory excess and the £250 
voluntary excess had been deducted, the claim was settled for £57. 
However, the insurer later made a £100 payment to Mr and Mrs S, as it had originally told 
them by mistake, that only a £250 excess applied to the claim. So, in total, Mr and Mrs S 
received £157 from the insurer.
Mr and Mrs S say the application form and policy schedule werent clear that their voluntary 
excess applied to freezer contents claims. They say, had they known, they wouldnt have 
selected a voluntary excess and their claim would have been settled for £307.
So, Mr and Mrs S say they have lost £150 due to the misleading information provided at the 
point of sale. They would like this £150 loss to be reimbursed by Atlanta. They would also 
like £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused by this matter.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt think it should be upheld. 
Because Mr and Mrs S disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The sale and renewal documentation make it clear that Atlanta wasnt giving Mr and Mrs S 
advice about the suitability of the policy or recommending it to them. So, because the sale 
was non-advised, Atlanta didnt have to check if the policy was right for Mr and Mrs S. 
However, Atlanta did have to give Mr and Mrs S information in a clear, fair and non-
misleading way, so they could make an informed choice about the policy.
Mr S initially obtained a quote via a price comparison website, before being transferred to 
Atlantas website to complete the purchase. Due to a technical error, a follow-up call was 
required for the payment. 
Ill start by considering the policy documentation that Mr and Mrs S were provided with, 
before turning to the sale process. 
In my view, the sale and renewal documents are clear that freezer contents come under the 
contents cover, and contents claims are subject to the £100 policy excess and the £250 
voluntary excess. Ive not seen anything misleading in the policy documentation, that 
suggests freezer contents claims arent subject to the voluntary excess.
On the policy schedule, freezer contents is listed under the contents heading. Next to the 
contents heading it states the applicable excesses. The policy excess is stated to be £100 
(or £250 for an escape of water) and the voluntary excess is stated to be £250. The policy 
book also confirms that freezer contents are covered under the contents section and the 
excess shown on the policy schedule applies. The policy summary document also lists 
freezer food under contents cover.
The statement of fact also confirms Mr and Mrs S had chosen a £250 voluntary excess for 
their contents cover, and this applies in addition to the £100 policy excess. Mr S has noted 
the contents section of that document doesnt mention freezer contents, and the questions 
before the excess question refer to high-risk property and the cost of replacing individual 
articles. He says, he therefore thought the voluntary excess listed in the contents section 
only applied to valuable items. Whilst I accept that was his understanding, I dont find the 
document misleading. Ill explain why.
The statement of fact is broken down by each section of cover (i.e. buildings, contents, and 
personal possessions), and each section sets out important questions that may impact the 
cover offered and future claims. In the contents section there are various questions before 
and after the excess question; not just the questions highlighted by Mr S. The question 
immediately before the excess question is about accidental damage cover. In my view, 
theres no suggestion the voluntary excess only applies to valuable items, or that the 
questions highlighted by Mr S are linked to the excess question. But rather, I find the 
document to be clear about the voluntary excess applying to all contents claims.
Ill turn now to the sale process.
Atlanta has provided screenshots of the questions during the on-line application process, in 
relation to the contents excess. The questions, from both websites, ask the applicant (albeit 
slightly differently) whether they wish to add a voluntary excess for contents claims, in 
addition to the compulsory policy excess. Ive also seen that, on the price comparison 
websites application, cover for freezer food was selected under the contents section.
The screenshots also show the various excesses are separately listed on the summary page 
at the end of the application on Atlantas website. Shown is the subsidence excess, the 
compulsory buildings excess, the voluntary building excess, the compulsory contents 
excess, the voluntary contents excess, and the escape of water excess. 
Atlantas summary page also gives links to the policy book and the policy summary 
document, whilst highlighting the importance of reading this information. 
Ive also listened to the follow-up call. During the call it was confirmed that Mr S had selected 
a £250 voluntary excess for contents. It was also confirmed that there was a £350 excess for 
buildings claims and contents claims, apart from escape of water claims which had a £500 
excess and subsidence claims which had a £1,000 excess. There was no separate 
discussion, or questions, about freezer contents claims.
As such, Ive also not seen anything misleading from the application process, that suggests 
freezer contents claims arent subject to the voluntary excess selected for contents claims. In conclusion, having considered the individual parts of the sales process and the individual 
documents, and considered the information collectively, Im not persuaded the information 
was unclear, unfair or misleading. In my view, it was clear freezer contents claims are 
subject to the excesses that apply to contents claims.
Mr S argues theres no point in having a £350 excess for freezer contents claims, given the 
likely value of the food. Whilst I understand the point he makes, as explained on Atlantas 
on-line application form, a benefit of choosing a higher excess is usually a lower premium. 
The reason a higher excess reduces the premium, is because it reduces the risk of that 
policyholder making claims. It also follows that some policyholders prefer having lower 
premiums, than claiming for relatively low value losses that impact their claims history.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S, but for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman