DRN-2346029
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax is recording information on his 
credit file about missed payments.
What happened
In September 2017, Mr M made a payment from his current account which meant he 
exceeded his agreed limit and entered what Halifax terms an unplanned overdraft. As a 
result of this payment, Halifax applied charges to the account.
Mr M got in touch with Halifax in November 2017 to say he was unhappy with Halifaxs 
decision to let him exceed the limit of his account by making the relevant payment. Halifax 
responded to Mr M by agreeing to refund the charges as a gesture of goodwill. Then Mr M 
repaid the outstanding balance after this.
But Mr M later noticed that Halifax had recorded missed payment markers on his credit file 
between November 2017 and January 2018. Mr M felt this was unfair and complained to 
Halifax. Halifax thought that this information was accurately recorded and reflected the 
conduct of the account. Mr M said that this wasnt accurate, as the missed payments werent 
actually missed  they were a dispute over charges.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service, where one of our investigators looked into it. 
They didnt think that Halifax needed to do any more here. They said that the information 
Halifax had recorded was accurate and that it was entitled to continue recording this. Mr M 
disagreed and said that he had been abroad during the relevant times here and unable to 
access his account online.
The case was passed to me to reach a final decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point here is that Halifax is entitled to report information about the conduct of 
Mr Ms account to credit reference agencies. But when it does so, it needs to make sure that 
this information is accurate.
In September 2017, Mr M made a payment that he didnt have enough money in his account 
to cover. In line with the relevant terms of the account, Halifax made a decision to pay that. 
But in doing so, it meant that Mr M used an unarranged overdraft and owed that money to 
Halifax. It applied charges to the account as a result of this.
So when Mr M didnt pay back the outstanding amount for several months, even though it 
was due, charges were applied and Halifax recorded that he had missed this as a payment 
for several months. While Mr M will disagree, I think this is accurate. I realise that Mr M was 
unhappy with the charges that had been applied in these months and that he felt these were 
in dispute, but Halifax explained that these were applied correctly, in line with the terms of 
the account.
But as a gesture of goodwill, Halifax eventually refunded the charges  which was helpful. 
That doesnt mean that itd also be automatically fair for Halifax to remove the information its 
recorded about this situation from Mr Ms credit file though. Especially where that information 
is accurate.
So Ive then considered whether theres any other reason that it might be fair and reasonable 
for Halifax to amend what its recording here. Ive taken into account the fact that Mr M has 
told us he was abroad in a rural part of another country and was without online access to his 
account during the relevant times. 
But Mr M was the one who made the payment here and he clearly used his account 
regularly. Hes also explained that this isnt the first time that hes exceeded his limits on this 
account. So I think its reasonable to expect him to have been aware of how much money he 
had in his account and of the consequences of Halifax letting a payment like this go through. 
That means that when this payment was made, I think he should have been aware that he 
might not have had enough money to cover it and so should have checked his account after 
making it.
Mr M has referred to these instances where hes temporarily exceeded his agreed account 
limit in the past  and said that Halifax hasnt recorded information on his credit file about 
these. But Mr M always brought his account back within the limits in a much quicker time 
than he did here. So Halifax didnt report these  which is ultimately to Mr Ms benefit. I dont 
think this means Halifax has been inconsistent when reporting what it has here though.
It seems like Mr M thought that there may not have been a problem when the payment went 
through and that he may not have thought to check his account. It also sounds like he had a 
lot going on at the time, so this could have been an honest oversight on his part. But he 
ultimately exceeded his account limit for a period of time and didnt bring it back to order with 
the necessary payment until a few months later. Thats what his credit file reflects and so I 
think its fair that Halifax records information about this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman