DRN-3247547
The complaint
Mr P complained that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender acted irresponsibly when 
it gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr P took out two loans with Mr Lender as follows:
loan start date date repaidmonthly 
instalmentsloan 
amounthighest 
instalment 
amount
130/07/2019 27/03/2020 6 £200 £78.13
227/03/2020 Outstanding 12 £600 £133.70
Mr P said that these were unaffordable payday loans he shouldnt have been given. 
When he complained to Mr Lender it said it had checked that the loans were affordable for 
Mr P and that it wouldnt be upholding his complaint. But, as a gesture of goodwill, 
Mr Lender said it would be willing to apply a 30% discount on his outstanding balance so he 
would only have to repay £182.65. And once his account was closed and paid in full it would 
contact credit reference agencies to remove any adverse information about the loans it had 
reported on his credit file.
Mr P didnt feel this offer went far enough and he brought his complaint to us. Our 
adjudicator investigated the circumstances of this lending. He thought that Mr Lender hadnt 
done anything wrong when it provided these loans and he didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Mr P disagreed with our adjudicators view. He mainly said that there was a county court 
judgement on his record and that he had been struggling financially for years and relying on 
different loan providers. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Mr Lender provided Mr P with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. So Mr Lender 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. Mr Lender was required to 
carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending was 
sustainable for Mr P before providing it. Our website sets out what we typically think about 
when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early 
stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a 
borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Keeping all this in mind, Ive thought carefully about what it means for Mr Ps complaint.
loan 1
As this was his first loan with Mr Lender, at this early stage, Mr P didn't have any track 
record with the lender that shouldve alerted Mr Lender to any underlying money problems. 
The information Mr Lender had gathered about Mr Ps finances suggested that he shouldve 
been able to afford to make the monthly repayments on this loan out of his disposable 
income according to the figures Mr P had declared. 
I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr P provided or the other information 
Mr Lender had recorded, which meant that Mr Lender shouldve taken more steps to check 
the information Mr P had declared. Whilst Mr Lender was aware that Mr P was paying an 
amount towards other active credit he had taken out, I think its fair to say that borrowers 
applying for loans of this type often have other credit on their record and sometimes an 
impaired credit history. Mr P hadnt told Mr Lender about anything that Id expect a lender to 
be unduly concerned about at this stage. It was early in the lending relationship and I think 
the checks were enough for Mr Lender to agree to lend. So I dont plan to uphold Mr Ps 
complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
Mr P deferred two of his contractual monthly repayments on loan 1 and he took out loan 2 at 
the same time as he paid loan 1. He also increased his borrowing very substantially and took 
out the loan over a longer term  possibly to keep down the cost of the monthly repayments. 
This prompted Mr Lender to take steps to verify some of the information Mr P had provided. 
Mr Lender told us that it checked Mr Ps income by looking at his recent payslips and it 
verified what hed said about his expenses by comparing this with statistical data showing 
what someone in Mr Ps financial situation was likely to spend on his living costs each 
month. This resulted in Mr Lender boosting the amount Mr P had declared and uplifting his 
expected spending by £256. It also carried out credit checks. 
Given that Mr Lender had reason to think that Mr P mightve underestimated his living costs 
and particularly as Mr Lender expected Mr P would be paying loan 2 for a year, I think it 
ought to have gone further in its affordability checks and looked in more detail at Mr Ps 
spending when he applied for this borrowing to make sure it properly understood his 
financial situation before agreeing this loan. But thats not enough of a reason on its own for me to be able uphold this complaint. Thats 
because I havent seen enough overall to make me think that even if Mr Lender had done 
more in-depth checks it shouldve realised that the loan wasnt likely to be sustainably 
affordable for Mr P and so it shouldnt have provided it.
Ive taken into account that Mr P told us he had an outstanding county court judgement. 
Mr Lender said it didnt see any information about this on the credit checks it obtained. And it 
told us that its checks didnt show any other short-term payday loans outstanding at the time.
I think its worth mentioning that when a lender carries out a credit search, the information it 
sees doesnt usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit search will and 
it isnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit 
file, or some data might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and 
short term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So, this may explain any 
differences.
And whilst its possible that doing more in-depth checks mightve revealed the existence of 
the judgement debt Mr P has mentioned, this wouldnt necessarily be enough of a reason on 
its own for me to say Mr Lender shouldnt have lent loan 2 to Mr P. Whilst it would be a 
serious black mark on his credit file I havent seen anything to make me think that it was 
either for a substantial amount (looking at Mr Ps income I would be thinking in terms of 
several thousands of pounds) or that it was very recent (say within the previous year or so). 
This means that, even if Mr Lender should have done better checks and found out about a 
county court judgement, as things stand I dont think I can fairly say that Mr Lender should 
have declined Mr Ps lending application on the strength of what Mr P has told me about his 
county court judgement. 
I have also kept in mind that Mr Lender could have asked to see Mr Ps bank statements as 
these can often give a useful insight into a persons financial situation  but I havent seen 
enough to make me think that had it done so, this should have led to Mr Lender realising that 
it should not have provided loan 2. 
Im very sorry that Mr P had a problem with debt and that making the loan repayments was 
difficult for him. But I think its reasonable to say that loan 2 looked to be comfortably 
affordable for Mr P on the information that Mr Lender had gathered based on what Mr P told 
the lender and the background checks it carried out and the adjustments it made to the 
figures he declared. Mr P had repaid loan 1 in line with the revised payment arrangements 
he had agreed with Mr Lender so I don t think the fact he deferred a couple of payments 
was enough of a reason not to lend to him again. 
I think Mr Lender should have done more in-depth checks but I havent seen enough to 
make me think this would have made any difference to its lending decision if it had done so. 
And I think it was too soon for Mr Lender reasonably to be able to identify any particular 
pattern of lending that wouldve suggested Mr P was over-reliant on this type of borrowing or 
not using the money it lent for its intended purpose of providing short-term financial help. 
So Im not planning on upholding Mr Ps complaint but I hope that setting out my reasons as 
I've done helps explain why Ive reached these conclusions. 
I would encourage Mr P to get back in touch with Mr Lender to explore settlement options. 
I expect Mr Lender to continue to work constructively with Mr P and to treat him positively 
and sympathetically if he is continuing to experience financial difficulty. I encourage Mr P to 
provide details of his financial situation to Mr Lender if he still needs time to pay the 
outstanding balance on the loan. And if Mr P would like help to manage his finances theres 
more information about how to get free debt advice and other support on our website  or we 
can provide contact details if he gives us a call.What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr P sent me details of his currently outstanding debts and he still believes he should not 
have been given loans he cant afford to repay.
Mr Lender told me it has nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website and Ive taken this 
into account in deciding this complaint.  
I appreciate that Mr P feels strongly about what happened and he holds a different view to 
me. I would like to assure Mr P that Ive taken carefully into account all the information I've 
been able to see and everything thats been said, including his comments in response to my 
provisional decision. 
Im very sorry that Mr Ps circumstances are difficult. But what Mr P has told me isnt enough 
on its own for me to be able to uphold the complaint. I havent seen enough overall safely to 
be able to say that Mr Lender should have realised these loans wouldnt be sustainably 
affordable for Mr P. So I cant fairly conclude that it acted unfairly or unreasonably when it 
provided them. And as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold 
this complaint for the reasons I explained in more detail in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman