DRN-2946338
The complaint
Mr W complains that Pockit Limited increased his account fee without telling him and that his 
account access was limited for about week.
What happened
Mr W says Pockit increased his monthly account fee without telling him. He says he noticed 
the increase in September 2020 and that Pockit ought to have made sure he knew about the 
increase. Mr W also says his account access was restricted in June 2020 and was unable to 
access his money. He says Pockit ought to have been aware of the problem and is 
responsible for the issue. Mr W would like compensation for what took place.
Pockit says its entitled in line with account terms and conditions to increase account fees 
and can do so by sending a customer an e-mail. It says it told Mr W that the account fee 
would rise from £0.99 to £1.99 in an e-mail dated June 2020. It also says a third-party 
business responsible for payment processing was suspended by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) which meant its customers were affected. Pockit says its not responsible for 
that and didnt charge Mr W his July 2020 account fee as a result.
Mr W brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. The 
investigator thought Pockit had acted in line with account terms and conditions by e-mailing 
Mr W notice of the account fee increase and didnt think there any evidence the e-mail had 
bounced back. The investigator didnt think Pockit responsible for the FCA suspending the 
third-party business or that it likely Pockit would have known about that beforehand.
Mr W doesnt accept that view and says Pockit must prove he received the e-mail about the 
fee increase and maintains it would have known about the impending FCA action.
I asked Mr W for further information and he has confirmed the account is still open but hasnt 
been used. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr W will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at Mr Ws account terms and conditions which I think he would have 
agreed to when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions say Pockit may 
change those terms and conditions, including fees, by notifying a customer by e-mail. Im 
satisfied that in June 2020 Pockit sent Mr W by e-mail, notice of a change to the account fee. 
So, Im satisfied that Pockit acted in line with those agreed account terms and conditions and 
so didnt make a mistake or act unfairly. Im also satisfied those terms and conditions do not 
require Pockit to ensure a customer has received and or read the e-mail as Mr W suggests. I 
cant see any record of the e-mail being returned to Pockit as undelivered and I cant fairly 
hold Pockit responsible for how Mr Ws e-mail provider may have treated the e-mail. In any 
event I can see Mr W was aware of the change in September 2020 by which time one 
increased fee had been charged.
There is no real issue here that the FCA took action against a payment provider used by 
Pockit. I have not seen any evidence that Pockit was aware in advance of that action and 
think it unlikely that it would have been told. I cant fairly hold Pockit responsible for what 
took place and so it follows I cant fairly order it to pay compensation in those circumstances. 
I can see that Pockit fairly waived its account fee for July 2020.
Overall, Im satisfied Pockit has acted in line with account terms and conditions and I cant 
hold it responsible for the actions of a third party. I find this brings an end to what we can do 
in trying to resolve this dispute informally.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman