DRN-3850369
The complaint
Mr T complains about the actions of HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct when he was 
tricked into transferring money as a result of a scam. 
Mr T is being represented by a claims management company but for ease of reading Ill only 
refer to Mr T in the decision. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In April 2021 Mr T went online to try and 
buy a digger. He saw an advert and contacted the seller. The seller told him he was currently 
abroad but if Mr B wanted the digger for £8,200, the seller would pay for the shipping. 
Mr T agreed and made the payment via his online banking. The seller then told Mr T that the 
digger had been damaged in transit and he would get a refund. After losing touch with the 
seller and no refund being received, he contacted First Direct in May 2021 to get his money 
back. But when the receiving bank was contacted it said that no funds remained. 
Mr T was unhappy his money couldnt be recovered and that First Direct didnt do more to 
stop the payment. So, he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr T had 
previously made payments to other accounts in his name between December 2020 and 
January 2021 ranging from £10,000 to £20,000. So, he didnt think the £8,200 payment was 
unusual here even if it was international. And he added that although Mr T was 74 years old 
at the time, this didnt mean the bank should check every transaction he made due to him 
being potentially vulnerable.   
Mr T disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said payments he previously 
made to himself shouldnt be considered by First Direct and that he should be afforded 
greater protection because of his age. He added that this means this international payment 
shouldve been stopped for more checks which wouldve uncovered the scam. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr T has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
I would also like to make it clear that each complaint is decided by our service on its own 
facts and merits and Im not bound by what our service might have found in other cases, 
whether similar to this one or not.
The Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) is a scheme through which consumers can 
sometimes be refunded by their bank when theyve been the victim of an authorised push 
payment scam. But the CRM explicitly excludes international payments like the one Mr T 
made. So, as the CRM doesnt apply to this complaint, I cant use it as the basis to ask First 
Direct to do more. 
It is common ground that Mr T authorised the £8,200 scam payment. I accept that this was 
an authorised payment even though Mr T was the victim of a scam. He provided valid 
instructions through his online banking. So, although it wasnt his intention to pay money to 
the scammer, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms of his 
account, Mr T is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate
for First Direct to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a 
payment in order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
First Directs first obligation is to follow the instruction that Mr T provided. But if that
instruction is sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account, Id expect First Direct to 
intervene and to ask their customer more about the intended transaction before processing 
it. Id also expect First Direct to provide suitable warnings about common scams to help their 
customers make an informed decision as to whether to continue with the payment. There 
might also be cases where its appropriate for First Direct to refuse to follow the instruction if 
there are good grounds to believe it is being made as a result of a fraud or scam. 
The starting point here is whether the instruction by Mr T given to First Direct to transfer 
£8,200 was unusual in relation to his typical account activity. So, Ive reviewed the account 
statements for the six months prior to the scam payments being made. I think this gives a 
sufficient sample size to fairly assess the activity. The account typically maintained a healthy 
balance. And Mr T did make payments to other accounts in his name with the amounts 
ranging from £2,000, £10,000 to £20,000. So, I dont think First Direct treated Mr T unfairly 
by not considering the payments as unusual. 
Although the payment was sent internationally, I dont think it was sufficiently unusual or 
suspicious for First Direct to intervene and ask questions of Mr T. Its not uncommon for 
customers to send one-off larger payments on their accounts. And I wouldnt expect First 
Direct to stop every transaction that was sent internationally for the first time unless it was 
sufficiently unusual or suspicious  which I dont think it was here. 
And I dont find that Mr T age at the time of the payment instruction was, on its own, a 
reason for First Direct to treat him differently. Having reviewed the call where Mr T reported 
the scam to First Direct, I dont think he comes across as someone who is vulnerable. He 
comes across as someone who was confident and knowledgeable in recalling what had 
happened to him. And if there was no other reason for First Direct to think that Mr T was 
vulnerable at the time of the payment, I cant reasonably say it shouldve done more here. Ultimately, there is a balance to be struck between stopping and checking payments and 
allowing customers free access to their money. But in this case, I dont think it is reasonable 
to have expected First Direct to have intervened.
First Directly promptly sent a request to the beneficiary bank for Mr Ts money to be 
returned. But the beneficiary bank said the money was withdrawn and no funds remained.  
Im satisfied there werent any failings or delays by First Direct that otherwise would have 
resulted in the recovery of Mr Ts money. I say this because Ive seen confirmation that the 
recovery was requested promptly after the scam was raised and the confirmation that no 
funds remained.
As a result, Im not persuaded in this instance that this means First Direct should refund the 
money Mr T lost as a result of this scam. 
I understand the distress that this situation has caused  but ultimately, its the scammer that 
has caused this issue. And, as Ive explained above, I dont think First Direct treated Mr T 
unfairly when allowing the payment to be sent.
So, Im not going to ask First Direct to do anything more here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman