DRN-3204997
The complaint
Mr D has complained about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) adding interest and 
charges onto an overdraft debt, defaulting it, and passing it to debt collectors.
What happened
This complaint is about an overdraft on a current account. In 2017, Mr D suffered from a 
severe health issue for which he needed an operation. He was unable to work, and in the 
meantime his overdraft debt kept increasing. At that point, RBS were unaware of what was 
going on, and they issued a default notice in July 2017.
In August 2017, Mr D and his partner spoke to RBS and explained the situation. RBS agreed 
to put things on hold for now. Mr D says that RBS said theyd refund all the interest and 
charges that had accumulated. RBS say that they said theyd waive charges going forward, 
but would continue charging interest. They say that they didnt agree to refund previous 
interest or charges.
After the account came off hold, RBS didnt hear from Mr D and didnt receive any payments. 
They defaulted the account. They instructed debt collection agencies.
At the end of 2017 and in early 2018, Mr Ds partner disputed the balance, saying RBS had 
said theyd refund previous interest and charges. RBS said they hadnt said that, and 
confirmed the balance was correct. In 2019, Mr D returned to work. RBS did not receive 
payments towards the balance.
In 2020, Mr D complained about RBS not refunding interest and charges, and about them 
defaulting the account despite his health issues. He was also unhappy theyd passed the 
debt to different debt collectors over time, and he says the debt collectors told him they had 
trouble getting responses from RBS. 
RBS didnt agree with the complaint. But in September 2020, they did write off the interest 
and charges as a goodwill gesture, leaving a balance of £168.72. In November 2020, they 
wrote off the remaining balance too.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
found the call notes said that RBS would waive pending charges, but not that theyd refund 
previous charges. They couldnt find anywhere where RBS had promised to refund all the 
interest and charges. But they explained that even if RBS had refunded the interest and 
charges back in 2017, there still would have been a balance owing. They found that RBS 
had only been told about Mr Ds circumstances after the default notice had gone out, and 
then Mr D hadnt made any payments over the years that had followed, even once he was 
back at work. So they thought the account would most likely have defaulted regardless.
Mr D didnt agree. His partner was sure that RBS had said theyd refund the interest and 
charges. She also said that Mr D had made two repayments after the debt had been written 
off, and one had been returned but not the other.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr D and RBS a provisional decision on 10 November 2021, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
First, I do note that RBS felt that some of Mr Ds original complaint points were within our 
jurisdiction, and some were out, because theyd been brought to us more than six months 
after a final response letter. But we dont tend to slice up complaints in this way  usually, 
either the whole complaint is in jurisdiction, or its out.
Here, I can see that RBS issued a final response in September 2020. But they then issued 
another final response letter in April 2021. This later final response came after a new 
investigation into the complaint. In it, RBS made substantially new arguments, and dealt with 
the complaint more comprehensively. The April 2021 letter gave Mr D new referral rights, 
saying he had six months from that letter to come to our service. So I think that the April 
2021 final response implicitly withdrew the September 2020 final response. And Mr D came 
back to us in May 2021, within six months of the April 2021 letter. So I think his case was 
referred to us in time.
Ive thought carefully about whats happened here. Because of the time thats passed, the 
recordings of the calls involved dont still exist  which is normal. Under data protection 
rules, RBS were required to dispose of such data rather than hold onto it for too long. And by 
the time Mr D first contacted us about this complaint, Im afraid it would have already been 
too late to get the call recordings. I have gone through the written record of RBSs contact 
with Mr D and his partner. 
While I do appreciate Mr D and his partners strength of feeling about what was said, I cant 
see any record of RBS telling them theyd refund all the interest or charges back in 2017. As 
far as I can see, at that point RBS only said theyd waive new charges going forward.
Of course, I do accept its possible that RBS told Mr Ds partner theyd refund the interest 
and charges. And given that Mr D was suffering from severe health issues at the time, 
theres also an argument that RBS should have shown him more forbearance anyway.
But even if I accept that RBS should have refunded some or all of the interest and charges in 
2017, it does not look like that would have stopped the account from defaulting. Even once 
the interest and charges were removed, there was still an outstanding balance of £168.72. 
And I cant see that Mr D made any payments towards the debt for years. In the end, RBS 
wrote it off without having received any payments since 2017.
I understand that, at first, the interest and charges were in dispute. But even while the 
amount was in dispute, Mr D was still ideally supposed to pay what he could afford to in the 
meantime, not least given that a significant part of the balance was made up of his spending, 
rather than of interest and charges. Further, even after RBS confirmed the balance was 
correct, and even after they later wrote off the interest and charges, they still didnt receive 
any payments before they ultimately wrote off the whole account.Of course, I do also appreciate that for some time Mr D was unable to work. But even as the 
years went on and Mr D returned to work, RBS still didnt receive payments.
So had RBS held off from defaulting Mr Ds account at first, it looks like it would have just 
ended up defaulting later on due to the lack of payments. And had that happened, the 
default would then have remained on Mr Ds credit file for longer than it will do now. As 
things stand, the default will fall off of Mr Ds credit file faster than if RBS had only added it 
later on.
Further, even if I accept that RBS should have been more sympathetic to Mr Ds situation, 
the fact remains that they have now not only written off all the interest and charges, but the 
entire balance. So Mr D never ended up having to repay the debt, and theres nothing more 
I can tell RBS to write off. Indeed, when Mr D came to our service, the main thing he said he 
wanted was for debt collectors to stop contacting him about this account. But now its been 
written off, he wont receive any more contact about it. So again, theres not really anything 
more for me to tell RBS to do there.
I do understand that Mr D found it frustrating dealing with different debt collectors. But this 
was a genuine debt, and RBS were entitled to use debt collectors. They were also allowed to 
change which debt collectors they used when the previous ones were unable to arrange any 
payments with Mr D. And I can see that RBS did reply to the debt collectors queries.
Lastly, Mr Ds partner mentioned that there were some payments made after the debt had 
already been written off, and from what I understand one was returned but not the other. 
This is not an issue that was part of Mr Ds original complaint to RBS or our service  its a 
substantially new issue, so Im afraid he would need to complain separately about that. Id 
suggest that Mr D gets back in touch with RBS in the first place about any payment that 
needs returning. Then if he needs our help with that, he can always get back in touch with 
our service for a separate case.
But as things stand, I dont currently plan to tell RBS to do anything further in this case.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
8 December 2021. RBS didnt add anything further. Mr D and his partner made some 
further comments, which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ds partner clarified that it was Mr D, rather than her, who spoke to RBS in 2017, though 
she was present for the conversation. I do appreciate the clarification, though Im afraid it 
does not have any bearing on the outcome of the case.
She reiterated that things had been delayed because RBS didnt reply to debt collectors. But 
as I said before, I can see that RBS did reply to the debt collectors queries. And those 
queries did tend to be repeats of things that RBS had already answered before.Mr Ds partner felt that RBS were getting away with things here, and I acknowledge her point 
of view. But per my provisional decision, theres nothing more I can fairly tell RBS to do here 
 theyve already written off the whole debt, worth hundreds of pounds. And were here to 
resolve complaints, rather than to punish or fine businesses.
Lastly, Mr D and his partner reiterated that theyd made some payments after the debt had 
been written off which theyd like to be refunded. But as I explained before, this was only 
raised quite some time after the case came to our service  it was not part of their original 
complaint. It is a new issue, so Mr D would need to complain separately about that. He 
should get back in touch with RBS in the first place about any payment that needs returning. 
Then if he needs our help with that, he can always get back in touch with our service as a 
separate case.
So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman