DRN-4069775
The complaint
Miss G complains about how Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ) dealt with the claim for 
her dogs medication.  
What happened
Miss G has insurance for her dog with Agria. In November 2018 the dog was diagnosed with 
exocrine pancreatic insufficiency (EPI). Theres no cure for EPI, its a lifelong condition, but 
theres medication which can treat the condition. Lypex, an enzyme supplement was first 
prescribed by Miss Gs vet in November 2018. 
Since her dog was diagnosed Miss G has been using different enzyme supplements which 
she usually buys online to treat her dogs EPI. She doesnt need a prescription to buy the 
enzyme supplement online, and its cheaper to do this than getting it from her vet. There 
have been times when due to supply issues shes struggled to source the enzyme 
supplement online and her vet has prescribed alternatives.
On 24 May 2021 Miss G submitted a claim to Agria for a lifetime supply of Lypex. When they 
received her claim Agria requested invoices and receipts to validate the claim. Agria later 
closed the claim due to inactivity as they didnt receive the information theyd requested. 
In June 2022 Miss G raised a complaint as her claim hadnt been settled even though she 
said shed spoken to Agria several times and submitted her dogs medical history multiple 
times.
When Miss G logged her complaint Agria say she was told that to claim for the Lypex 
supplement her dog required on a long-term basis, an online claim form needed to be 
completed with the online invoice for the claim to be paid. Agria said shed told them that as 
her dog needed this supplement for life, she thought they should be paying her in advance 
and she shouldnt need to submit a claim each time she purchased Lypex. 
When responding to her complaint Agria apologised that Miss G was only told the correct 
process when she raised her complaint.
Looking at the claim history they said she correctly uploaded a copy of her dogs clinical 
history, but instead of uploading the invoices shed submitted a further copy of the clinical 
history. So they were unclear what she wanted to claim for. 
On 10 June 2021 they said theyd emailed her vet requesting an itemised invoice for her 
dogs treatment for EPI, and theyd copied her into this email. They received no response so 
they sent a further email to her vet on 18 July 2022, again copying her in. And a final email 
to her on 29 July 2021, explaining theyd had do response from her vet, and without an 
itemised bill they were unable to process her claim. 
Miss G told Agria that shed called them many times to try and get her claim paid. They said 
theyd been able to trace four calls.
On 30 July 2021 shed called about her outstanding claim. The call had been cut off during 
the verification process. Their agent called her straight back, leaving a voicemail asking her 
to return the call, but she didnt respond.
On 8 April 2022 she called about her outstanding claim, saying she spoken to four people 
before and had been expecting a call back. Miss G said her vet had provided the requested 
information and shed submitted the claim online. She was asked to resubmit her claim and 
the attached information and it was confirmed she could attach details of her dogs further 
treatment.
On 19 April 2022 Miss G sent a further copy of her dogs medical history. Agria emailed her 
to confirm theyd received this, but they needed itemised invoices just covering the treatment 
for EPI.
On 21 April 2022 Miss G called to say she didnt have an itemised bill, as she bought the 
medication from different places, depending on where was the cheapest. She was asked if 
she had a prescription but said she didnt need one as her vet had prescribed Lypex the first 
time and recorded in the dogs clinical records that she needed it for life. Agrias agent said 
theyd need to see something to confirm this, and Miss G referred them to the clinical 
records. She was told Agria would need an email from her vet confirming her dog needed 
the treatment for life and then they would be able to pay the claim. 
Agria said Miss G had been given the wrong information and they apologised for this. They 
said their agent should have asked her to locate and send them all of her online invoices, as 
these were what were needed to assess her claim. And they didnt need anything from her 
vet as the medical history was sufficient.
On 28 April 2022 Agria received the dogs medical history again. They emailed her 
requesting invoices that only related to the treatment for EPI.
On 30 June 2022 Miss G called to log a complaint. During this conversation she was told 
that to claim for online medication Agria needed a completed claim form and copies of the 
online receipts. Miss G said shed not been told this before. She asked if she needed to do 
this every time she purchased the medication and was told she did. Miss G said she thought 
that as her dog required Lypex for life, Agria should pay her monthly without her having to 
make a claim. Miss G confirmed that she would check her emails and submit the online 
receipts.
Based on a review of the history of the claim Agria said they were satisfied that the first time 
Miss G called them about her claim was 8 April 2022. And had she spoken to them before 
she submitted her claim shed have been advised of the correct process for claiming for 
medication purchased online.
They pointed Miss G to her policy terms and conditions which say, You must submit a claim 
by the end of the period of insurance or within six months from the first date of treatment, 
whichever is the latter. If you do not submit your claim to us within this time frame, we will 
not deal with your claim.
But Agria said they were prepared to waive this condition due to the miscommunication 
shed faced while trying to get her claim paid. She was asked to submit her online 
invoices/receipts without delay. 
She was also told that she could claim for her dogs veterinary treatment to diagnose her 
EPI. And if her vets provided an itemised invoice for this treatment it would be assessed in 
line with her policy terms and conditions. But they didnt uphold her complaint as they said she didnt submit any itemised invoices/receipts to validate her complaint with her claim 
form.
Miss G was unhappy with Agrias response to her complaint, particularly that they wouldnt 
pay for her dogs medication in advance without her having to submit a claim monthly. And 
she complained to our service.
Our investigator considered the case and partially upheld the complaint. He thought it was 
reasonable for Agria to require receipts or invoices before paying Miss Gs claim for her 
dogs medication. He said paying in advance for medication isnt something Agria would 
agree to, and we wouldnt expect them to. 
Agria accepted that theyve given Miss G misleading information which had led to some 
delays with her claim. Theyd apologised for this and agreed to waive the six-month time limit 
for submitting the claim. Our investigator thought this was fair but said Agria should also pay 
Miss G £50 compensation.
Agria accepted our investigators opinion but Miss G didnt. The case has now come to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Miss Gs policy require her to submit a claim form together with 
supporting evidence for each claim. This is standard practice and I wouldnt expect Agria to 
agree to pay for Miss Gs dogs medication without her submitting a claim. I appreciate that 
this means shell need to submit a claim each time she buys her dogs medication, but now 
she knows exactly what Agria require this shouldnt be too onerous.
I agree that there appears to have been some delay in dealing with Miss Gs claim as a 
result of what she was told during her telephone conversation with Agria on 21 April 2022. 
She was told theyd need confirmation from her vet that her dog had a lifelong condition. 
This wasnt correct, as the dogs clinical records confirm this.
But Agria acknowledged the mistake in their final response letter and agreed to waive the 
six-month time limit for submitting a claim. I think this, together with the £50 compensation 
theyre confirmed theyre prepared to pay, is reasonable.
Miss Gs claim remains outstanding as shes unhappy about submitting a claim every month. 
Shes told us that shed be happy if Agria supplied the medication to her each month. This 
isnt something I can ask them to do, as their role in the claim is as insurers. If she wants her 
claim to be dealt with shell need to submit it in line with her policy terms and conditions. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partially uphold Miss Gs complaint about 
Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ). 
And to put things right I require them to pay her £50 compensation for the miscommunication 
about what was required to support her claim and the delay this caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman