DRN-4090055
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy shes being held liable for a loan taken out in her name through Retail 
Money Market Ltd (RateSetter) as part of a scam. Shes also concerned about how the loan 
has been reported on her credit file. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only refer to some key 
events here. 
In February 2022 Mrs P was contacted by someone purporting to be from a legitimate crypto 
exchange platform offering to help her recover funds shed lost two years previously as part 
of a crypto investment scam. This unfortunately also turned out to be a scam. 
Using information provided by Mrs P, the scammer applied for several loans on her behalf. 
She says the scammer told her the loans were necessary to facilitate the recovery of the lost 
funds  and were temporary and would be paid back as soon as her lost funds were 
recovered. 
On 1 March 2022 RateSetter received a loan application through its website for £15,000. 
The application was approved, and the funds were paid into Mrs Ps account on 2 March 
2022. The loan was repayable over 60 months with a monthly payment of £281.89. The 
£15,000 was then all lost as part of the scam.
Realising shed been the victim of a scam, Mrs P contacted RateSetter. It investigated and 
issued Mrs P with a response saying she had facilitated the loan application by providing the 
scammer with her personal details  and not verifying the legitimacy of what she was being 
told. RateSetter was also satisfied Mrs P was aware of the loan and so was responsible for 
repaying it. Mrs P complained to RateSetter, but it maintained its position.
Mrs P referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. She said it was unfair to be 
pursued for a loan applied for as part of a scam  and that other loan companies had 
accepted this and written the loans off. Mrs P was also unhappy that her credit file showed 
missed payments towards the loan in April 2022  saying shed been told her account would 
be put on hold whilst her complaint was under investigation. 
Mrs P settled the loan in full on 13 May 2022 and this is correctly reflected on her credit file.
Our Investigator considered Mrs Ps complaint but didnt uphold it. He said Mrs P was aware 
of the loan and agreed to it being taken out, with the funds paid into her bank account. So, 
he couldnt say it was unfair for RateSetter to pursue Mrs P for the loan together with 
interest, fees and charges. And our Investigator didnt think RateSetter had misled Mrs P 
about how any missed or late payments would be reported on her credit file. 
Mrs P disagreed with our Investigators findings and asked for an Ombudsmans final 
decision. She said RateSetter failed in its due diligence to check if the loan application was 
legitimate  and it didnt contact her about the application. 
Mrs P was also concerned that it wasnt apparent to RateSetter that there had been multiple 
loan applications made in such a short space of time. Thus, alerting it to the possibility the 
loan was being applied for as part of a scam. 
Mrs P accepted she knew about the loan  but that the scammer lied to her about what it 
was for and where the funds were coming from. She said even though she knew about the 
loan  it was not her intention to apply for it  having been led to believe, by the scammer, 
that this was necessary to get her lost money back. Mrs P emphasised that she was 
completely controlled by the scammer, who applied for the loan and signed the loan 
agreement on her behalf. 
Mrs P said she had now paid off the loan  but was concerned about the notice of arrears 
appearing on her credit file when shed understood the account had been placed on hold. 
She wanted this removed. 
As part of my review  I asked RateSetter to remove any adverse data from Mrs Ps credit 
file relating to this loan, as I thought there was some ambiguity about when the account was 
on hold and what the impact of that was. RateSetter has agreed to my request, and Mrs P is 
happy with this outcome. So, I dont intend to comment further on that point in this final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im partly upholding this complaint because RateSetter has agreed to my 
request to amend Mrs Ps credit file. 
But I agree with our Investigator - and for largely the same reasons  that it was fair and 
reasonable for RateSetter to pursue Mrs P for the loan. I realise this will be very 
disappointing for Mrs P and Id like to assure her I havent taken this decision lightly. 
In doing so, Ive very carefully considered all the evidence  including more information from 
RateSetter and Mrs P about the adverse recording on her credit file. And Id like to assure 
Mrs P that if I dont mention a particular point, its not because I havent considered it, but 
Ive focussed instead on what I believe to be important to the outcome of this complaint. 
I dont doubt that Mrs P has been the victim of a cruel and sophisticated crypto investment 
recovery scam  but it is ultimately the scammer that is responsible for her loss. My focus is 
on the actions of RateSetter  and whether it has been fair and reasonable in its dealings 
with Mrs P. 
Firstly, I dont doubt that it was the scammer who physically applied for the loan on Mrs Ps 
behalf and agreed to its terms. But I must bear in mind that Mrs P accepts she knew about 
the loan, and therefore she did agree - albeit based on the lies told to her by the scammer  
to the loan being taken out. 
Mrs P thinks RateSetter shouldve done more to check if the loan application was legitimate. 
And with the benefit of hindsight and now knowing shes been the victim of a scam  I can 
fully understand why Mrs P thinks that. But the issue here is that at the time, as far as 
RateSetter was concerned, this was a legitimate application. It contained personal 
information about Mrs P, as well as information about her finances which was checked and 
verified as part of the application process. And I can also see that Mrs Ps signature 
(electronic) appears on the loan agreement.Its also doubtful further checks wouldve shown that a number of loans had been applied for 
in Mrs Ps name  given they were applied for in such close succession and so were unlikely 
to have shown up on her credit or financial records. But even if RateSetter had had concerns 
and spoken to Mrs P, given what she has said about the influence she was under from the 
scammer, I think it more likely than not she wouldve still agreed to the loan. 
This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mrs P to 
receive. But taking everything into account, I cant say RateSetter has acted unfairly in 
holding Mrs P responsible for repaying the loan and any associated interest, fees, and 
charges. 
Putting things right
RateSetter has agreed to remove any adverse data relating to this loan from Mrs Ps credit 
file. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint is upheld in part. Retail Money Market Ltd should:
Arrange for all adverse data in relation to this loan to be removed from Mrs Ps credit 
file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman