DRN-3720333
The complaint
Mr J complins that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr J was approved for one loan in July 2012, for 60 months  the loan was for £8,000 which 
Mr J told Everyday Lending at the time was for a bike and leathers so I take it from that it 
was motor bike. The documentation fee was £480 so the total loan was for £8,480. And the 
total interest charged was £9,711.46. the monthly repayments were just over £305 for 
60 months. 
The account was passed to a third party debt collection agency in early 2014. Mr J 
complained to Everyday Loans in March 2022. It responded in its final response letter (FRL) 
to say that the complaint was out of time. 
One of our ombudsmen decided that the complaint could proceed as it was made in time. 
That part has been resolved and I say no more about it. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Everyday Lending had not 
done anything substantially wrong. Mr J disagreed. On his complaint form, Mr J said 
I havecomplained that the company should have known I was struggling due to 
having multiple payday loans at the same time along with a lot of other credit I was 
using at the time just to try to make ends meet.
Since receiving our adjudicators view Mr J has said:
- companies lending where interest rates are as high as these loan companies that 
know they are lending money to people they possibly shouldnt be 
- the company check on his work situation was done incorrectly as he was the 
supervisor at the time and so the person Everyday Lending spoke to was a colleague 
not his own supervisor
- he had payday loans and doorstep loans at the time
- he was buying things from a catalogue and selling them to make ends meet
- he was aware of the rate and agrees he took the loan knowing this rate
- if hed had any other option he said he would not have taken that loan 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the overarching 
questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint are:
Did Everyday Lending , each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that Mr J would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr J would have been able to do so?
Did Everyday Lending act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending  to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Js ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Lending  had to think about 
whether repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had 
to ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr J undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending  to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr J. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
Considering this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Js complaint.
For a loan of this size and to be repaid over five years I would have expected a full financial 
review to have been carried out by Everyday Lending. And having reviewed all it did I think 
that Everyday Lending did do all I would have expected it to do. It checked his payslips and 
P60s, it carried out an income and expenditure assessment, it reviewed some of Mr Js bank account statements and obtained a credit search for his credit history. I cant see what else 
Everyday Lending could have done. 
So, I have drilled into the detail to review what information Everyday Lending discovered and 
how it applied it to the decision to lend. 
Mr J had not asked Everyday Lending for a loan to consolidate debts. It was for a specific 
purchase and so the starting point for Mr Js application was different to say a consumer 
asking for a debt-consolidation loan. And I can see that the full £8,000 was paid to Mr J. 
For Mr Js income it obtained two payslips and two P60s in 2012 being months and year 
leading up to the loan. I have seen from some of the Everyday Lending account notes it did 
that to ensure that his overtime payments were regular and to show consistency monthly. 
The annual pay figures averaged out and translated into monthly pay came to £2,389 which 
is the income figure it appeared to use. The detailed assessment of Mr Js income I consider 
to have been correct.
Everyday Lending did a credit search and the list it made of the outstanding balances and 
the monthly repayments seemed accurate when I cross reference the debt table it created 
and the credit search it carried out, a copy of which has been sent to us. That covered three 
credit cards, a loan Mr J said was for a car, a mail order agency with a balance of only £459 
whereas that limit on that mail order account was £3,100. All these added up to minimum 
repayments or scheduled repayments of around £293 a month. These repayments would not 
have led to much of a monthly reduction on the overall balances on the three credit cards. 
I have accounted for that. The mortgage was £674 a month on top of this figure.
And as for the mail-order  Mr Js own explanation was that he was using those goods 
purchased with that account to resell to make some money. I do not have any details. But 
that account does not appear to have been an issue. The account was well under the £3,100 
limit and had a relatively low balance. 
Mr J gave an explanation to Everyday Lending at the time that his partner paid the £171 a 
month for the car, or helped pay for the car. Everyday Lending had noted that information 
but seem to have accounted for that £171 a month cost by factoring it into the budget it was 
calculating anyway. That showed a realistic approach as the car debt was in Mr Js name. 
Mr Js bank statements were viewed. Usually where we expect a full and financial review to 
be carried out, one of the most convenient ways to do this was by reviewing bank 
statements. Everyday Lending did that. 
Mr Js bank statements did show that he had two loan payments on there for two well known 
(at the time) high cost lenders. One was a payment for £414 and the other was for £100. 
I have no details of those loans but my own knowledge leads me to think that the larger one 
likely was a payday loan and that very particular sum was a one off payment. The other at 
£100 likely was a more regular payment and I have factored that into my deliberations. But 
balanced against this is an annotation on the bank statement copy showing that he received 
a £1,495.45 tax refund by cheque on 28 May 2012. 
The bank statement showed that Mr Js account was in credit at the end of the month 
(2 June 2012) even after the regular payments had been paid, the two payday loans were 
paid and Mr J had removed £1,000 in cash from the account. In my view, the overall picture 
was not one of a person in financial difficulties.
Everyday Lending used a formula to calculate what it considered to have been Mr Js living 
expenses which for Mr J it came to £836.15 a month on top of the mortgage and the regular credit commitments of £293. And having got Mr Js bank statements, and seeing the sort of 
other living expense payments he made, I think that was likely on the generous side. So, I do 
not consider that was incorrect. 
Using all this information, and removing from its income and expenditure calculations, 
Everyday Lending concluded that Mr J would have been left with £280.67 a month. So, it 
concluded that Mr J could afford this loan.
I agree and I am not upholding Mr Js complaint about the loan.  
Other points raised by Mr J
Mr J has made a comment recently in which he said that companies lending where interest 
rates are as high as these loans are companies that know they are lending money to people 
they possibly shouldnt be.
Commercial lending rates are not something that the Financial Ombudsman Service looks 
into and so I make no comment on the rates. And in any event Mr J has told us that he knew 
the rates at the time and agreed to take the loan. So, the fact it was an expensive loan was 
something that Mr J knew at the time.
And Everyday Lending is aware that it is a lender for customers who may be finding it 
difficult to find credit elsewhere. But the regulations to carry out a creditworthiness 
assessment to the appropriate degree still apply. 
The name Mr J has given us being the contact name at his place of work appears on the 
account notes Everyday Lending has sent to us. So, it shows that it did contact that person 
in July 2012 and again in 2014 when Mr J had lost his job. We have no details as to the role 
that person played in the company. But the notes indicate that the person knew Mr J. and 
Mr J gave that name knowing that Everyday Lending was going to contact the person and so 
it seems that Mr J was content for this contact to be made. 
And where Mr J says - if hed had any other option he would not have taken that loan  that 
does not fit with the fact he was approaching Everyday Lending to buy a motorbike. 
So, I am not persuaded Mr J was at a stage in his life that he was desperate for the £8,000 
loan to solve a financial crisis he may have been in. His own explanations do not provide 
that picture when combined with the financial details I have seen from 2012 and analysed 
above.  
Overall, I consider that Everyday Lending carried out proportionate checks, read the 
information it had correctly and was not irresponsible for approving the loan. 
And I do not think that it did anything else unfairly or unreasonably at the time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman