DRN-1692655
The complaint
Miss S complains that a car acquired with finance from Mi Vehicle Finance Limited (MVF) 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In May 2018 Miss S was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with MVF. At the point of supply the car was around 7 years old and had covered 45,000 
miles.
In August 2019 the car suffered engine failure. Miss S contacted MVF and said her local 
garage was of the opinion that an engine of this age and mileage shouldnt have failed and 
that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
MVF arranged for an independent inspection of the car. This concluded that the fault wasnt 
present at the point of supply and that the supplying dealer wasnt responsible.
Miss S remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that taking into account the available 
evidence, it was more likely that the fault had been caused by factors that had occurred 
since the car had been in Miss Ss possession.
Miss S didnt agree. She obtained a report from a different engineer. This engineer reached 
a different conclusion to the independent engineer as to what had caused the fault. He 
concluded that the engine had failed as a result of hydraulic lock, caused by a failure of the 
software. The engineer said the fault with the software wouldve been latent.
Our investigator asked the engineer whether, in his opinion, the software fault was existing 
at the point of supply or whether it developed since the car came into Miss Ss possession. 
The engineer said he thought the fault wouldve been present at the time of the vehicles 
manufacture but he couldnt confirm this unless forensic examination of the ECU software 
was carried out.
Our investigator provided the engineers report and comments to MVF. MVF asked for the 
ECU to be removed and inspected independently. 
Miss S was reluctant to allow an engineer chosen by MVF to inspect the ECU. She said she 
wanted her engineer to find someone who could inspect the ECU.
MVF wasnt willing to allow Miss Ss engineer to inspect the ECU. It said he wasnt 
independent. It wasnt willing to allow a company suggested by Miss Ss engineer to inspect 
the ECU either, because it wasnt certain that the company had the right expertise. MVF 
suggested that the ECU was inspected by a main dealer local to Miss S. 
Miss S didnt think a main dealer would be impartial. She sent the ECU to a different 
engineer, who concluded that no modifications had been carried out to the software to 
increase the performance of the car or remove components such as the DPF or EGR.  The 
inspector said he was unable to obtain a reliable read out of fault codes from the ECU 
because it had been powered up without external components connected to it, which caused 
it to be full of fault codes. 
Our investigator considered everything again but didnt change her view. She said given the 
time and mileage elapsed since the point of supply, she didnt think there was enough 
evidence to persuade her that the fault was caused by something which had been present at 
the point of supply.
Miss S didnt agree. She obtained another report from a different engineer who inspected the 
ECU and concluded that the software hadnt been modified. 
The complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because MVF supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such 
as, amongst other things, the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. Id expect a 
second-hand car, such as that supplied to Miss S, to have a degree of wear and tear and to 
require repairs more often than a new car would. So, in order to uphold this complaint, I 
would need to be satisfied that the car had an inherent fault, caused by general wear and 
tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault arises in the first 6 months, its 
presumed that it was present or develop at the point of supply unless the business can show 
otherwise. After 6 months, the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to 
show that the fault was present at the point of supply.
An engineers report can help with deciding whether a fault was present at the point of 
supply. In this case, there have been a number of engineers reports. Ive considered all of 
these carefully.
The car was initially inspected by Miss Ss local garage. The engineer concluded that the car 
had suffered massive engine failure and said an engine of this age and mileage shouldnt fail 
in this way and that it didnt think the fault was caused by wear and tear.
The report doesnt say how or why the fault occurred. So I dont think its very helpful to me in 
considering what caused the engine failure. Because of this, I dont think this report on its 
own is strong enough evidence to show that the fault was present at the point of supply.
An independent engineer inspected the car after this. The report is very detailed and the 
engineer has provided an opinion of how and why the fault occurred. He concluded that the 
engine failed due to a failed turbo charged seal, leading to depleted oil level causing seizure 
of one of the cylinders leading to conrod failure and engine block damage. The report says 
that given that the car covered 13,000 miles between the point of supply and the date of 
engine failure, the fault was likely to have occurred after the point of supply and due to Miss 
Ss failure to check and maintain oil and fluid levels.An engineer chosen by Miss S inspected the car after this. He disagreed with the 
independent engineer as to the cause of the fault. He said there was no evidence of oil 
starvation and was instead of the view that the engine had failed due to hydraulic lock. The 
engineer said this was probably the result of a fault in the cars software and that a forensic 
examination would need to be carried out to confirm this.
The ECU has been inspected more than once. Ive looked at all of the reports but I dont 
think they are particularly helpful. This is because none of them establish whether the ECU 
software had a fault which wouldve caused excess fuel to be injected into the engine. The 
reports confirm that the ECU is standard and that it hasnt been modified but I dont think this 
answers the question raised in the engineers report about whether there was an inherent  
fault with the software.
In order to be persuaded that the engine failure was caused by a software fault, I would need 
to see strong and conclusive evidence that there was fault with the ECU software. None of 
the reports establish this. The engineers report isnt enough on its own to persuade me that 
there was  software fault because the engineer hasnt concluded that this was definitely the 
cause of the engine failure, and no software fault has been proved despite two inspections of 
the ECU.
On balance, there isnt enough evidence to persuade me that the car had a fault at the point 
of supply which led to the engine failure. Given that Miss S was able to drive the car for 15 
months and cover 13,000 miles, I dont think its likely that there was an inherent fault which 
made the car of unsatisfactory quality. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I wont be asking MVF to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 December 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman