DRN-3110143
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with how BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMW) dealt with the 
voluntary termination of his hire purchase agreement with them. 
What happened
On 15 May 2017, Mr L was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW. He paid a deposit of £5,750 and the agreement was for £35,031.21 over 48 months; 
with 47 monthly repayments of £499.15 and a final optional payment of £14,446.40 if he 
wanted to keep the car at the end of the agreement.
As a result of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, Mr Ls circumstances changed, and he 
no longer needed the car. In November 2020 he spoke to BMW, to ask what his options 
were. And BMW told him he could either voluntarily terminate the agreement and return the 
car; or clear the outstanding finance of £17,295.33 and sell the car privately. Mr L found a 
company willing to buy the car, so he opted for the private sale.
The company buying the car said that the finance would need to be cleared beforehand, and 
he would need to show them proof of this on the day of the sale. Mr L spoke to BMW, who 
told him that he could clear the finance by bank transfer, or by debit card over the phone.
On the day of the sale, BMW were unable to take the payment by phone, as all their 
advisers were working from home and didnt have the facility for taking card payments. Mr L 
says that, because of this, the buyer pulled out of the transaction.
Mr L complained to BMW about being mis-informed that he could make a card payment over 
the phone. But BMW didnt uphold his complaint. Unhappy with this, Mr L brought his 
complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said BMW had told Mr L that he could make a card payment, and it wasnt 
the case when Mr L tried to do this. But the investigator also said that Mr L couldve made 
the payment by bank transfer. So, he didnt think BMW were responsible for any loss Mr L 
made by selling the car to another buyer, at a lower price.
However, the investigator did say Mr L had been inconvenienced by what had happened, 
and this wouldve caused him some distress. So, he though that BMW should pay Mr L £100 
to recognise this.
BMW agreed with the investigator, but Mr L didnt. He said hed been financially impacted by 
what had happened, as other companies hed approached, and who were interested in 
buying the car, were offering less than the outstanding finance. And hes said that the buyer 
had told him that he could only pay BMW by debit card, not bank transfer. Which is why he 
checked this with BMW first.
Because Mr L didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr L was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it. 
The basic facts of this case arent in dispute. BMW told Mr L that he was able to pay the 
settlement figure by debit card over the phone. But, on the day he came to make this 
payment, he couldnt do so. Because of this, my decision will focus on what I consider to be 
a reasonable remedy.
Ive seen the communications between Mr L and the buyer. And Ive seen that, although the 
buyer originally offered Mr L £18,500 for the car, this was reduced to £18,000 the day before 
the sale was due to take place. However, I havent seen anything to show me that the buyer 
would only accept the finance being cleared by debit card on the day of the sale  and that 
the finance being cleared either before this date or by another method i.e. by bank transfer, 
wasnt acceptable.
Given this, Im satisfied that Mr L had other options to repay the finance, either before the 
day of the sale, or by bank transfer on the day of the sale. And its for this reason I dont hold 
BMW responsible for the different between what the buyer was prepared to pay and the 
outstanding finance; or for the difference between what the buyer was prepared to pay and 
what another buyer may be prepared to pay for the car.
Putting things right
But this doesnt mean that BMW havent done anything wrong. They told Mr L he was able to 
settle the finance by debit card over the phone, but when he came to do this, BMW couldnt 
process the transaction because none of their advisers had access to this facility.
This would clearly have caused Mr L some embarrassment, inconvenience and stress, so I 
think BMW should compensate him for this. The investigator has recommended £100, which 
I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstance. And Ill adopt this as part of my final 
decision.
So, BMW should pay Mr L £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by them not 
being able to take a debit card payment over the phone, despite previously advising him that 
they could.
My final decisionFor the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ls complaint. And BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman