DRN-3176053
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains about the service received from Elavon Financial Services
Designated Activity Company (Elavon) following a number of chargebacks.
What happened
C opened a merchant account with Elavon in March 2017 to allow it to take payments for the
goods it sells. In March 2020 C took payment over the phone using three different cards.
The total value of the transactions was £15,000.
Elavon say C informed them on 8 April 2020 that their preferred method of communication
about chargebacks should be email.
On 21 April 2020 Elavon received notice of three chargebacks by the issuing bank. The
chargebacks had been raised by the genuine cardholders who said they neither authorised
nor participated in the transactions. Elavon then debited Cs account for the value of the
chargebacks - pending the outcome of its investigation.
On 22 April 2020 Elavon emailed C with details of the chargebacks. Later, on 21 May 2020 a
representative of C spoke to Elavon and said that theyd not received the chargeback
notifications until 20 May 2020 (the previous day). By this point the chargeback cases had
been closed as the response deadline was 11 May 2020. C then responded to the
chargebacks a few weeks later.
Elavon say that as the issuing bank confirmed the transactions were not authorised by the
genuine cardholders, the funds (£15,000) were returned to the legitimate cardholders by the
relevant Card Schemes.
C raised a complaint against Elavon as they said no communication was received about the
chargebacks prior to the deadline - but Elavon didnt uphold the complaint. C then referred
the complaint to our service for an independent review. Our investigator also didnt uphold
the complaint.
C didnt accept those findings, so the complaint was then passed to me for a decision.           
I issued my provisional (intended) findings on 8 November 2021 and gave both parties an 
opportunity to add any further comments or new evidence before reconsidering the 
complaint for a final decision.
C havent responded by the deadline given. Elavon responded to say theyd nothing further 
to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new evidence or further comments have been presented for consideration, I see no 
fair and reasonable reason to deviate from my intended findings as set out in my provisional 
decision. As my provisional findings form part of this, my final decision, Ive included a copy 
below.
Copy of provisional findings
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
C has my sympathy for the situation that has arisen here. I accept that they completed the
sale in good faith. However, based on careful consideration of the evidence I dont uphold
this complaint and Ill explain why below.
Notification of the chargebacks
Initially, Cs main argument was that they didnt receive the email notification from Elavon of
the chargebacks in April 2020 as their business was closed due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
C has also said they didnt receive anything by post.
Ive seen supporting evidence that a few weeks previous to this (8 April 2020), C had
requested chargeback information to be sent via email. Therefore Id reasonably have
expected C to monitor their emails. I dont find that Elavon has acted unfairly in this regard
as they notified C using the communication method theyd requested to use.
The email sent about the chargebacks (which C says it didnt see until 20 May) made it
clear: failure to return this notification signed and dated with supporting documentation by
the respond by date will be considered an acceptance of the case the debit will stand
The phone call on 21 May 2020
By the time C spoke to Elavon on 21 May 2020, the deadline to provide a response to the
chargebacks had passed. C has said they were told by Elavons adviser during this call that
the deadline had been extended. Elavon say this is incorrect but that their adviser said that
C could potentially ask the issuing bank to review the three cases on a good faith basis  but
that thered be no obligation to do this given the deadline had passed. Elavon didnt then
receive the information from C for another few weeks.
Whilst there may have been some confusion over what was said, ultimately Elavon dont set
the timeframes for the chargeback process. These are set by the relevant Card Schemes.
So again, I find that Elavon have acted inline with the agreement terms and havent treated
C unfairly.
The relevant terms of the merchant services agreement around what happens when a
chargeback is raised are relatively clear:
If you wish to dispute a Chargeback, you must prove to our reasonable satisfaction
(or that of the relevant Issuer or Card Scheme) that the Sales Transaction was
authorised by the Cardholder (as set out in section 7(g)) and provide us with any
additional evidence that we (or the relevant Issuer or Card Scheme) require. We shall
not be obliged to investigate or challenge the validity of a Chargeback.
Therefore, as the chargebacks werent contested or evidence provided by C in time, the
genuine card holders were reimbursed. I dont find that Elavon have done anything wronghere.
Other issues raised
In my decision Im not considering what the likely outcome wouldve been had C fully
contested the chargebacks with supporting evidence by the deadline. That would ultimately
have been a decision for the relevant card scheme. But Elavon has said that even in the
event of C having provided the relevant information by the required deadline, it would be
very unlikely that the chargebacks wouldve been overturned as C manually keyed the
transactions as the customer/card not present. Ive not yet seen any strong, supporting
evidence that persuades me otherwise.
In response to our investigators assessment C said they:
.still firmly believe that this is Elavons systems failure specially in Covid times
where we were acting in line with government guidelines. We believe Elavon is
passing the responsibility of failure of customer verification to its clients.
I dont agree with Cs statement that Elavon is unfairly passing the failure of customer
verification back to C. Elavon is acting inline with the terms of the agreement:
When presenting any Transaction to Elavon, you warrant and represent that: the
use of the Card by the Cardholder has been authorised and authenticated by the
Cardholder in a manner appropriate to that Card, as prescribed from time to time;
the Transaction is bona fide;
The terms further state:
You shall be fully liable to Elavon for the amount of any and all Transactions
returned to Elavon for whatever reason including. Chargebacks (together with any
Chargeback Costs) or other disputes regarding the validity of a Transaction, even
where (aa) all the requirements of Transactions set out in these TOS have been
complied with, and/or (bb) you are under no legal liability in respect of the supply of
the goods or services concerned.
Elavon explained in their final response letter:
As you chose to accept the transactions as CNP, and did not swipe or ask for the
customers to enter into a chip and PIN transaction, you accepted the liability of the
transactions. Any unsecured transactions (such as manually keyed or CNP) are
accepted entirely at your own risk and you are liable for these transactions should
they become chargebacks. This is because these transactions bypass the inbuilt
security of both a PIN or swipe.
You did not process these payments in a secure way and you could not provide
evidence to confirm that the transactions were authorised by the genuine
cardholders
C has referred to receiving authorisation codes for the transactions, but this doesnt mean
that a chargeback later couldnt later be raised. In summary, an authorisation code generally
will only show that the legitimate card holder hadnt reported the card lost or stolen at the
time the transaction was going through. In these transactions, C was the closest party to the
customer - not Elavon or the card issuer.
Ultimately, in this case responsibility for taking appropriate steps to verify the cardholder andtransactions as genuine (as set out under the merchant services agreement) lay with C.
My decision brings to an end what we  in trying to informally resolve Cs dispute with 
Elavon  can do for them.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman