DRN-3608586
The complaint
Mrs and Mr C complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled 
a claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs and Mr C have a home insurance policy with RSA covering their house. In November 
2019 water entered their cellar causing damage to the walls and floor so Mrs and Mr C 
submitted a claim to RSA.
RSAs loss adjuster visited a few days later and agreed that the water ingress had been 
because of heavy storms and flooding in the area. The adjuster recommended drying out the 
cellar before attempting repairs. Also, they recommended examining the cellars damp proof 
membrane (DPM) system to find out why the water had actually got into the cellar.
Drying then commenced, and a structural engineer said there was DPM protecting the cellar 
and recommended a new one was installed. But another company working on RSAs behalf 
also said there wasnt any DPM protecting the cellar.
There was some confusion and delay handling the claim at this time. Water was still 
apparently entering the cellar around this time and moisture levels were high.
In June 2020 RSA declined to pay for replacement DPM because it said it would regard 
fitting them as betterment.
In August 2020 a report was made by another engineer who confirmed that there was an 
older type of DPM in place to protect the cellar floor, but ultimately the water table had 
probably risen, gone over the membrane and the cellar was still damp. This engineer 
recommended a tanking system be installed.
RSA then arranged this, but it fitted a type of material in the tanking system that was below 
current standards. This material was fitted with the agreement of Mrs and Mr C. Works were 
complete by the end of 2020 but Mrs and Mr C werent happy about the length of time it took 
for RSA to handle their claim. They werent able to use the cellar for an extended period of 
time and they had to go to a launderette to clean their clothes for five months.
RSA agreed to pay them £450 compensation for their stress and inconvenience and £250 
for their increased costs, but Mrs and Mr C asked for more.
Mrs and Mr C brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it and 
upheld it. He said he thought RSA had caused about six months of unnecessary delays and 
it should pay an additional £200 for Mrs and Mr Cs distress and inconvenience, plus the 
£250 for increased costs.
Our investigator didnt think RSA had acted fairly in fitting the new DPM though as he 
thought Mrs and Mr C had simply agreed to it because the claim had taken so long. So he 
said RSA should fit a new and compliant tanking system to the cellar.
Mrs and Mr C accepted his view, but RSA didnt. It said that the cellar had only previously 
had a DPM under the floor rather than tanking of any description to the sides of the cellar.
So the works that RSA had already done had improved the condition of the cellar and it said 
Mrs and Mr C had clearly accepted this. It wasnt prepared to further upgrade the tanking itd 
done as it regarded this as significant betterment.
Mrs and Mr C have also told this service that they have received an additional £200 from 
RSA.
Because RSA didnt agree with the view, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below:
I think Mrs and Mr Cs complaint should be partly upheld and Ill explain why.
I can see from the evidence I have that this claim was a very disruptive experience for Mrs 
and Mr C. RSA used various technical experts throughout the claim who have made reports 
that conflict each other and it seems to me that Mrs and Mr C have had great patience 
throughout. RSA doesnt seem to have progressed the claim well at various points leading to 
some delay in the claims process.
I agree with our investigators view that £650 is an appropriate payment for Mrs and Mr Cs 
distress and inconvenience. Its apparent that RSA has already paid this full amount, plus 
the £250 for increased costs, which indicates it has accepted that level of award.
I understand that Mrs and Mr C have asked for more, but this award is at the upper limit of 
what this service would recommend in a situation like this and Im not persuaded to award a 
higher amount.
The other issue for me to consider is the situation with the replacement of the DPM under 
the floor of the cellar. Mrs and Mr C made a complaint to RSA about this during their claim, 
and this complaint seems to have been dealt with to their satisfaction. It didnt form part of 
their approach to this service, but it formed a major part of our investigators view, and RSA 
have replied in detail about it, so I think its fair that I mention it here.
From the evidence I have, I think its clear that the cellar did have some sort of DPM under 
the floor. This DPM seems to have been overwhelmed by the rainfall in November 2019 and
I understand from the details of the claim that RSA eventually chose to improve the flood 
resilience of the cellar by fitting a tanking system.
It seems to me that RSAs response to fit tanking was reasonable, it improved Mrs and Mr 
Cs position, and Mrs and Mr C accepted the work that was done.
Because Mrs and Mr C had previously indicated to RSA that they were happy with the work 
that had been done, and they havent mentioned this again since, I think the fair and 
reasonable solution is for both sides to accept that the work done was adequate.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this 
complaint in part. I intend to direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay Mrs and Mr C:
£650 compensation for their distress and inconvenience. Its my understanding that 
this amount has already been paid by RSA.
£250 for their increased costs. Its my understanding that this amount has already 
been paid by RSA.
Responses to my provisional decision
RSA accepted my provisional decision and Mrs and MR C didnt respond to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As RSA accepted my provisional decision and Mrs and Mr C didnt respond to it, my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay Mrs and Mr C:
£650 compensation for their distress and inconvenience. Its my understanding that 
this amount has already been paid by RSA.
£250 for their increased costs. Its my understanding that this amount has already 
been paid by RSA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman