DRN-4178143
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the quality of a scooter he acquired through a finance 
agreement with Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance.
What happened
In November 2021, Mr P entered into a finance agreement for a scooter. He paid a deposit 
of £295.50, and monthly repayments were £71.30. However, since then, hes experienced a 
number of issues with the drive belt and clutch. Although repairs have been carried out, hes 
explained that the problems persist. Because of this, hes been renting a bike since June 
2022, at a cost of £75 a week (plus a £25 initial delivery fee), because hes concerned about 
his safety.
Close Brothers said that Mr P hadnt provided evidence that the issues were present, or 
developing, at the point of supply.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, and recommended that the 
complaint should be upheld. He explained that Mr P had invoices from the dealership, 
showing works that were carried out at the scooters two services. The first, in December 
2021, cost Mr P £48. The second, in March 2022, cost Mr P £166.49. Mr P also provided 
three reports from recovery services, dated March, April and June 2022, showing faults with 
the scooter. 
Our investigator noted that these were numerous, over a number of months. He was 
satisfied that the scooter wasnt of satisfactory quality. Accordingly, he thought Mr P should 
be put back in the position hed have been in  as far as possible  had he not entered into 
the agreement. Our investigator did note that Mr P had only made two monthly repayments 
since hed stopped using the scooter, so this would need to be taken into account. He was 
also satisfied that Mr P should be paid £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator. Ill explain why. Where I dont refer to any 
specific submissions made by either party, this isnt because Ive not considered them. 
Rather, its because Ive focussed on the issues I consider I need to, to reach a fair outcome.
Im satisfied, on balance, that the scooter wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
Its experienced a number of significant issues, including with the clutch and drive belts, all 
within just months of supply. And despite numerous repairs (including that Mr P paid for, 
during services), problems continued. Accordingly, I think it was reasonable of Mr P to hire 
another bike, because hed understandably lost faith in this scooter.
One of the main issues has been with the drive belts. The dealership commented that Mr P 
was going through drive belts every 800 to 1,000 miles. As I understand it, although theyre 
serviceable parts, this is much more often than would be expected. Its been suggested that 
this may be because Mr P was using the scooter for deliveries, when it wasnt designed for 
that kind of use. However, the dealership (so, by extension, Close Brothers) had been made 
aware that this was Mr Ps intended use, before he entered into the agreement. So, if the 
use of the scooter for deliveries was why it experienced so many problems, that would mean 
it wasnt fit for the specified purpose for which it was supplied.
For these reasons, Mr P should now be able to reject the scooter, and be reimbursed for his 
consequential losses  specifically, for the rental bike and the extra costs at the two 
services.
Close Brothers is entitled to remove, from the total of the sum above, the amount 
outstanding in monthly repayments up until the date of settlement. This is because it would 
be unfair for Mr P to be reimbursed his hire costs, and also not pay any monthly repayments 
under the agreement. Close Brothers may not add 8% simple interest a year to any sums it 
is removing, as I think this should fairly be absorbed by Close Brothers, as part of Mr Ps 
award. 
Im also satisfied that this matter has caused Mr P significant strain, and that Close Brothers 
could have put things right earlier. I agree that £300 compensation is reasonable to reflect 
this.
Putting things right
To put things right, Close Brothers should:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the scooter at no further cost to Mr P;
refund Mr Ps deposit of £295.50;
pay a refund of £25 for the delivery fee of the rental bike;
refund £75 per week for the rental bike, from the date the rental started, until the date 
of settlement;
refund Mr P £214.49 for the additional expenses incurred at the two services (£48 on 
14 December 2021 and £166.49 on 9 March 2022);
pay 8% simple interest a year on all sums above, from the date of each payment until 
the date of settlement;
pay £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused; and
remove any adverse information from Mr Ps credit file in relation to the agreement, 
and update his credit file to show the agreement as settled.
Close Brothers is entitled to remove, from the total of the sum above, the amount 
outstanding in monthly repayments up until the date of settlement. It may not add 8% simple 
interest a year to any sums it is removing. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance, to take the actions set out above, 
in the section entitled Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman