DRN-3184717
The complaint
Miss L complains about a car acquired using a hire purchase agreement provided by Oodle 
Financial Services Limited. She says the car had issues with the Diesel Particulate Filter 
(DPF) shortly after she got it and it has had other ongoing issues.
What happened
Miss L acquired a used car in December 2019. The car cost £24,000 and this was funded by 
a hire purchase agreement provided by Oodle. 
The car was around four years old when Miss L got it. The agreement says it had done 
91,000 miles. But an inspection from a couple of weeks before says the mileage was 91,599. 
The MOT from the end of October 2019 records the mileage as 91,340 miles.
A few days after getting the car, Miss L says the diesel particulate filter (DPF) red warning 
light came on without warning. She says the DPF was cleaned by a garage. Less than a 
week later Miss L says the same thing happened, then the same again the week after this. It 
appears the DPF was cleaned each time. The dealer commented that it thought the issues 
were due to Miss Ls driving style as it said she wasnt completing long journeys.
Miss L says she told the garage she wanted to reject the car and hand it back. The garage 
said it would only do this if Miss L paid for the DPF to be fixed and for some damage to the 
front bumper to be repaired. Miss L declined this.
The car was returned to the dealer and Miss L was told to collect it in January 2020. In 
March 2020 the DPF failed again and was cleaned. And in September 2020 the car broke 
down with an engine failure and needed to be recovered. Miss L then complained to Oodle 
and said she wanted to reject the car. 
Later in September 2020 Oodle arranged an independent inspection of the car. This said, in 
summary, that the car had various fault codes and wouldnt start. It said it thought underlying 
issues were the result of general wear and tear and were not present at the point of supply. 
At the end of September 2020 Oodle sent Miss L its final response. This said, in summary, 
that it agreed with the independent inspection and said the car was of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied. It didnt uphold the complaint, but it said it would reimburse Miss L 
£157.85 for a car hire while her car was inspected.
Miss L was unhappy with this and referred the complaint to our service. 
In November 2020 Miss L took the car to a different garage. They replaced the engine and 
DPF at a total cost of £3,100. But, Miss L says this didnt fix the issue and the same 
problems with the DPF continued over the next few months. She says the car also started 
rattling and steaming when driven. The DPF was cleaned several more times, but Miss L 
says this didnt resolve things. And she said the garage told her the only way to fix things 
was to remove the DPF. Miss L didnt want to do this as this would fail an MOT check.
Our investigator issued his opinion, upholding the complaint. He said, in summary, that he 
didnt think the DPF was working in line with what the cars handbook said. He explained he 
thought there was a known fault with this engine type. And he said he didnt think the car 
supplied was of satisfactory quality. 
Our investigator recommended that Miss L be allowed to reject the car. He said Oodle 
should collect it at no cost to Miss L, cancel the finance agreement, and reimburse Miss L 
£3,100 for repairs. He also said Oodle should pay Miss L £250 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Miss L told us shed had more expenses as a result of the car that should be paid out, such 
as money for DPF cleaning and hire cars. She also said this had affected her health and her 
job and thought £250 was too low to reflect this. Miss L also explained she had stopped 
driving the car at the end of April 2021.
Oodle said it didnt agree with the investigators view. It reiterated the original points made in 
its final response and referred to the independent report. 
I sent Miss L and Oodle a provisional decision on 1 October 2021. This explained that I was 
thinking of upholding the complaint, but I thought Oodle should do something slightly 
different to put things right than our investigator recommended. My findings from this 
decision were as follows:
Miss L complains about the quality of a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. 
Providing consumer credit contracts like this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can 
consider Miss Ls complaint against Oodle.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  Oodle here  has a responsibility to 
make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person 
would expect  taking into account any relevant factors. 
I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price, 
mileage and description.
Thinking about this, the car Miss L acquired had a mileage of over 90,000. So, I think a 
reasonable person would expect it to be in a lesser condition than a car with fewer miles. 
And I think its reasonable to expect parts of the car to have suffered from wear and tear. 
But, I also need to consider that Miss L paid £24,000 for the car, and it was from what is 
considered by many to be a high end, luxury brand. 
So, even though the car had covered over 90,000 miles, considering its cost I think a 
reasonable person would still expect to have trouble free motoring for a period of time  
even if this would reasonably be shorter than for a lower mileage car.
What I need to consider here is whether the car was of satisfactory quality or not. If it wasnt, 
I need to consider what would be fair and reasonable to put this right.
I should point out that there is some missing information in this case. For instance, I havent 
been provided with job sheets for the initial work on the DPF, and the dealer has confirmed it 
isnt able to provide these. So, where this is the case, Ive based my decision on what I think 
most likely happened. 
The engine failed some time after Miss L got the car. So, Ill firstly think about the initial issues with the DPF.
Clearly there is a disagreement here about the DPF. While it isnt in dispute that this had 
issues, the dealer said they thought this was due to Miss Ls driving style. And Oodle said 
the engine failed for the reasons explained in the independent report. Ill come onto this, but 
the report didnt mention the DPF being a reason for the engine failure.
When considering what happened here, Ive thought about what the cars handbook says 
about the DPF and its use. I should point out the wording of the handbook I found online is 
slightly different to that our investigator quoted  but essentially it says the same thing:
When a DPF message is displayed, accompanied by an amber warning lamp, the filter 
requires a regeneration cycle to clean itself. 
This requires the engine to have reached normal operating temperature. Regeneration takes 
place automatically at an interval of approximately 300-900 km (190-560 miles) depending 
on driving conditions. 
Regeneration normally takes 10-20 minutes and is automatically requested by the engine 
control module if the vehicle is driven steadily at vehicle speeds between 60 km/h to 112 
km/h (40 mph to 70 mph). 
It is possible that the regeneration process will occur at lower vehicle speeds, but the events 
may take a little longer at a 50 km/h (30 mph) average speed. 
Note: If regeneration is not successfully carried out, the amber warning lamp will eventually 
be replaced by a red warning lamp.
As I dont have job sheets, its difficult to say exactly what initially happened with the DPF. 
But, I do have some testimony from a staff member at the garage that attended. He said:
I was called out to (location) to do a DPF clean on the above vehicle in January 2020 and 
since then have called out to the above address 4 times and cleaned the DPF out so that the 
vehicle would come out of limp mode every time I have done a diagnostic on the vehicle it 
comes up with vehicle not reaching conditions for regenerating
Miss L said the DPF first developed an issue and was cleaned on 13 December 2019. The 
agreement is dated 4 December, but Miss L says she picked up the car on 6 December. She 
says she didnt use the car for the first three days. This means the DPF failed after four days 
of use  assuming what Miss L said is correct.
Miss L says the DPF was then cleaned again on 18 December and 25 December 2019. 
Considering all the above, Im satisfied its most likely this was the case and the DPF failed 
and was cleaned on these three dates. 
Without any job sheets, its difficult to know what mileage had been covered at these times. 
So, Ive considered what this was likely to be. The mileage on the agreement is lower than 
that listed on the MOT and the inspection from before Miss L got the car. And she says the 
car was bought down from Scotland before she picked it up. So, Im satisfied the mileage of 
the car was a minimum of 91,599 when Miss L got it.
The mileage of the car when it was recovered in September 2020 was 97,699. This means 
Miss L had done, at the most, 6,100 miles since she got the car. This works out on average 
around 22 miles a day. I appreciate this isnt black and white as I dont have the precise mileages. Ive considered 
that Miss L told us the car was taken on the motorway once a week. But, thinking about how 
long Miss L had the car before the DPF initially needed cleaning, and then the times 
between the further cleanings, Im satisfied on balance that even if Miss L was completing 
shorter journeys the DPF wasnt performing as it should according to the handbook. I say 
this as I dont think its likely she covered 190 to 560 miles before it became blocked. It 
follows this means I think the car had a fault when Miss L got it. And, Im satisfied this means 
the car was of unsatisfactory quality.
Even if I didnt agree this was the case, and I appreciate this isnt clear cut, I would still reach 
the conclusion that the DPF system had a fault when Miss L got it. I say this as she has 
been consistent about the fact that the first indication of problems with the DPF were red 
warning lights. The handbook explains the amber warning lamp will eventually be replaced 
by a red warning lamp (emphasis added by myself). But this isnt what it appears happened. 
Miss L says an amber light didnt appear to give her the opportunity to drive the car in the 
conditions for a regeneration. 
I can see from the text messages between Miss L and the dealer that she asked to reject the 
car. The dealer said this wasnt possible unless she paid for a repair of the DPF herself. 
Given Im satisfied the fault was present at the point of supply, I dont think this was fair. I 
think Miss L shouldve been allowed to reject the car when she asked to.
I do appreciate things have moved on since this happened. So, I need to consider if it would 
still be fair for Miss L to reject the car. 
I have considered that the car later broke down and needed to be recovered  eventually 
needing an engine replacement. Oodle say this isnt to do with the DPF and have relied on 
the independent report saying faults werent present or developing at the point of sale. But 
Im not convinced by the findings from the independent report on why the car failed. Ill 
explain why.
Its fair to say the report covers why the engine failed  not if the car had DPF issues when 
supplied. And it doesnt comment on whether the DPF couldve caused the later problems. It 
instead focuses on some other fault codes and issues, saying there are problems with fuel 
pressure turbo low boost, camshaft position sensor and the volume of fuel. Importantly, 
after explaining the engine wouldnt start it also specifically says that Further investigation is 
required under workshop controlled conditions to ascertain the cause.
Ive been provided a screenshot of a text message conversation Miss L says is from the staff 
member at the garage who did the initial DPF cleanings. Miss L sends a list of the fault 
codes the car had when it broke down. The person comments a few of these faults are 
because the DPF is not regenerating because it starts putting boost pressure problems up 
the only thing not related to DPF is camshaft sensor. This seems to contradict what the 
report says.
Ive also been provided with an email from the garage who ended up replacing the engine. 
They commented Prior to fitting the engine we ran diagnostics. DPF and engine error codes 
were present. Once mechanic started working on the vehicle to replace the engine we 
realised the DPF was blocked which is what caused the engine to fail.
So, considering all of this, I think the later problems Miss L had were linked to the DPF. And, 
as Miss L explains these have continued after having the engine replaced, I think there is an 
underlying fault that is still present.
It follows all of this that I think its reasonable that Miss L is still able to reject the car. So, considering this, I need to think about what else is fair to put things right.
Miss L wouldnt have had to pay for work on the car had it been of satisfactory quality or if 
she was allowed to reject it when she asked to. So, I think its fair she should be reimbursed 
for these expenses. Shes provided evidence of costs for a DPF clean, a recovery to a 
garage and invoices for the engine and DPF to be replaced. 
Miss L has mentioned other costs, such as other repairs and insurance premiums. But, she 
hasnt provided evidence of these such as bills or receipts. I dont think its reasonable to ask 
Oodle to pay out for these expenses without further evidence. But, I will of course consider 
anything further Miss L provides before making my final decision. 
I have considered Miss Ls use of the car. I appreciate for some periods the car appeared to 
be in working order, however I think its fair to say Miss L has had impaired usage of it for 
significant periods of time. I dont think its fair that she should pay the full amount due under 
the agreement for these periods.
When Miss L initially acquired the car Im satisfied it wasnt performing as it should until 24 
January 2020. Miss L was also put back in her previous, smaller car, while repairs were 
attempted. Im satisfied she had impaired usage during this period and she should be 
reimbursed 20% of the repayments for this time.
From what I understand Miss L had no use of the car from when it broke down on 8 
September 2020 to when she collected it from the garage on 28 November 2020. So, I dont 
think she should be liable for any payments to the agreement for this period. 
From her testimony, Im satisfied on balance that the car wasnt performing as it should from 
when it was repaired in November 2020 to when Miss L says she stopped driving it in April 
2021. She has mentioned loud rattles, breakdowns, the DPF light coming on and the engine 
smoking on more than one occasion. Im satisfied this is impaired usage. So, I think she 
should get a reduction of 20% of the repayments towards the agreement from 28 November 
2020 to 1 May 2021. 
Miss L says she stopped driving the car at the end of April 2021. So, I think the agreement 
should be treated as though she rejected the car on 1 May 2021.
Miss L also provided hire car costs for when her car wasnt able to be driven. Ive thought 
about whether Oodle should cover these. But, these fall under the times when Ive 
recommended all of Miss Ls repayments towards the agreement should be refunded. In this 
case, I think the monthly repayments should reasonably cover the cost of keeping Miss L 
mobile during this time and so Oodle dont have to pay the hire car costs in addition to the 
monthly repayments.
Finally, Im satisfied Miss L has suffered distress and inconvenience because of whats 
happened here. Oodle should pay her £250 to reflect this.
I gave both parties four weeks to respond with any further comments or evidence. 
Oodle responded and explained Miss L had only ever made two repayments towards the 
agreement, so it didnt think what I suggested to put things right was fair, as it said she 
should be responsible for the arrears on the account. 
Miss L got in touch and said she shouldnt be responsible for the arrears as the car hadnt 
been in use. And she said included in the arrears was a period for which she had a payment deferral due to COVID-19.  She also reiterated some of her original points and explained this 
situation had been very stressful for her.
Oodle then confirmed that Miss L did have a payment deferral for three months in early 
2020.
I got in touch with both Miss L and Oodle again. I explained, given what Oodle said about 
Miss Ls arrears, that I would likely change the redress in my final decision to reflect the fact 
that Miss L hadnt been paying towards the agreement. I explained the redress was likely to 
be along the same lines as in my provisional decision, but I would explain Oodle could use 
some reimbursements to reduce Miss Ls arrears before paying anything to her directly. I 
gave both parties two weeks to come back with anything further to this.
That time has now passed, so I will make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about everything again, I still think this complaint should be upheld. This is 
due to the same reasons I explained in my provisional decision and set out above. 
I do however think Oodle should do something different to put things right than I initially 
explained, given what I now know about the arrears on the account. 
Thinking about whats fair and reasonable, Im satisfied Miss L should be responsible for the 
repayments under the agreement for the periods where the car was in working order. I have 
considered what Miss L said about being in a payment deferral for part of this time. But, 
whatever happened here, she still would be responsible for making up the payments from 
this period. So, this doesnt change my opinion.
The redress below is similar to what I originally recommended, but Ive amended it slightly to 
reflect what happened.
Putting things right
To put things right, I find its fair and reasonable that Oodle:
Collect the car at no cost to Miss L at a time and date suitable for her
End the agreement with nothing further to pay and treat the account as though the 
car was rejected on 1 May 2021
Remove 20% of all repayments due towards the agreement from 4 December 2019 
to 24 January 2020 from Miss Ls arrears
Remove all repayments due towards the agreement from 8 September 2020 to 28 
November 2020 from Miss Ls arrears
Remove 20% of all repayments due towards the agreement from 28 November 2020 
to 01 May 2021 from Miss Ls arrears
Reimburse Miss L £89 from the DPF cleaning from 24 July 2020 * **Reimburse Miss L £150 from the vehicle recovery from 8 September 2020 * **
Reimburse Miss L £3,100 for the engine replacement and DPF replacement from 16 
November 2020 * **
Pay Miss L £250 for distress and inconvenience***
* These amounts should have 8% simple annual interest added from the time of payment to 
the time of reimbursement. If Oodle considers that its required by HM Revenue and 
Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Miss L how much its taken 
off. It should also give Miss L a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customers if appropriate.
** These amounts can be used to reduce Miss Ls arrears if they are still outstanding. Any 
excess should be paid directly to Miss L
*** This should be paid directly to Miss L and should not be used to reduce any arrears
If Miss L still has arrears outstanding following these calculations and payments, Oodle 
should treat her situation with forbearance and due consideration.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Oodle Financial Services Limited to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman