DRN-3828643
The complaint
Mr A (through a representative) has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as 
Safety Net Credit (SNC)) didnt complete enough affordability checks before providing him 
for a Safety Net facility. Had it carried out proportionate checks it wouldve discovered Mr A 
was under financial strain, had two car loans and a number of outstanding payday loans.
 
What happened
Mr A approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in January 2020. This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. Mr A was not advanced a payday loan. 
Mr A was initially given a facility with a £500 credit limit in January 2020. His limit was 
increased on three occasions, with the final increase  taking the credit limit to £700 in 
September 2020. 
Mr A appears to have had some problems repaying his facility and SNC has told the 
Financial Ombudsman that as of March 2021 an outstanding balance remained of £753.20.
 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr As complaint. She thought the checks SNC carried out 
before granting this facility were likely proportionate and these checks (which included 
considering the bank transaction data and a credit search) showed that Mr A would be able 
to afford the repayments he was committed to making. This led her to conclude that SNC 
had made a reasonable decision to provide the facility. 
The adjudicator also concluded, that due to the way Mr A used the facility, SNC should have 
stopped allowing him to continue using it from 9 August 2021. At this point in time, the 
adjudicator was concerned at the way Mr A was using the facility  repaying the facility and 
then quickly returning for new funds. 
Mr As representative acknowledged receipt of the adjudicators assessment and said Mr A 
accepted the proposed outcome. 
SNC disagreed with the assessment, and Ive summarised its response below. 
No reasons were given as to why the facility was unaffordable or any justifications 
that suggested the facility was unsustainable. 
SNC disagrees that continued use of the facility, is itself a bad thing. 
Being indebted is of itself is not enough for it to suspend the facility.
SNCs monitoring showed the facility was affordable to Mr A and was repaid within a 
reasonable period of time.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
To start with, Mr A wasnt given a payday loan. Instead, he was provided with a credit facility 
where there was an expectation it would be repaid within a reasonable period of time. 
Interest is charged on any balance at 0.8% per day for the first 40 days following the 
drawdown. After the 40 days, a consumer will pay no further interest on that drawdown. 
Throughout the lifetime of a consumer having the facility SNC maintains read-only access to 
their bank statements, in order to allow it to monitor a consumers finances to carry out 
additional affordability assessments. 
Finally, Mr As expected repayment would be calculated to be 5% of the amount due plus 
any interest, fees or charges. But a minimum amount of £20 would be expected to be paid. 
Therefore, when Mr As facility was approved for £500 SNC needed to satisfy itself that Mr A 
would be in a position to make the repayment of £20, by carrying out a proportionate check. 
In this case, SNC had a fairly good idea of Mr As income and expenditure because it had 
read only access to his bank statements for the year preceding the facility being granted. It 
then used an algorithm to establish what Mr As income was from his retail job he held for 
the entire time he borrowed from SNC and what his expenditure was. After completing this 
check, in this case, SNC was satisfied that Mr A could afford the minimum repayment 
towards the facility.
It also carried out a credit search before the facility was granted. Ive considered the 
summary of results SNC has provided, and there doesnt appear to have been anything in 
those results which wouldve led SNC to either decline the application or prompted it to have 
carried out further checks before the facility was approved. 
To begin with, it would appear Mr A has accepted our adjudicators opinion, that SNC wasnt 
wrong to approve his running credit facility or to have increased his credit limit. For the 
avoidance of doubt, I also dont think SNC was wrong to have initially granted the facility or 
to have increased the credit limit  although I do have some reservations about the number 
of payments being made to an instalment loan provider. But I havent seen enough to say 
that SNC shouldnt have granted the facility or increased the credit limit. 
So, this decision will focus on whether SNC did enough to monitor Mr As facility whilst he 
held it and whether there was a point which SNC should have halted any further borrowing 
on it.
Although I dont think SNC was wrong to have initially granted the facility, I do think, like the 
adjudicator it was unfair for it to have allowed Mr A to continue drawing down on the account 
from 9 August 2021. This is because I think the way he was using the account indicated he 
wasnt using it in a sustainable manner. Ill explain below why I think this is the case.  
At the time, and during the use of the facility, SNC was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. The guidance and rules for credit providers has been laid out by the FCA in its 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). I think it reasonable to see what the FCA has said in 
CONC and how it applies to this case. CONC (6.7.2) states that SNC had to:
[A firm must] monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action 
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
And CONC 1.3 outlines some examples of what financial difficulties (which, of course, 
would be intrinsically linked to, and at the heart of, any repayment difficulties) may look like 
 but CONC 1.3 makes it clear the list is not exhaustive. 
So CONC sets out that SNC was required to monitor Mr As use of the facility and then 
CONC 1.3 provides indications which could suggest that a customer was in financial 
difficulty.
In addition to this, SNC has a good indication of Mr As actual financial position, because 
throughout the time of him having the facility it had read-only access to his bank account. By 
this point, SNC had seen read only statements since January 2019 and it had seen how 
Mr A had used and managed the facility since it was granted in January 2020. 
In order to see whether I think it was fair to allow Mr A to continue to drawdown, Ive 
considered the relationship between when repayments were made to SNC, the value of 
those payments and then when Mr A returned for further borrowing. After all, if Mr A was 
drawing down similar sums within days of SNC taking a payment from his account this ought 
to have indicated that SNC was causing him to once again borrow the funds that SNC had 
just taken. 
By monitoring the facility  as it was required to do, SNC wouldve realised that Mr A would 
repay his facility in full (or at the very least the majority of the balance), and then within a 
short space of time, usually days but no more than a week, Mr A would start to draw back up 
towards his available credit limit. 
When considering all of the information SNC had available to it about Mr As circumstances 
along with the payments SNC was collecting each month, I think by 9 August 2021, it was 
clear that the facility had become unsustainable - and simply collecting the full (or the 
majority) outstanding balance on the account and then allowing Mr A to once again start to 
borrow funds that had been recently collected was detrimental to his financial situation. But 
instead of doing this SNC allowed Mr A to continue to use the facility. 
Indeed, by July 2021, SNC was on notice that Mr A was still working in retail for the same 
company he was with at the start of the lending relationship. His monthly, income was 
around £1,700 per month and in July 2021 he borrowed a further £300 from SNC. 
However, his living costs  which are only the payment mandates I can see in the 
transaction history (and not including items such as food and petrol  and associated costs) 
came to around £1,200. So, the facility may have looked affordable. However, in July 2021, 
Mr A repaid over £1,000 to SNC  clearly repayments at this level were no longer 
sustainable given, the total of his core living costs and repayment to SNC was more than his 
income, which inevitably meant that in August 2021, he returned and borrowed a total of 
£700 became the hole left in his finances by repaying the facility. By August 2021, Mr A had demonstrated that he wasnt using the facility as SNC had 
intended, he was borrowing down and repaying the facility in the same month, and therefore 
was in effect taking multiple payday loans because he wasnt always benefiting from or 
making use of the interest free period of time. This patterned continued for the rest of the 
relationship  the full balance was repaid and then within a day or so Mr A returned for 
further borrowing. 
Overall and having thought about everything I think that SNC shouldve proactively 
intervened and contacted Mr A to arrange for him to repay what he owed within a reasonable 
period of time. 
Putting things right
If the debt has been sold to a third party, SNC should, if it wishes, buy the debt back and 
then carry out the redress below. If it isnt able to or doesnt wish to buy the debt back then it 
needs to work with the third party to achieve the same results.
A) Remove all the unpaid interest, fees and charges from the account from 
9 August 2021.
B) Treat all payments Mr A has made towards his account since 9 August 2021 as 
though they had been repayments of outstanding principal.
C) If at any point Mr A wouldve been in credit on his account after considering the 
above, SNC will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
refund is paid.
D) If there is an outstanding principal balance, then SNC can use any refunds calculated 
as part of C to repay this. If a balance remains after this, then SNC should try to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr A. If SNC has previously written-off any 
principal, then it shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up only of principal it 
has already written-off.
E) SNC should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mr As credit file 
from 9 August 2021.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give 
Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr As complaint in part.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mr A as directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman