DRN-2390913
The complaint
Miss P has complained that Arrow Global Limited threatened her with a default despite her 
keeping to a repayment arrangement.
What happened
This relates to a consumer credit home shopping account, which Arrow bought from the 
original creditor in 2015.
Miss P suffers from a number of health issues that mean shes unable to work and has only 
a limited income. In 2018, a debt advice charity helped her set up a reduced repayment plan 
with Arrow, based on what she could afford.
Miss P kept up with her arrangement. However, Arrow continued to send her warnings and 
threats of a default. Miss P borrowed £272 from family to pay the arrears, saying she felt 
pressured and was worried about a default. She thought her arrangement meant she wasnt 
in arrears, so she complained.
Arrow initially put the account on hold while the complaint was with us, but then defaulted it 
anyway.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. They felt it was 
unreasonable to continue to threaten Miss P while she was keeping up her arrangement. 
They suggested Arrow pays her £150 compensation. Arrow disagreed, so the complaint was 
put forward for an ombudsmans decision.
Meanwhile, the original creditor decided that the account had been lent irresponsibly. So in 
April 2020, they bought the debt back from Arrow, refunded the interest and charges, 
removed any negative credit referencing information on their side, and asked Arrow to 
remove any such negative information on its side. Arrow didnt do so, so they sent Arrow a 
follow-up reminder in June 2020.
I sent Miss P and Arrow Global a provisional decision on 13 November 2020, to explain 
why I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
I can understand why Miss P was confused about what her repayments were supposed to 
be. Her contract set the minimum payment as a percentage of her balance, whereas Arrow 
kept telling her it was £52 a month, which actually appears to be her previous reduced 
repayment arrangement with the original creditor. Then when Miss P set up her new 
repayment arrangement, Arrows confirmation letter didnt mention that it was different to the 
contractual payment, or what the contractual payment was, or that Arrow was unhappy with 
her payment plan and might later default her account  it simply said her new payments 
were £34/month. I can certainly see why Miss P would come away from this thinking that 
£34/month was her new contractual repayment.
Meanwhile, the phone adviser didnt make it clear that Arrow thought Miss P wasnt paying 
enough  they talked about reduced payments in general terms, and said that arrears may 
accrue, which may build up and possibly lead to a default. I can see why Miss P might not 
have thought this was relevant to her. They appeared to have accepted her payment 
proposal and they werent stressing the accounts status to her.
So I think its understandable that Miss P was then surprised and confused when she started 
receiving warnings about arrears and defaults.
In any case, Ive considered the relevant rules and guidance here, and I agree with our 
investigator that while Miss P was keeping up with her arrangement, Arrow should have held 
off on the default process. It doesnt seem right that Arrow sent her default threats when they 
knew she was a vulnerable customer who was already paying what she could afford, having 
worked things out through a debt advice charity.
So I agree that Arrow put Miss P under some unfair pressure to clear her arrears. She had to 
get in debt with her family to do so, and otherwise had further stress piled onto her already 
vulnerable situation.
Further, thinking about the relevant guidance from the Information Commissioners Office, it 
would have been more suitable  and a better reflection of what was going on  if Arrow had 
recorded her payments as an arrangement to pay on her credit file, rather than as arrears. 
I realise this may seem like a minor point now that Arrow has been told to remove all the 
negative information on the file  but the fact remains that there was a period where Arrow 
was recording things more negatively than it necessarily needed to.
It also doesnt seem particularly appropriate that Arrow defaulted the account while our 
service was looking into a relevant dispute about its status and payments, and when it had 
previously agreed to put things on hold. Again, this caused Miss P unneeded stress and 
upset. Further, Miss P says she was never sent a default notice, and Arrow has not been 
able to evidence that it ever sent one.
Lastly, in April 2020 the original creditor told Arrow that it needed to remove any negative 
information from Miss Ps credit file. Yet in June 2020, Arrow was still arguing with our 
service that it was not going to stop reporting on her credit file. The original creditor sent a 
further request in June, which Arrow now says it followed. However, when we checked in 
with Miss P a few weeks ago she said the information was still showing, and she sent us 
screenshots from her credit file to back this up. So its not clear whether Arrow has removed 
all the negative information yet, or not. And even if it has now, it seems that it caused an 
unnecessary delay in removing the information between at least April and June 2020.
In summary, I think that Arrow caused confusion here by not being clear about Miss Ps 
payments. I think it failed to show appropriate forbearance or act positively and 
sympathetically in light of Miss Ps vulnerable situation and financial difficulties, including 
putting pressure on her when she was keeping up with an arrangement that it knew was all 
she could afford. Im not satisfied that Arrow sent appropriate correspondence regarding the 
default. And it caused an unnecessary delay in fixing Miss Ps credit file.In terms of putting things right, I can see that the original creditor has already refunded 
everything that Miss P overpaid for this account  which will include the money that she 
borrowed from her family. So I dont require Arrow to refund that a second time. But I do 
think Arrow should compensate Miss P for the substantial distress and upset it caused her 
when she was already in a tough position, as well as for the time where it was having an 
unfairly negative impact on her credit file.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
27 November 2020. But neither Arrow Global nor Miss P sent me anything new to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.
Putting things right
Arrow Global Limited needs to:
Remove all negative information about this account from Miss Ps credit file, if it has 
not already done so; and- 
Pay her £350 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ps complaint, and direct Arrow Global Limited to put things right in the way 
I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman