DRN-1549222
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold mortgage payment protection 
insurance ("PPI") in 1992.
What happened
Briefly:
In 1992 Mr C took out PPI at the same time as taking out a mortgage. Both things happened 
during a branch meeting.
The policy provided protection for Mr C's mortgage payments in the event he couldn't work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy would pay out for up to 
24 months per claim and it cost around £18 a month at the outset.
At the time of the sale Mr C was employed, and he says he was entitled to sick pay of less 
than three months' pay. He said he didn't have any savings, but he couldve relied on family 
to help him out with his mortgage payments if anything went wrong. He also said he was in 
good health at the time.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said the evidence 
showed the policy was a condition of the mortgage Mr C took out and that he couldve 
chosen a different mortgage or gone elsewhere if he didn't want PPI. But they said in any 
event there was nothing to indicate PPI was wrong or inappropriate for him.
Mr C disagrees, so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding 
Mr C's complaint.
Having done so, while I know this isn't the answer Mr C was hoping for, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint. My reasoning is set out below.
Despite the sale happening over 25 years ago, Nationwide still has much of the paperwork 
from the time including Mr C's mortgage application and mortgage offer letter. Looking at the 
mortgage application, I can see that on page six there is a section titled 'Redundancy, 
Accident and Sickness Protection'  
Here it says: 'Do you want your mortgage payments to be covered in the event of accident, 
sickness or unemployment?' and there is a tick in the 'Yes' box - there was an equally 
prominent 'No' box.Importantly, immediately underneath the tick boxes it says: ' Please note that where the loan 
is over 95% of the property value or purchase price, whichever is the lower, Mortgage 
Payment Cover is compulsory.'  I can also see the word 'Compulsory' has been handwritten 
at the top of this section of the application - presumably by a Nationwide member of staff 
because Mr C was borrowing more than 95%. 
Around the time Mr C took out his mortgage, it was not uncommon for lenders to either offer 
discounted or special mortgage rates on the condition that a customer also had to take out 
one or more of its insurance products  for example PPI - or insist on PPI being taken out for 
high loan to value borrowings of typically more than 95%. And so long as the lender made it 
clear to the borrower that this was the case, in my view there was nothing wrong or unfair 
about this practice.
So did Nationwide make it clear to Mr C that the mortgage was conditional on him taking out 
PPI?  
I think it did. As I said above, the mortgage application said that PPI was compulsory for 
lending over 95%, and I think this was clearly set out. And in addition to this, Mr C's 
mortgage offer letter made it clear that PPI had to be taken out and maintained - it was an 
explicit condition of the offer to lend - in a separate and distinct paragraph. A copy of this 
would've also been sent to Mr C's solicitor.
Overall, I think Mr C had enough information to understand that the mortgage Nationwide 
was offering him required him to take out PPI. So if Mr C didn't want PPI, or he didn't think 
the offer worked for him overall, he could've chosen a different mortgage elsewhere.
I accept its possible Nationwide didn't provide everything Mr C needed to know about the 
PPI policy itself to make an informed decision about it  for example the evidence available 
doesn't tell me that the cost was disclosed; albeit I find it unlikely it wasn't disclosed at any 
stage of the process or that Mr C went ahead without knowing the cost. 
But despite any possible failings by Nationwide, the policy wasn't fundamentally wrong for 
Mr C  he wasn't caught by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover, which might 
have made the policy less attractive or of less value to him, for example those relating to 
existing medical conditions or unusual employment circumstances. And given his limited 
existing means available to him to help him make his mortgage payments, he appears to 
have had a need for cover - I think it would've proved useful to him if the insured risks 
became a reality.
So in summary - I think Mr C had enough information to understand the terms of the 
mortgage offer and that it required him to take out PPI because he was borrowing more than 
95% of the purchase price. And while there might've been gaps in the information 
Nationwide provided about the PPI itself, because the policy appears to have been 
appropriate for Mr C, I dont think his decision to take out the mortgage with the PPI wouldve 
been any different had Nationwide done anything more.
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said  including what he's said about Nationwide 
lending him the deposit monies by way of a personal loan; that he was not made aware that 
PPI would not be compulsory for lending below 95%; and that if Nationwide was acting in his 
best interests, it should've offered him a slightly lower mortgage but with a bigger personal 
loan for the difference to avoid having to take out PPI. But this doesn't alter my decision. 
I've not seen any evidence that Nationwide lent Mr C the money for his house deposit, so I 
can't comment on that. But in any event, I've said that Nationwide made it clear that PPI was 
compulsory for mortgages over 95% of the purchase price as in Mr C's case.So I think it's reasonable to assume that Mr C would've understood from this - and from the 
way PPI was set out in the mortgage application - that borrowings of less than 95% loan to 
value wouldn't require PPI. But as Mr C said he didn't have any savings, it seems to me a 
mortgage with a lower loan-to-value wasn't an option for him.
As to the point that Nationwide should've acted in Mr C's best interests by offering him a 
lower mortgage amount making up the difference with a personal loan to avoid PPI being 
compulsory - I'm not persuaded by this argument.
Notwithstanding that I've already said Mr C could've gone elsewhere if he didn't like the 
terms of the mortgage offer made clear to him, I don't think it would be considered good 
lending or industry practice for Nationwide to have done what Mr C suggests. Lending for a 
house purchase is done by way of a mortgage - it provides security for the lender resulting in 
a lower interest rate than for unsecured borrowing.
So borrowing by way of a personal unsecured loan would've likely incurred a higher interest 
rate than a mortgage, and the maximum available term would be considerably less than 25 
years. So lending this way would've likely increased Mr C's overall monthly loan repayments. 
I don't consider this would've been acting in Mr C's best interests.
So for the above reasons I don't uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I've set out above, I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no 
award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman