DRN-3214243
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice he received in 2015 to transfer two personal pensions to 
a self- invested personal pension (SIPP). His transfer proceeds were invested in Dolphin 
Capital, a German property development scheme, and a Property Bond both of which have 
failed. He says the advice to transfer wasnt suitable because the proposed investment 
was too high risk for him. He holds Wellington Court Financial Services Limited 
responsible.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint and my provisional findings in my provision 
decision dated 22 November 2021. This is included below and forms part of this decision:
In July 2015, Mr D transferred the benefits he had in personal pensions into The Orbis SIPP 
administered by Guinness Mahon Trust Corporation Limited (GMTC). The documentation says 
that the adviser was Wellington Court.
Mr Ds complained to Wellington Court in 2019. He said, in brief, that Wellington Courts advice 
had been negligent because the investments were too high risk for him and hed lost his 
investments. The investment now looks to have little value. Mr D says Wellington Court is 
responsible for his losses. In response, Wellington Court said Mr D has never been its customer, 
so it has no case to answer. It says any paperwork linking Mr D to Wellington Court is fraudulent.
Mr D referred his complaint to us. Our investigator said that an advice fee was taken from Mr Ds 
SIPP and paid to Wellington Court. He thought this was enough evidence to show Wellington 
Court was responsible for Mr Ds transfer and, therefore, that this was a complaint that we could 
look at.
As Wellington Court disagreed, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Wellington Court has said has already been considered and communicated in other 
decisions  with very similar circumstances, so much of what I say in this decision will already be 
familiar to it. However, this case has been considered on its own merits and in light of the 
particular circumstances of this case. And the fact that this decision will largely follow what has 
come before is because Ive considered the available evidence and come to same conclusions 
that weve reached previously.
1.Documents provided by Mr D and GMTC
The following were provided by Mr D and GMTC:
I.A letter undated to GMTC, sent on Wellington Court headed paper, applying to the Orbis 
SIPP on Mr Ds behalf. The letter said it was enclosing an application for the SIPP and 
an invoice. The letter is signed on the behalf of Mr P from Wellington Court. The 
signature is indecipherable.
II.The Orbis SIPP New Application Checklist. This was a series of tick boxes of the 
various documents (such as a SIPP application form and transfer discharge form) that the 
adviser had to check had been provided for the transfer to proceed. Like the covering 
letter, this was signed on the behalf of Mr P from Wellington Court rather than by Mr P 
himself. The signature is indecipherable but looks to be the same as the one on the 
covering letter. Under the signature, Mr Ps name has been printed by hand. Mr Ps first 
name was spelt incorrectly at first but was then corrected. An incorrect Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) reference number was also provided  the number used was actually 
Wellington Courts Irish company registration number. The form was signed on 5 June 
2015.
III.The Orbis SIPP application form which includes Mr Ds details and is signed by him on 30 
May 2015.
IV.The Orbis SIPP Important Risk Notices document. This was a nine-page document 
that outlined the various risks of the SIPP. This is signed by Mr D on 30 May 2015
V.An Adviser Remuneration Form. This set out the advice fee that Mr D had agreed to 
pay Wellington Court. It said the following:
I have appointed [Mr P] of Wellington Court Financial Services Ltd ("the Company") 
to provide me with advice in relation to The Orbis SIPP (The SIPP') and any 
related investment advice in respect of assets held within the SIPP.
Initial Fee Renewal Fee Fixed Fee (£)
Transfers into the 
Scheme1% to a maximum of 
£800 plus VATNIL NIL
Single Premium NIL NIL NIL
Regular Premium NIL NIL NIL
I confirm my agreement to these charges and authorise Guinness Mahon Trust 
Corporation to debit the fees from the SIPP Bank Account and pay them on my 
behalf, this agreement replaces any existing agreement Mr D signed the form 
on 30 May 2005.
VI.Two Orbis SIPP Transfer Details Information Forms. These set out the details of Mr 
Ds transfer, including the transfer value, scheme name transferred from and policy 
number. These were signed by Mr D on 30 May 2015.
VII.Mr Ds statements from his SIPP showing a fee of £770.09 being paid on 14 July 
2015 from the SIPP as IFA Fees. The description says, Wellington Financial IFA 
Fee.
VIII.An email between GMTC and Mr P (using a common email providers domain) asking 
whether Mr P wants to proceed on a transfer that has protected tax free cash. Mr P 
responds to say he wishes to proceed and signs off the email with his name and a mobile 
phone number.
1.Mr Ds recollections
Mr D says that all of his contact to setup the SIPP and transfers was through another firm who 
said they were acting as introducers. Mr D says he was got in contact with them through word of 
mouth and met with the introducers who set out the plan for his pension investments. Mr Ds told 
us what was discussed and what actually happened in terms of where his money was transferred to differed. Mr D said he was interested in moving his pension as it wasnt doing much and he 
was told about the advantages of not having to take an annuity and death benefits within a SIPP.
2.Documents from Wellington Court
Ill come on to what Wellington Court has said in response to Mr Ds complaint later in my 
decision. But its worth pointing out at this stage that it hasnt provided any documents in 
relation to Mr Ds transfer because it says it didnt advise Mr D and that Mr D has never 
been a client of Wellington Court.
Wellington Court has, however, said (in relation to a different complaint) that it did some 
consultancy work on behalf of GMTC in relation to the transfer of pensions into the Orbis 
SIPP. It says the work was limited to checking files to ensure there were no transfers of 
safeguarded benefits into the SIPP because GMTC didnt want to receive that type of transfer.
We asked Wellington Court to provide us with a copy of the consultancy agreement it had 
with GMTC and further details about its work  for instance the fees it earned  but it hasnt 
done so. It has, however, said its regulator, the FCA, contacted it in 2016 in relation to some 
GMTC pension cases which led to it meeting with the FCA on 10 August 2016. The 
attendees at that meeting were Mr P from Wellington Court and two representatives from the 
FCA.
Wellington Court has told us it emailed the FCA ahead of that meeting with the 
following statement about its activities:
Telephone conversations and selected paper work was initiated by Guinness Mahon (GM) 
and presented to our representative.
[Mr P] liaised with GM over the phone or occasionally inspected paper work at the GM's 
Reigate office to ascertain whether the cases had safeguarded or final salary benefits and 
filtered them out and informed GM accordingly.
There was no need for us to retain or obtain any documents as we were not advising 
or dealing with clients.
The service provided to GM was on a very generic basis, not relating to personal client's 
needs and objectives. At no stage did [Mr P] meet or have any communication with the clients 
of GM or Orbis.
We did not record telephone calls with GM's administration team. We presume that GM has the 
relevant clients files with all the information you require. The briefings received from GM were 
made verbally and were selective.
As mentioned in my email dated 9.7.2016, under 'Point 3 of your email dated 24.6.2016' 
Orbis' criteria: Orbis did not want any safeguarded or differed [sic] benefits pensions to be 
transferred to their schemes. Orbis wanted money purchase business. Orbis wished to 
contract out this work on an as needed basis to somebody with suitable experience to be 
able to identify the filter criteria.
My colleague [Mr P] will brief you fully on Wednesday the 10.8.2016 on the dealings with 
GM and will answer any questions you may have.
2.Payment to Wellington Court in relation to Mr D
Mr D transferred £77,009.20 from his personal pensions to the Orbis SIPP in 2015. A 1% fee 
on the combined amount (along the lines of the initial fee in the Adviser Remuneration Form 
described above) would equal £770.09 According to his SIPP transaction statement this exact 
amount was taken from Mr Ds transfer value. It was recorded on his SIPP statement as a 
Wellington IFA fee. This amount was included with other 1% fees for other individuals and the total amount, which came to £7,731.07 was then paid from the GMTC client account to 
Wellington Courts bank account (with HSBC) on 15 July 2015.
3.Evidence from similar cases
I am aware of a significant number of other complaints about Wellington Court which have 
very similar features to Mr Ds case. Whilst Im deciding here on whats fair and reasonable in 
the particular circumstances of Mr Ds case, for context I think its reasonable to consider the 
evidence from these other cases alongside the evidence that has been collected in relation to 
Mr Ds case. Specifically:
I.GMTC has provided screen-shots showing the entries made into an advisers portal for 
some transfers. The portal records the details of the individual transferring (name, 
address, details of transferring scheme and so on) as well as the advisers name  Mr P  
and the name of an introducer.
II.Paperwork from other complaints show a number of introducer firms were involved 
in these transfers
III.The recollections of the complainants in other cases havent been particularly detailed.
IV.Other payments to Wellington Court
Information provided by GMTC in relation to other complaints shows that 1% payments 
along the same lines as Mr Ds were made to the same Wellington Court bank account in 
relation to many other individuals, including (but not necessarily limited to) the following:
£9,239.74 on 30 March 2015 in relation to thirty-two transferred policies (for 
22 individuals  some individuals transferred more than one policy). The 
payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts statement was 
GM ADVISER FEES.
£8,588.76 on 24 April 2015 (the number of policies and individuals this 
payment relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to appear on 
Wellington Courts statement was OR ADVISER FEES.
£9,503.33 on 20 May 2015 in relation to 31 transferred policies (for 19 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington 
Courts statement was ORBIS SIPP FEES.
£8,881.16 on 16 June 2015 in relation to 24 transferred policies (for 21 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington 
Courts statement was GM IFA FEES.
£11,423.77 on 26 June 2015 in relation to 25 transferred policies (for 17 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington 
Courts statement was GM ADVISER FEES.
£7,731.07 on 15 July 2015 in relation to 23 transferred policies (for 18 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington 
Courts statement was ORBIS CLIENT FEES
£4,762.19 on 27 July 2015 in relation to 14 transferred policies (for 12 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington 
Courts statement was GM IFA FEE.
£3,091.06 on 5 August 2015 in relation to 8 transferred policies (for eight 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington 
Courts statement was GM IFA FEES.£4,624.87 on 18 August in relation to 12 transferred policies (the number of 
individuals this relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to 
appear (and did appear) on Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA 
FEES.
£6,573.32 on 25 August 2015 in relation to 14 transferred policies (the number 
of individuals this relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to 
appear (and did appear) on Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA FEES.
£12,672.03 on 7 October 2015 in relation to 46 transferred policies (for 31 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington 
Courts statement was GM IFA FEES. This payment included Mr Ds 
£777.05 fee.
The above is based on information provided in Mr Ds case and other similar cases. Its not 
necessarily comprehensive. A quick review shows that there are no entries for September 
2015 for instance. So I think its fair to say the above shows that at least £87,000 was paid 
from GMTC to the one Wellington Court bank account in relation to over 200 transferred 
policies in a six month period. Its entirely possible that payments were happening before and 
after this six month period too.
For completeness, it should be noted that we have the records for the payments being made 
from GMTC but we dont have the records for all those payments being received by 
Wellington Court other than for the £6,573.32 payment on 25 August and the £4,624.87 
payment on 18 August. This is because Wellington Court has only provided us with heavily 
redacted bank statements. I see no plausible reason why GMTCs payments wouldnt have all 
reached Wellington Court and Ill proceed on that basis. However, as this is a provisional 
decision, Wellington Court is welcome to provide us with its unredacted bank statements to 
show the payments it did, and did not, receive from GMTC.
Interpreting the evidence  what does all this mean?
I need to make findings of fact based on the available evidence in order to decide whether this 
complaint is one we can consider against Wellington Court and, if so, whether its fair and 
reasonable to uphold the complaint. Where things are unclear or in dispute, I have made my 
findings on the balance of probabilities; that is, on what I think is more likely than not to have 
happened in the circumstances.
In the absence of any clear evidence or persuasive arguments to the contrary, my findings of fact 
will likely be as outlined in this section.
Mr D was approached by someone  what appears to be an unregulated introducer  and as a 
result of those conversations, became interested in transferring his pensions to the Orbis SIPP 
and investing in the Dolphin Capital and the Property Bond.
It looks like GMTC wanted the involvement of an independent financial adviser (IFA) before 
accepting a transfer because in its Important Risk Notices, it said the SIPP was ordinarily 
offered through an IFA regulated by the FCA. It appears the paperwork described above was 
evidence enough for GMTC to have accepted the transfer as coming through an IFA. As a result, 
the transfers went ahead and the 1% initial advice fee was taken from the two transfer values and 
paid to Wellington Court. As his investments had failed and recovery of funds looks uncertain, Mr 
D complained to Wellington Court because its name appeared on the transfer paperwork which 
said, amongst other things, that it had provided the advice to transfer.
Wellington Court says it has never had any direct, or indirect, dealings with Mr D and the 
evidence linking Wellington Court to Mr D is fraudulent. It says the covering letter from Wellington 
Court to GMTC to open the SIPP was faked and didnt come from Wellington Court. It points to 
the unprofessional look of the letter, as well as the fact that the letter was signed on behalf of the 
adviser in question  Mr P  rather than by Mr P himself and the person who signed that letter is 
untraceable because their signature is indecipherable. With regards to the application checklist, it points to an incorrect FCA reference number being written on the form and the adviser, Mr P, 
misspelling (and then correcting) his name. It also says Mr P worked in a marketing, rather than 
advisory, capacity. More broadly, there isnt any evidence to show any documents were sent to 
Wellington Court, which it says supports its view that all of the above was done without its 
knowledge.
My view is that Wellington Court was engaged in advisory business involving the transfer of 
pensions (Mr Ds included) to the Orbis SIPP and that Wellington Courts actions are not 
consistent with its allegations that it has been the victim of fraud.
I say this because I would have expected Wellington Court to have investigated the receipt of 
advice fees if they had genuinely been unexpected. They appeared on Wellington Courts bank 
statement as GM IFA FEES (or something similar) which I think is clear. The payments were all 
made to the same bank account. And the amounts are significant  at least £87,000 in a period of 
just six months. I dont see how these could have been overlooked, which suggests to me that 
they werent overlooked but were, instead, recognised payments in relation to the aforementioned 
advisory work.
Ive also reviewed Wellington Courts financial statements for the period under review and these 
show a significant increase in income in 2015 in comparison with the previous year (where 
income was minimal). Given the numbers, its reasonable to say the increase in income was 
driven largely by the fees from GMTC. So Wellington Court would have to have overlooked large 
payments both at the time and later on when preparing its accounts. Overlooking one in isolation 
seems unlikely. Overlooking both seems improbable.
I appreciate Wellington Court has (in other cases) pointed to the consultancy work it did with 
GMTC. It hasnt articulated in detail what its argument is in this respect. But I can only assume 
that its saying either the payments it received from GMTC were for its consultancy work or that its 
consultancy work meant other payments from GMTC could easily have been overlooked which 
would give credence to its argument that the transfers were happening without its knowledge.
I dont think the first argument stands up to much scrutiny because theres a clear audit trail  
outlined in 5(iv) above  that shows the payments werent for consultancy work but related to 1% 
advice fees for particular policies that had been transferred. So Ill proceed on the basis that 
Wellington Court is arguing that receiving payments from GMTC was a normal enough occurrence 
that it wouldnt have considered any one payment unusual or a sign that it was a potential victim of 
fraud. But on this point, Wellington Court hasnt provided us with any details of the fees it earned for 
its consultancy work and the bank statements it did provide (which would have shown all income 
received from GMTC) have been too heavily redacted to allow much insight. So whilst its possible 
that the fees for its consultancy work were of a similar magnitude to the 1% initial fees outlined 
above, were paid around the same time and had similar payment references  so that Wellington 
Court wouldnt reasonably have considered them unusual  theres no evidence to support this.
Im also minded that other financial advice firms that have done similar consultancy work in 
relation to transfers to GMTC charged a fixed fee of £30 per case. So for Wellington Court to 
have earned enough to have reasonably overlooked some payments from GMTC, it would have 
to have worked an unfeasibly large number of cases to make the numbers add up.
Alternatively, it could have charged more than £30 per case. But even with this assumption, the 
numbers dont look feasible. A charge of £100 per case (unlikely in itself to just check whether a 
pension had safeguarded benefits) would still require 870 cases in order to produce an income 
in the region of £87,000.
Its also worth noting that in cases where Ive seen advisory firms provide checking-type services 
as part of the transfer process, the checklists they completed and signed on each case are still 
available. I find it unusual that GMTCs consultancy work left no paper trail whatsoever whereas 
there is a paper trail for work it said it didnt do. I think its case can only be weakened by such an 
anomaly. And the advisory firms that provided checking-type services also made it clear in their 
paperwork that they wouldnt be offering advice. So I think Wellington Courts case is weakened 
further because it cant now provide any similar evidence to show it never intended to operate in 
the advisory space in relation to its work with GMTC.I think the meeting Wellington Court had with the FCA would also have been a prompt for further 
investigation on Wellington Courts part. Wellington Court hasnt provided us with much detail 
about that meeting  Ive repeated what it said above. So I dont know if the FCA had specific 
concerns about Wellington Court or whether the purpose was to investigate GMTC and/or the 
unregulated introducers who were operating in this area. Either way, it strikes me that the FCAs 
intervention was unusual and, as such, should reasonably have prompted further investigation by 
Wellington Court about its own dealings with GMTC. The fact that Wellington Court  based on 
the evidence provided to date  didnt take any further action is another reason why I think the 
advice fees it received from GMTC were in line with what it was expecting rather than being a 
result of something more alarming like fraudulent activity. I also think it would have been prudent 
of Wellington Court to have kept at least some documents in relation to the nature of its 
consultancy work with GMTC once the FCA had started to enquire about it.
On a similar note, it seems to me that when Wellington Court started to receive complaints about 
its alleged role in a number of transfers to GMTC, it could have investigated what had happened 
more thoroughly. Instead, based on its responses to the complainants involved, and to us, 
Wellington Court appears to have done little more than say it hasnt heard of the consumers in 
question (Mr D included) and that it has been a victim of fraud. I would be more willing to give 
greater credence to those allegations  which are serious after all  if Wellington Court had, for 
instance, contacted the police. But, based on the available evidence, it hasnt done this.
In terms of its allegations of fraud, Wellington Court appears to be blaming GMTC. It points to 
GMTCs insolvency, and questions its due diligence processes, but hasnt provided much further 
detail or evidence in terms of the specifics of what it thinks happened.
I think questioning GMTCs role in what happened is a reasonable response here. But it doesnt 
necessarily follow from this that GMTC was acting fraudulently or that Wellington Court wasnt 
involved. It could be argued that Wellington Courts involvement in the transfers could only have 
happened had there been failures on the part of GMTC too. So I dont think the well-publicised 
issues at GMTC necessarily absolve Wellington Court here.
It also strikes me that in order to perpetrate the fraud that Wellington Court has alleged, GMTC 
would have been reliant on Wellington Court not noticing a series of unsolicited, but substantial, 
payments into its bank account over an extended period and on those people that transferred (of 
which there many dozens) not questioning Wellington Court at any point. I dont think it likely that 
GMTC would have taken its chances in this way unless, of course, it had some sort of 
understanding with Wellington Court  in which case Wellington Courts involvement is still key to 
what happened.
Its also not clear to me how GMTC could have acted in the way Wellington Court has suggested. 
Wellington Court says its letter template was forged. But I dont think its clear from the evidence 
that thats the case. And to forge the letter in this way, and pay fees to Wellington Court, would 
have required access to one of Wellington Courts letters, and for it to have known GMTCs bank 
details. GMTC may have been able to get hold of both if it had previously worked with Wellington 
Court  through the consultancy work referred to earlier for instance. But Wellington Court hasnt 
provided anything to show what information (letter templates, bank details, names of employees 
and the like) GMTC would have had access to prior to the transfers taking place. 
Its worth noting in this context that Mr P from Wellington Court was self-employed and not a 
registered financial adviser so it seems unlikely his name would have been in the public domain 
or publicly linked with Wellington Court. GMTC also doesnt appear to have tried to hide the 
payments it made to Wellington Court in any way. If it had wanted its fees to go unnoticed, 
referring to them as GM IFA FEES or GM ADVISER FEES on its payment reference wouldnt 
have been the best way to have ensured that.
I can also see from its Companies House filings that Wellington Court was registered in the UK in 
2014 with an address in Reigate. GMTCs address was also in Reigate. So at the time of Mr Ds 
transfer (and the transfer of many others) there appears to have been a close geographical 
proximity between GMTC and Wellington Court. This doesnt, of course, mean Wellington Court acted incorrectly. But it does add weight to the possibility of a close working relationship between 
Wellington Court and GMTC (especially as Mr P appears to have spent time at GMTCs offices). 
It also shows that the relationship could have involved minimal formality and paperwork which 
would be in keeping with how Mr Ds transfer appears to have been conducted.
For the sake of completeness, I should point out that Wellington Courts company address has 
since moved from Reigate to Devon (which was effective from December 2016 according to 
Companies House).
I have given Wellington Courts arguments careful consideration. As it rightly says, the covering 
letter in Mr Ds case (item 1(i) above) isnt signed by the adviser in question (Mr P) but signed on 
his behalf by someone who has an indecipherable signature. Mr Ps name is misspelt, and then 
corrected, in the application checklist (item 1(ii) above). And the same form has Wellington 
Courts Irish business registration number instead of its FCA reference number. I also havent 
seen any correspondence that was sent to Wellington Court or any documents that are typical of 
an advice process. So there are a number of question marks here.
However, my role is to make findings of fact based on the available evidence in order to establish 
whether this is a complaint that we can consider against Wellington Court. And, if so, whether its 
fair and reasonable to uphold that complaint. My role isnt to speculate beyond that. With this in 
mind, and for the reasons set out above, I make the following findings of fact:
Wellington Court was engaged in advisory business relating to the transfer 
of pensions to the Orbis SIPP. This included the transfer of Mr Ds 
pensions.
Wellington Courts actions are not consistent with it being the victim of 
fraudulent activity.
Ive covered why I think this already, but I think its worth repeating the key points:
Theres documentary evidence to show Mr D  and many others  signed up 
for advice from Wellington Court and that the 1% fee for that advice was paid 
to Wellington Court.
By its own admission, Wellington Court undertook some work in relation to 
the transfer of a number of pensions to the Orbis SIPP.
The 1% fees that were paid to Wellington Court were, in aggregate, sizeable but it 
doesnt appear to have queried any of them, suggesting it was expecting to 
receive those fees.
Wellington Courts consultancy work shows there was a working relationship 
between the parties at the time. It wouldnt be a stretch to say that this could have 
led to Wellington Court doing other work on the transfers, potentially with the 
minimum of paperwork  especially as both organisations were based in the same 
town when the
transfers (Mr Ds included) were taking place and Mr P apparently spent time 
in GMTCs offices.
The consultancy work could be looked at in a different light in so far as it could 
explain why Wellington Court overlooked payments from GMTC. However, 
Wellington Court hasnt provided us with the agreement it signed with GMTC for its 
consultancy work, or the amounts it was paid or the dates the payments were 
made (or indeed if there was more than one payment) so its difficult to say its 
consultancy work would reasonably have explained why it didnt query all the 
income it was receiving from GMTC.The nature of Wellington Courts consultancy work was such that it held 
discussions with the FCA about what it was doing for GMTC so it seems its 
activities were important and prominent enough to have warranted interest from 
the regulator.
Wellington Court hasnt kept any documents relating to its consultancy work 
with GMTC even though it wasnt a particularly long time ago and despite this 
activity coming under the scrutiny of the FCA.
Wellington Court has said it was a victim of fraud. Its a serious allegation and yet 
Wellington Court hasnt (based on the available evidence) reported its concerns to 
the appropriate authorities (the police for instance) or even done much to investigate 
the matter itself beyond telling us, and many complainants, that it wasnt involved. So 
its difficult to give Wellington Courts allegations too much credence at this point 
given its own lack of action on the alleged fraud.
Jurisdiction - in respect of the activities of Wellington Court
Mr D has complained about the advice he was given to transfer his personal pensions to the 
Orbis SIPP and invest in speculative investments, which he says was too risky for him. The 
investment now looks to have minimal value. Mr D complained to Wellington Court because it 
was the advisory firm that appeared on the transfer paperwork.
The Financial Ombudsman Service can consider a complaint under its compulsory jurisdiction if 
that complaint relates to an act or omission by a firm in the carrying on of one or more listed 
activities, including regulated activities (DISP2.3.1R).
Advising someone to set up a SIPP and to transfer rights in existing personal pensions to that 
SIPP is a regulated activity. For the reasons given above, Im satisfied there was an advisory 
relationship between Wellington Court and Mr D. There is a lack of documentation to show what, 
if anything, Wellington Court did in relation to giving advice to Mr D. Potentially it didnt do 
anything (whether that was deliberate or an oversight isnt for me to speculate on). It doesnt 
make a difference to my jurisdiction over this complaint because if there were omissions in the 
provision of its advice, that doesnt mean the activity becomes any less regulated as a result.
In addition, under Article 25(1) of The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated 
Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO), making arrangements for another person to buy and sell a 
specified investment is a regulated activity. The FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) says 
the following about Article 25(1):
The activity of arranging (bringing about) deals in investments is aimed at arrangements 
that would have the direct effect that a particular transaction is concluded (that is, 
arrangements that bring it about).
I consider it unlikely that Mr D would have transferred and invested in Dolphin Capital and the 
Property Bond if it hadnt been for Wellington Courts involvement. GMTC required the 
involvement of an advisory firm before it would accept a transfer. Mr D signed up for advice on 
the transfer and investment. He paid for that advice too. So I consider it unlikely that he would 
have proceeded if Wellington Court had indicated he shouldnt do so. Im satisfied, therefore, 
that Wellington Courts actions had the direct effect of bringing about Mr Ds transfer and 
investment. In short, what Wellington Court did here constitutes making arrangements under 
Article 25(1) of the RAO.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied the activities complained about fall within our 
jurisdiction. They relate to acts or omissions in carrying on the regulated activities of advising on 
and arranging pensions and investments.
Jurisdiction  was Mr D an eligible complainant?
DISP 2.7 covers what is required for someone to be an eligible complainant. Broadly speaking, there are two requirements that need to be met, relating to the entity bringing the complaint (DISP 
2.7.3) and the relationship between that entity and the business being complained about (DISP 
2.7.6).
Im satisfied that Mr D meets the requirements of DISP 2.7.3 because he is a consumer (which 
is defined as an individual acting for purposes which are wholly or mainly outside that individuals 
trade, business, craft or profession).
With regards the second requirement, Mr Ds complaint must also arise from matters relevant to a 
relationship with the business he is complaining about (referred to as the respondent in the 
rules). DISP 2.7.6 sets out 17 different types of relationship. The first of these is the relevant one 
for the purposes of Mr Ds complaint:
To be an eligible complainant a person must also have a complaint which arises 
from matters relevant to one or more of the following relationships with the 
respondent:
(1)the complainant is (or was) a customer, payment service user or electronic 
money holder of the respondent
Clearly, for the reasons given previously, Wellington Court doesnt think Mr D was its customer. I 
disagree.
Mr D signed a document agreeing to Wellington Court to provide him with advice and to pay 
Wellington Court 1% for that advice. That 1% fee was duly taken from his SIPP and recorded as 
a Wellington IFA fee on his SIPP statement. Ive seen nothing to show Mr D queried the fee 
when it was taken so I think its evident he wasnt, at that point, concerned about paying advice 
fees to Wellington Court. Clearly there doesnt appear to be any documents showing what, if 
anything, Wellington Court did in return for that advice fee. But Mr D doesnt strike me as being a 
particularly experienced investor so he wouldnt necessarily have known what to expect. So I 
think he would therefore have reasonably considered himself a customer of Wellington Court. 
And from Wellington Courts perspective, its difficult to argue Mr D wasnt its customer given it 
knowingly accepted the 1% payment in relation to Mr D and the transfer wouldnt have happened 
if it hadnt been for its involvement.
In short, Mr D signed up for advice. He paid for advice. Wellington Court was sent, and accepted, 
payment for that advice. And that advice  or appearance of advice  was critical to Mr D 
transferring and investing in the way he did. So all things considered, Im satisfied there was a 
customer relationship here.
I should point out at this point that I have seen similar cases where the advisory firm has had a 
relationship with another business (the introducer firm for instance) which involved it checking 
some aspects of a persons transfer paperwork. In such a situation, its likely that there is a 
business-to-business relationship (between the advisory firm and the introducer firm) rather than 
a direct relationship between the person transferring and the advisory firm. This has implications 
for the eligibility of the person bringing the complaint under DISP 2.7.6 because the complainant 
doesnt appear to have been a customer of the respondent. This argument doesnt appear to 
apply here. Yes, Wellington Court may well have undertaken some consultancy work for GMTC. 
But, as outlined above, it hasnt provided enough information to establish what the exact nature 
of its relationship with GMTC was. And, for the reasons given above, there was a relationship 
between the complainant, Mr D, and Wellington Court anyway regardless of any consultancy 
arrangement that may have been in place.
There are a number of other jurisdiction tests that must also be met before I can consider the 
merits of a complaint. Broadly speaking, these are that the complaint must be made against a 
regulated business, about an activity carried on from an establishment in the UK, and be brought 
within the time limits set out in the rules. The activities in question were carried on from an 
establishment in the UK. Wellington Court is a regulated business. And Mr D brought his 
complaint to us within the relevant time limits.With all the above in mind, Im satisfied that this is a complaint I can consider.
The merits of Mr Ds complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, my provisional decision is to uphold Mr Ds 
complaint.
It looks like the transfers to the Orbis SIPP were initiated by an introducer who sourced potential 
clients and did much of the work in terms of getting clients into a position to transfer. And then in 
order to progress the transfer, GMTC required the involvement of an advisory firm. Wellington 
Court fulfilled that role. But theres a lack of paperwork to show what, if anything, Wellington Court 
did in return for its advice fee. I dont know if this was due to an oversight on its part  that is, it 
didnt fully understand what it should have done given the regulations in place at the time  or 
whether it knew its actions were negligent. Either way, it seems Wellington Courts involvement 
was little more than window dressing, providing a veneer of advice to satisfy GMTC in return for 
a 1% fee on a large number of transfers.
The above means there isnt any detailed documentary evidence to show what Mr Ds financial 
needs and circumstances were at the time. Mr D has told us he is a low risk investor. Nevertheless, 
Im satisfied the transaction wasnt suitable for Mr D. I say this because the investments were non- 
mainstream, high risk, and unregulated investments. Mr D doesnt appear to have had the degree 
of investment knowledge or risk appetite such an investment would have required. And it also looks 
like he allocated most of his pension savings to just these investments which strikes me as being 
an unsuitable strategy even for the most knowledgeable and least risk averse investors. Its also 
not apparent to me from the available evidence why Mr D would have needed to transfer his 
pension into a SIPP, especially given the costs involved in doing so. And one of Mr Ds pension 
transferred was a Section 32 which held valuable guarantees which will have been lost on transfer. 
All things considered, therefore, I dont think the transfer was suitable.
It follows from the above that I intend to uphold Mr Ds complaint. If I do uphold Mr Ds complaint, 
Wellington Court will have to put things right for him by following the approach outlined below.
Mr Ds representative responded to say they had received the provisional
Decision. Wellington Court hasnt responded directly on this case but it has
responded on cases with very similar circumstances  and so Ive treated these
responses as a response to this case as well.
Much of what its said it has told us before but I have outlined below the relevant
statements that appear to new arguments, for example:
1. We confirm that all payments received from Guinness Mahon (GMTC) were for
administrative consultancy work carried out by NP and nothing else. Evidence of
administrative consultancy work undertaken by NP was produced to the FCA at the
meeting in Aug 2016.
2. We did not know that 1% was calculated, allocated, deducted from GMTC's client
and purportedly paid to us. GMTCs accounting system was controlled by GMTC and
not Wellington Court. All documents and forms presented as evidence were issued
and handled under the direct control of GM.
3. It is wrong to allege that Wellington Court accepted to be an adviser and agreed to
1% of adviser fees for not advising clients, not keeping any records and investing in
unregulated funds to accommodate GMTC's dodgy scheme to the detriment of
Wellington Court.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My view as set out in the provisional decision was that Wellington Courts actions dont 
correlate with what Id expect if it were the innocent victim of fraud.
And the points it raised dont change my view of events. However, for completeness Ill set 
out a response to the points made above.
Wellington Court has now said that it did not know that 1% was calculated, deducted from 
GMTCs client and paid to it, saying that GMTCs accounting system was controlled by it and 
not Wellington Court. However, as I explained in the provisional decision, its bank 
statements show fees totalling at least £87,000 received from GMTC and these were shown 
on their bank statements as GM IFA FEES. It doesnt seem plausible that these payments 
couldve been overlooked, they are for substantial amounts and were all paid to the same 
bank account. I think its more likely they were recognised as payments for work Wellington 
Court had completed. If they were genuinely unexpected, Id expect this to have been 
investigated by Wellington Court.
Wellington Courts financial statements for this period show a significant increase in income 
in 2015 in comparison with the previous year (where income was minimal). This increase in 
income was driven largely by the fees from GMTC. So Wellington Court wouldve had to 
have overlooked large payments both when they were received and later on when preparing 
its accounts. I dont think that is likely, especially considering the significance of these fees in 
terms of Wellington Courts finances. 
I appreciate Wellington Court has (in other cases) pointed to the consultancy work it did with 
GMTC. It has most recently said that all payments received from GMTC were for 
administrative consultancy work carried out by Mr P and nothing else. It isnt clear whether 
Wellington Court means it is confirming the fees I have outlined above were for the 
consultancy work or whether it is simply confirming that it did receive money from GMTC for 
consultancy work. 
Either way, Im not persuaded the fees Ive mentioned above were as payment for the 
consultancy work carried out for GMTC by Mr P. I say this because theres a clear audit trail 
that shows the payments werent for consultancy work but were instead 1% advice fees for 
particular policies that had been transferred. Wellington Court hasnt provided us with any 
details of the fees it earned for its consultancy work and the bank statements it did provide 
(which would have shown all income received from GMTC) have been too heavily redacted 
to allow much insight. So whilst its possible that Wellington Court was also receiving fees for 
its consultancy work, I find it hard to believe that Wellington Court couldve mistaken the 
substantial fees outlined above, which were paid around the same time and had similar 
payment references, were for administrative services carried out by Mr P. 
To expand on what I said in my provisional decision on this matter   Im aware other 
financial advice firms have done similar consultancy work in relation to transfers to GMTC  
those firms charged a fixed fee of £30 per case. So for Wellington Court to have earned 
enough to have reasonably overlooked some payments from GMTC, it would have to have 
worked an unfeasibly large number of cases to make the numbers add up. Alternatively, it 
could have charged more than £30 per case. But even with this assumption, the numbers 
dont look feasible. A charge of £100 per case (unlikely considering the going rate for this 
type of work) would still require 870 cases in order to produce an income in the region of 
£87,000. Its also worth noting that in cases where Ive seen advisory firms provide checking-type 
services as part of the transfer process, the checklists they completed and signed on each 
case are still available. I find it unusual that the consultancy work Wellington Court says it did 
for GMTC left no paper trail whatsoever, whereas there is a paper trail for work it said it 
didnt do. I think its case can only be weakened by such an anomaly. And the advisory firms 
that provided checking-type services also made it clear in their paperwork that they wouldnt 
be offering advice. So I think Wellington Courts case is weakened further because it cant 
now provide any similar evidence to show it never intended to operate in the advisory space 
in relation to its work with GMTC.
Wellington Court seems to suggest that evidence of the work carried out by Mr P for GMTC 
can be obtained from the FCA. But it is for Wellington Court to provide us with evidence in 
support of its position. And it has had plenty of opportunity to do so, but to date it hasnt 
produced anything. In the absence of such evidence, I dont think Wellington Court has 
shown that its role in Mr Ds pension transfer was limited to providing a checking service for 
GMTC.
Wellington Court has also said evidence hasnt been shared. It hasnt at any point said 
specifically what hasnt been shared which makes responding difficult. But Im satisfied 
Wellington Court has seen the transfer paperwork for numerous complainants. Indeed, its 
case relies heavily on its views about the legitimacy of that paperwork.
Im also satisfied Wellington Court has seen copies of SIPP statements showing the 1% 
Wellington IFA fee being deducted from a number of transfer values. Ive outlined in detail 
the money trail that shows the 1% fee being deducted from Mr Ds SIPP and being paid to 
Wellington Court. I have also recorded in detail the evidence that showed similar payments 
relating to other transfers being made to Wellington Court. I referred to the same payments 
in other decisions as have my colleagues. Wellington Court still hasnt referred to those 
payments in any detail or adequately told us which of those payments it received. 
Its also worth noting that because Wellington Court didnt provide complete bank 
statements, I only have evidence of it receiving some of the payments in question. But my 
view is that its reasonable  given the evidence that is available  to assume all the 
payments would have been received by Wellington Court. If Wellington Court disagreed with 
this assumption, it has had more than ample opportunity to provide a more comprehensive 
set of its bank statements to show the payments it received (or didnt receive) from GMTC.
Given all the above, Im satisfied Wellington Court has been made aware of, and has had 
the opportunity to respond to, all the evidence Ive relied upon in coming to my decision.
So in conclusion for the reasons explained here and in my provisional decision as set out 
above, Im satisfied the transaction wasnt suitable for Mr D. And that Wellington Court is 
responsible for any losses. Wellington Court should put things right as set out below.
  
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr D should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I think Mr D would have invested 
differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would have done, but Im satisfied 
that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr D's circumstances and 
objectives when he invested.
What should Wellington Court do?To compensate Mr D fairly, Wellington Court must do the following:
As the sources of the money transferred into the SIPP were different, one being a Section 
32 which had protected benefits attached, the redress will need to be run separately for 
both transfer sources.
the Section 32
My conclusion is that a fair outcome would be for Wellington Court to put Mr D, as far as 
possible, into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he 
would have remained in the Section 32.
Wellington Court should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance, as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers. This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions 
at the date of the actual calculation.
Wellington Court must contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr 
Ds contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, 
which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ds 
SERPS/S2P entitlement. If this demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if 
possible be paid into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.
The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has 
protection or allowance implications, it should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum 
after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ds likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
8% simple per year should be added to the total award from date of final decision to date 
of settlement (if compensation is not paid within 90 days of the business being notified of 
acceptance).
Personal Pension
Compare the performance of Mr D's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. 
Wellington Court should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Wellington Court should pay into Mr D's pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not 
be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If Wellington Court is unable to pay the compensation into Mr D's pension plan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr D's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr D is likely to be a basic 
rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current 
basic rate of tax. However, if Mr D would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, 
the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Unless either party provides evidence to the contrary, compensation should be based 
on Mr D being a basic rate taxpayer.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Wellington Court deducts income 
tax from the interest, it should tell Mr D how much has been taken off. Wellington 
Court should give Mr D a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
The fund(s) 8% simple per
Orbis SIPP still exists Mr D was 
invested in 
with his 
personaldate of 
investmentdate of my 
final 
decisionyear from date 
of final 
decision to 
date of
pension with settlement (if
Friends Life compensation
previously is not paid
within 90 days
of the business
being notified
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. This is complicated 
where an investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market) as appears to be the case here. So, the actual value should be assumed to 
be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Wellington Court should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension 
provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance 
paid as I set out above.
If Wellington Court is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Wellington Court may require that 
Mr D provides an undertaking to pay Wellington Court any amount he may receive 
from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and 
charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. 
Wellington Court will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. This 
same method should also be applied to the Section 32 loss calculation above.
Fair valueThis is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it 
produced a return using the benchmark. This means Wellington Court will need 
to contact Mr Ds original pension provider to obtain this value.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted 
from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any 
return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Wellington Court totals all those 
payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
SIPP Fees
The SIPP only exists because of Wellington Courts actions. But to close the SIPP 
and prevent further fees from being incurred, the illiquid investment needs to be 
removed. If Wellington Court cant do this, Mr D is faced with future SIPP fees. I 
think it is fair to assume five years of future SIPP fees. So, if Wellington Court cant 
buy the investment, it should pay an amount equal to five years of SIPP fees based 
on the current full tariff. This is in addition to the compensation calculated using a 
nil value for the investment.
Compensation for trouble and upset
I think the loss of what appears to be Mr Ds only pension provision wouldve caused 
upset and worry and therefore I think Mr D should be compensated £300 in 
recognition of this.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint against Wellington Court Financial Services Limited and it should 
put things right as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman