DRN-3551357
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC made errors with their contractual 
monthly payment (CMP). Mr S says this has caused them to incur additional interest, caused 
stress and has taken up too much time. He asks that Barclays makes up the shortfall, 
explains what happened, apologises and pays compensation. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had a mortgage with Barclays. Their fixed interest product was due to end in 
April 2021. They applied for a term reduction and a new interest rate product which should 
have taken effect on 1 May 2021. Mr S says Barclays calculated their new CMP incorrectly. 
He says this will result in them paying additional interest. Mr S says Barclays sent many 
letters with different CMPs, and Mr S says it didnt understand the problem or investigate 
what had happened.
Our investigator said Barclays sent letters with different CMPs and had made errors with the 
term reduction. He said it had now put this right and offered £300 for the trouble caused, 
which the investigator said was fair.  
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. Mr S said Barclays made errors, including with the remaining 
term and balance, which resulted in the wrong CMP. He said Barclays was wrong to say this 
was due to them making overpayments. He said theyd made two overpayments before April 
2021, but not during the period to which the complaint relates. He says even when Barclays 
sent its final response letter it attached a letter with an incorrect mortgage balance, causing 
more confusion. It then refused to look into the complaint further. Mr S said £300 didnt 
reflect the impact of Barclays errors.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S applied for a new interest rate product and to reduce the remaining term of 
their mortgage to 10 years. Barclays issued a mortgage offer in April 2021. This stated the 
duration of the loan (10 years) and the new fixed interest rate product. It set out the loan 
balance at the time of the application in February 2021 (about £172,600) and the new CMP 
(about £1,600). 
Mr and Mrs Ss previous fixed interest rate product expired on 30 April 2021. From 1 May 
2021 the new product rate applied. Barclays should also have applied the term reduction 
from this date, which would have increased the amount of the contractual monthly payments. 
Barclays didnt apply the term reduction on 1 May 2021. This was an error, which Barclays 
has corrected. Barclays provided account statements that show the payments made to Mr 
and Mrs Ss account. Their annual statement issued in October 2021 shows correct 
payments were made from (and including) July 2021 and the term reduction had been 
applied to their account.
The statements provided by Barclays show Mr and Mrs S made payments in May and June 
2021 of about £1,280. Had it correctly applied the term reduction on 1 May 2021 the CMP 
would have been about £1,510. Barclays issued a revised payment notice in June 2021, with 
the correct CMP. 
Due to Barclays error, Mr and Mrs S paid about £240 less in May and June 2021 as they 
would have paid had the term reduction been applied on 1 May 2021. This didnt result in 
arrears. But it meant the mortgage balance didnt reduce as much as it should have done. 
Barclays says this resulted in additional interest of about 30 pence applied during that 
period, which was covered by the compensation it offered. It says if Mr and Mrs S are 
worried about additional interest due to the balance continuing to be higher than it would 
have been if it had calculated the CMP correctly for May and June 2021, they can make a 
payment to make up the shortfall.
Mr S says he doesnt have the extra money to fund the shortfall. He says Barclays should 
cover it, either by reducing the mortgage balance or making a payment to him. I dont think it 
would be fair to require Barclays to do that. Mr and Mrs S dont owe the money because of 
the error, they already owed the money and simply repaid less for two months. I appreciate 
that theyd have paid the correct amount if Barclays had calculated it correctly at the outset. 
But it was still possible for them to make up these payments if they wanted to do so, and had 
available funds.
Mr and Mrs Ss new product includes an early repayment charge (ERC). However, they can 
make overpayments of up to a certain amount (often referred to as an overpayment 
allowance) each year without incurring an ERC. Ive thought about whether to require 
Barclays to allow Mr and Mrs S to make up the shortfall without this being included in the 
overpayment allowance. But as Mr S says they didnt have funds to make up the payment, I 
dont think I need to require Barclays to do this. 
Mr and Mrs S were caused upset and inconvenience by Barclays error. I think its right that 
Barclays pays compensation for this.
Mr S says this took too long to sort out. I can understand his frustration. They received 
letters and notices with incorrect information about their CMP. But Barclays had put matters 
right in time for the July 2021 payment. It issued a correct revised payment notice in June 
2021 (although I can appreciate that Mr and Mrs S might not have been sure if it was right). 
Mr S says he feels that Barclays must be targeting him as he doesnt think others wouldnt 
have this many problems with their mortgages. I think its more likely this was simply an 
error. 
I appreciate Mr Ss frustration that Barclays didnt explain what had gone wrong in more 
detail. Had it done so, he might have been more confident that matters had been put right. I 
can appreciate Mr Ss frustration that Barclays wouldnt re-open his complaint despite his 
concern that the problem wasnt fixed. However, by that time the problem (the application of 
the term reduction) had been fixed. 
Mr S says Barclays response to his complaint attached an out of date document. Barclays 
attached a copy of the offer letter it had issued in April 2021 to the final response letter, 
saying it would apply the changes to Mr and Mrs Ss account as set out in the offer letter. 
The offer letter used the balance of Mr and Mrs Ss account at the time of the application in 
February 2021. Since then, Mr and Mrs S made an overpayment and their regular payments 
reduced the balance further. I dont think the offer letter itself was wrong  Barclays used the 
balance at the time of the application when processing the application. And the offer letter 
says Mr and Mrs Ss monthly payments would vary as the CMP would be based on the actual balance on the date the new rate was applied. However, I can appreciate this caused 
further confusion. 
Barclays made an error when it didnt apply the term reduction to Mr and Mrs Ss account on 
1 May 2021. It corrected this in June 2021, in time for their July 2021 payment. While this did 
cause Mr and Mrs S worry and inconvenience, I think Barclays offer of £300 was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs S could, if they were able and willing to do so, have made up the shortfall 
resulting from the lower payments in May and June 2021. As Ive said, I dont think its fair to 
require Barclays to fund this. 
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £300 to Mr and Mrs S, as it offered to 
do. It can deduct any amounts its already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman