DRN-3141542
The complaint
Ms S complains that RCI Financial Services Limited trading as Nissan Finance (RCI)
mis-represented her hire purchase agreement. 
What happened
In October 2015, Ms S acquired a new car from a dealership (who Ill refer to as A) under a
hire purchase agreement. The total repayable under the agreement was £29,022.89. An
initial deposit of £4,192.03 was put down, and Ms S then had to make 36 monthly
repayments of £346.76. There was a final payment option of £12,347.50 if she wished to buy
the car at the end of the agreement.
In May 2018 Ms S spoke to RCI as she was thinking of settling the agreement on the car.
She was told the car wasnt valued highly enough to settle the agreement, so she asked
about voluntary terminating it and returning the car. Shes told our service that it was at this
point she was told the hire purchase agreement had been set up to allow for an annual
mileage allowance of 3,000, and she was told shed exceeded that and would have an
excess mileage charge to pay if the agreement was voluntary terminated.
Not wanting to incur further excess mileage charges, Ms S decided to continue with the
voluntary termination. She also complained to RCI at this point as she felt the hire purchase
agreement had been mis-represented to her. While her complaint was being looked into, A
contacted Ms S and made an offer to take the car back and reduce the settlement amount.
Ms S agreed to this  so A took the car back and Ms S paid RCI the outstanding £1,000 to
settle the agreement in its entirety.
RCI didnt uphold Ms S complaint. They said Ms S had signed the paperwork for the hire
purchase agreement, which indicated she was happy with the terms it had been set up
against.
Ms S brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator said that she hadnt seen any
evidence to show any previous agreements had been set at 10,000, although that didnt
mean they hadnt been. But she said it also didnt mean that RCI had mis-represented the
new hire purchase agreement  she said the agreement clearly stated what the annual
mileage allowance was and the charge that would be made if this allowance was exceeded.
So, she didnt think RCI had acted unfairly. Our investigator went on to say that she also
didnt think Ms S had suffered a financial loss as RCI had reduced the outstanding amount to
settle the agreement fairly, taking into account the value of the car at the time of the
settlement, including the mileage it had covered.
Ms S didnt accept our investigators opinion. She said, if the agreement had been set up
with an annual allowance of 10,000 miles, as she expected, then she would have been
paying more each month in repayments. But this would also have meant the settlement
figure would have reduced by the time she wanted to settle in May 2018. She also wouldnt
have had to be told about an excess mileage charge if that had been the case  the car had
covered approximately 25,000 miles by the time Ms S decided she no longer wanted it. So,
she felt the agreement had been mis-represented to her and she had lost out financially by
having to pay £1,000 to settle the agreement once the car had been handed back.
As Ms S didnt agree, it was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision on 
2 November 2021. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 has the effect of holding RCI responsible for
any antecedent negotiations between Ms S and A, who acted as RCIs agent when setting
up the hire purchase agreement. What this means is that anything A said or did when
arranging the hire purchase agreement, I can consider against RCI.
When there is conflicting or missing evidence, such as in this case, I have to make my
decision based on the balance of probabilities. Or in other words, what I think is most likely
to have happened. And in this case, I think Ms S wasnt adequately informed when the hire
purchase agreement was set up. Ill explain why.
Ms S has said that shes had previous hire purchase agreements with RCI, all of which had
been accepted with an annual mileage of 10,000. Neither party has been able to provide
evidence of those agreements, but Im not disputing that might have been the case
previously. Im also aware that shed covered approximately 41,000 miles in three years in
the car she had immediately prior to taking out this hire purchase agreement. But that
information alone doesnt mean RCI have mis-represented the agreement at the heart of this
complaint.
However, Ms S has also provided further information that persuades me she wanted the
agreement to allow for 10,000 miles annually. She has provided our service with a copy of
her insurance document from the time she acquired the car, showing she had chosen to
declare an annual mileage allowance of 12,000. And shes also explained the personal
circumstances her and her husband were going through that necessitated a round trip of 200
miles each weekend. Ms S has said that A was trying to keep her monthly repayments
similar to her previous agreement  but I think this has been done by lowering the allowed
annual mileage to 3,000, and Im satisfied A didnt confirm this to Ms S. Based on the
evidence provided by Ms S I cant see any reason why she would agree to an annual
mileage of 3,000 when her personal circumstances remained unchanged, and were likely to
do so for a number of years. Her insurance documents support this too.
I accept RCIs point that Ms S has signed the hire purchase agreement and therefore
accepted the terms contained in it. Im sure Ms S doesnt deny the agreement was signed by
her. But, in this case, I think its reasonable to believe Ms S signed the agreement without
checking all the detail contained in it. This wasnt the first time Ms S had entered into a hire
purchase agreement with RCI, this agreement was a replacement for her previous car that
she was part-exchanging. There isnt any evidence that there had been a conversation about
changing any of the terms, so I dont think its unreasonable to believe this agreement was
signed on the premise the mileage allowance would be unchanged. An annual mileage limit
of 3,000 is particularly low and equates to less than 60 miles per week, on average. This
imposes potentially significant restrictions on the permitted use Ms S would have before
incurring potentially significant excess mileage charges. I consider a restriction of this nature
should have been clearly drawn to Ms S attention to ensure she was clearly aware of this.
Im not persuaded the decreased annual mileage allowance was brought to her attention 
and Im sure if it had of been Ms S wouldnt have entered into the agreement.
As I think Ms S hasnt been treated fairly or reasonably as she was not clearly informed
about the restrictions relating to the mileage allowance of 3,000 per year, I need to decidethe fairest way to put things right.
Ms S chose to settle the agreement rather than proceed with the voluntary termination and
pay any excess mileage charge that would have applied. At the time, there was an amount
of £13,712 left to settle the agreement. RCI offered to put £12,712 towards this and take the
car back, and Ms S had to pay £1,000 to settle the agreement in its entirety. She feels she
has lost out financially as, had the agreement been set up as she thought with a 10,000
annual mileage allowance, she feels she could have proceeded with the voluntary
termination and not incurred any excess mileage charges. This might be right, but an
agreement with a mileage allowance of 10,000 would have meant increased monthly
repayments too. I cant say what these repayments would have been, and RCI arent able to
provide any information to help here, but I have to take the fact Ms S would have been
required to pay more each month into consideration. I dont know for certain that Ms S would
have entered into the agreement had the monthly repayments been higher but considering
the personal circumstances shes mentioned as a reason for wanting this car, I think its
likely that she would have done. But ultimately, I dont know either way, so I dont think its
unreasonable to ask both sides to compromise here. Without being able to confirm the
specific amount, I think the fairest thing here is for both parties to meet in the middle and for
RCI to refund 50% of what Ms S had to pay to settle the agreement - £500. This is the
equivalent of an increased monthly payment of £18.50 over the time the agreement was in
place, which, on balance, Im persuaded Ms S would have agreed to if the annual mileage
allowance had been set at 10,000.
Finding out shed been inadequately informed when she tried to voluntary terminate the hire
purchase agreement, and the subsequent need to pay to settle the agreement has clearly
caused Ms S some distress. For that, I think RCI should pay her £200 compensation.
Ms S responded and accepted my provisional decision. 
RCI also responded and didnt accept it. They continued to say Ms S had signed the 
agreement, which confirmed she was happy with the terms of it, including the annual 
mileage allowance. They also said that there was no benefit to A to try and keep Ms S 
monthly payments down. RCI felt it was more likely that Ms S asked to keep her monthly 
repayments close to the previous amount on her previous agreement, and to do this she 
made a conscious decision to agree to the annual mileage allowance of 3,000. By doing this, 
RCI believe Ms S knew she would have the potential for additional costs should she choose 
to voluntary terminate the agreement early. They want the provisional decision over-turned. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the findings in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why. 
RCI have said that I have ignored the fact that Ms S signed the hire purchase agreement. 
That isnt the case. My provisional decision explains that I accept the agreement was signed 
by Ms S. But the decision also explains why, in this case, Im persuaded that it was signed 
on the premise her annual mileage allowance hadnt been changed and that I was satisfied 
she hadnt been adequately informed that the mileage allowance had been significantly 
reduced on the agreement. 
RCI have also said there wasnt any benefit to A to keep Ms S monthly payments down, so 
Ms S must have requested it and accepted she would have a lower annual mileage allowance. I disagree with this. There is a benefit to A of trying to keep Ms S monthly 
payments down  they are trying to get her to acquire a car from them and keep her 
business. So, I dont accept that it was Ms S that was pushing to keep the monthly payments 
at an acceptable level. 
I think its also worth pointing out that RCI have said Ms S made a conscious decision to 
enter into the agreement with a lower annual mileage allowance, knowing there was the 
potential for additional charges if the agreement was voluntary terminated early. Im not sure 
how RCI have come to that conclusion, as they have continually said throughout their 
submissions to our service that they werent present when the agreement was entered into, 
and they havent been able to provide any evidence from A to support their assertion. On the 
other hand, Ms S has provided evidence to persuade me that her personal circumstances 
and reasons for needing this larger car were such that an annual mileage allowance of 3,000 
was never going to be satisfactory for her. That evidence, along with her insurance 
document showing she had declared an annual mileage of 12,000 for the insurance on the 
car this agreement refers to, is more persuasive than RCIs information.
My provisional decision remains unchanged. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im upholding this complaint. RCI Financial Services Limited trading 
as Nissan Finance must:
Refund Ms S £500 from her final settlement amount;
Add 8% simple interest to the amount refunded, from the date it was originally paid 
by Ms S to the date of settlement; *
Pay Ms S £200 compensation for the distress caused by being inadequately 
informed when the hire purchase agreement was set up.
*If RCI Financial Services Limited trading as Nissan Finance consider that theyre required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Ms S 
how much theyve taken off. They should also give Ms S a tax deduction certificate if she 
asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman