DRN-3687529
The complaint and what happened
Mr N complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund money  just over £9,000 
 he lost when he fell victim to an investment scam.  Mr N is being represented by solicitors 
in his complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think the nine individual payments, 
which Mr N sent via internet banking over a nine-week period, were so unusual or out of 
character such that they ought to have triggered the banks fraud detection systems. He 
noted that during that time, Mr N also received credits totalling £1,970.87 back into his 
Santander account. The investigator also thought that Santander couldnt have assisted 
Mr N in recovering his losses as the funds went to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange and 
the loss occurred when they were sent on to the scammer. 
Mr Ns solicitors have asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. They state that 
they accept the first five payments were of a small value and wouldnt have triggered the 
banks systems. But the sixth and the ninth payments  of £3,800 and £3,810 respectively  
were unusual for the account activity and Santander ought to have questioned Mr N. Had it 
done so, the solicitors believe the scam would have unfolded and limited Mr Ns loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, so not everything thats happened or been argued is set out above, Ive read and 
considered everything thats been provided. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Under regulations and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, 
banks should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The 
starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even 
where they are duped into making that payment. Theres no dispute that Mr N made 
the payments using his internet banking credentials, and so they are authorised. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank 
has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is 
reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which 
ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it 
might be liable for losses incurred by its customer as a result. 
Ive looked at the operation of Mr Ns account. I dont consider the disputed 
transaction amounts  ranging between £1 and £3,810  were particularly unusual or 
suspicious based on Mr Ns spending activity such that I think Santander ought to 
have challenged the payments. Ive thought carefully about the solicitors point 
regarding the two larger transactions going to a cryptocurrency exchange. But, by 
that time, the payee Mr N was paying had become a regular payee. The first of these 
payments was over a month after Mr Ns initial payment, and there were three more 
payments in between. In that time, hed also received four credits from the payee 
account. When taking everything else into account, Im not persuaded the payment 
amount itself was so out of character that it ought to have triggered Santanders fraud 
alert systems, such that it ought to have paused the payment pending further 
enquiries about it.
Ive also thought about the recovery of funds once Santander became aware of the 
situation. Banks are expected to contact the beneficiary bank and attempt to recall 
the payment as soon as theyre notified of a scam. It isnt clear if that is what also 
happened here. Regardless, Santander could have only attempted recovery from 
Mr Ns wallet with the cryptocurrency exchange as that is where he sent money to 
from his Santander account. I find it unlikely that any funds would have remained in 
Mr Ns crypto wallet, given he converted them into cryptocurrency and sent that on to 
the scammer (albeit being duped into doing so). Im not persuaded that Santander 
could have done more to assist in recovery of Mr Ns funds.
In summary, despite my natural sympathy for the situation in which Mr N finds himself, 
I dont find that Santander has acted unfairly or unreasonably. So, I wont be making an 
award against it.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman