DRN-3203300
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt refunded 
the premium they paid for a travel insurance policy in full. 
All reference to URV includes its agents.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr and Mrs M bought an annual travel insurance policy, underwritten by 
URV (the policy). They paid around £117 for the policy.
At the end of September 2020, Mr W contacted URV to enquire about getting a refund of the 
premium paid for the policy. He and Mrs W had been due to go on two holidays during the 
period of insurance but theyd been subsequently cancelled due to the global impact of the 
Covid-19 pandemic. 
URV offered a partial refund of the premium Mr and Mrs W paid for the policy in the sum of 
£19.50. 
Unhappy with the amount offered, Mr and Mrs W complained to our service. 
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. The investigator also explained that its a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a 
time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to 
keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also 
explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be 
performed because cover under the policy started in November 2019 and the policy covered 
various risks during that time  up until it was either cancelled or expired. 
The investigator also acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-
19 but thought that the offer made by URV to refund £19.50 was fair and reasonable.  
Mr and Mrs W disagreed. So, this complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case.
The terms and conditions of the policy set out their cancellation rights. They say: 
We will consider a partial refund of your premium should you wish to cancel your
policy outside of the 14-day cooling off period provided you have not travelled or 
claimed, or intend to make a claim, on the policy.
For multi-trip policies - If we agree to a refund, then we will refund 1/12th of the total 
premium (including any additional premium charged for an existing medical 
condition) you have paid, for each full calendar month remaining on the policy from 
the date of cancellation.
I dont uphold this complaint. In the circumstances of this case, I think URVs offer to refund 
Mr and Mrs W around £19.50 of the total premium theyd paid for the policy is fair and 
reasonable. Ill explain why.
The policy wasnt cancelled within the cooling off period and so theres no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
full refund.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that where cancellation is more
than 14 days after payment of the premium, and subject to certain conditions, it will 
refund one twelfth of the premium paid for each month left on the policy after the date 
of cancellation. So, if I accepted that the policy should be taken as having been 
effectively cancelled at the end of September 2020, the refund offered has been 
calculated in line with the policy terms.
Ive taken into account whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the
complaint, including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19. Mr and Mrs W were covered under the policy from when the policy started 
in November 2019 and the policy lapsed without being cancelled. I know Mr and Mrs 
W have said they didnt cancel the policy; they just enquired about a refund. 
However, if the policy hadnt been cancelled and had expired at the end of the policy 
year, then under the policy, Mr and Mrs W wouldnt be entitled to any refund. 
However, I think that URV has acted fairly and reasonably by using the date at the 
end of September 2020  which is the date Mr W contacted it to ask for a refund  as 
the date to calculate the premium refund from. Afterall, by this date, both of Mr and 
Mrs Ws holidays had been cancelled and they say theyd successfully recovered 
their pre-paid costs from third parties without having to need to make a claim on the 
policy. 
Up until this point, URV still carried the risk of a successful claim being made under 
the policy for a number of listed events insured under the policy - and for any number 
of trips. Because of the way annual multi-trip insurance policies work, an insurer has 
no way of knowing how many trips Mr and Mrs W took or had booked during the 
period of insurance (unless theyd made a claim under the policy). There may have 
been many trips or none at all. However, URV was covering the risk of a claim during 
the time the policy was in force  and the price Mr and Mrs W paid for the policy 
reflected this. But in the circumstances of this case - as at the end of September 
2019 and due to the global impact of the Covid-19 pandemic - URV didnt bear any 
risk under the policy and no claims had been made or accepted by URV. 
Mr and Mrs W say that URV wouldve been at risk of paying more money had they 
made a successful claim on the policy and hadnt received their pre-paid costs back 
from third parties. However, the policy covered costs which they had paid and 
couldnt get back from anyone else if they were unable to go on their trip. So, Mr and 
Mrs W wouldve needed to try and recover their pre-paid costs from the third parties in any event. And just because any successful claim made on the policy couldve far 
exceeded the price they paid for the policy, I dont think that means that it would be 
fair and reasonable for URV to refund the full premium in the circumstances of this 
case. 
If Mr and Mrs W wish to take up URVs offer of a refund in the sum of £19.50 (and they 
havent already done so) they should contact URV directly.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman