DRN-1695970
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a claims management company. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy. The policy was taken out in November 
2002 when Mr P phoned the bank to activate his replacement card. The policy covered him 
for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr P didn't agree 
saying, in summary, that:
He had a number of credit cards, but this was the only one with a PPI policy.
In 2001 he had received an inheritance which had allowed him to repay his 
mortgage. So he was mortgage and debt free, had an adequate annual wage and 
savings. He didn't need the PPI.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ps complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint because:
Mr P told us the PPI was added without him knowing. Capital One says it was added 
following a phone call when Mr P called it to activate his replacement card. I don't expect Mr 
P to remember what was discussed more than 15 years ago. And Capital One no longer has 
a recording of the call, which isn't surprising or unreasonable. So, as noted above, I need to 
think about what is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances. Capital One has provided a copy of the call script which it says would 
have been used. I've no reason to believe this script wasn't in use at the time of Mr P's call. I 
accept it's a possibility that the member of staff may not have followed the script or agreed 
procedure for Mr P's call. But - aside from Mr P saying he doesn't  remember agreeing to the 
PPI - I've not seen other evidence or testimony which would persuade me that the script 
wasn't followed. So, after careful consideration, I think it most likely that the script was 
followed, meaning that Capital One made it clear the PPI was optional and that Mr P chose to take it.
 
Capital One didn't recommended the PPI to Mr P so it didn't have to make sure it was
suitable for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mr P chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this 
type of cover. He wasn't affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr P would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, despite what he says 
now, I think he would still have taken out the policy.
Ive taken into consideration that Mr P says the policy wasn't needed. Although he may not 
have had a mortgage to pay, he would have had other outgoings which would have needed 
to be covered if he was unable to work. Although he had some savings, the PPI would have 
covered his credit card repayments for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim for 
accident or sickness. It also covered him if he'd become unemployed. So I find the PPI could 
still have been a useful benefit despite his existing arrangements.
I've also taken into account that Mr P says he didn't have PPI on any of his other credit card 
accounts. But I've looked at the circumstances for this particular sale and what he may have 
chosen to do for other cards and at other times does not change my conclusion here.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because Capital One 
didnt tell Mr P, that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc, does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
 
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman