DRN-3819412
The complaint
Mr S complains that the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) didnt keep him updated about 
the interest rate on his mortgage and that it wont extend its term.
What happened
RBS says Mr S got a 25-year interest only mortgage in 1995 when he was an RBS 
employee. It appears that Mr S mortgage was taken out in a branch and was a mortgage 
offered to RBS staff at the time. After Mr S left RBS employment in the early 2000s it 
appears the mortgage then went on to RBS standard variable interest rate (SVR). The 
mortgage remained on this rate until Mr S contacted RBS in 2020 to discuss the possibility of 
extending the term for a few years so that he can use his pension to redeem the mortgage. 
When Mr S contacted RBS in 2020 Mr S didnt remember much about the mortgage, but he 
remembered that it was due to end in 2020/21. He says he hasnt received any annual 
statements from RBS and was unaware of the interest rate he was on. 
Mr S is unhappy that when he contacted RBS in 2020 it appeared to be unaware of it. Later 
RBS told him his mortgage product wasnt offered anymore and was classed as an 
obsolete product. So he wouldnt be able to get a better interest rate than the SVR.
RBS apologised for the fact that the staff member Mr S first spoke to couldnt tell him much 
about the mortgage. It said that was because he had a branch-based mortgage, so it didnt 
have notes for it on its computer system. However, it went on to confirm that Mr S borrowed 
£47,380 when he took out the mortgage, and that he still owed that amount as hed only 
been making interest only repayments. 
Our investigator looked into what happened. She said theres limited information available 
about Mr S mortgage given the passage of time since the mortgage was taken out and the 
fact that the relevant mortgage product hasnt been offered since 2008. 
Having considered the available information, our investigator was satisfied that RBS didnt 
send Mr S regular information about his mortgage. However, she was satisfied that Mr S 
knew he was on a variable interest rate. Thats because his mortgage was paid monthly from 
a servicing account and his payment changed in line with the changing interest rate. She 
thought that Mr S wouldve contacted RBS about the interest rate he was paying if he had 
concerns about it. But she couldnt see any evidence of him doing that. So our investigator 
didnt think RBS should have given Mr S a different interest rate during the time he had the 
mortgage. She said that RBS wasnt required to contact each consumer individually and 
inform them of the specific interest rates that were available to them.
Mr S mortgage ended in early 2020. Mr S wanted to extend the term of the mortgage/not 
repay the mortgage until May 2023 so he could use his pension (which hell be able to 
access then) to repay the mortgage. RBS said the mortgage couldnt be extended because 
Mr S mortgage product was obsolete as RBS dont offer that mortgage any longer. 
Our investigator didnt think that was fair. She said that Mr S has demonstrated that hell 
have a big enough pension in May 2023 to repay the mortgage. She said Mr S mortgage 
has been well maintained over its life and that there was nothing to that indicate that would 
change. As Mr S wasnt looking to change any other term of the mortgage (apart from its 
length) she thought RBS should extend it until then, and she didnt think RBS needed to 
carry out an affordability assessment before it extended the term. 
In the circumstances she recommended that RBS:
paid Mr S £500 compensation for failing to provide Mr S with information about his 
mortgage over the term of the mortgage;
paid Mr S £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by RBS not being aware 
of his mortgage when he contacted it to discuss it in 2020, and for declining to 
extend the term of the mortgage due to the nature of the mortgage account; and
arrange for the mortgage term to be extended until December 2023, to allow Mr S 
time to use his pension to redeem the mortgage.
RBS responded to say that it would pay Mr S the £800 compensation our investigator had 
recommended. However, it didnt say it would extend Mr S mortgage as our investigator had 
suggested.
Mr S remained unhappy and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it 
has been passed to me to decide. He said he wants his mortgage to be formally extended 
until May 2023, or at least for RBS to agree not pursue enforcement action in accordance 
with the mortgage until then. Mr S remained unhappy that he has been on RBS SVR during 
the life of the mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain 
why. 
Communication issues and the impact on Mr S
Ill begin by saying that theres no dispute that RBS didnt communicate with Mr S during the 
life of his mortgage. However, the mortgage was taken out before 2004, which means its not 
a regulated mortgage. So strictly speaking there was no regulatory obligation on RBS to do 
so. 
Mr S says he was disadvantaged by that. He says the lack of communication meant that he 
wasnt able to take advantage of a fixed interest rate product.
Ive looked at the available information and cant see that Mr S asked for a new interest rate 
product after his mortgage was put on RBS SVR. Nor has he told us about any specific 
times when he did that. 
Because of when this mortgage was taken out, there was no formal regulatory obligation for 
RBS to provide Mr S regular information about his mortgage  such as statements, or 
notification of changes to interest rates and his monthly payments. However, this is a 
residential mortgage and I think the regulators rules represent what it considers to be good 
practice in communicating important information to consumers about mortgages secured on their homes. Im therefore satisfied that doing so represents good industry practice even in 
the absence of a regulatory requirement  and therefore I dont think it was fair and 
reasonable that RBS didnt send Mr S any information about his mortgage for many years. 
Ive taken into account what its said about this being a historic mortgage on an obsolete 
system, but while that might present some practical difficulties for RBS I dont think its 
relevant to Mr S information needs.
The Mortgage Conduct of Business (MCOB) rules  specifically MCOB principle 7 - require 
RBS to pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and communicate information 
to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading. 
That said, in the circumstances of this case Im not persuaded that Mr S was prevented from 
getting a fixed interest rate product had he wanted to because RBS didnt communicate with 
him about his mortgage. He knew he had a mortgage and he knew what he was paying each 
month, and I think Mr S could have contacted RBS before 2020 if he was concerned about 
the interest rate he was on or the amount he was paying and asked it about alternative rates. 
In addition to that he was free to look into re-mortgaging with another lender on a fixed 
interest rate. I think that RBS could reasonably expect Mr S to look at the payments being 
made from the account he used to pay the mortgage and say something if he wasnt happy 
or couldnt afford those payments. Even if this had been a regulated mortgage, RBS wasnt 
required to contact Mr S to let him know what interest rates might be available to him  
theres no obligation to pro-actively invite customers to apply for new rates.
In the circumstances, I think the £500 compensation our investigator recommended, and 
which RBS has now agreed to pay, for failing to provide him with information about his 
mortgage over the years is a fair and reasonable.
Repayment of Mr S mortgage
Much of the investigation of this complaint has focused on whether RBS acted unfairly when 
it said that Mr S would need to apply for a new mortgage if he wanted to extend it until 2023, 
and whether it was willing to consider such an application.
However, I think the practical issues I need to resolve in this complaint have moved on since 
our investigator issued her view on the complaint. 
Mr S mortgage has ended. He has told us he continues to make his monthly interest 
repayments. The important question I need to ask today is whether Mr S has enough money 
to repay his mortgage, and if not what action RBS needs to take.
Ive considered the information Mr S has provided about his finances and can see that 
between his pension (that he has already started to withdraw money from) and a bank 
account Mr S has told us about he has the money to repay his mortgage in full. There may 
well be significant tax consequences for Mr S to consider if he withdraws all/most of his 
remaining pension in the 2023-2024 tax year. Mr S has told us he has already considered 
those.
Given that I think that Mr S is likely to have the money he needs to use his remaining 
pension to redeem his mortgage from the beginning of the 2023-2024 tax year, I think its fair 
and reasonable for me to say that RBS should give Mr S the time he needs to do this. In 
other words, RBS should ensure that it doesnt take enforcement action in connection with 
the mortgaged property until May 2023. I think this is the most fair, practical and cost-
effective solution for Mr S and RBS. 
Thats because I dont think it would be reasonable for Mr S to be required to arrange a new mortgage for such a short amount of time. Nor do I think such a solution is likely to be cost 
effective for RBS. Im also conscious that RBS hasnt started legal proceedings to recover 
the debt and that such proceedings would be costly and take a significant amount of time. 
Legal proceedings should also be a last resort. As long as Mr S continues to pay the monthly 
interest payments in the meantime, RBS should not make any adverse report on his credit 
file. Mr S has told us that he has continued to pay the monthly interest payments. RBS 
hasnt confirmed this, despite us asking it on a number of occasions.
For completeness I will say here that I also think that RBS should pay Mr S £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by RBS not being aware of his mortgage when he 
contacted it to discuss it in 2020. Im conscious that when our investigator recommended 
that amount, she recommended that RBS should also pay compensation for that reason and 
for RBS declining to extend the term of the mortgage due to the nature of the mortgage 
account. I havent focused on RBS decision to decline to extend the term of Mr S mortgage 
as I dont think thats an ongoing issue in this complaint anymore as Mr S mortgage has 
ended now. However, I can see that RBS has already agreed to pay Mr S that money to 
resolve this complaint. So theres no dispute that RBS should pay it.
Putting things right
I think RBS should pay Mr S £800 compensation and ensure that it doesnt take any legal 
action to enforce full repayment of Mr S mortgage before the end of May 2023.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that RBS should pay Mr S £800 
compensation; and ensure that it doesnt take any legal action to enforce full repayment of 
Mr S mortgage before the end of May 2023. This will give Mr S time to use his pension to 
redeem the mortgage.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman