DRN-3476510
The complaint
The complaint has been brought to our service by Mr H2 and Ms H on behalf of their 
deceased father Mr H1s estate. For ease of reading, Ill refer to all submissions as made by 
Mr H2.
Mr H2 is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires (BM Savings) 
gave him misleading information.
What happened
The late Mr H1 had a Saga account which was provided and administered by BM Savings. 
After 27 September 2019, BM Savings no longer provided new Saga accounts but continued 
to manage any existing accounts. Saga customers could open new accounts which would be 
held with, and managed by, a different provider. 
Following this change, the late Mr H1 closed his Saga account and withdrew the funds into 
his linked personal account in December 2019. It appears the late Mr H1 then set up a new 
Saga account which was administered and managed by the other provider.
Mr H2 wrote to Saga in February 2021 to notify them of the unfortunate passing of the late 
Mr H1. He was unaware of the changes in the way Saga accounts operated.
BM Savings wrote to Mr H2 using the Saga branding to inform him that Mr H1 didnt hold any 
open accounts with them. Mr H2 was confused by this as he believed Mr H1 had a Saga 
account. He spoke to them and was reassured that the information he was provided with 
was correct.
Mr H2 was later able to locate Mr H1s Saga account with the other provider. He complained 
that BM Savings misled him and didnt make him aware that there was another provider for 
Saga accounts. He explained that he believed he was communicating with Saga as a whole 
rather than BM Savings.
Our investigator said that BM Savings tried to locate Mr H1s account but couldnt find any 
open accounts. She was satisfied that Mr H2 was provided with the correct information and 
felt that they didnt need to provide him information about the other provider of Saga as it 
wasnt part of their process. 
Mr H2 disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What I had provisionally decided 
I issued a provisional decision on 20 April 2022, and I made the following findings:
Ive looked at the screenshot of searches carried out by BM Savings and Im satisfied 
that Mr H1 didnt have any open accounts with them. So, I agree BM Savings gave 
Mr H2 correct information. 
However, I think BM Savings should have done more to make Mr H2 aware that they 
were only administering existing accounts opened on or prior to 27 September 2019. 
They reasonably shouldve informed Mr H2 that any Saga accounts opened after this 
date would be held with the other provider. I say this because the letters BM Savings 
sent to Mr H2 on 8 February and 10 February 2021, had the logo and branding of 
Saga. 
BM Savings was mentioned as the deposit taker for Saga at the bottom of the letters 
in small print. But apart from this, there wasnt anything obvious in these letters which 
would have indicated to Mr H2 that the letters hed received from Saga only related to 
accounts administered by BM Savings. 
I wouldnt expect Mr H2 to have read the small print at the bottom of the letters or 
check the online website as he had no reason to believe that he was only 
corresponding with a part of Saga which was being administered by BM Savings. So, 
I can understand why Mr H2 feels misled.
I appreciate it isnt part of BM Savings process to tell Mr H2 about other providers. I 
also understand that they wouldnt be aware if the late Mr H1 had opened a new 
account managed by the other provider.
But I dont think thats fair and reasonable in this case. I say this because BM 
Savings werent corresponding with Mr H2 as themselves. Instead they 
communicated under the Saga logo and branding. 
Its reasonable to expect that BM Savings would be clear that their searches to locate 
the late Mr H1s Saga account would only include accounts opened on or prior to 27 
September 2019. Since BM Savings didnt make this clear, their letter gave the 
impression that the late Mr H1 didnt hold any open accounts with Saga, causing Mr 
H2 to feel confused and misled.
BM Savings were aware that there was a possibility that the late Mr H1 might have 
opened a new account through Saga, managed by the other provider on or after 30 
September 2019. I say this because Saga account holders were informed that the 
other provider was offering new Saga accounts to existing Saga customers. But Mr 
H2 wasnt aware of this as he wasnt a customer of Saga. 
Based on this, and given that BM Savings correspondence was through the Saga 
branding and logo, Id expect them to have made Mr H2 aware that any Saga 
account opened on or after 30 September 2019, wasnt managed by them and told 
him about the other provider. They also missed the opportunity to give Mr H2 this 
information when he spoke to them.
All things considered, I agree BM Savings should have done more to help Mr H2 
locate the late Mr H1s Saga account. But I dont think they need to do anything to 
put things right here. Ill explain why. 
Mr H2 wants to avoid another bereaved family going through the same thing and has 
asked BM Savings to put processes in place to direct customers to the other 
provider. I appreciate Mr H2s sentiments and I hope BM Savings will take steps to 
prevent similar issues again, but I cant consider the wider impact on other customers 
to reach my decision here. Instead, I can only take into account the individual 
circumstances of this complaint.I know Mr H2 wants BM Savings to apologise and compensate him for the distress 
and inconvenience he was caused. I accept he was let down with the customer 
service he received during what was a difficult time already for him and his family. 
And I agree Mr H2 was distressed and inconvenienced by the dealings he had with 
BM Savings. 
In these situations, telling a business to apologise will unlikely result in a genuine 
apology. So instead, Id take into account the impact on the complainant to 
compensate them for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
However, in this case I dont have the power to make an award of compensation to 
Mr H2 for the distress and inconvenience he was caused while he carried out his 
duties as the executor of Mr H1s estate.
I say this because I can only make an award to an eligible complainant. And in this 
case, the eligible complainant is the estate of Mr H1 rather than Mr H2. The distress 
and inconvenience caused was to Mr H2 rather than the estate of Mr H1. Therefore, I 
wont be asking BM Savings to compensate Mr H2.
BM Savings have said theyve recorded Mr H2s feedback so they can learn from his 
experience. I think this is a fair way to respond to the complaint. While I appreciate it 
would be reassuring for Mr H2 to understand how BM Savings have learnt from his 
feedback, I wouldnt expect them to share this with him as they are entitled to decide 
if and how to incorporate his feedback within their internal processes and 
procedures.
I know Mr H2 will be disappointed with my decision, but I wont be asking BM 
Savings to do anything else to resolve this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further submissions.
Mr H2 said he was satisfied with my finding that BM Savings should have done more to help 
him. But hes unhappy that BM Savings dont need to do anything to put it right and feels 
there should be some consequences.
He explained that the person that made the complaint was him and not the estate of Mr H1. 
And we havent explained why weve considered the complaint to be made by the estate of 
Mr H1, when the estate cannot be misled.
Although he was contacting BM Savings as a result of dealing with the late Mr H1s estate, 
Mr H2 thinks its reasonable for him to make the complaint and be compensated as he was 
the one that was misled. He is happy to accept an apology from BM Savings and the 
sincerity of the apology is for them to consider.
BM Savings accepted my provisional decision and have nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H2 is not an eligible complainant under our rules and we dont have the power to 
consider a complaint from him about how he was treated by BM Savings. Ill explain why.Our service is bound by certain rules that are set out by the financial industry regulator; the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). These are known as the dispute resolution (or DISP) 
rules and are contained in the FCAs Handbook.
DISP 2.7 states that we can only consider a complaint if its brought by or on behalf of an 
eligible complainant.
There are two parts to the eligibility rules explained in DISP 2.7.3 and DISP 2.7.6  both of 
these need to be met in order for Mr H2 to be an eligible complainant.
The first part sets out that a consumer is an eligible complainant. A consumer is defined as 
an individual acting for purposes which are wholly or mainly outside that individuals trade, 
business, craft or profession. 
Mr H2 meets this definition and also satisfies the first part of the eligibility rules.  But as I 
explained, Mr H2 must also meet the second part of the rule. 
The second part of the rule states that to be an eligible complainant he must also have a 
complaint which arises from matters relevant to one or more of the specified relationships 
with the business complained about. The full list of relationships can be found in DISP, so I 
wont include it here.
The relevant specified relationships here are  whether Mr H2s complaint arises from a 
relationship he has with BM Savings as a customer or potential customer.  Even if Mr H2 has 
an account with BM Savings or was looking to apply for one, the complaint that has been 
made to us, isnt as a result of his relationship with BM Savings directly. 
This means he doesnt meet the second part of our eligibility rules. I know Mr H2 will be 
disappointed, but he isnt an eligible complainant under our rules. And we dont have the 
power to consider a complaint from him on this matter.
However, the estate of the late Mr H1 is an eligible complainant as per the rules Ive 
explained above. Therefore, were able to consider the complaint brought to us on behalf of 
the estate of Mr H1.
I appreciate Mr H2 feels he should be compensated, and he is happy to accept an apology. 
But I only have the power to give a business the direction to apologise or make an award of 
compensation to an eligible complainant. And while I accept Mr H2 was distressed and 
inconvenienced by the customer service he received, as Ive explained already, he isnt an 
eligible complainant here.
As Mr H2 has said himself, an estate cant be misled. So, the impact here was on him 
personally. Unfortunately, as he isnt an eligible complainant, I dont have the power to ask 
BM Savings to apologise to him or compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he 
was caused while he was carrying out his responsibilities as the executor of Mr H1s estate. 
This shouldnt however prevent BM Savings from apologising to Mr H2, if they wanted to, 
given the service that he received. 
Mr H2 feels that the behaviour of BM Savings has no consequence. It might be helpful to 
explain that we arent the regulator and our role isnt to penalise or punish businesses. 
Thats the role of the FCA. Were here to resolve complaints informally, and we can ask businesses to put things right. 
But in doing so, were bound by our rules under which Mr H2 isnt an eligible complainant. 
This means I dont have the power to ask BM Savings to apologise to him or to compensate 
him.
I hope however its reassuring to Mr H2 that BM Savings have accepted my provisional 
decision. This indicates that they acknowledge the level of service they provided should 
have been better.
All things considered, Im satisfied with the findings Ive reached in my provisional decision 
and I wont be asking BM Savings to do anything else to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Birmingham Midshires (BM Savings) dont need to do anything else to resolve this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman