DRN-2756988
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined his claim after his electric bike 
was stolen, because of this he feels the policy was mis-sold. 
What happened
On 2 October 2020 Mr D purchased insurance for his electric bike online. Around a few 
weeks later the bike was stolen so Mr D contacted Aviva to make a claim. Aviva assessed 
the claim but declined it as they said the bike was an electric motorcycle and not a bicycle 
under the terms of the policy  and so, wasnt covered. 
Mr D complained to Aviva. He said they were aware of the details of the bike at the time he 
purchased the policy and still allowed him to purchase it, so they should re-consider the 
claim. 
Aviva explained that Mr D was presented with the policy booklet online at the time of the sale 
to review and accept the terms before purchasing. They directed Mr D to the relevant parts 
of the policy, such as the definition of a bicycle, and explained why Mr Ds bike didnt fit the 
definition.
Mr D referred his concerns to this service. Our investigator didnt feel Aviva had mis-sold the 
policy but felt as Mr D was never covered and there wasnt any risk, it was fair for Aviva to 
refund the premium he paid. Aviva agreed to refund the premium, but Mr D remained 
unhappy so asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva should handle claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim 
unreasonably. Ive considered this when coming to my decision.
During the online application process Mr D was asked to review the terms of business and 
insurance booklet (policy) before purchasing, to ensure it met his needs. And he had to tick 
the box to confirm he accepted the terms.
The policy states that Aviva will provide the cover set out in the policy and that the insured 
must comply with all the terms and conditions set out in the policy.  
As the policy was purchased online and therefore non-advised, it was Mr Ds responsibility to 
review the policy documents to ensure it covered him. Mr D thought that because Aviva 
accepted the purchase, his bike was covered. But that isnt the case and Aviva did make it 
clear, before purchase, that Mr D should read the appropriate documents to ensure it met his 
needs. I also note there was also a 14-day cooling off period where Mr D could have 
cancelled the policy if the policy didnt suit his requirements.
The policy is designed to cover bicycles and the terms of the policy clearly states the 
definition of a bicycle to be:
Any bicycle plus fixed items such as electric bike batteries, aftermarket pedals or 
lights. Which are your property and for which you are legally responsible. Including 
tricycle, tandem, trailer cycle, recumbent tricycle or push scooter. The bicycle/scooter 
must be driven by human pedal power or electric battery with an output not 
exceeding 250w / 15.5mph.
It does not include any electric bicycle or scooter where the power or speed requires 
it to be registered, insured or taxed as a motor vehicle.
The government have information on their website about the classification of electric bikes. It 
refers to electrically assisted pedal cycles (EAPC), which you do not need to register, tax or 
insure. To be counted as an EAPC it has to have pedals that can be used to propel it, have a 
maximum power output of 250 watts and a top speed of 15.5mph or less. 
It also states that any electric bike that does not meet the EAPC rules is classed as a 
motorcycle or moped and needs to be registered and taxed.
The policy documents were clear about what is defined as a bicycle. Mr Ds bike has an on-
road and off-road version. Whilst Im not certain what type it is, both versions are not 
operated by pedal and from what I have found have a maximum speed of between 30  
45mph. This is clearly over the 15.5mph limit defined in the policy. So, Im satisfied Aviva 
havent declined the claim unfairly. And I can understand why theyve deemed the bike a 
motorcycle.
After we looked into the complaint, Aviva agreed to refund the premium Mr D paid. Given 
that Mr D was never covered under the policy as his bike isnt deemed a bicycle under the 
policy terms. I think this was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Ds representative said documents must be fair and not mis-leading and I dont disagree. 
However, I havent found that the policy documents were mis-leading. 
And I dont think its reasonable to expect the website to recognise where a bike may or may 
not be covered based on the description entered by the customer. Its clearly not practical for 
Aviva to list every type and make of bicycle and motorcycle in their policy documents or to 
write an algorithm so that their on-line customer interface recognises whether a bike is 
covered or not. There are very many different types and makes of bike  and new types and 
makes appear with some regularity.
I can understand that Mr D may have felt that once his bike details were entered into the 
system that automatically meant his bike was one that would be covered. But the policy 
terms were presented for Mr D to read and accept prior to purchase. These were clear about 
what was covered under the policy. And Mr Ds bike did not fit the definition of a bicycle 
within the policy.
In summary, I dont think Aviva acted unfairly in declining the claim. The policy terms were 
clear, and it was Mr Ds responsibility to have checked them. Aviva agreed to refund the 
premium Mr D paid given that he wasnt covered, and I think this was fair in the 
circumstances. 
Putting things right
If they havent done so already, Aviva should refund Mr Ds policy premium. He was never covered by the policy and never could have derived any benefit from it. On that basis, Im 
upholding Mr Ds complaint, because Aviva didnt offer to refund the premium before we 
became involved.
But apart from that, Im not going to ask them to do anything else to resolve Mr Ds 
complaint. Their decision to decline the claim was fair and reasonable and they didnt mis-
sell the policy to Mr D.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay Mr D £69.00, if they havent already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman