DRN-2748248
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) took an excessive amount of time to 
locate his Stocks and Shares ISA. Mr S says Barclays repeatedly referred to a Cash ISA and 
this contributed to the delay.
What happened
Mr S wrote to Barclays on 20 December 2020 asking if he still had an ISA with them and if 
so, could a statement be provided. 
Barclays replied on 9 January 2020 explaining that they were unable to carry out
the written instruction as they didnt have the branch sort code or account number. They 
asked Mr S to either go to branch with identification or resubmit a signed request quoting his 
account details and the reference of their letter.
Mr S sent Barclays letter back to them on 23 January 2020 having
signed it and added a reference. Mr S also sent a reminder on 5 February 2020. This 
included their 9 January 2020 letter on which Mr S had written comments on and provided 
his signature from 23 January 2020. Mr S also included ISA statements from August 2018.
Barclays sent a letter dated 19 February 2020 in response to Mr S letter
dated 23 January 2020, stating they had no record of a cash ISA.
Mr S wrote back on 23 February 2020 wanting to know what happened to the stocks and 
shares ISA which he had a statement for from 2018 and why he had a £4 fee still being 
taken regularly from his account.
Barclays received a cheque withdrawal request on 13 March 2020 and the cheque was 
issued on 19 March 2020 as Barclays were able to match the signature on the account.
Mr S complained to Barclays in April 2020. Barclays investigated the complaint and 
responded on 9 May 2020. They believed that the complaint was about the delay in Mr S 
receiving his cheque. Barclays didnt think they had done anything wrong and didnt uphold 
the complaint.
Mr S was unhappy about the way Barclays had handled his complaint and referred the 
matter to the service. One of our investigators reviewed the complaint but didnt think that 
Barclays had done anything wrong in trying to establish Mr S details and to make sure the 
instruction was valid. The investigator did not uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr S has asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and will 
not be upholding the complaint. I know that Mr S feels strongly about how Barclays has 
handled his complaint and I will explain why I have reached this decision.
My role is to look at the complaint to see if Barclays have acted fairly in providing the service 
to Mr S. If the business has failed to provide the service or if something has gone wrong, 
then my job is to put the consumer back into the position they should have been in had the 
error not occurred.
Mr S complaint is that Barclays failed to establish that he held a Stocks and Shares ISA and 
that they continued to refer to a Cash ISA. There are two things that I would like to cover off 
initially.
I can see why Mr S was frustrated by Barclays continuing to refer to his investment as a 
Cash ISA and I sympathise with him. Although I cant say for sure why this was the case, Mr 
S asked for his cash balance and this may well have been mis-interpreted by Barclays that 
he held a Cash ISA. 
Although this was one of the main reasons that Mr S complained to Barclays, Im not 
persuaded that Barclays reference to the Cash ISA was the reason that the instruction was 
delayed. I believe that this was due to Mr S not being able to provide an up to date account 
identifier and Barclays requiring personal information to be updated.
Mr S held a Stocks and Shares ISA that was opened in 1993. This migrated onto a new 
Barclays platform in 2017 and account numbers changed. Mr S was initially using the old 
reference and he provided National Insurance numbers to Barclays.
In his submission to the service, Mr S says that this information should have been enough 
for Barclays to identify him and his Stocks and Shares ISA. I acknowledge that this may well 
have been the case, but Barclays internal procedure was to ask for additional information so 
that they could refresh the personal information that they held for Mr S.
It is not the role of the service to tell a business how it should run its operation and I need to 
be mindful of current regulation that says that regulated firms need to have up to date 
personal information so that they can comply with anti-money laundering rules.
Barclays were undertaking an exercise to refresh consumers personal information which is 
why they asked Mr S to provide further information. Although they were able to verify Mr S 
signature which allowed them to process the cash withdrawal, continued operation of Mr S 
Stocks and Shares ISA would have required up to date information included address and 
date of birth confirmation.
I can see from the documentation on file that Barclays held a different date of birth for Mr S 
which is why they were unable to verify Mr S when he called. Although I can understand Mr 
S frustration at having been asked to send in information that he felt they should already 
have, I dont think Barclays have done anything wrong here and Im not going to ask them to 
do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman