DRN-4428599
The complaint
Mr S has complained about how British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) dealt with a 
claim under a home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr S owned a rental property. He contacted British Gas to send an engineer to fix the central 
heating. When the engineer visited, he said a powerflush was required. The powerflush was 
carried out twice, but wasnt successful. British Gas then told Mr S he needed to replace his 
boiler and the pipework needed to be changed to a larger size. 
Mr S arranged for his own plumber to look at the issue. The plumber said it wasnt necessary 
to replace the boiler or to increase the size of the pipework. The plumber replaced some 
radiators, removed some of the pipework and installed a magnetic filter. Mr S said British 
Gas should pay for these costs.
When British Gas responded to Mr Ss complaint, it said it had given the correct advice 
about the pipework. It also said it had been advising the boiler should be replaced since 
2016. It paid £165 compensation for the multiple visits, complaint handling delays and poor 
service. It also cancelled the invoice for the powerflush.
Mr S complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said British Gas 
should pay for most of the work carried out by the plumber. When British Gas replied to our 
investigator, it disagreed with the extent of the work to be covered and offered £487.50 for 
the radiators, valves, vents, system treatment and a days labour. Our investigator 
considered this and agreed it was a fair offer and that British Gas didnt need to pay for the 
pipework or the magnetic filter.
Mr S said British Gas should pay for all the work carried out. So, the complaint was referred 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why. 
British Gas has accepted that it should pay for some of the work carried out by Mr Ss 
plumber. This was new radiators, valves, vents, system treatments and a days labour. Mr S 
has said it should pay for all of the work. So, Ive thought about this. British Gas told Mr S the 
pipework at the property needed to be increased from 15mm to 22mm. Mr Ss plumber said 
increasing the pipework size wasnt necessary, but that it was essential to re-route the 
pipework, which he did. 
The policy didnt cover pre-existing issues. Mr Ss plumber said it was necessary to reroute 
the pipework. However, British Gas didnt install this pipework and wasnt responsible for 
how it was routed. The way the pipework was routed wasnt a fault that developed. It was a 
pre-existing issue. So, British Gas wasnt required to replace the pipework as the policy 
didnt cover this work. It was an upgrade or betterment. Mr S also said British Gas should 
replace the magnetic filter. However, from what I can see this was preventative work rather 
than because the filter needed to be replaced to allow the system to function. So, I dont 
think British Gas needs to pay for this either. 
Im aware Mr S has also said British Gas should pay more because although it said it would 
cover one days labour, the plumber had to travel back and forth to the property a lot. But I 
dont think British Gas needs to cover this. The plumber needed to visit the property to 
assess the issue and was doing other work at the property, such as the pipework. British 
Gas only needs to cover the labour for the time it took to do the work it has agreed to pay 
for. It has said this should have been a maximum of one day for the work involved, which I 
think is reasonable. So, I think British Gas offer of £487.50 is fair in the circumstances and 
that it should pay this amount. It should also pay interest on this amount because Mr S lost 
use of the money.
I am aware Mr S was concerned by how long that it took British Gas to diagnose the issues 
and that the advice he was given, such as to replace the boiler, was later found to be wrong. 
When British Gas looked at the complaint, it agreed to cancel the invoice for the powerflush 
and paid £165 compensation. I think this was reasonable in the circumstances and fairly 
reflected the issues with how the claim was handled. So, I dont require it to pay anything 
further.
Putting things right
British Gas should pay £487.50 for work carried out at the property, plus interest
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
British Gas Insurance Limited to:
pay Mr S £487.50 for the work carried out at his property
pay 8% simple interest on that amount from the date on which Mr S paid the invoice to 
the date on which it makes the payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman