DRN-3069554
The complaint
Miss S makes a number of complaints about TSB Bank plc following her being unable to use 
her mobile telephone application.
What happened
Miss S says she was unable to access her TSB account via her banking application (app) on 
23 March 2021. She says she wasnt told about the planned maintenance and couldnt 
access her money which she needed in order to make a faster payment. Miss S says she 
was forced to uninstall and re-install the app before being able to make the payment. She 
says she was caused stress and anxiety as a result of what took place and says TSB 
completely misunderstood her complaint. Miss S says TSB told her the problem was about a 
known issue out of its control, but her complaint was the lack of communication about the 
maintenance. She also says TSB systems didnt allow her to take a screen shot to confirm 
the fact that she was told there was mainainence. Miss S would like compensation for what 
took place.
TSB says there was a known issue out of its control at the time of the access issue but says 
its account terms and conditions make clear that on occasions its customers may not be 
able to use a banking app. It says there was no planned maintenance on 23 March 2021 and 
in any event is not required to give notice of such maintenance. TSB says its records show 
Miss S was able to use the app at 07.51 on 23 March 2021 and also says a faster payment 
may take up to two hours to process.
Miss S brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought TSBs records showed that Miss S was able to make the payment and 
use the app within about an hour of experiencing the access difficulties. And thought TSBs 
terms and conditions made clear that customers may not be able to access accounts via an 
app at all times.
Miss S doesnt accept that view and in summary says TSB didnt listen to her complaint point 
and blamed an irrelevant issue. She says she tried from about 06.00 on 23 March 2021 to 
access her account and make the payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Miss S will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly she feels 
about what took place.
I accept that TSB ought to have listened to Miss S and appreciated that she wasnt raising 
an issue about the known problem and the workaround. But that she was complaining about 
not being told that there was planned maintenance and the subsequent installation issues. I 
appreciate Miss Ss frustration in those circumstances. But I dont think that justifies 
compensation or that TSBs lack of appreciation of the complete complaint would have 
changed the outcome here.
Im satisfied that having looked at TSBs terms and conditions that it makes clear its banking 
app may not always be available and that it will not always tell customers about any planned 
maintenance. So, I dont think TSB would have made a mistake if it carried out maintenance 
on 23 March 2021 and didnt tell Miss S about that. TSB says there was no planed 
maintenance or issues that day, but Miss S says there was. In those circumstances I cant 
fairly conclude that either side is incorrect but, in any event, dont think it matters in the light 
of the account terms and conditions.
I appreciate Miss S says TSB doesnt allow a screenshot to be taken. I make clear that we 
are not TSBs regulator and so its not our role to direct it to change that practice. I find that 
such matters are for TSB to decide upon when exercising its commercial judgement.
I have looked at TSBs records and considered what Miss S has told us about the events of 
23 March 2021. Im satisfied that Miss S says she tried to use the TSB app at 06.00 and that 
the transaction was successfully processed at 07.51. I dont think that was a significant time 
period and am satisfied that a faster payment may take up to two hours to process in any 
event.
Overall, I accept TSB ought to have listened to Miss S and established what her complaint 
was in full. But I dont think that justifies compensation and am satisfied for the reasons I 
have explained that even if TSB was carrying out maintenance, then it wasnt obliged to 
have told customers. I also find this brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute 
informally can do to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complain.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman