DRN-1718477
The complaint
Mr A complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd (trading as Allied Dunbar) was mis-advised to 
transfer his final salary pension to a personal pension plan in 1993. He feels they failed to 
explain the risks of a personal pension compared to a final salary scheme and was poorly 
advised about the poor transfer value.
What happened
In 1993, Mr A transferred his final salary pension into an Allied Dunbar Personal Pension 
Plan (PPP). In 1997, Mr A asked Allied Dunbar to review the advice he was given with 
regards to this transfer.
 
As part of an industry-wide Pension Review, Allied Dunbar carried out a review and found 
Mr A had not suffered any loss by transferring, but had gained financially by over £9000. 
Mr A was informed of this and was told that he neednt do anything further, but was advised 
that if he was unhappy with the outcome of the review he could complain to the Personal 
Investment Authority Ombudsman.
 
Upon request, a breakdown of Allied Dunbars calculations were provided to Mr A. And he 
was told that he could have them independently analysed by an actuary or pensions 
consultant, at his own cost.
In December 2006, Mr A transferred his PPP out of Allied Dunbar, and other pension plans 
to AEGON-Scottish Equitable.  Just prior to retiring in 2012, Mr A got an annuity at a rate of 
5.4%.
Unhappy with the advice hed been given in 1993, Mr A raised a complaint with 
Allied Dunbar in February 2019. He explained that he was unhappy that his pension hadnt 
realised the projections he was given in 1993  to his mind 11% (as the median of 8.5% to 
13% which were the low and high returns given on the projections) would have been 
acceptable. 
He also stated hed examined the transfer value from his employers pension to his PPP and  
felt with just over £50,000 it was well below standard. Hed also stated that if hed retained 
his occupational pension, he would have received around £34,000 per year upon retirement; 
and he would have had access to a car lease program. He explained that this wasnt 
something hed addressed sooner as in 2012 hed lost both of his parents in a short period of 
time and had himself been suffering with ill health.
Allied Dunbar explained in their final response, that there was no evidence to suggest Mr A 
was misled into believing the plan would achieve a specific fund value at retirement. And 
whilst the adviser may have provided illustrations showing greater returns than what was 
achieved, Allied Dunbar explained that they were not present when these conversations took 
place. Relying on the documentation sent to Mr A at the time, Allied Dunbar have stated it 
was made clear that the figures used in the illustration, were not guaranteed. 
Not satisfied with this, Mr A brought his complaint to us. He stated he believed he was mis-
sold his PPP and poorly advised about the risks and poor transfer value. In particular he 
wanted us to consider his view that: 
1. If he was made aware of the valuable pension benefits held within his employer 
pension scheme and the risks attached to transferring the funds into a PPP, he 
wouldnt have transferred the funds; 
2. By not being informed of the risks of transferring into a PPP and giving up the 
guarantees within a final salary scheme this has had a significant impact on providing 
a suitable level of income to support him through his retirement years; and
3. If the poor value of the transfer had been fully explained that would have reinforced 
his decision not to go ahead and to stay with the employers final salary scheme. 
Mr A also explained to us that he hadnt compared the widows benefits as he had additional 
policies from Allied Dunbar covering his and his wifes lives and their mortgage at the time. 
These other policies have since been relinquished. Mr A believes that only having the 
annuity, may be less than the cover his employers final salary pension plan provided.   
One of our investigators looked into this complaint and found that the review carried out in 
1997 showed Mr A hadnt lost out financially and that Allied Dunbar hadnt guaranteed there 
wouldnt be a future loss. It was explained that as the review of Mr As PPP was part of an 
industry wide review, it was overseen by the regulator at the time. Accordingly, they were 
satisfied Allied Dunbar would have correctly assessed Mr As pension transfer. 
It was explained that it couldnt have been predicted that the rates and returns used in the 
review would have fallen in the manner in which they did. They also stated that it was clearly 
important to Mr A that Allied Dunbar put him in the position he wouldve been in, had he kept 
the occupational final salary pension plan. However, the fact that the assumptions about 
investment returns during the pensions review hadnt been achieved, isnt grounds for an 
assessment of the advice to be undertaken again.
Mr A disagreed with this outcome and maintained:
1. There was a lack of explanation given regarding the risk involved during the transfer 
process;
2. The potential risk of an annuity rate falling wasnt fully explained to him;
3. The benefits of remaining in his occupational scheme far outweighed the cash 
equivalent transfer value offered and the illustration provided wasnt fully explained to 
him at the time; and 
4. A complete review was necessary as the risks involved in undertaking a pension 
transfer were not explained to him. Allied Dunbar were aware that he was not an 
experienced investor and viewed himself as having a conservative appetite for risk.  
Our investigator concluded that this didnt alter their view. This has therefore been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr A has put great thought into the arguments he has put forward for 
consideration and Im grateful for the information he has provided. Whilst I will not be 
responding to each point raised, I would like to assure him that all of his points hes brought 
to our attention have been considered.The main complaint here is with reference to the advice Mr A received in 1993. He has 
explained that he doesnt think the potential risks associated with transferring from his final 
salary scheme to a personal pension were fully explained to him. And he feels he was poorly 
advised about the poor transfer value. Having seen illustrations of how his pension could 
perform if he chose to transfer Mr A decided to move his pension to Allied Dunbar.
I can see that as part of an industry-wide review that took place at the time, the 1993 advice 
to transfer was reviewed in 1997. As our investigator has explained this was overseen by the 
regulators at the time  the Securities and Investment Board and the Personal Investment 
Authority. Whilst this review considered a number of situations the one relevant to Mr As 
case would be advice given pertaining to transferring out of his defined benefit occupational 
pension scheme, to the personal pension with Allied Dunbar. The expectation was that after 
the review was conducted, Allied Dunbar would send Mr A an outcome letter detailing next 
steps. 
In this instance Mr As outcome letter explained that after the investigation theyd found Mr A 
hadnt suffered a loss and there was no existing cause for concern. Having seen a copy of 
the calculations provided to Mr A, I would agree that he hadnt suffered any financial loss at 
the time of the review and that the review showed a gain of over £9,000. Allied Dunbar used 
the assumptions provided by the regulator at the time. And whilst I do understand Mr As 
points and his frustration as the projections havent come into fruition over the years, it would 
be unfair for me to say the assumptions werent reasonable at the time. 
The outcome letter provided to Mr A also explained that although there was no further action 
he needed to take, if he wasnt happy with the review, he could refer the matter to the 
Personal Investment Authority Ombudsman. This opportunity wasnt explored, and I cannot 
see that Allied Dunbar failed to carry out the review in line with the expectation of the then 
regulator. The industry-wide pension review at the time was meant to draw a line under the 
mis-selling concerns the regulator had about advice given between 1988 and 1994.
Under these circumstances, it wouldnt therefore be fair or reasonable to revisit this matter 
again now.
My final decision
For the reasons I have provided, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Chantelle Findlow
Ombudsman