DRN-3028956
complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out in 1989. 
Mr S says Yorkshire Building Society mis-sold him the PPI.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to YBS throughout this decision.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint (which includes Mr Ss 
circumstances at the time as well as the policys benefits, limitations and exclusions) arent 
disputed. So I wont repeat all of this information here.
One of our adjudicators previously looked into this complaint and said they didnt think we 
should uphold it. Mr S didnt agree, so its been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ss. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ss complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S.
I think YBS made it clear enough that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out. I say this because I was shown his original mortgage application where he ticked 
a box asking for the PPI to be added. Mr S says he felt pressured to buy the cover, but 
theres no supporting evidence of this and he would have been able to see he didnt have to 
tick the box if he didnt want to.
I also note that mention of the PPI was made on his Mortgage Offer, an important document 
I feel Mr S would have wanted to read quite carefully. This, in my view, confirms what I think 
is strong evidence that Mr S would have known he had a choice about the PPI and that he 
took out the policy because the cover was something he wanted to have. I think he wanted 
to protect his mortgage repayments against losing his job or becoming too ill to work. 
In my view, YBS properly obtained his consent.
Theres no evidence YBS recommended the PPI to Mr S as part of an advised sale, so it 
was for Mr S himself to check that the PPI was right for him. YBSs responsibility was to 
provide information that was clear enough for Mr S to make an informed choice.
Its certainly possible the information YBS gave to Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
might have been but I think its more likely he knew the policy was in existence and hed 
bought it after being told the main features of the cover. There is evidence on the Mortgage 
Offer, for example, showing the cost of the PPI was known to Mr S. I see Mr S himself later 
wrote a letter to YBS, around 2 years later, about the policy. 
The cover probably wasnt too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from 
the information he was most likely given and there was nothing about Mr Ss employment or 
occupation which would have made it difficult for him to claim. It also looks like it was 
affordable for him and, as the mortgage was insured against Mr Ss home, it could have 
been useful if something went wrong. Because of all this I dont think Mr S would have 
declined the cover even if had YBS could have done a better job at explaining it.
Mr Ss representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant YBS should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Ss representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ss particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
complaint. 
This means Yorkshire Building Society doesnt have to pay back any of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr S.
my decision
I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint or make any award in favour of him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman