DRN-3808761
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the valuation Covea Insurance plc reached when settling a total 
loss claim under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Gs car was written off and so his insurer Covea settled Mr Gs claim as a total loss. It 
paid the market value for Mr Gs car. 
Mr G didnt agree with the valuation Covea reached. He provided examples of adverts of 
similar cars for sale which were advertised for more than the valuation. 
Covea didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint and said it had paid a fair market value for his car.
Mr G asked us to look at things for him. Our Investigator looked at the main motor trade 
guides - and thought Coveas valuation hadnt been reached fairly. Taking into account all of 
the trade guides, she reached an average valuation which was higher than Covea had paid. 
So she recommended Covea pay the higher valuation. And she thought it should pay Mr G 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its decision to pay a lower 
value. 
Mr G accepted the Investigators recommendations. Covea disagreed. In summary it says 
one of the guides the Investigator included was out of kilter with the others - and so in line 
with our approach - it shouldnt have been taken into account. When disregarded, Covea 
says this shows it paid a fair valuation for Mr Gs car. 
In response, the Investigator said that the higher guide was in line with adverts Mr G 
provided for similar cars for sale. And that recently trade guides have told us that cars are 
selling for close to the asking price. So she didnt think in this case it was reasonable to 
disregard the higher guide.
Covea disagreed and said it followed our approach. It provided another valuation guide 
which is much lower. So it wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide a valuation. But we can look at whether an insurer reached its valuation 
reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Mr G holds a market value standard car insurance policy with Covea. So in the event of a 
total loss claim, the most Covea will pay is the market value of his car at the time of loss. 
Covea looked at the main motor trade guides for the same make, model, age, condition and 
mileage as Mr Gs car. Applying an average of the guides, it reached a total loss (market 
value) settlement sum of £7,923.66. 
The Investigator included another guide valuation which we use and this was higher than the 
others at £8,968. 
Covea said this guide should be disregarded in line with our approach. We generally think 
its fair for an insurer to disregard a guide that it is out of kilter with the others - irrespective of 
whether this guide is much lower or much higher. 
However, the higher trade guide in this case closely matches the examples of advertised 
prices for similar cars to Mr Gs at £8,995. And keeping in mind what this service has 
recently been told about advertised prices being very close to actual selling prices - I dont 
think it unreasonable to include the higher guide to arrive at an average value here.
The guide Covea sent to us in November 2022 appears to be based on the loss month being 
November 2022, so I havent taken it into account. 
So I agree with the Investigators recommendations to put things right in this case. I think 
Covea should increase the total loss settlement it pays Mr G to include the higher guide in 
the average sum. It should pay interest on the difference from the date the original 
settlement was paid to the date it pays Mr G. 
I think Covea s decision caused Mr G some distress and inconvenience. For this I think it 
should pay him £100 compensation. I think this - along with the increase and interest in the 
valuation sum - is enough to resolve Mr Gs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Covea Insurance plc to do the 
following:
Increase the market value to £8,193.25 as a fair settlement sum for Mr Gs claim.
Pay interest on the difference from the date the original settlement was paid to 
the date Covea pays Mr G at a rate of 8% simple interest a year.
Pay Mr G £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Covea Insurance plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
it Mr G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman