DRN-2930008
The complaint
Miss D complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) acted unfairly in
rejecting her claim and voiding her policy after some high value items went missing from her
home. She wants Admiral to reinstate her policy and pay out for her claim. 
What happened
Miss D held home contents insurance with Admiral.
In October 2019, Miss D contacted Admiral to log a claim for some lost items. These
included two diamond tennis bracelets, a bespoke gold and diamond pendant and £480 in
cash.
The items had been placed together in a bag and put to one side during a house move. 
This house move had been carried out with the help of friends of Miss D, rather than a
professional removals company. The move had taken place over a number of days and Miss
D was then unable to find the bag with her jewellery and cash.
Admiral engaged a claims handler to investigate the claim and report back to Admiral.
The claims handler interviewed Miss D and took details from her about the loss. Miss D was
asked to provide evidence of ownership of the items and valuations.
Miss D provided a valuation for two of the items, which was dated after the loss.
The claims handlers developed concerns and began investigating on the basis that Mss D
may have still had the items in her possession after the date of the loss. The claims handler
also contacted two jewellers (who Miss D had reported the items being purchased from) and
asked them about the purchase and valuations of the items.
The claims handlers reported some concerns to Admiral in an interim report, and in March
2020 reported that it was unable to support its concerns and was now satisfied that Miss D
had owned the items.
Admiral contacted Miss D in May 2020 repudiating her claim and voiding her policy. In its
letter Admiral stated that it had concerns that Miss D had breached general conditions of the
policy, which it listed.
The letter then stated that the policy would be voided from the date of 6 October 2019 as
that was the date when Admiral considered there had been a fraudulent act.
Miss D complained to Admiral and was sent a final response in July 2020. Admiral stood by
its decisions to reject the claim and to cancel the policy, but acknowledged that there had
been a short delay in handling the claim. Admiral therefore offered Miss D £50 compensation
for this.
Miss D remained unhappy and contacted us. She explained that she was struggling to get
insurance elsewhere and was distressed at the accusation of fraud.
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties. This
was that Admiral was wrong to reject the claim and void the policy. He considered that
Admiral ought to reinstate the policy and recommence consideration of the claim under the
other terms. He also thought that Admiral ought to pay Miss D £250 compensation for her
distress and inconvenience.
Admiral did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
I have previously made enquiries with Admiral because Admiral had acknowledged, during 
the investigation, that it ought to have rejected Miss Ds claim as excluded immediately.  This 
was because Miss Ds policy had a specific exclusion for high risk items lost during home 
moves, and also because Admiral required that any loss be reported to the police, which 
Miss D had not done for her loss. 
Admiral indicated that it would be willing to retract the voidance decision and replace this 
with a declined claim. 
Admiral then did not respond to my enquiry into whether this was offered as a resolution to 
the complaint, or if Admiral acknowledged that it was wrong to consider the claim and to 
decline it, and void Miss Ds policy, on the basis of fraud. 
I therefore proceeded to issue a provisional decision in June 2021. In that decision I 
explained that the complaint was about Admirals decision to decline her claim on the basis 
of fraud and the decision to void her policy, as this has caused her difficulties obtaining other 
insurance. I explained that it was not my role to determine whether the claim was valid or 
not, but instead my role was to determine whether Admiral had treated Miss D reasonably 
and fairly when it handled the claim. 
In my provisional decision I set out that I did not think that Admiral had treated Miss D fairly. 
This was because it had apparently reached a decision to decline her claim on the basis of 
fraud, against the decision of its claims handler who had investigated the claim, and Admiral 
had not communicated this clearly to Miss D. In light of Admirals acknowledgement that it 
ought to have immediately declined the claim due to policy exclusions, I felt that the decision 
to decline the claim and void the policy on the basis of fraud was unfair to Miss D. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment and provide any further evidence. 
Miss D has not provided any further comments. 
Admiral has responded to my provisional decision indicating that it does not accept my view. 
Admiral states that it has clearly set out its position and that it considers that the items were 
still in the possession of Miss D at the time of the valuation. Admiral does not comment on 
my view that the decision letter to Miss D was not clear about what had been decided and 
why, nor that it was unfair to consider the claim and void Miss Ds policy when Admiral ought 
to have rejected the claim immediately.
Admiral has not commented on my proposed remedies.  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I again repeat that it is not the role of this service to determine whether Miss Ds claim for her 
items was legitimate or fraudulent. This is the role of the insurer. 
In this case, the evidence I have seen demonstrates that Admiral embarked upon 
investigation of the claim when it had enough information to decline the claim due to 
exclusions. This wasted Miss Ds time in responding to queries and obtaining evidence. 
Admirals agent conducted an investigation, which addressed the inconsistencies in the 
claim, and ultimately recommended settling the claim. Admiral then declined the claim, but 
did not make clear to Miss D the reasons upon which it relied. This was not fair to Miss D.  
Admiral then voided Miss Ds policy on the basis of its unclear decision. This has made it 
difficult for Miss D to obtain insurance elsewhere, and if she has obtained insurance it will 
most likely be at higher cost. 
I remain of the view expressed in my provisional decision and, as new comments or 
evidence have been produced, I adopt that decision and reasoning  as supplemented by 
this decision  as my final decision. 
Putting things right
I think that in order to put things right Admiral should:
Reinstate Miss Ds policy and remove the voidance decision;
Admiral should then make a final decision on the claim and send this to Miss D, 
explaining clearly the reasons for the decision;
Admiral should then treat the policy as cancelled by mutual agreement from the day 
after the claim, and should refund to Miss D any proportion of premium which was by 
that time unused;
Admiral should reimburse Miss D for the difference between her home insurance 
since May 2020 and her premium from Admiral for 2019/2020;
Admiral should add interest to the above amount at the rate of 8% simple interest; 
and
Admiral should pay to Miss D £300 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Miss Ds complaint 
and direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to: 
Reinstate Miss Ds policy and remove the voidance decision;
make a final decision on the claim and send this to Miss D, explaining clearly the 
reasons for the decision;
treat the policy as cancelled by mutual agreement from the day after the claim, and 
refund to Miss D any proportion of premium which was by that time unused;
reimburse Miss D for the difference between her home insurance since May 2020 
and her premium from Admiral for 2019/2020;
add interest to the above amount at the rate of 8% simple interest; and
pay to Miss D £300 compensation for her distress and inconvenience. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman