DRN-3504876
The complaint
Mrs B complains JAJA FINANCE LTD (JAJA) incorrectly recorded a default against her
credit card account.
Mrs B is represented by Mr B, for ease Ive referred to statements made by Mr B as being
made by Mrs B.
What happened
Mrs B had a credit card account with JAJA. She asked it to close the account, however it
wasnt closed because of an outstanding balance Mrs B says she was unaware of. JAJA
later recorded a default on Mrs Bs credit report.
Mrs B says she found out about the default during the application for a further advance on
her mortgage with a business, Ill call S. She says S agreed to put the application on hold
until the issue with the default had been rectified.
In February 2021, Mrs B phoned JAJA and complained about the default it had recorded
against her, she paid the outstanding balance and the account was closed. JAJA accepted
there were errors in its handling of Mrs Bs account and said it would contact the credit
reference agencies to have her records amended.
Around a month later, Mrs B phoned JAJA as she found her records hadnt been updated. It
apologised for not contacting the credit reference agencies when it said it would, and it
offered her £100 in compensation. The records were subsequently updated, but Mrs B said
by this time S changed their requirement, and they declined the further advance on the
mortgage.
Mrs B doesnt think £100 is fair compensation and says they had to wait another three
months to reapply for the further advance. She says this had a knock-on effect and delayed
the extension of their home by around 12 months, and cost approximately 10% more
because the cost of materials had also increased. Mrs B also says the situation took a toll on
her and her family and caused her to lose out financially.
Our investigator upheld the complaint as he didnt think £100 was fair compensation. He
thought JAJAs offer of £100 was fair for the second part of the complaint because it had not
updated her records when it said it would. But he didnt think it was enough to compensate
for the distress the situation caused Mrs B when she was first informed of the default on her
credit file. He said he hadnt seen any evidence of financial loss suffered by Mrs B but
thought JAJA should pay a further £100 in compensation.
JAJA accepted our investigators opinion but Mrs B didnt agree and asked for an
ombudsmans decision. She doesnt think £200 is fair compensation and she says:
upon finding out about the default her and husband spent three months worrying 
about the impact it would have on their plans.
They spent days on the phone and many hours since to try to get reasonable and 
appropriate recompense.
They are still without the extension to the home as a direct result of the delay caused 
by the default notice in obtaining the further borrowing approval. As such, they are 
still making compromises until the extension is done. The extension would have been 
finished a few months ago and the family could have moved on.
The compensation does not come close to acknowledging the amount of stress and 
effort JAJA forced on her and her family.
I gave my provisional decision on 23 May 2022 in which I said: 
When things go wrong, wed expect a business to put it right. JAJA accepts it made mistakes
and it has already closed the credit card account and amended Mrs Bs credit file. So, what I
must decide is whether its done enough to compensate Mrs B for the impact its errors had
on her.
Mrs B has given a detailed account of the distress and inconvenience she faced because of
the mistakes made by JAJA, however I havent detailed it all here. Id like to reassure Mrs B
that I have read and considered everything she and JAJA has said, but Ive focused on
explaining what is key to the decision Ive reached.
Id also like to reiterate what our investigator said, which is that our role isnt to penalise or
punish a business when something has gone wrong. Rather, I must look at the individual
case and the impact JAJAs actions had on Mrs B and decide on a fair and reasonable way
to resolve things.
Impact on the mortgage application
When mistakes are made by a business, it can have an impact on other areas of the
consumers life. Mrs B says JAJAs errors caused delays to her further advance application.
She provided evidence of what her mortgage providers had asked for to complete the
application process. It shows Mrs B was asked to resolve the issue of the default and this
was one of the last items outstanding.
Before a mortgage is approved many factors are taken into account by the lender, such as
employment status, income, and existing borrowing a consumer may have. Different lenders
will have specific requirements that need to be met for a mortgage to be approved. I accept
that getting JAJA to remove the default was one of the issues that Mrs B needed to resolve 
for her mortgage application. However, Im not persuaded that had it not been for the default,
Mrs Bs further advance would have been approved sooner than it was. Ill explain why.
Mrs B says her husband hadnt been working due to the Covid 19 pandemic and he had
taken the self-employment income support scheme (SEISS) grant. She says in the time it
took to have the default removed from her account, her mortgage providers changed their
requirements, and would no longer accept the grant as proof of income. She says had JAJA
removed the default when it said it would, she wouldnt have been impacted by the changes
to their criteria.
It can be difficult to know exactly what causes an application for borrowing to be declined.
We asked S for its comments. It confirmed Mrs Bs further advance was declined due to
affordability, because its policy at the time of their original application, meant anyone who
had taken the government grant was classed as impacted by the Covid 19 pandemic. And it
couldnt use that income in its calculations. Crucially, it also said the change to its policy took
place from September 2021 to allow it to consider the income if it had been more than 12
months since the applicant had applied for the grant. Before this time, S wouldnt use this
income at all.
Based on this, Im not satisfied that had the default been removed sooner, their furtherborrowing application would have been approved. I understand Mr B received an SEISS
payment in April 2021 and I accept that due to the delay in removing the default marker, he
had to provide S with updated bank statements which showed he was in receipt of the grant
payment, but I dont think that changes things.
As Mr B had received the grant payment on another, earlier occasion, Im not persuaded,
their application would have been accepted even if it had been processed before he
received the payment in April. This is because, as above, Ss policy prior to September 2021
didnt allow them to consider self-employed income where the grant had been taken.
Given Mr Bs income had been impacted by the Covid 19 pandemic, and based on the
information from S showing the further advance application was delayed due to affordability
issues, not the default, Im not satisfied the default registered by JAJA was the ultimate
cause. I accept it was something Mrs B needed to resolve, but Ss policy at the time meant it
couldnt accept Mr Bs self-employed income in any event. As such, I cant reasonably hold
JAJA responsible for delays to their further advance and the subsequent delays to the
extension work Mrs B had done to her home.
Financial impact
Mrs B said she experienced other financial losses because of the default marker placed on
her account. She explained she was declined a credit card and had to accept a higher
interest rate on her existing mortgage. However, Mrs B hasnt been able to provide evidence
to show the default caused the higher interest rate or that the credit card application was
declined because of it. Based on the information that is available, Im not persuaded the
default was the sole cause of the financial difficulties Mrs B experienced, as other factors
could also have contributed to these issues.
Putting things right
Nevertheless, I think it would have been worrying to find out about the default. It will also
have been frustrating for Mrs B to discover it hadnt been rectified when JAJA said it would
be. Applying for a mortgage or further borrowing can be a stressful process, and I think it
was a particularly stressful time for Mrs B. The problems Mrs B encountered with JAJA
would have no doubt compounded things, but I cant hold it entirely responsible for the
difficulties she faced. JAJA already offered Mrs B £100 in compensation, but I think it should 
pay an additional £100. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs B, but I think its fair
compensation for the inconvenience and stress its mistakes caused.
Mrs B says she spent hours on the phone to have the issue of the default rectified and in
trying to get some recompense. Some inconvenience is to be expected as part of the
process of making a complaint, so I dont think JAJA need compensate Mrs B for this.
However, if Mrs B can provide evidence of the cost, I think JAJA should cover the cost of the
telephone calls she made to inform it of its errors and to get the default removed from her
records.
Both Mrs B and JAJA now have until the due date set out above to send in any further
information, should they wish to do so. All I would add is that any final submissions should
be materially new. Neither party needs to repeat what its said to us before.
Mrs B didnt agree with my decision but has said she would accept the £200 compensation I 
mentioned in my provisional decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this isnt the answer Mrs B hoped for, and as I said previously, I understand this was 
a challenging time for her, which would have been made more difficult by the errors JAJA 
made. However, neither party has provided additional comments that I havent already 
considered in my provisional decision, so I see no reason to depart from what Ive already 
said. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require JAJA FINANCE
LTD to pay a total of £200 in compensation.
Providing Mrs B can evidence them, it should also refund the costs of the phone calls Mrs B
made to inform it of its errors. And pay 8% simple interest per annum on this amount from
the date of the calls until payment is made.
If JAJA FINANCE LTD considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off
income tax from the interest, it should tell Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give
her a certificate showing this if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman