DRN-4435853
The complaint
Ms Y complains about the service she received when she made a claim under her 
breakdown policy with U K Insurance Limited trading as Green Flag (UKI).
UKI is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As UKI has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to UKI includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
In mid-2023, Ms Ys car broke down in the early hours of the morning. Her husband and two 
children were in the car with her. She called UKI who arranged for a recovery vehicle to be 
sent to her.
Ms Y says the recovery driver was rude and aggressive towards her. She says he didnt 
introduce himself or attempt to repair the vehicle. He just wanted to take the vehicle away. 
Ms Y phoned UKI to check what her insurance covered. She told UKI the driver was being 
rude and had said he wasnt a taxi service. UKI told Ms Y that the terms of her policy entitled 
her to have her vehicle taken 10 miles away. The garage Ms Y wanted her vehicle to be 
taken to was 13.5 miles away. UKI suggested she ask the driver if she could pay him to take 
them the additional 3.5 miles. Ms Y decided to cancel the call out and make arrangements 
with another breakdown service provider. She said she wanted to make a formal complaint 
against UKI because she wasnt happy with how shed been treated.
Ms Y subsequently raised concerns that there may have been an issue of racism in the 
recovery drivers behaviour towards her. She questioned if the recovery vehicle would have 
been big enough to take her, her family and their luggage. She also complained that she 
hadnt been given clear information about her policy entitlement. 
UKI said it wasnt able to get the recovery drivers version of events from the service 
provider. However, the service provider had assured it that based on the drivers character 
there would have been no racism involved. UKI said it had listened to a call recording with 
the driver in the background and, from what could be heard, he sounded polite and 
respectful.
UKI said the service provider had assured it the vehicle that was sent to Ms Y would have 
been enough to move her car and there was space for all four passengers in it. If there 
hadnt been enough space, it would have looked into arranging a taxi to the specified 
location. However, as Ms Y had taken the decision to cancel the recovery, this situation 
didnt occur.
UKI acknowledged that its communication with Ms Y should have been clearer, and it should 
have logged a complaint sooner. It paid Ms Y £100 as an apology for this.
Ms Y remained unhappy and asked our service to consider her concerns. Our investigator 
didnt think Ms Ys complaint should be upheld. She didnt think there was evidence to show 
that UKI had discriminated against Ms Y. She didnt think it was unreasonable for UKI to tell 
Ms Y shed need to make a private arrangement with the driver for the additional miles when 
the policy only covered a distance of 10 miles. She thought the £100 UKI had already paid 
Ms Y was enough to resolve the complaint.
Ms Y disagreed with our investigators outcome. She said the distress caused by the incident 
was significant. It was a vehicle breakdown with passengers including children. She said she 
made three calls to UKI during the breakdown. Shed asked directly for information about her 
breakdown cover, and it could not provide this. She said she was left in a position with the 
third party recovery it had sent. She said after many calls she got the information, but it 
wasnt provided when she needed it on the day of the breakdown when she was being 
asked to negotiate payment to recover her car. She said she would like compensation from 
UKI and an apology for this to never happen again. 
As Ms Y disagrees with our investigators outcome, her complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ys complaint. Ill explain.
Ms Y has also brought a complaint about the sale of the policy to our service, which is being 
considered separately. In this decision, Im only considering the service she received in 
relation to her claim. 
The policys terms and conditions say:
Roadside help
Well come out and help you if your vehicles broken down a quarter of a mile or more away 
from your home, or from the place where you usually keep it.
Local recovery
If we come out to your vehicle but cant get it going, well take you, your vehicle, and your 
passengers to one of our repairers, no matter how far away that is. If you prefer we can take 
you to a single destination somewhere else, as long as its 10 miles or less from where the 
breakdown happened, or no further away than the repairer weve recommended
Ms Y says the recovery driver didnt attempt to repair her vehicle. Its unclear from the 
documentation Ive seen whether the driver attempted a roadside repair or what his reasons 
might have been for not doing so. However, Ms Y has said that the driver who subsequently 
attended also didnt repair the vehicle at the roadside. So, I dont think Ms Y was likely to 
have been disadvantaged because of this.
Ms Y has raised concerns that there wouldnt have been room to take her and her family in 
the recovery vehicle. This wasnt mentioned in her calls with UKI on the night of the 
breakdown. Its unclear if this issue was raised with the driver at the time. However, UKI 
says the recovery vehicle was big enough to move her car and there would have been space 
for all four passengers. It says if it hadnt been it would have looked into arranging a taxi to 
the specified location. So, I dont think the size of the vehicle would likely have been an issue 
if Ms Y had decided to go ahead with the recovery.Ms Y says the recovery driver was rude and aggressive towards her. She thinks his 
behaviour might have been race related. She says the breakdown occurred in a 
predominantly white area. The driver didnt use any inappropriate words, so she couldnt tell 
if it was direct racism. She says he didnt tell her his name or offer his ID, he turned his face 
away from her, he told her he wasnt a taxi service, shut her down and walked away.
UKI says the service provider wasnt able to get the drivers version of events because he 
was off work due to bereavement. It says the service provider assured UKI that there would 
have been no racism involved based on the drivers character. 
Ive listened to the telephone conversation Ms Y had with UKI while the recovery driver was 
there. Its clear from the call that Ms Y was upset and felt uncomfortable with the driver. She 
said he seemed agitated and angry at them. In the call, Ms Y said the driver had said he 
would tow the car to a garage, but it wouldnt take them anywhere. She said she had two 
children in the car. Theyd just had a six hour flight and she wanted to go to her mums 
house which was around half an hour away and near the garage they wanted the car to be 
dropped at. She said the driver was unprofessional and said he wasnt a taxi service.
It seems from what Ms Y said in the call that the disagreement between her and the driver 
related to him not being willing to take the car and her family to different destinations. The 
terms of the policy only required the driver to take Ms Y, her family and her car to a single 
destination. So, I think the driver was likely to have given her the correct information, but its 
possible this wasnt delivered in a professional or helpful way.
During the phone call with UKI, the driver asked Ms Y for a postcode. Ms Y says the driver 
aggressively knocked on the window of her car and told her he didnt have time when she 
asked him to wait. I can hear the driver in the background of the call. Ms Y asks him if hell 
give her five minutes. The driver says he cant give her five minutes, hes asking for her post 
code because hes on the phone. Ms Y asks if its for the garage. The driver says, yes 
please and Ms Ys husband gives him the post code. 
I think it was likely to have been a stressful situation for Ms Y. It was around five in the 
morning and she and her family were trying to get home after a long flight. I appreciate Ms Y 
felt that the driver was being rude when he interrupted her conversation with UKI. But it 
seems he was trying to get the information he needed to progress with the recovery. Ms Ys 
husband was also in the car and was able to give him the information he needed. I dont 
think the driver sounded aggressive in the part of the conversation I heard, although I do 
appreciate that I didnt hear the rest of the drivers interaction with Ms Y.
Ms Y says UKI wasnt able to give her information about her breakdown cover in the three 
calls she made to it on the night of the incident. UKI has acknowledged that the first call 
handler Ms Y spoke to should have confirmed the policy entitlement and what should be 
expected during the claim, but they didnt do so. I havent been provided with a recording of 
Ms Ys second phone call with UKI. However, in the third call UKI clearly explained what the 
policy entitlement was. This was around 40 minutes after her initial call. 
Id like to assure Ms Y Ive taken her concerns seriously. However, I must explain that our 
service doesnt have the power to make a finding of discrimination under the Equality Act 
2010  that is only something the Courts can do. But, in deciding whether Ms Y was treated 
fairly, Ive taken the Equality Act into consideration, alongside all the evidence provided by 
both parties. 
Having considered everything, I can understand why Ms Y feels that the drivers behaviour 
towards her might have been to do with her race. But there isnt sufficient evidence for me to conclude that was the case. I hope it helps Ms Y to know that someone impartial and 
independent has looked into her concerns. 
UKI has paid Ms Y £100 to compensate her for poor communication during the breakdown 
and in dealing with her complaint. I think this is reasonable. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Ms Y, but I dont require UKI to do anything 
further in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman