DRN-4126535
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs R have complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) 
have unfairly declined a claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R and Mrs R contacted LV to make a claim for storm damage when a patio door in their 
home was damaged when it slammed shut. After some delay, LV declined the claim 
because it said there wasnt a storm around the time the damage happened.
So, Mr R and Mrs R complained. When LV replied, it maintained its decision to decline the 
claim on the basis that there werent storm conditions. However, it offered £200 
compensation because of delays with responding to the claim.
When Mr R and Mrs R complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. She said there wasnt evidence of storm conditions, so it was reasonable for LV 
to decline the claim.
As Mr R and Mrs R didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Ive looked at the wind speeds around the time Mr R and Mrs R said the damage happened. 
These showed wind speeds of 33 mph. I also checked other weather stations to see what 
windspeeds these showed to see if this made a difference. The maximum windspeed I saw 
was 39mph. This was less than the minimum windspeed RSA said it would accept as storm 
conditions, which it said was 47mph.
Im aware Mr R and Mrs R have said the policy documents didnt define a storm. I have 
checked the policy documents and can see there was no definition. However, I consider that 
LV telling Mr R and Mrs R that storm strength windspeeds started at 47mph is reasonable. It 
is at the lower end of how a storm is normally defined, including taking into account the 
Beaufort Scale. I didnt see anything in the policy that said it covered damage caused by 
wind, regardless of the speed of that wind. It said it covered storms.
Im also aware Mr R and Mrs R have said there was a significant wind that might have 
caused a wind tunnel and that no-one had looked at the location of the door to assess this. I 
havent seen any expert evidence that showed that the local conditions or the position of the 
door was likely to have created a wind tunnel. The onus is also on the policyholder to show 
that their claim is covered by the policy. Once LV had identified there werent storm 
conditions, it wasnt required to send someone to inspect the damage. This is because there 
wasnt evidence to show the damage was likely to be covered by the policy, so it didnt need 
to continue to assess it. This didnt prevent Mr R and Mrs R from providing additional 
evidence to support their claim for LV to consider. So, having thought about the first 
question, I think the answer is no.
I also note Mr R and Mrs R have said the damage happened when they opened the door 
during strong winds. This would also suggest that it isnt clear the wind itself was the main 
cause of the damage because opening the door was also a significant factor. Based on what 
Mr R and Mrs R have said, the damage wouldnt have happened if they hadnt opened the 
door. This type of event would potentially be covered under accidental damage. However, 
Mr R and Mrs R didnt have that cover, so it couldnt be considered under that part of the 
policy.
So, based on everything Ive seen, I think it was reasonable that LV declined the claim for 
storm damage. Im also aware LV offered Mr R and Mrs R £200 for the delays in progressing 
the claim. I think that was reasonable and in line with what I would have recommended. As a 
result, I dont uphold this complaint or require LV to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman