DRN-2521615
The complaint
Mrs S says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mrs S bought the policy in 2001 in connection with a credit agreement she took out with an 
electrical store. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs S says she took out the PPI over the phone, and that she was told it was 
compulsory. But AXA has provided a copy of Mrs Ss credit agreement, which shows 
she applied for the PPI at the same time as the credit was arranged.
Mrs Ss credit agreement was completed to show that she wanted the PPI. She had 
to sign the PPI section of the agreement. So I think she wouldve realised she had a 
choice about whether or not to buy the PPI. 
From what Ive seen, I think that AXA made Mrs S aware that the PPI was optional 
and she chose to take it. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. That means it didnt have to ask about her circumstances, or whether she 
had any other means to cover her repayments.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Mrs S would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I 
dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman