DRN-3362704
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited declined a claim they made on their 
travel insurance policy and with the service they received.
What happened
Mrs S travelled to a country Ill refer to as I on 7 March 2020. She was due to return on 21 
March 2020. However, following the impact of Covid-19 on international travel, her return 
flights were cancelled. Mrs S stayed longer than planned, returned to the UK on a 
repatriation flight and claimed for the cost of her new flight. She also wants UKI to pay the 
cash benefit provided by the policy for delayed departure. 
Mrs S is unhappy with the service she received whilst abroad. Shes also unhappy that UKI 
wont pay the delay benefit in addition to the outstanding costs of her repatriation flight. 
During the course of the claim Mrs S was able to recover half of the cost of her original 
cancelled flight from her credit card provider. UKI settled the claim for the flight, deducting 
the amount Mrs S had received from her credit card provider. Mrs S didnt think the claim 
had been settled fairly.
UKI acknowledged that Mrs S hadnt received the level of service theyd expect as there 
were issues with poor communication and delays. They paid a total of £200 for the 
inconvenience caused by these issues. They explained theyd settled Mrs Ss claim under 
the curtailment section of the policy because it offered a greater benefit. And, they said, in 
summary, she couldnt recover under both the delay section and the curtailment section. So, 
they said the claim had been settled fairly. Unhappy, Mrs S complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought 
that UKI had acted reasonably. He explained the delayed departure section didnt cover 
getting stuck abroad due to a cancelled flight and Mrs S hadnt met the requirements of the 
policy terms to make a claim under that section of cover. He thought it was fair for UKI to 
offer cover under the curtailment section of cover, even though Mrs Ss stay had been 
extended, because theyd agreed to cover her outside of the policy terms and conditions. He 
acknowledged UKI didnt explain what the policy covered a number of times. But he thought 
the £200 compensation fairly reflected the distress and inconvenience caused.  
Mrs S didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. In summary, she said 
that throughout the communication with UKI shed been told theyd pay up to £250 for the 
delay and the additional flight costs. She thought UKI had changed their mind and that cover 
for a trip being extended was an important aspect of any travel insurance policy but wasnt 
clearly excluded by the policy terms and conditions. So, I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Ive taken into account all of Mrs Ss comments, but Ive focused on those which I think are 
central to the outcome of this complaint. 
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
No travel insurance policy can cover every eventuality. The contract of insurance 
sets out what risks the insurer is prepared to cover and those which it isnt. Thats 
standard industry practice as an insurer doesnt have to cover everything that might 
go wrong when travelling. Instead, insurers like UKI make commercial decisions 
about what is covered under the policy.
Ive taken into account the missed and delayed departure section of cover. Mrs Ss 
flight wasnt missed or delayed; it was cancelled. And, under the policy terms relating 
to delayed departure she was required to have checked in to have claimed a benefit 
under this section of cover. So, strictly speaking, there is no cover for the 
circumstances in which she found herself in under this section of the policy. UKI was 
therefore entitled to decline cover under this section of the policy. 
The curtailment section of cover includes cover for cutting short a trip due to a natural 
disaster, including a pandemic. But Mrs Ss trip wasnt cut short, it was extended 
beyond her return date. So, this situation also wasnt covered under the policy terms. 
UKI agreed to settle Mrs Ss claim under the curtailment section because shed been 
trying to return home before her original return date, as the travel disruption relating 
to Covid-19 increased. I think that was fair and reasonable because UKI stepped 
outside the policy terms, acknowledging the unusual circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19 and Mrs Ss efforts to get home early. And, it also entitled Mrs S to a 
greater benefit under the policy terms and conditions as the total maximum benefit 
was larger than the delayed departure section. 
Mrs S says she was told shed get both benefits. Thats not how I interpret all of the 
correspondence from UKI. But, even if I accepted what Mrs S has said about that, it 
doesnt change my thoughts about the overall outcome of this complaint. I say that 
because it would simply mean that UKI gave Mrs S incorrect information about the 
policy benefits. It doesnt mean that UKI should automatically cover the claim under 
both sections. In reaching my conclusions Ive thought about whats fair and 
reasonable. And, I dont think its fair that Mrs S recovers a benefit under both 
sections of the policy, when neither of them covers her on a strict interpretation of the 
policy terms. I think UKI has acted reasonably by interpreting the policy terms in her 
favour. 
Ive also taken into account that UKI has acknowledged that there were 
communication issues throughout their involvement in the claim, including whilst 
Mrs S was abroad. Its not in dispute that there were failings in some of the 
communication whilst she was abroad or that UKI could have explained the policy 
benefits more clearly throughout the lifetime of the claim. But, theyve paid Mrs S 
£200 compensation. I think this fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience for the 
failings in communication and the lack of clarity in explaining what the policy covers. 
Finally, Mrs S says that cover for trip extension should be part of the policy. However, 
as I outlined at the beginning of my decision, no policy can cover every eventuality. 
Its not uncommon for travel insurance policies to not cover enforced stay abroad and 
for policies which offer such cover to charge an additional premium. If Mrs S is unhappy with the clarity of information provided about the policy when she took it out 
thats something shell need to refer to the seller of the policy, which isnt UKI.   
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman