DRN-3276967
The complaint
Mr A complains that MBNA Limited didnt make the impact of a payment holiday clear.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr A has a credit card with MBNA. In March 2021 Mr A called MBNA to discuss a payment 
holiday. During the call, MBNA confirmed there would be no impact to Mr As credit file if 
he took a payment holiday. The call handler said any arrangements that Mr A and MBNA 
agreed after the payment holiday ended may have an impact.
The payment holiday was confirmed in writing and approved. But Mr A went on to 
complain that the balance of his credit card was being reported as over the agreed limit on 
his credit file.
MBNA upheld Mr As complaint and agreed its call handler didnt tell him about the effect a 
payment holiday could have on his credit file. MBNA refunded £65.07 of interest and 
waived a further two months interest for May and June 2021. MBNA didnt offer to amend 
Mr As credit file.
Mr A referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
MBNA had dealt with Mr As case fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr A asked to 
appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has told us that it was very important to him that his credit file remained unaffected by 
any assistance that MBNA may have been able to offer. Thats why Mr A specifically called 
MBNA and asked about how the payment holiday process worked. Ive listened to the call 
in question and can hear that the call handler told Mr A there would be no impact to his 
credit file. Im satisfied that information persuaded Mr A to proceed with the payment 
holiday application.
I recently asked MBNA to send us evidence to show the information its recorded on Mr As 
credit file. It shows, MBNA didnt record any arrears or missed payments during the 
payment holiday. But it did record Mr As balance as being over the agreed credit limit in 
April and May 2021. Mr A has explained that if hed been aware of this, he wouldnt have 
proceeded with the payment holiday.
I need to decide how to fairly resolve Mr As complaint. Im pleased MBNA has accepted its 
call handler didnt clearly explain the implications of proceeding with the payment holiday 
and that it waived interest. But, Im not persuaded that goes far enough. On balance, I 
accept Mr As claim that he wouldnt have gone ahead if hed known how information would 
be recorded on his credit file. Whilst I can see Mr A asked for a payment break, he didnt 
say he would be unable to afford his payment or that he had no other options. I think the 
fairest approach is to try and put him back into the position he wouldve been in if no 
payment holiday had been agreed  or as closely as now possible.
Had the payment holiday not been taken up, I think Mr A would most likely have made his 
monthly payments and his balance wouldve remained within the agreed limit. So I think the 
fairest approach is for MBNA to amend Mr As credit report to show his balance remained 
within the credit limit. I dont agree its fair for MBNA to report that Mr As balance exceeded 
his credit limit.
Mr A has told us the issue impacted his credit score which meant it wasnt possible for him 
to obtain further borrowing. Weve asked Mr A to provide a full copy of his credit file. Whilst 
Ive seen details of his score and can see it dropped around the period in question, I cant 
see any evidence of declined applications. And I cant see whether theres any other 
entries on Mr As credit file that mayve impacted his ability to secure further borrowing.
I agree that MBNA misled Mr A and can see the situation has caused some distress and 
inconvenience. So as well as amending Mr As credit file I also intend to tell MBNA to pay 
him £150 for the trouble and upset caused in this case.
I invited both parties to respond with additional comments or information they wanted me to 
consider before reaching my final decision. MBNA responded and initially said it hadnt 
reported Mr As balance as being over the agreed credit limit. But it later withdrew this 
objection and agreed to settle. 
Mr A responded and provided some further details about how the issue impacted his credit 
file and ability to secure further credit. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr As point that the information on his credit file has impacted his credit score. 
But I havent seen any evidence that shows Mr A was specifically declined credit on the 
basis of the information MBNA recorded. 
MBNA ultimately accepted the provisional decision. 
As neither party has provided new information that changes my view of how to fairly resolve 
this complaint, Im going to proceed in line with the provisional decision. As a result, Im 
upholding Mr As complaint. My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and direct MBNA Limited to settle as follows: 
- Amend Mr As credit file so the balance is recorded for April and May 2021 is within
the agreed overdraft limit
- Pay Mr A £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman