DRN-3900696
The complaint
Ms H complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) unfairly defaulted her bank 
account. 
What happened
In 2018, Ms H opened a student bank account. It had an arranged overdraft limit of £1,500.
In November 2019, January 2020 and February 2020, Halifax sent letters to Ms H to say she 
was £1,499 overdrawn and no money had been credited to the account since July 2019. 
They said if the account wasnt credited, the arranged overdraft facility would be removed.
 
Ms H said she was told by branch staff to ignore these letters as they were automatically 
generated. According to her, she was told she needed to provide evidence she was still a 
student for the account to return to normal and to stop receiving these letters. Ms H said she 
provided the same and thought everything had been sorted. As the account wasnt credited 
with any money, the overdraft facility was removed in March 2020. 
Ms H started making small payments to the account. In May 2020, Halifax sent a final 
demand letter for the full balance of £1,000 to be paid. Ms H called Halifax and was told to 
provide documents she was still a student, they placed the account on hold for 30 days. Ms 
H said this evidence was provided in branch and she believed this meant she didnt need to 
pay the balance in full. In July 2020, the account was defaulted and later sold to a third party 
debt company. 
Ms H complained. She said she had the money to satisfy the default but she had been told 
by Halifax that the account would be put on hold while matters were looked into but she 
never heard back from them. She also complained that Halifax hadnt told her that she 
needed to make regular payments to keep the account open and its overdraft facility. 
Halifax said as regular credits werent received, the overdraft facility was removed. They said 
they had sent letters to Ms H about the same and outlined their intentions to take further 
action. As full payment wasnt received, they defaulted the account, closed it and passed it 
to a third party debt company. 
Unhappy with their response. Ms H referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. They concluded Halifax had acted fairly and in 
line with the account terms by defaulting the account. 
Ms H disagreed. She said she had spoken to Halifax in June, July and August 2020 and she 
was told the issue had been sorted so she didnt need to pay the full balance.  
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Hs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Removal of the overdraft facility
As a starting point, Ive referred to the account terms. It says the following in relation to an 
arranged overdraft facility for student accounts:
A fee-free arranged overdraft up to £1,500, which you could keep for up to six years- thats 
the length of your course plus one year after you graduate. The amount of arranged 
overdraft you get depends on your personal circumstances and whether you make regular 
payments into the account
It also goes on to say:
An overdraft facility is repayable on demand. This means we can ask you to repay it (or 
part of it) at any time.
Based on these terms, its clear the arranged overdraft facility is dependent on an 
individuals circumstances and whether regular payments are made. Halifax can also decide 
to remove the overdraft facility and demand payment in full. When reviewing this complaint, 
Ive carefully considered whether Halifax applied the above terms fairly and reasonably. 
Having done so, I believe they have. Ill explain why. 
Halifax has provided evidence of correspondence it sent to Ms H in November 2019, 
January 2020 and February 2020. Im aware of Ms Hs comments that she only received 
Februarys letter. However I can see the letters were correctly addressed to her so on 
balance Im satisfied they were sent by Halifax.
These letters explained no payments had been received into the account since July 2019 
and in order to keep the arranged overdraft, regular payments must be made. The arranged 
overdraft limit was £1,500 and I note Ms H was close to reaching that limit as the account 
was £1,499 overdrawn. Based on the evidence Ive seen, that had been the case for some 
time, at least three months. As part of their submissions to our service, Halifax said they 
were concerned the overdraft facility wasnt affordable to Ms H. Based on these 
circumstances and the above terms, I dont find it wholly unreasonable for them to have such 
concerns.
The letters also outlined their intentions that if no payment was received by the indicated 
deadline, the overdraft facility would be removed. They explained what was required to keep 
it and what would happen should Ms H not meet this. Im satisfied this was made clear to 
her. As no money was paid into the account, Halifax removed the overdraft facility and I find 
it was reasonable for them to do so. I can also see they sent a further letter confirming it had 
been removed.
  
Ive carefully thought about Ms Hs comment that she attended branch and she was told to 
ignore these letters and to provide evidence she was still a student for the letters to stop. 
Halifax said there is no evidence of such a visit to branch. Based on what Ms H has told our 
service, she visited the branch at the end of March 2020. If that was the case, the overdraft 
facility had already been removed earlier in the month so it wouldnt have changed the 
situation. 
Based on the evidence presented to me, Im satisfied Halifax acted fairly and in line with the 
terms by removing the overdraft facility and this had been clearly communicated to Ms H. The default 
Thereafter, I can see Ms H started making credits to the account in April 2020. Ive listened 
to the call she had with Halifax around that time to question the letters and she was told to 
provide evidence in branch that she was still a student.
In May 2020, Halifax sent a final demand letter saying the balance needed to be paid in full 
by 30 May 2020. Based on the above terms, Halifax were entitled to do so as the overdraft 
facility is payable on demand. I note Ms H called in response to that letter and based on 
Halifaxs contact notes, she was told once again to go to branch and provide evidence she 
was a student. The account was then put on hold for 30 days. 
Ms H said she provided this evidence in branch at the end of May 2020. However Halifax 
say there is no record of this. They added if Ms H had provided it and changes were made to 
the account, there would be a record of it and she wouldve received a written receipt 
confirming the same. I havent seen any record of Ms Hs visit to branch to.  On balance, 
theres insufficient evidence for me to reasonably conclude Ms H provided the evidence as 
requested so I cant say Halifax acted unfairly by taking further action. 
I also note around a month later in June 2020, Halifax sent another letter saying payment 
was needed immediately otherwise the account would default. I consider this another 
opportunity for Ms H to make payment to avoid the default.
Even if I was to accept Ms H did provide the evidence in branch and she believed the issue 
had been resolved, the letter in June wouldve told her otherwise as it clear she was still 
required to pay the account balance in full. In my opinion, if Ms H still had an issue with this, 
it wouldve been reasonable for her to contact Halifax again before the deadline to discuss it 
further but there is no evidence she did. I know she said she contacted them in June and 
July but there is no record of this on Halifaxs contact notes. Based on what Ive seen, she 
contacted them in August 2020 but that was a few weeks after the account had already 
defaulted. So I cant agree with her comments that she was told some time in July 2020 that 
her account was put on hold while the matter was looked into. 
As Ms H didnt pay the account balance to satisfy Halifaxs final demand letter by the set 
deadline, I cant say they did anything wrong by proceeding to default the account.
Other
Im aware Ms H is also unhappy with the person she spoke to in response to her complaint. 
She said he was rude and unpleasant. However that relates to complaint handling which 
isnt a regulated activity meaning our service cant look into it so I wont provide any further 
comment on this. 
In summary, Im satisfied Halifaxs decision to default the account was made fairly and in line 
with the terms of the account. 
I empathise with the situation Ms H now finds herself in and I appreciate she will be 
disappointed by my decision but I hope she accepts my findings. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman