DRN-2224392
The complaint
Mrs W says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) is wrong to pursue her for a debt 
she considers statute barred.
What happened
I sent Mrs W and Lending Stream my provisional findings on this complaint on 
18 September 2020. I explained why I intended to uphold Mrs Ws complaint and asked 
Mrs W and Lending Stream to let me know if there was anything else they wanted me to 
consider. Ive set out the main parts of my provisional decision below:
Mrs W took out a £350 loan with Lending Stream in February 2011. She fell into arrears on this loan and I 
understand her broader financial situation deteriorated. Mrs W says she entered into debt management 
plans with the assistance, over time, of different organisations or charities and thought the Lending Stream 
debt was being repaid as part of these plans. Mrs W was surprised to be contacted by a third party (L) in 
respect of this debt. Mrs W says this contact first happened in 2018.
An adjudicator considered Mrs Ws complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mrs W didnt agree with 
the adjudicator, so her complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
In considering Mrs Ws complaint, I will be taking into account what Mrs W says about the debt being 
statute barred, but I will not make a finding on that point. It is for the courts to decide whether this debt is 
statute barred or not  I will be deciding the complaint on the basis of what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable, taking into account the relevant guidance, law and regulations.
Mrs W took out this loan in February 2011. Lending Stream says that it issued the default notice for this 
loan in May 2011. From the evidence Lending Stream has provided, the last payment towards this debt 
was made in June 2011.
The regulators rulebook contains a section relevant to consumer credit firms (called CONC) which outlines 
some of the rules and guidance applicable to arrears, default and recovery (CONC 7).
CONC 7.15.1G says: A debt is statute barred where the prescribed period within which a claim in relation 
to the debt may be brought expires. In England, Wales and Northern Ireland, the limitation period is 
generally six years in relation to debt. In Scotland, the prescriptive period is five years in relation to debt.
CONC 7.15.4R says: Notwithstanding that a debt may be recoverable, a firm must not attempt to recover a 
statute barred debt in England, Wales or Northern Ireland if the lender or owner has not been in contact 
with the customer during the limitation period.
CONC 7.15.7G says: It is misleading for a firm to suggest or state that a customer may be the subject of 
court action for the sum of the statute barred debt when the firm knows, or reasonably ought to know, that 
the relevant limitation period has expired.
And CONC 7.15.8R says: A firm must not continue to demand payment from a customer after the 
customer has stated that he will not be paying the debt because it is statute barred.
The information provided by Lending Stream suggests the chronology of events is as follows. 
Lending Stream says a default notice was sent to Mrs W on 25 May 2011. According to the schedule of 
payments it has provided, Mrs W last made a payment towards this debt on 17 June 2011. On this date 
Mrs W made a payment of £65.43, instead of the £155.53 due. The payment was in effect a payment of 
only the interest due that month. There are no other payments after this date. Lending Stream has also 
shown us its email, telephone and other correspondence records. There is no evidence in these records of 
Lending Stream attempting to chase Mrs W for payment of the debt between the date of the last payment 
and today. And Ive seen no evidence Mrs W contacted Lending Stream, or otherwise acknowledged the 
debt, during this time.
Lending Stream has said that the debt was sold to L on 12 April 2017, about five years and ten months 
after Mrs Ws last payment. Ive not seen whether L attempted to contact Mrs W between April 2017 and 
June 2017  and L isnt a party to this complaint, so I cant consider its acts or omissions here. However, 
I can consider whether Lending Stream acted fairly by transferring the debt to L after almost six years of no 
contact  and I dont think it did.
I accept that the debt was potentially still within the limitation period set out in the relevant guidance 
(CONC 7.15.1G) at the point it was passed to L. But I dont think that is enough to mean Lending Stream 
treated Mrs W fairly. CONC 7.3.2G highlights the overriding principle that Lending Stream, like all 
consumer credit firms, should pay due regard to its obligations under Principle 6 (Customers interests) to 
treat its customers fairly. I think that by taking no action for almost six years to pursue, or remind Mrs W, of 
the outstanding debt, Lending Stream didnt treat Mrs W fairly. Mrs W says all her other debts were dealt 
with under her debt management plans  and if that is correct, it may be that a timelier reminder of the 
outstanding debt wouldve given Mrs W the opportunity to include this debt within those plans. And given 
there had been no contact for such a long period of time (cf. CONC 7.15.4R), I dont think it was fair or 
reasonable to pass Mrs Ws debt to L so close to the potential end of the limitation period set out in 
CONC 7.15.1G.
I must also acknowledge that in May 2018 Mrs W contacted Lending Stream with an irresponsible lending 
complaint. Lending Stream upheld the complaint in respect of the two loans Mrs W had repaid and paid her 
redress, but it did not uphold the third (and final) loan it had passed to L. At this time, Lending Stream 
perhaps had the opportunity to recall the debt from L and offset any redress against the debt. That would 
be this services standard approach to redress  and had Lending Stream done that, Mrs W wouldnt be in 
the position of having a debt to pay to L. I think Lending Stream has now lost that opportunity and I dont
plan to say this would be a fair outcome now, as it would require Mrs W to return the redress already paid 
by Lending Stream, which it agreed to pay directly to her.
Given what Ive said above, I intend to say Lending Stream needs to put things right for Mrs W. I plan to tell 
Lending Stream to take the debt back from L and to not pursue Mrs W for the outstanding balance. As 
Mrs Ws loan was defaulted over six years ago, I assume it no longer appears on her credit file. But if it 
does, Lending Stream should remove it.
Mrs W responded to my provisional decision and confirmed she was happy with my 
proposed outcome. Lending Stream didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs W accepted my provisional findings and as Lending Stream didnt send me anything 
else to consider, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So Im upholding 
Mrs Ws complaint, for the same reasons as given in my provisional decision.
 
Putting things right
Lending Stream must take Mrs Ws debt back from the third party and must not pursue her 
for the outstanding balance. If the debt still appears on her credit report, Lending Stream 
must remove it. Lending Stream should also ask the third party to remove anything it may 
have reported to the credit reference agencies.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Gain Credit LLC must put things 
right by taking the steps set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman