DRN-3439897
The complaint
Ms A has complained that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) wont refund 
transactions she says she didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In December 2020, Ms A told M&S that shed gone through her historic statements and 
found a large number of transactions she didnt remember. These consisted of a single large 
payment from January 2015 for around £580, and a series of small payments from 2015 to 
2019 totalling around £340.
In January 2021, Ms A submitted an official dispute form. She clarified that she now 
recognised a number of the transactions, such as payments to her local bakery or payments 
shed made while abroad. But she still wished to dispute the others, especially payments to 
Amazon. She explained shed had access to her statements, mobile banking, online 
banking, and Amazon account over the years, but just hadnt noticed the payments before.
M&S said they couldnt help, as Ms A had disputed these payments too late.
Our investigator looked into things independently and agreed Ms A was out of time. They 
explained shed had 120 days to raise a chargeback, or 13 months to report the payments 
as fraudulent.
Ms A appealed, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the relevant regulations, Ms A had 13 months from the date of each payment to report 
them to M&S as fraudulent. This was also set out in the terms and conditions for her 
account. So M&S didnt have to investigate any disputed payments that were raised more 
than 13 months after the fact.
Ive listened to Ms As calls with M&S, and can see that the first time she spoke to them 
about potential fraud was in December 2020. Ms A pointed out she called in October 2020 
as well, but that was about overdraft charges  she didnt report any payments as fraud back 
then. Ms A also says she sent a letter to M&S in November 2020, though it seems this never 
arrived. But even if I accept that Ms A reported the payments to M&S in November 2020, 
that was, on the whole, still too late. The payments shes disputed go all the way back to 
2015  far beyond the 13 month deadline.
Another way that Ms A could have disputed the payments was through the chargeback 
scheme. But that had an even shorter deadline  120 days, or about 4 months. So Im afraid 
Ms A was out of time to raise a chargeback too.
There does not appear to have been any exceptional circumstances which prevented Ms A 
from reporting these payments earlier. She confirmed she had access to her statements, 
mobile banking, and online banking. And in her calls with M&S she said she checked her 
account at the end of each month. She also had access to her Amazon account, and the 
bulk of these disputed payments were to Amazon. So on the face of it, Ms A had every 
opportunity to report these payments in time. Ive not seen any good reason to set aside the 
time limits here.
I do note that Ms A disputed two payments from December 2019, which totalled £10.50. And 
so by her November 2020 letter or December 2020 call, she was still within the 13 months 
deadline for those two transactions. I also agree with her that M&S could have made her 
aware of the time limits earlier in the process, and I note they didnt contact her at one point 
when they said they would.
M&S have paid Ms A £50 compensation for what they got wrong. And I think thats fair to 
cover the customer service issue as well as the £10.50 of transactions from December 2019 
which may or may not have been fraudulent. So while I understand this may come as a 
disappointment for Ms A, I dont require M&S to do anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms As complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman