DRN-3452888
The complaint
Mr P complains about delays to a Stocks and Shares Individual Savings Account (S&S ISA) 
which he says was caused by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this case as I wanted to change the compensation from 
that recommended by the investigator. Both parties have now responded. Mr P said whilst 
the increase in compensation is welcome, he still thinks Halifax caused him financial loss 
due to its mistake. Halifax accepted my provisional findings and added nothing further. 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision and is as follows:
In October 2020, Mr P applied to an ISA provider, who Ill refer to as B, to transfer his cash 
ISA from Halifax to its S&S ISA. Prior to this transfer Mr P said he tried to transfer his S&S 
ISA from Halifax to another provider. However, he says Halifax caused delays, so, he 
decided to split the transfer into two parts. The first part was to transfer his S&S ISA to a 
cash ISA both with Halifax (the internal transfer). And then he intended to transfer the cash 
ISA to the S&S ISA held with B. Mr P thought by doing this, it would speed up the process.
On 15 October Halifax received Bs request to transfer Mr Ps cash ISA to an S&S ISA. On 
10 November B wrote to Halifax to say Mr P had complained to it about delays to the 
transfer. B told Halifax that it (Halifax) had rejected the transfer request believing Mr P was 
already undergoing a transfer into his cash ISA. But B pointed out that the other transfer 
stemmed from the earlier internal transfer between Mr Ps Halifax ISAs.
The transfer completed on 2 December with a total of £16,112 being transferred to Mr Ps 
S&S ISA with B, by which point hed already complained to Halifax about the delays. Halifax 
rejected Mr Ps complaint saying it was the fault of B who had rejected the transfer on three 
separate occasions. Halifax later said that it was because B hadnt provided sufficient details 
to complete the transfer including failing on two occasions to provide its (Bs) sort code and 
account details.
Our investigator initially didnt think the complaint should be upheld. But following further 
information from B, he recommended upholding the complaint. He was satisfied that Halifax 
had caused the delays as a result of the knock on effect of incorrect information going back 
to the previous internal transfer. He said he thought Halifax should pay Mr P £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. And that Halifax should pay Mr P for any losses as a 
result of the delayed transfer.
Halifax accepted the investigators view but wanted clarification around the redress, in 
particular when the date of its calculations should be made. Mr P rejected the view as he 
said he didnt think £150 properly reflected the losses he suffered. Our investigator did clarify 
with Mr P that the £150 wasnt for the financial loss  that there was separate redress for 
this. But Mr P remained unhappy and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman 
for a decision.
So, now both parties have responded the matter has been passed back to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Mr P has provided further submissions, I cant see hes added anything substantial to 
what he has previously said. He again raised the issue of the initial delays with his Halifax 
S&S ISA. He thinks the delays go back to July 2018 when this transfer request was made. 
However, as Ive said in my provisional decision, it was his choice to do it this way. So, I 
dont think it would be fair or reasonable to say the delays went back to July 2018. Given 
this, and the fact that Halifax has accepted my provisional findings, my decision remains that 
it should pay Mr P £400 for its mistake. The extract from my provisional decision which now 
forms part of my final decision, is as follows:
Whilst Ive taken into account the previous internal transfer, I dont think that any delays 
caused by Mr P splitting the transfer in this case, was the fault of Halifax. I accept Mr Ps 
reasons for doing it this way, but this was his choice and I cant hold Halifax responsible for 
delays caused by him deciding to split the transfer into two separate transactions. I cant see 
Halifax advised him to do it this way.
In terms of the cash ISA transfer to the S&S ISA held with B, it appears from all the evidence 
that Halifax caused the delays. And that this was due to the issues which had arisen as a 
result of the earlier internal transfer. Bs letter to Halifax on 10 November explains this where 
it says:
The crux of [Mr Ps] complaint involves a rejection of our transfer request by Halifax as they 
believe the client is currently undergoing a transfer into yourselves from another provider. 
However, the other provider is also Halifax, and there have been several errors caused 
during this transfer process.
In response to our services investigation, B confirmed the main reason the transfer request 
made was initially unsuccessful was because Halifax supplied it (B), and held itself, incorrect 
details regarding Mr Ps ISA subscriptions. This was following his internal transfer at Halifax. 
B says it did chase and raise queries with Halifax but these werent corrected until 
30 November, after which the transfer was made within two working days.
In terms of not including certain details, B said in an attempt to resolve matters, it submitted 
an amended transfer request that was ultimately rejected. It said this request was done 
purely to determine the subscriptions that Halifax had recorded for Mr Ps cash ISA. And was 
performed as B were having a significant amount of difficulty reaching the cash ISA 
departments of Halifax. B also said when it did reach Halifax on 30 October and 
6 November, it was informed it (Halifax) was unable to assist as it was awaiting internal 
confirmation from its S&S ISA department regarding Mr Ps previous internal transfer.
I can see from a Halifax system note dated 15 October that the total transfer amount value 
was recorded having changed from/ to £16,104. And on the same line it said that it had 
changed from/ to £5,104. A similar system note was recorded on 21 October. But from all 
accounts Mr P hadnt paid anything further into the cash ISA, so his subscription hadnt 
changed. I think this issue was a direct result of the earlier internal transfer.
I note what Halifax says about the transfers being rejected because B hadnt provided its 
bank details. But I think B has provided a reasonable explanation for this. Whilst I cant say for sure whether this was the correct course of action to take, I think B made several 
attempts to let Halifax know what the problem was including in its letter of 10 November. All 
in all, Im persuaded the issues that led to the delays can be traced back to the earlier 
internal transfer. And I think these issues were, on balance, the fault of Halifax.
Looking now at when I think the transfer would have been completed but for Halifaxs delays, 
I think this would have been around two working days after it had received Bs initial request. 
This is because this is how long it had taken once Halifax was satisfied it had everything it 
needed from B which was on the 30 November.
However, after reviewing Mr Ps statements following the transfer to B, I can see that his 
investments werent all purchased straight after the transfer. When the transfer was 
completed Mr P purchased investments in several different funds. And some of the 
purchases were in the same funds but on different dates. The dates and amounts Mr P 
purchased investments using the transferred funds are as follows:
03/12/2020 Bought 137 shares with a total cost of £5,987.04.
29/12/2020 Bought 443.890 units with a total cost of £2,500
29/12/2020 Bought 129.132 units with a total cost £2,500
30/12/2020 Bought 268.740 units with a total cost of 1,500.00
30/12/2020 Bought 342.302 units with a total cost of £1,000
30/12/2020 Bought 52.165 units with a total cost of £1,000
31/12/2020 Bought 259.094 units with a total cost of £750
31/12/2020 Bought 135.160 units with a total cost of £750
Mr P told this service that: I thought that I bought [the investments] promptly but I might be 
wrong. Of course one reason for a delay is that the share price had gone up so much in the 
period in which I was waiting for Halifax to transfer the funds, so I was upset that I had 
missed such a big opportunity. He also said that: Anyone who invests knows to be more 
wary once prices have risen massively, which would explain a delay. It is clear that during 
the period in which Halifax delayed the transfer, the investment classes in which I was 
investing went up massively (both main funds doubling in value).
Whilst I understand Mr P was upset by the delays, I cant say there is any clear pattern to 
show how quickly he was intending to purchase his investments once the transfer had 
happened. I think to try to recreate what would have happened but for the delays, is too 
speculative due to the pattern of purchasing he did after the funds were transferred.
So, I think a fair and reasonable way to resolve this dispute would be to award Mr P an 
increased award for the loss of opportunity to invest in the way he wanted to at an earlier 
point in time. Taking everything into account, Im minded to award Mr P a total of £400 for 
the delays caused by Halifaxs mistakes. I think this fairly compensates him for the loss of 
opportunity and the inconvenience caused by the delays.
For all these reasons my final decision is that Halifax should pay Mr P £400 in compensation 
for the mistakes it made. My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should pay Mr P £400 for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman