DRN-3353757
The complaint
Mr G says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) is using incorrect formulas on its Smart 
Investor platform. Consequently, certain important data is incorrect meaning he cant use the 
platform to its full potential and so he must conduct his own calculations.
What happened
Barclays moved Mr G from its Stockbrokers to its Barclays Smart Investor platform. He says 
this relatively new facility had many teething troubles but most have now been sorted out. Mr 
G complained to Barclays in October 2019 about several issues related to the new platform. 
It sent him its final response in November 2019. But he remained concerned about one issue 
in particular.
Mr G used the Smart Investor platform to manage his Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) 
and Individual Savings Account (ISA). He said the analysis section wasnt correctly 
displaying the Capital Return (CR) and Gross Return (GR) percentages relating to the 
individual investments held in his pension plan.
Mr G said this made it difficult for him to know how his investments were performing. He said 
the GR percentage was probably the most important figure for managing his portfolio. And if 
the figures were correct it would make it much easier for him to manage his investments, 
save him a lot of time calculating the figures manually and improve the performance of his 
SIPP.
Barclays investigated the issue further and on 26 March 2020 it said:
[your] examples were extensively reviewed by our developers, and having completed 
their own investigation, they believe, from their perspective, the formula is performing exactly 
how they would have expected.
The formula used in the calculation was signed off by senior management, the business 
and our developers. I appreciate you have your own formula for calculating the Gross Return 
and Capital Return, and you have an expectation of how that should be done. However, 
what youre asking us to change is a business model to suit an expectation that you have.
To manage your expectations, the formula will not change at this time; however, I want to 
assure you I have passed your feedback, and your simplified calculation over to our 
developers for further review. I cant tell you how long this will take; however, I can tell you 
our research centre is reviewed regularly, and your feedback will be included as part of any 
future review.
You highlighted in your email, you previously told me to refer to a qualified accountant; 
however, Im sorry to advise this is not something we would do. The analysis section is not 
designed to be an accountancy tool. It is simply a tool to research and compare your assets 
against each other. I escalated your examples to the highest level possible, and I have been 
unable to evidence there has been any error by Barclays.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he brought his complaint to this Service. 
The Investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He thought Barclays had looked into the issue 
and found that its calculations worked as it wanted them to. Mr G didnt think wed got to 
grips with his case properly and he disagreed with the outcome.
Mr Gs complaint has been passed to me to review. Given the to and fro on his case, to be 
fair to both parties I issued a provisional decision which gave them two weeks to make any 
final representations in response to my initial findings. Mr G disagreed with my conclusions 
and reiterated his arguments. Ive considered his submission in arriving at this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. I know he will be disappointed. But Ill explain why Ive 
arrived at my conclusion.
Mr G says he pays for Barclays services and the analysis section of its platform is a part of 
its offering. He needs it to work correctly. Mr G says its difficult to assess the financial 
impact the problem has had on him, but that its made it more difficult and time consuming to 
manage his portfolio.
Mr G says it should be a simple matter to look down the column showing the GR percentage 
to compare the performance of his individual investments but this isnt possible because 
Barclays is using the wrong calculations. Mr G says hes provided Barclays with what he 
says are the correct formulae, so it should be easy for it to implement a change to the 
computer program to correct its mistakes.
Barclays provides users of its platform with definitions for the measures in its report. CR and 
GR are described in the following terms (bolding is my emphasis):
Capital Return  Percentage rate of return on the investment within the selected date range. 
Excludes any interest, dividends and capital gain distribution payments. Calculated as the 
true time-weighted rate of return (TTWRR)
Gross Return  Percentage rate of return on this investment within the selected date range. 
Includes any interest, dividend and capital gain distribution payments. Calculated as the 
true time-weighted rate of return (TTWRR)
Both parties have sought to get at the nub of the discussion by simplifying the CR and GR 
formulae to understand the differences between them.
Barclays technical team has confirmed its formula for CR and GR are as follows:
Capital Return = (Closing Value - Opening Value - Income) / Opening Value * 100
Gross Return = (Closing Value  Opening Value) / Opening Value * 100Mr G says the formulae are wrong and so produce incorrect information. He says the 
simplified formulae should read:
Capital Return = [ (Closing Value - Opening Value) / Opening Value] * 100
Gross Return = [ (Closing Value + Income - Opening Value) / Opening Value] * 100
I note Mr G has sought professional advice on this matter from a financial firm he subscribes 
to for investment insight services. He set out the two sets of formulae without attribution and 
asked for its advice about which approach was correct.
The guidance he received was in the following terms:
Capital return shows how much a share price has risen or fallen over a specific period. This 
is the correct calculation: [ (Closing Value - Opening Value) / Opening Value] * 100
Total return is capital return + any income paid, such as dividends.
Gross returns show the total return from an investment before expensesIt can get a bit 
confusing as some people talk about return of capital which is either dividends or share 
buybacks and not the capital return.
I think this opinion from the third party firm is interesting for two reasons. It seems to endorse 
Mr Gs understanding of the definition of capital return. But it also shows that labels and 
definitions vary across the sector. For example, what Mr G considered GR (albeit using 
Barclays label) was understood by this separate firm as Total Return.
Ive also read the internal investigation notes from Barclays complaint team. It seems to me 
it did try to obtain a comprehensive answer from colleagues within the business for Mr G, but 
was somewhat pushed back on several occasions. The following responses from the 
technical side mustnt be taken out of context, but they do help illustrate the issues the 
complaint handling team were having:
19 March 2020 apologies for delay with providing you the explanation but as noted before 
these calculations are too complex and time consuming for investigation.
27 March 2020 I appreciate that there has been a lot of information and debate on this 
[matter], however the process that the platform currently uses has been signed off by 
Barclays and would require any change to be directed through your own Programme Team 
[We] will not be amending the current coding / logic on the platform as this is a fundamental 
part of the platform which has had no issues raised previously.
I should note at this point our Service isnt a checking service, we dont employ accountants 
to check platform calculations.
I did ask Barclays to provide Mr G with a better explanation of how the investment 
performance data definitions it has set out on its platform, marry with how the formulae work. 
It responded by stating it had already given him the information it could. And it stood by its 
approach.
Mr G says he isnt making any claim of financial loss flowing from the issue he has with how 
the Smart Investor platform works. He says while Barclays hasnt provided the full service it 
shouldve, the incorrect CR and GR percentages are only a very small part of the service. He 
says its the only part of his online account that doesnt work correctly.
Mr G went on to tell us the analysis section of Barclays platform and the CR and GR data 
are a useful, but not a critical part of Barclays overall services. Hes told us the figures he 
needs are easy to calculate. He noted that in his experience all online platforms have their drawbacks and there is no perfect platform. And thats why he continues to be a customer of 
Barclays.
The outcome Mr G is seeking is for Barclays to change its Smart Investor Platform so the 
that the analysis section incorporates the formulae he says are correct.
Theres an argument that if Mr G had used the information from the platform as the basis for 
decision making and had suffered a financial loss because hed relied on incorrect 
information, then Barclays might have a case to answer. Was the information it was 
providing through its platform clear, fair and not misleading?
But much would hang on the terms and conditions on which the analysis facility was held out 
to Mr G. And we know Barclays has said the purpose of the analysis section of the Smart 
Investor platform is as a tool to aid users to compare assets performance against each 
other. Its not an accountancy tool. 
Consideration of Mr Gs own actions and judgements would also need to be taken into 
account. For example, he says Barclays has already told him he mustnt take any investment 
decisions based on the analysis section of the website.
In any event, Mr G has made clear hes not alleging financial loss. He recognises the 
analysis section is a small component of his overall service package. Mr G hasnt evidenced 
how he couldve achieved improved performance of his SIPP had Barclays platform 
operated differently. Indeed, hes aware of the issue and can use the basic data to derive the 
information he requires.
This Service is not the keeper of industry investment performance data definitions or the 
approver of formula used in firms platforms. What Mr G considers is the correct formula for 
a given calculation, isnt necessarily universally accepted. What seems clear is that there are 
a range of different approaches to these matters across the sector.
I think its a business decision for Barclays how its investment platforms should work. 
Presumably it will be aiming for a facility which is useful to customers, highly rated by them 
and provides it with some competitive advantage.
In his last submission Mr G said:
The basic formulas I have given you are correct and this has been corroborated by an 
external source. Barclays are wrong. For some reason Barclays are defending this 
indefensible position but this is not unusual for a large bureaucratic organisation. I refer 
you to the current scandal regarding the Post Office and its insistence that their Horizon 
Computer System was infallible which resulted in innocent people going to jail! Are you 
falling into the same trap?
Mr G refers to the failure of the Post Office accounting system. A well-publicised scandal 
which led to the wrongful suspension and prosecution of hundreds of sub-postmasters. The 
system underpinned fundamental business processes. It had to be used by postmasters in 
their day to day work. And they wouldnt have been informed about how formulae in the 
software worked.
In contrast, Mr Gs case concerns a tool Barclays has made available to its investment 
customers, which hes aware doesnt produce calculations related to the performance of his 
funds in the way hed like. Hes been told about how the formulae are constructed. It hasnt 
caused him financial detriment. And hes been told not to rely on the tool for his investment 
decisions.I think the average person would tend to disagree with the comparison Mr G seeks to make.
I dont think Barclays would knowingly provide a service which had the potential to cause 
harm to its customers. If financial detriment was caused then its likely it would face many 
complaints and if shown to be at fault, would have to put matters right.
Barclays says its not received any complaints like those raised by Mr G about the analysis 
section of its Smart Investor platform. Its logged his feedback and keeps the operation and 
functionality of its facility under review.
I recognise Mr G wants Barclays to change its platform so that the calculations he wants are 
available because this will help how he manages his SIPP and ISA investments. But its not 
unreasonable for Barclays to take into account its business needs, including the interests of 
all its customers.
Finally, Id note an important aspect of our Service - whether a complaint is upheld or not - is 
that it provides a good source of intelligence to businesses about operational issues that 
they will often reflect on. Further, all our decisions are published, ensuring these matters are 
in the public domain.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman