DRN-4085529
The complaint
Mr K complained that Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AA) didnt renew 
his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K said that he called AA to renew his motor insurance policy ( the insurance policy) but 
instead AA renewed his breakdown cover policy ( the breakdown policy). His motor 
insurance policy then expired, but he didnt realise that until he received letters from the 
Motor Insurance Database (MID) saying that he was not insured. He was unhappy as he felt 
that AA had put him in the position of driving without insurance for several months. He 
wanted AA to acknowledge the situation, compensate him for the distress and anxiety he felt 
at having been driving uninsured for those months, and for them to add another product 
such as key loss cover or EU travel to his policy to show goodwill.
AA said as follows. Theyd acted correctly on his instructions. Theyd had no reason to think 
during the renewal call with that Mr K he didnt realise that he was renewing his breakdown 
policy and not his insurance policy. They sent him the breakdown policy confirmation of 
cover letter afterwards and he didnt query that. And separately they sent him the renewal 
letter and reminder about his insurance policy before it expired, followed by a letter informing 
him it had expired, and he was no longer insured. They said theyd been transparent and 
that the breakdown policy and the insurance policy were two different products, and they 
hadnt done anything to mislead or misinform Mr K.
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint because she thought they had treated Mr K 
fairly and had followed the correct process. Mr K didnt agree and so the complaint was 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K said hed called AA to renew his motor insurance policy on 21 May but AA renewed his 
breakdown policy instead. He said they had sold him the wrong product and hed found it 
traumatic that he could have been found driving without insurance, which was a criminal 
offence. He felt that AA had been unsympathetic. He thought that AAs agent should have 
been trained to ensure the right product was being sold. He said he expected some 
assistance with his renewal, didnt understand the jargon AA used in correspondence and 
felt that their terms were misleading.
Ive listened to a recording of the call of 21 May. Mr K said at the start that he was calling to 
discuss my membership for renewal and he referred to a special offer that AA had made 
him. That offer was about a price freeze on his breakdown policy renewal. Mr K was calling 
the breakdown renewal department. So I dont think it was reasonable for AA to suspect that 
he didnt mean to renew his breakdown policy. And during the call AA described to Mr K the 
cover he already had, which was vehicle-based recovery, roadside, at home, national 
recovery, and onward travel. All of these are features of breakdown policy. AAs agent asked 
him if he was happy with the cover he had, and Mr K agreed. Even if Mr K thought he was 
renewing his insurance policy, he didnt say anything to alert AA to that, or make them doubt 
that. The agent didnt make any reference to the insurance policy, so I dont think he did 
anything to mislead or misinform Mr K. I think AA fair and reasonably understood Mr K to 
mean that he was renewing his breakdown policy and AA didnt do anything wrong in the 
call.
On the same day, AA issued him a letter confirming that he had been in touch with them 
about his breakdown cover, and he should read it and make sure he was happy with 
everything. This was clearly not about his insurance policy. If Mr K was confused at that 
point he could have contacted AA. 
Mr K has sent us a copy of AAs letter of April 2022 saying that his breakdown cover was 
due to auto renew on 14 June 2022. The 14 June was also the date on which his insurance 
policy was due for renewal. It may be that this confused Mr K, but overall I think its clear, 
from AAs correspondence Ive seen, what policy it related to and their policies were different 
products. The policy documents are clear and not misleading .
Further, AA have showed us that they sent Mr K a renewal notice for his insurance policy on 
16 May and a reminder by email on 9 June saying that it would expire on 14 June. They then 
informed him on 15 June that it had expired. Mr K says he didnt receive their 
communications, but AA have shown us copies of them and theyre correctly addressed. So 
Im satisfied AA did what they had to, to inform Mr K that the insurance policy would end if he 
didnt contact them. If Mr K didnt receive their communications, thats not due to any 
mistake on AAs part. 
I can see that Mr K was unsettled and distressed by the thought that he was committing an 
offence. And I think that it was unfortunate that Mr K thought he was renewing his insurance 
when he wasnt, but I dont think AA are responsible for that. And as I dont think that AA 
have acted unreasonably or done anything wrong, I dont require them to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
