DRN-3138479
The complaint
Miss W has complained about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited. She isnt 
happy that it deducted two excess payments from the settlement after a claim under her 
horse insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss W made a claim under her horse insurance policy. Red Sands applied two excesses as 
the claims were presented over two policy periods although they were in relation to the same 
condition. But Miss W didnt feel this was fair as the claim was for the same condition.
When she complained to Red Sands about this it maintained its position. It explained the 
policy was clear that there was an excess payment due for each condition each year there 
was a claim. But Miss W remained unhappy about this, especially as the claim only just 
rolled over to the next policy year, so she complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Miss W but she didnt uphold the complaint. This was 
because she was satisfied the policy terms made it clear that an excess was payable per 
condition, per policy year. So she didnt think Red Sands had acted unreasonably in 
deducting the two excesses because the claim had extended over two policy years.
Miss W didnt agree. She maintained this was unfair and that she wasnt aware two 
excesses would be applied. So the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Miss W, but Ill explain why.
I can understand Miss Ws frustration here and she didnt choose when her horse needed 
treatment. However, my role here is to decide whether Red Sands dealt with Miss Ws claim 
fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions  and whether the policy terms were 
clear. 
So Ive started by considering the relevant policy terms. The commencement date is defined 
as the date and time when cover first starts as noted in your schedule which was clearly 
noted on Miss Ws policy schedule, so Im satisfied this was clearly communicated. And the 
policy and key facts document clearly shows the policy excess is payable for each condition 
where the treatment dates fall within different policy years. Which I think is clear and is 
highlighted in the policy summary, so it is easy for the consumer to see and digest. So I think 
Miss W should have been aware of this and she could have cancelled the policy and gone 
elsewhere if she wasnt happy about the way the policy worked within the cooling off period.
Ultimately, I think all this makes it clear how the policy works and how Red Sands will apply 
the excess. And, importantly, this is clearly outlined in the key facts and policy summary that 
is provided with the policy. So, Im satisfied Red Sands applied this in line with Miss Ws 
policy terms and conditions and that it brought this to her attention. 
I know Miss W feels this wasnt a new condition as she had already made a claim in relation 
to this. But I think the policy is clear (as outlined above) that an excess is payable for the 
condition claimed for and if treatment is ongoing and falls into the next policy year then a 
further excess is due. I think it is clear that the condition claimed for didnt pre-exist the start 
of the policy (which is how a pre-existing condition would be looked at) and if it did it would 
be excluded from cover in any event. 
Finally, I agree with Miss W that had the further treatment for the same condition happened 
a short while before the policy renewed then a further excess would not have been due. But, 
unfortunately for Miss W, the treatment fell in a different policy year and so the excess was 
due. I cant ask Red Sands to step outside of the policy terms and conditions, that were 
clearly highlighted to Miss W, when it is clear that the new policy period had started so the 
second excess was due.
Given all of this, I cant say that Red Sands has acted unreasonably here in applying the two 
excesses in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman