DRN-3785014
The complaint
Ms A and Mr Rs complaint is about an application for a further advance on the mortgage 
they arranged with National Westminster Bank Plc in 2021. Theyre unhappy that NatWest 
wont give them additional borrowing, and they have asked that they be allowed to 
re-mortgage elsewhere without paying the early repayment charge (ERC) linked to the 
interest rate product attached to the mortgage.
What happened
Ms A and Mr R sought advice from an independent mortgage broker in 2021. They applied 
and were accepted for an interest-only mortgage with NatWest for £1,575,000 over a term of 
19 years and 9 months. Attached to the mortgage was a fixed interest rate product with an 
ERC payable if the mortgage was paid off during the product term, which will end on 
30 June 2023. The repayment vehicles for the mortgage were four pensions and an 
investment account. The mortgage completed in June 2021. 
In August 2021 Ms A and Mr R approached NatWest direct to discuss arranging further 
borrowing on an intertest-only basis for home improvement purposes. As works were being 
done on the property, the appointment with the mortgage adviser was postponed several 
times, and eventually took place in February 2022. At that time it was confirmed that Ms A 
and Mr R had done works to the house that they believed had increased its value to £3.1 
million. They wanted to increase their borrowing by approximately 50%, up to the maximum 
loan to value allowed on an interest-only basis of 75%. By this point Ms A and Mr R had 
changed the purpose of the further advance; it was now to fund the cost of furnishing the 
property (£370,000) and the remainder of the advance would potentially be used for 
landscaping the garden and purchasing a holiday home, which they might rent out when 
they werent using it.
There were two substantive conversations about the application at the beginning of 
February 2022. Ms A and Mr R wanted to use the existing repayment vehicles for the further 
advance too. The adviser explained that she had to ensure the repayment vehicles would 
support the existing mortgage before assessing whether the further borrowing could be 
granted. Initially the mortgage adviser thought Ms A and Mr Rs existing repayment vehicles 
consisted of only the four pensions. As such, she concluded that the existing repayment 
vehicle wasnt sufficient to have supported the main mortgage and questioned how it was 
granted. Mr R introduced the investment account and gave details. When the adviser initially 
looked at the combined repayment vehicle, she again thought that they wouldnt be enough, 
as she mistakenly believed only the then current value was taken into account in the 
assessment, ignoring any potential growth over the term of the mortgage. However, it 
appears that she subsequently input the information into the repayment vehicle credibility 
calculator, which confirmed that the pensions and investment were sufficient to support both 
the existing and new borrowing. 
The conversation then turned to the purpose of the further borrowing. The adviser explained 
that NatWest would want to know what the money was to be spent on and wouldnt grant the 
advance if there were no definitive plans for the money. The use of the money would need to 
be evidenced in the form of quotes for the landscaping and details of a property that Ms A 
and Mr R were planning to buy. It was confirmed that Ms A and Mr R hadnt looked into the 
cost of the landscaping and didnt have any properties in mind to purchase. It was explained 
that NatWest was unlikely to allow the amount of borrowing on that basis. Mr R said that he 
and Ms A would discuss their plans and speak to the adviser again. While he wanted to 
delay the appointment for the follow-up discussion, the mortgage advisers diary didnt allow 
for an appointment at the time Mr R proposed, and so it was decided they would keep the 
appointment for the following day.
Ms A and Mr Rs plans for the money werent discussed the following day. This is because 
the adviser had been reviewing the information Mr R had provided about the investment 
account. She questioned that not all of the value of the account was immediately accessible, 
which Mr R confirmed was the case. He explained that the access restriction was only in 
place for two years, at which point he would be able to access all of the value of the account. 
The adviser explained that NatWest would only accept investments where the value could 
immediately be accessed as repayment vehicles. As such, only the portion of the value of 
the investment account that was accessible immediately could be used as the repayment 
vehicle for the mortgage. This meant that the repayment vehicle wouldnt support the further 
borrowing and the application couldnt progress.
Ms A and Mr R complained. They said that theyd taken the mortgage on the basis that 
theyd want additional borrowing and if theyd known they couldnt have it on an interest-only 
basis, they wouldnt have tied themselves into a fixed interest rate.
NatWest discussed the complaint with Mr R and it was agreed that, if the broker wasnt able 
to assist Ms A and Mr R by making a successful application for the further borrowing, 
NatWest would consider whether it could waive the ERC as an exception. 
Ms A and Mr R referred their complaint to this service as their broker was unable to process 
an application for the further borrowing they wanted. 
NatWest explained to us that its lending criteria required that the repayment vehicle had to 
be sufficient to cover both the original mortgage and the additional borrowing. It assessed 
Ms A and Mr Rs repayment vehicles and had determined they werent adequate. It also 
confirmed that a request for the ERC to be waived was escalated within NatWest, as the 
broker wasnt able to submit an additional borrowing application, but the request was 
declined.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He highlighted that there was no evidence of NatWest having been told that Ms A 
and Mr R were likely to want additional borrowing shortly after the mortgage was advanced. 
As the ERC had been explained in the mortgage offer Ms A and Mr R had accepted, he 
didnt think there were any grounds for the ERC to be waived. As such, he didnt consider 
NatWest would be acting inappropriately in applying an ERC if the mortgage was paid off 
before the end of the interest rate product term.
Ms A and Mr R didnt accept the investigators opinion. They said that the mortgage adviser 
in February 2022 had said that NatWest shouldnt have approved the original mortgage 
application, but it would honour the mortgage as it had been its mistake. Due to this, they 
had a mortgage that was unsuitable for them. They also said that theyd been told that 
NatWest assessed the adequacy of a repayment vehicle differently depending on whether 
an application is made directly or via an independent broker. Ms A and Mr R considered that 
this difference discriminated against direct customers, and this should be disclosed upfront. 
They considered that it was unfair for NatWest not to make it known that additional 
borrowing wont be available to certain customers.Our investigator responded by confirming that hed enquired about the original mortgage 
being advanced, and NatWest had confirmed that there had been no issues with the 
affordability of that mortgage. He also reiterated that there was no reasonable way for 
NatWest to have known at the time of the original application that Ms A and Mr R would want 
additional borrowing at some stage. He remained satisfied that NatWest hadnt done 
anything wrong and the complaint shouldnt be upheld.
Ms A and Mr R werent satisfied that the investigator had dealt with the complaint correctly. 
They asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for consideration. 
Following the complaint being passed to me I requested some further evidence from 
NatWest about how it assessed repayment vehicles and recordings of the telephone calls. It 
was confirmed that there was no difference between the assessment done on a direct 
application and one made through a broker. NatWest also provided its requirements for 
investment (including pension) repayment vehicles. While this required that the borrower 
needed to have the ability to encash the investment at the end point of the mortgage, there 
is no requirement for it to be able to be encashed in part or in full at the point of the 
mortgage advance. 
I issued two provisional decision on this case. I concluded that the NatWest mortgage 
adviser was wrong when she told Mr R that the application couldnt progress because the 
repayment vehicles werent sufficient. This was because she based her conclusion on the 
fact that Mr R was able to access less than half of the value of the investment account until 
2024. As such, the remaining value of the account couldnt be used for mortgage purposes 
and that, combined with the pensions, wasnt enough to support the mortgage and the 
further borrowing. 
However, NatWest had subsequently confirmed that the borrower only needed to be able to 
access the value of the investment at the end of the term. Mr R confirmed that the access 
restriction only applied to the account for the following two years. I concluded that if Mr R 
had been able to evidence the restriction only applied to the investment account for that 
period, I was satisfied that the full value of the account could have been used as the 
repayment vehicle. When the adviser had used that value the previous day, it had been 
confirmed that the repayment vehicles were sufficient to support both the main mortgage 
and further borrowing. So the application shouldnt have been stopped on the basis of an 
inadequate repayment vehicle. 
There were, however, questions about the use of the funds Ms A and Mr R had applied for, 
and of course the application would have been dependent on the property value having 
increased by as much as they thought it had. Ms A and Mr R confirmed that they had 
borrowed, from various sources, the money they needed to finish their renovations and 
furnish their home. In addition, they provided evidence from their new lender supporting the 
increase in the value of their property. As such, I concluded that it was more likely than not 
that NatWest would have accepted the application for a further advance. However, as there 
was a limit on the amount that could be borrowed on a further advance of £500,000 it was 
clear that Ms A and Mr R wouldnt have been offered the amount they wanted. In addition, 
due to them not having specific plans at the time of the application for much of the money, 
there was also a distinct possibility that the amount NatWest would offer would be less than 
the £500,000 limit. I thought it likely that they would have sought a mortgage elsewhere in 
order to obtain all of the money they wanted.
I also concluded that the mistake potentially delayed Ms A and Mr Rs plans. It also clearly 
caused confusion as the information they were being given didnt make sense at times, and 
caused them frustration. I considered they should be compensated for the poor service they received. Given the timescales involved and, as its not clear that the borrowing would have 
been approved, I considered a payment of £400 was appropriate in the circumstances. 
Ms A and Mr R responded by explaining that due to the ERC that applied to the mortgage in 
early 2022, they would have accepted a further advance that would have only allowed them 
to finish their home renovations. They would then have re-mortgaged later in the year, as 
they did, after the ERC had reduced. 
NatWest agreed to pay the £400 compensation. In addition, it offered to reimburse the 
difference between the interest Ms A and Mr R had paid on the money they had borrowed in 
order to complete their renovations, and the interest they would have paid had that money 
been advanced by NatWest on the mortgage between March and September 2022. It said 
that it would complete the mortgage part of the calculation using an interest rate of 1.92%, 
which was the best rate available in February 2022 when the application should have 
progressed. Ms A and Mr R would need to provided evidence of the agreements, amounts 
and interest paid.
This offer was put to Ms A and Mr R, with our endorsement. They told our investigator that 
they wanted to accept it. As such, the complaint has been passed back to me to conclude 
our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the circumstances of this complaint, I consider that the offer made by NatWest regarding 
the interest Ms A and Mr R paid on the money they borrowed to complete their renovation 
and furnishing of their home will fairly compensate them for the mistake that occurred in 
February 2022. I also remain satisfied that the appropriate amount of compensation for the 
upset and inconvenience they suffered is £400.
In order for NatWest to complete the calculation, Ms A and Mr R will need to provide 
NatWest with documentation evidencing the borrowing and the interest paid. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of the complaint, 
I require National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Ms A and Mr R £400 compensation. It should 
also reimburse them the difference between the interest they actually paid on the funds they 
borrowed to complete their renovations, and what they would have paid if that money had 
been granted as a further advance on their mortgage.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms A and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman