DRN-3552135
The complaint
Miss D complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BOS) didnt do enough to
protect her from losing money to scammers.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so I wont repeat it in full here. 
In summary, in 2018 and beyond, Miss D was scammed into paying a significant amount of 
money, through a mixture of cash and cheques, to rogue traders or scammers for work on 
her property.
On becoming aware, Miss Ds representative complained to BOS in late 2020. BOS 
refunded some of the lost money to Miss D, but there were also a number of transactions it 
didnt agree to refund. Remaining unhappy, Miss D referred her complaint about BOS to this 
service. An investigator here recommended that Miss Ds complaint be upheld in part. Miss 
D didnt accept the investigators recommendation, so the case has been passed to me for a 
decision.
I sent Miss D and BOS my provisional decision on 26 April 2022 explaining why I was 
minded to uphold the complaint in part, and the compensation I was minded to direct BOS to 
pay Miss D. BOS replied to say it accepts my provisional decision. Its said it agrees to pay 
Miss D £22,025 plus interest calculated either at 8% simple per year or at the account rate 
from the date of loss to the date of settlement, plus £200 for distress and inconvenience. Mr 
D (Miss Ds brother, on behalf of Miss D) replied to my provisional decision with some further 
comments which Ill address, where appropriate, below. Now both parties have had an 
opportunity to comment on my provisional decision, Im now ready to explain my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached materially the same conclusions and for the same reasons as 
in my provisional decision. Ive explained why again below, with some further comment 
where appropriate to address the parties responses to my provisional decision.
It is common ground that Miss D authorised the cash withdrawals and cheques in question 
here. So, although Miss D did not intend to lose money to scammers, Miss D is presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider BOS 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
My fellow ombudsmen and I have referenced the relevant rules, codes of practice and good 
industry practice at the time in many previous decisions published on our website.
Bearing this in mind, in this case I have therefore thought about whether BOS acted fairly 
and reasonably in respect of the remaining transactions in dispute (the transactions BOS 
hasnt already refunded). The parties have already seen a full list of the 16 transactions in 
question so I wont repeat the list here.
Transaction 1 was a cheque made payable to Miss D herself  so Miss D has now asked for 
this transaction to be excluded from her complaint (Ive included it here simply for the sake of 
completeness). 
With regards to transactions 2 to 5  cash withdrawals, each not more than £250  Mr D has 
said he cant understand how BOSs algorithms didnt flag these payments. But there is a 
balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to 
act in their customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction. And I dont think I can say these particular transactions were sufficiently unusual 
or uncharacteristic such that BOS ought to have been reasonably obliged to intervene. So I 
dont think I can reasonably say BOS ought to be held responsible for transactions 2 and 5 
here. 
However, the in-branch cash withdrawal on 25 July 2018 (transaction 6), was clearly unusual 
and uncharacteristic for Miss Ds account, such that in my opinion BOS, in order to meet its 
obligations summarised above, reasonably ought to have spoken with Miss D on 25 July 
2018, before processing her cash withdrawal request, to check everything was in order to 
protect her from the possibility of financial harm. As Miss D made the cash withdrawal 
request in branch, BOS had a natural opportunity to do so.
BOS reasonably ought to have asked Miss D what such a large amount of cash was for and 
for the basic surrounding context, and to have then proceeded appropriately from there  
with the intention to disturb or unearth a potential fraud or scam.
I understand from representations made by Miss Ds representative that Miss D was most 
likely suffering from early stage dementia at this time  Miss D was diagnosed with dementia 
in April 2020 following a delay caused by the pandemic. Aside from how this might have 
affected Miss D, I have no reason to believe she wouldnt have responded openly and 
honestly to BOSs questions about the context of her withdrawal request  had it asked 
them, as I think it reasonably ought to have done.
BOS would have  or ought to have  been aware that rogue trader type scams like this 
would be one of the main types of scam carried out in branch. It also ought to have been 
aware of the usual victims. And I think that once Miss D had explained the cash was to pay 
for work on her property (and the context and background), BOS ought to have been 
concerned  especially bearing in mind the level of vulnerability Miss D most likely would 
have displayed under questioning and probing from BOS.In these circumstances, I dont think BOS reasonably ought to have agreed to execute Miss 
Ds cash withdrawal request until it was confident Miss D had been sufficiently supported to 
ensure she wasnt being scammed. I cant be certain about what this would have meant or 
led to. But bearing in mind that Miss Ds representative  her brother  had helped Miss D 
organise some legitimate work at her property previously, and that he ultimately helped 
uncover these further payments to the scammers when he became aware what had 
happened, its quite easy to imagine how sufficient warnings and support from BOS ought 
reasonably have led to Miss D talking to her brother about these traders and the payments 
they were requesting ahead of work being completed. And I think this ultimately would have 
most likely led to the loss of money to these scammers being prevented from transaction 6 
onwards.
Due to personal circumstances Miss D understandably cannot recall things clearly, and the 
parties will understand why we dont have clear details on what each transaction (transaction 
6 to 16) was for. And I want to reassure both parties I have fully considered and taken into 
account the possibility that some of these transactions, or some part of some of these 
transactions, funded legitimate, or at least partial, work on Miss Ds property. Miss Ds 
representative has also understandably struggled to piece things completely together. From 
the information Ive seen, I am inclined to accept that: Miss D had legitimate work done to 
her driveway and fence, paid for by transactions unlinked to those disputed with BOS; Miss 
D also had legitimate work done under her stairs (when this work wasnt completed by the 
scammers) costing around £200, and Mr D and his son completed work to her patio doors 
costing around £1,000. I havent seen clear evidence that other work funded by the 
transactions 6 to 16 was completed.
This has led me to the following overall conclusions on fair redress  BOS should pay Miss
D:
100% of the in-branch cash withdrawals (totalling £14,000). Given the circumstances 
of this case, Im satisfied these transactions were most likely lost to scammers.
50% of all the other transactions (excluding transactions 1 to 5). These were ATM 
cash withdrawals and cheque payments, totalling £16,050, 50% of which is £8,025. 
This hasnt been easy to decide, because its possible all of these transactions were 
lost to the scammers; its also possible some of these transactions werent lost to the 
scammers. In this particular case, I think the fairest outcome is that BOS refunds 
Miss D half of these.
Miss Ds representative has said the cheques (transactions 9, 13 and 14) were all 
paid to scammers. Hes also suggested a further cheque (ending 31) should have 
been added to his complaint because, he says, this was also paid to a scammer. 
However, as I have explained, the facts around what really happened in this case 
arent particularly clear at all. I understand the reasons behind the lack of recollection 
and detail, but it remains difficult to know whether all of these transactions really were 
lost to scammers and were not paid for at least partial work on Miss Ds property. In 
my view, I just cant be sure enough about this  and thats why Im satisfied a 
compromise (50% award) is the fairest outcome here.
With regards to the cheque ending 31, Mr D previously suggested this might have 
been used to pay for legitimate fencing work. Im not sufficiently persuaded that this 
wasnt the case. This wasnt included in the complaint, and I dont find there to be 
good reason at this stage to say it should be included in the refund. Instead, I think 
the lack of clarity around this only goes to support the overall uncertainty around the facts here and the appropriateness of a compromise award. 
Interest on the total refund amount above. BOS has agreed to calculate and pay this 
interest at 8% simple per year from the date of each transaction to the date of 
settlement, and Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable. This is to compensate Miss D 
for having been deprived of this money. 
£200 for the distress and inconvenience Miss D has suffered. In deciding this amount 
I am mindful that Miss Ds distress was ultimately caused by the callous acts of the 
scammers and Miss D authorised these transactions, albeit BOS probably should 
have prevented the loss from transaction 6 onwards.
Ive considered everything Miss Ds representative has said in response to my provisional 
decision but these points havent changed my mind. Mr D has said that if Miss D had 
engaged a professional firm (I take this to mean a representative), the costs would have 
been thousands of pounds. But Miss D didnt; and complaining to BOS and referring a 
complaint to us is a free service.
Putting things right
To put things right, BOS should pay Miss D: £22,025; plus interest on each transaction 
included in that total calculated at 8% simple per year from the date of the transaction to the 
date of settlement; plus £200 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part  and I direct Bank of Scotland 
plc trading as Halifax to pay Miss D:
£22,025 to refund payments lost to the scammers; plus
interest on each transaction included in that total calculated at 8% simple per year 
from the date of the transaction to the date of settlement (if BOS deducts tax from 
this interest, it should provide Miss D with the appropriate tax deduction certificate); 
plus
£200 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2022. 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman