DRN-4255502
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Scottish Widows Limited trading as Clerical Medical transferred
his pension to another pension provider without his authority. Mr S claims that he suffered a
financial loss as a result.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision, which I issued last month. 
My provisional decision said:
What happened
Mr S holds a pension plan with Scottish Widows Limited trading as Clerical Medical. In 
November 2021 Mr S contacted another pension provider, who I will refer to as Firm A in 
this decision.
Firm A sent Clerical Medical a letter of authority in respect of Mr Ss pension on 6 December 
2021. Firm A then sent Clerical Medical an Origo fast track pension transfer request on 22 
December 2021. This request was for Mr Ss Clerical Medical pension to be transferred to 
Firm A.
Clerical Medical wrote to Mr S on 31 December 2021 to tell him that his policy had been 
updated. Mr S has said that the letter wasnt received until mid-January 2022.
Mr S telephoned Clerical Medical on 14 January 2022. He said that he didnt know what 
policy update the letter was referring to. During the call Mr S was told that the letter had 
been sent because of a mis-match with his National Insurance (NI) number.
Mr S raised a complaint with Clerical Medical during the call because of the level of service 
that hed received. He also expressed a concern that the funds in his pension policy had 
gone somewhere else.
Clerical Medical telephoned Mr S on 18 January 2022. They told Mr S that they had received 
a letter of authority from Firm A. This allowed Firm A to request information from Clerical 
Medical in respect of Mr Ss pension. Mr S asked Clerical Medical to send him a copy of the 
letter of authority as he said that he couldnt remember either contacting or giving permission 
for anyone to ask for information on his pension plan. Mr S told Clerical Medical that he 
wanted the letter of authority to be removed from his pension and that no information should 
be sent to Firm A.
Clerical Medical telephoned Mr S again on 20 January 2022. They told Mr S that if he 
wanted the letter of authority removed from his pension plan then he would need to request 
this in writing. Clerical Medical also told Mr S that they had received a pension transfer 
request from Firm A and the transfer had been completed the day before the telephone call, 
so on 19 January 2022. A letter had been posted to Mr S on 19 January 2022 to inform him 
of the transfer.
Clerical Medical went on to say that Mr S should have been given five working days notice 
before the transfer completed. Mr S said that he wanted the pension transfer sent back from 
Firm A to Clerical Medical.
Clerical Medical spoke to Mr S again on 4 March 2022. Clerical Medical said that theyd 
requested the transfer back from Firm A but hadnt had a response from them. Mr S said that 
hed exchanged emails with Firm A and had been told that they were ready to send the 
transfer back to Clerical Medical.
Clerical Medical explained that once they received the transfer back from Firm A they would 
reverse the whole transfer process and would invest Mr Ss pension as it was. Mr S said that 
as markets had fallen then he wanted to see where he could put his money where he 
wouldnt lose anything.
Firm A completed the transfer of Mr Ss pension back to Clerical Medical on 6 April 2022. 
Clerical Medical then reversed the transfer to put Mr S back in the position that he wouldve 
been in had the transfer never happened. This meant that they reinstated Mr Ss pension as 
it would have been on 19 January 2022 and put it back into the same investment funds that 
Mr S held at that time.
However, Mr S wasnt happy with this. He says that the investment funds that his pension 
was invested in had fallen in value between 19 January 2022 and 6 April 2022. Mr S says 
that this meant that when Clerical Medical reinstated his policy, its value fell by 
approximately £3,250. Mr S felt that Clerical Medical should compensate him for this fall in 
value.
Clerical Medical responded to Mr Ss complaint on 7 April 2022. They said that the letter that 
theyd sent to Mr S on 19 January 2022 giving him notice of the pension transfer should 
have been sent five working days earlier. They paid Mr S £200 in respect of the 
inconvenience that hed suffered as a result. Clerical Medical explained that they had now 
fully reversed the transfer.
Mr S wasnt happy with Clerical Medicals response, he thought that this didnt address the 
fall in the value of his pension once it had been reinstated. He therefore referred his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
An Investigator within the Financial Ombudsman Service reviewed Mr Ss complaint. Their 
view was that Clerical Medical should cover the financial loss that Mr S says hes suffered.
Clerical Medical didnt agree with the Investigators view so asked for Mr Ss complaint to be 
brought to an Ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I have seen the letter of authority sent to Clerical Medical by Firm A. This contains Mr Ss 
name, address, date of birth and NI number. Mr S has said that when he was completing 
online information with Firm A he didnt realise that when he clicked to accept their Terms 
And Conditions, this also gave approval for Firm A to contact Clerical Medical and request 
policy information and a pension transfer.
I have seen the pension transfer request that Clerical Medical received from Firm A. This did 
correctly request the transfer of Mr Ss Clerical Medical pension through the Origo fast 
track transfer service. I therefore think that Clerical Medical were right to act upon both the 
letter of authority and the pension transfer request when they were received.
Clerical Medical received the pension transfer request on 22 December 2021 and have said 
that had it not been for their delays the transfer wouldve been completed by 6 January 
2022. The transfer was completed on 19 January 2022.
Clerical Medical wrote to Mr S on 31 December 2021 to tell him that changes had been 
made to his policy. However, Mr S has said that he didnt receive this letter until mid-January 
2022. I have seen the letter that was sent to Mr S and it says Thanks for your request to 
change your details. Weve updated details for your plan.
Mr S telephoned Clerical Medical on 14 January 2022 to ask why he had been sent the 
letter. I have listened to this telephone call. It is evident to me that the Clerical Medical 
representative that Mr S spoke to had great difficulty in tracing records for Mr S. When 
details were located then Mr S was told that the letter had been generated due to a NI 
number mis-match.
The Clerical Medical representative was unable to explain what this meant. She asked Mr S 
for his NI number so that she could check this against her records. However, Mr S said that 
whilst he had his NI number to hand, he wasnt going to tell the Clerical Medical 
representative what this was, so she was unable to check her records.
Mr S asked for a service complaint to be raised and for an explanation to be provided of 
what a NI number mis-match was. He also said that he wanted to know this in case all 
funds in his policy have gone somewhere else.
When Clerical Medical called Mr S back on 18 January 2022 they explained that they had 
received a letter of authority from Firm A. Mr S asked that Clerical Medical email him a copy 
of the letter of authority and provided his email address. He also asked that nothing was to 
be sent to Firm A and that the letter of authority be removed.
However, it was by then too late as the next day the transfer completed and Clerical Medical 
wrote to Mr S the same day to tell him of this.
Clerical Medical have said that they shouldve given Mr S five working days notice before 
they completed his pension transfer. Mr S said during his telephone call of 18 January 2022 
that he didnt want any information to be sent to Firm A, so I think that if Mr S been given the 
five working days notice on the pension transfer then its likely that he would have told 
Clerical Medical not to go ahead with the pension transfer.
Mr S has said that because Clerical Medical did complete the transfer of his policy he 
suffered a financial loss. He says that this is because investment markets fell during the 
period between when Clerical Medical transferred Mr Ss pension and when Firm A 
completed the transfer back to Clerical Medical.Clerical Medical said that they would reverse the pension transfer for Mr S. Therefore, when 
they received the transfer back from Firm A on 6 April 2022, they reinvested this back into 
Mr Ss pension using fund prices applying on 19 January 2022, and then calculated what the 
value of Mr Ss pension was on 6 April 2022. This meant that the value of Mr Ss pension on 
6 April 2022 was the same as it would have been as if the transfer to Firm A had never 
happened.
Clerical Medical have said that they did this to put Mr S in exactly the same position he 
wouldve be in had the transfer to Firm A never happened. This meant that if fund prices had 
increased between 19 January and 6 April 2022 then Mr Ss pension would benefit from any 
such increase. However, it also meant that if fund prices fell during this period, then Mr Ss 
policy value would also fall, and this is what happened. Mr S is unhappy about this.
Mr S spoke with Clerical Medical on 4 March 2022. I have listened to a recording of this 
telephone call. During this call he said that he had been in contact with Firm A. Mr S also 
asks where his pension funds were going to be reinvested and was told by the Clerical 
Medical representative that he spoke to that when received from Firm A, the transfer would 
be invested back as it was. Mr S then says: bearing in mind that the stock market has taken 
a huge crash, I dont know if thats good advice or not.
Mr S is asked what his expectations are and replies I expect the money to come back from 
(Firm A) to Clerical Medical but I was hoping to speak to someone inI dont know what 
department that would be, to see where I can put that money without losing anything 
because of the way the stock markets have crashed due to this Russian Fiasco.
Mr S is told that his pension would be put back as if the transfer hadnt happened, but will 
put Mr Ss comments in escalation. Mr S then repeats that he expects the same money 
back but also doesnt want to lose anything because of a stock market crash.
I think that in reversing the transfer to put Mr S back in the position that he wouldve been in 
as if the transfer had never happened, Clerical Medical acted reasonably.
I therefore dont think that it would be reasonable for Clerical Medical to change or backdate 
the way that Mr Ss pension was invested on 19 January 2022, as Mr S had seen investment 
markets fall. If Mr Ss pension hadnt been transferred, which is the result Mr S was originally 
seeking when raising the issue with Clerical Medical, then its value wouldve still fallen by 
the same amount.
However, because the policy was transferred this did mean that Mr S wasnt able to make 
any changes to the investment of his pension, if he had wanted to, until the transfer was paid 
back by Firm A on 6 April 2022.
Mr S spoke with Clerical Medical on 4 March 2022 and asks for help to see where he could 
invest his pension without losing anything. He is also unhappy that the transfer back to 
Clerical Medical had not been completed.
Ive therefore considered whether its likely that Mr S would still have contacted Clerical 
Medical at that time to ask for fund information had his policy not been transferred.
Whilst Mr S wasnt able to make any investment changes until his policy was reinstated on 6 
April 2022, he has been able to do so since then. But Clerical Medical have said that Mr Ss 
policy has remained invested as it was since it was first set up, so with no investment 
changes being made.I therefore think that on balance its likely that had Mr S not been in contact with Clerical 
Medical in early 2022 because of the transfer of his pension, he wouldnt otherwise have 
contacted them and asked for fund information. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
that Mr S would have made any changes to the investment of his pension in early 2022, had 
he been able to do so.
Mr S had asked Clerical Medical for fund information during his telephone call of 4 March 
2022. Clerical Medical are not Mr Ss financial adviser, they are his pension administrator.
They were therefore unable to give Mr S any advice on how he should invest his pension. I 
do however think that they were able to provide Mr S with information on investment choices 
available to him, so that Mr S would be able to make an informed decision, if he had wanted 
to change his funds. Clerical Medical didnt send any information to Mr S.
I therefore think that if Clerical Medical had sent information to Mr S then he couldve been 
able to use this information if hed wanted to make changes to the investment of his policy 
when it had been reinstated on 6 April 2022, if he had wanted to protect it against any further 
possible market falls.
As Mr S hadnt received a response from Clerical Medical following his telephone call on 4 
March 2022 then I think its reasonable that he could have asked Clerical Medical for this 
information again, if he did then want to make any fund changes. However, as Ive said 
above, Clerical Medical have said that Mr S has not made any changes to his pension and it 
still remains invested as it was on 19 January 2022.
Ive also considered whether Clerical Medical delayed the transfer of Mr Ss pension back 
from Firm A, and whether this meant that there was a delay from when Mr S couldve made 
investment changes to his policy. Mr S says during his telephone call of 4 March 2022 that 
hes been told by Firm A that they are ready to transfer his policy back to Clerical Medical.
But Clerical Medical told Mr S during this telephone call that they had requested the transfer 
back from Firm A. Therefore, as Clerical Medical had requested the transfer, I dont think 
that they can be at fault because Firm A didnt action this request until 6 April 2022.
Also, as Ive said above, I havent seen any evidence to show that if the transfer back to 
Clerical Medical had been completed at an earlier date, Mr S would then have changed the 
investment of his policy.
I therefore dont think that Clerical Medical did anything wrong when they reinstated Mr Ss 
pension on 6 April 2022, as they put him back in the position that he wouldve been in had 
the transfer never happened. Mr S has been able to change the investment of his plan since 
then, but hasnt done so.
I do however think that Clerical Medical were at fault when they completed the transfer of Mr 
Ss policy without giving him five working days notice. If they had given him notice, the need 
to reverse the transfer wouldnt likely have arisen and Mr S would have been saved some of 
the distress and inconvenience he went through. Clerical Medical need to pay Mr S 
compensation for this, and for the poor service they provided when Mr S contacted them. Im 
therefore upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Putting things right
Clerical Medical have paid Mr S £200 in compensation for the distress that hes suffered. I 
think that a payment of £350 is more appropriate given the mistakes outlined above. No 
further action is then needed from Clerical Medical.My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint against Scottish Widows Limited 
trading as Clerical Medical and that they now pay Mr S a further £150 in addition to the £200 
that they have already paid for the distress and inconvenience that he has suffered, so that 
the total amount paid to Mr S is £350.
In my provisional decision I invited both Mr S and Clerical Medical to respond with any 
additional information or comments that they wanted me to consider before I made my final 
decision.
Both Mr S and Clerical Medical have responded to my provisional decision.
Clerical Medical have said that they agree with my provisional decision.
Mr S has replied to say that Clerical Medical admitted they were wrong and their own 
procedures had not been followed correctly. Mr S has also said that hes not happy that 
Clerical Medical were unable to stop the transfer taking place. Hes also said that hes 
unhappy with the way that Clerical Medical reinvested his monies when the transfer was 
reversed. 
Mr S has also said that he was never advised by Clerical Medical about being able to 
transfer monies to another provider and that he was not informed in writing by Clerical 
Medical when everything had been transferred back into his pension. Mr S has added that 
he doesnt think that £350 is adequate compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the additional comments made by Mr S in his response, and whether 
these change my provisional decision. However, I dont think that any new or additional 
evidence has been presented by Mr S which would result in me changing my provisional 
decision. 
I think that Clerical Medical had already admitted that they should have sent their letter of 19 
January 2022, giving Mr S notice of the pension transfer, five working days earlier. They 
therefore sent Mr S payment of £200 in respect of the inconvenience that hed suffered and 
because of a delay in resolving his complaint. I had also said in my provisional decision that I 
think Clerical Medical were at fault when they completed the transfer of Mr Ss policy, without 
giving him five working days notice.
Id also explained in my provisional decision why I dont think that Clerical Medical did 
anything wrong when they reinstated Mr Ss pension on 6 April 2022, and I have not seen 
any new evidence that would make me change this view.
Mr S has said in his response that he wasnt advised by Clerical Medical about being able to 
transfer to another pension provider. I dont think that Clerical Medical were responsible for 
telling Mr S that he was able to transfer his pension to another pension provider. I think that 
they were Mr Ss pension administrator and not his adviser. 
Mr S also said in his response that Clerical Medical didnt write to inform him that his policy 
had been reinstated. However, when Clerical Medical responded to Mr Ss complaint on       
7 April 2022 in writing, they explained that they had fully reversed the transfer. I therefore think that compensation of £350 is appropriate, given the mistakes made by 
Clerical Medical. 
I am therefore upholding Mr Ss complaint for the reasons set out above in my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
Mr S has said that he received a cheque for £200 from Clerical Medical in April 2022. 
However, Mr S has said that he hasnt paid the cheque into his bank account as he wasnt 
aware that it was a compensation payment. 
I think that a total payment of £350 is more appropriate given the mistakes outlined above. 
As Mr S didnt pay in the cheque for £200 that he was sent in April 2022, Clerical Medical 
need to re-issue their original payment of £200 to Mr S, together with a further £150, to bring 
the total compensation paid to Mr S to £350. No further action is then needed from Clerical 
Medical.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am upholding Mr Ss complaint against Scottish Widows Limited 
trading as Clerical Medical and that they now pay Mr S total compensation, including the 
payment of £200 that they have already offered, of £350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Ian Barton
Ombudsman