DRN-3788631
The complaint
Mr S is represented by a claims management company (CMC) in bringing his complaint. It 
says that Allied Dunbar - now Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich)- misadvised him into taking out 
a whole of life policy in January 1990, which was unsuitable for his circumstances. 
In summary, it says Mr S did not require the additional life cover provided by the policy. He 
was also recorded as having company pension arrangements. The CMC believes Mr S 
ought to be returned the premiums he paid for the policy, with interest.   
What happened
The policy had an initial £30 premium and a £20,593 sum assured. In July 2010, the policy 
became paid up, following Mr S having retired. Though it remains in force with a reduced 
sum assured, Mr S hasnt paid any further premiums into the policy.  
In May 2021, the CMC referred Mr Ss complaint to Zurich. The following month, it rejected 
the complaint.  
Though it wasnt able to locate paperwork regarding the advice, Zurich said Mr Ss policy  
an Adaptable Life Plan  had been suitable for the adviser to recommend to him in 1990. 
This was particularly since Mr S didnt have critical illness cover benefit at the time. Mr S 
would have received documentation about the policy, and he could have cancelled it if he 
needed to.  
So, the CMC brought the complaint to this service, where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. He initially asked Zurich about the cost of standalone critical illness cover. It 
confirmed that in 1990, critical illness cover was only offered either within whole of life 
policies or mortgage endowment policies. Since Mr S already held a mortgage endowment 
savings policy with life cover, it wouldnt have recommended two. And in any event, critical 
illness for a 25-year term for Mr Ss mortgage would have cost £89.88 per month.  
The investigator then rejected the complaint. He said, in summary, that:
he gave his considerations on balance, given the lack of documentation from the time 
of the sale;
he believed the policy was recommended to provide critical illness cover, with 
additional life cover;
Mr S had two dependant children at the time;
Zurich couldnt have offered standalone cover  so life cover would be included;
and this policy was notably cheaper than critical illness cover provided through an 
endowment savings policy;
in conclusion, he doesnt think the policy was mis-sold.  
Zurich accepted the investigators view. The CMC said Mr S wanted the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. It noted:
Mr S had applied for a £144,000 mortgage in 1989;
this would undermine the rational on the fact find document;
the fact find provided by Zurich does not actually support the sale of the policy; 
no financial priorities were recorded and the adviser has not explained why the 
recommendation was made.
The complaint has now been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed this complaint carefully, I am also of the view that it should not be upheld.  
I wont be addressing each point raised, as my remit is to make findings on what I believe to 
be fair and reasonable to both parties in the circumstances. I will set out what I consider are 
the central issues in this complaint. 
Unfortunately, because of the passage of time, Zurich does not retain full records of the 
advice from 1990. I do not believe this is unreasonable, given the sale was 33 years ago, 
and Zurich has acted in accordance with relevant data protection rules. Consequently, there 
is no confirmed evidence of the advice and recommendations made by the adviser in the 
form of reasons why documentation, other than what is combined within the fact find. 
Nonetheless, there is some evidence available in the form of recollections from both parties 
and other wider circumstances in the form of a handwritten fact find document. At that time, 
businesses were required to produce fact find documentation showing that any 
recommendations made were supported by evidence of the customers needs and priorities, 
and that a suitable product had been recommended in the context of what was known about 
the customers personal circumstances. Where there is conflicting evidence, such as 
between the documentary evidence and what is being said by the parties now, I will 
determine what I believe is most likely on the balance of probabilities.
I appreciate why the CMC has made its submission regarding life cover. Mr S isnt recorded 
expressly as wanting protection in the event of serious illness. He and his wife had an 
endowment mortgage, and the proposal for the whole of life policy was a sum assured 
broadly matching the mortgage lending.
In my view, the recommendation for critical illness cover wasnt unsuitable. Mr S had two 
young dependant children and it is completed on the fact find that he held no critical illness 
cover. It would seem to me that there was likely a need for cover of this type, which is a 
prudent step to take to provide a lump sum payment o cover a mortgage liability in the event 
that Mr S were to become seriously unwell.  
I also dont find the recommendation to be unsuitable, merely because critical illness cover 
could only be provided alongside additional life cover within the whole of life policy. To have 
life assurance at a small proportion of their premium as additional protection wasnt an 
unreasonable solution in the circumstances, where the policy proposed provided insurance 
against critical illness  something Mr S didnt previously have cover for. 
I am not persuaded that Mr S would have done anything differently, or that there is sufficient 
evidence to suggest that hed have secured standalone critical illness cover elsewhere. 
Zurich only provided cover within whole of life or endowment policies at that time. I dont 
believe, on balance, that Mr S would have decided against the recommendation merely 
because he already had some life assurance provision. Finally, I acknowledge that following the investigators view, the CMC supplied information 
showing how Mr S had applied for a notably larger mortgage in 1989. However, it is unclear 
if this mortgage was in place  and it was not mentioned on the fact find at all. In any event, 
had Mr S taken out any additional lending, the new policy would have contributed towards 
his shortfall in life cover for the new increased borrowing.  
My final decision
I do not find the advice provided by Allied Dunbar  now Zurich Assurance Ltd - to have 
been unreasonable in the circumstances. Nor do I think that Mr Ss whole of life policy was 
mis-sold to him in 1990. I therefore do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2023.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman