DRN-2913547
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain National House-Building Council (NHBC) have unfairly declined their 
Building Warranty claim.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs P feel strongly about what has happened. I also know there have 
been further communications between them and NHBC about the tiles. I want to assure 
them that Ive thought carefully about everything theyve said, but my decision can only 
consider events up to the date of NHBCs final response in December 2020.
Having reviewed everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for 
these reasons:
Under section 3 of the warranty, in years three to ten, NHBC will pay the full cost of 
repairs to physical damage caused by a defect in certain parts of the property. This 
list isnt exhaustive however, so it wont cover every single issue that could come up 
in a new build property
Mr and Mrs P said they were told by the developers contractor the tiles had been 
fixed insufficiently. Ive looked at the information sent by the developer to NHBC 
including photographs of the fallen tile it inspected. The comments refer to the 
condition of the fallen tile  and although I can see the contractor has told Mr and 
Mrs P the tiles should have two fixings, I cant see anything that suggests the rest of 
the tiles didnt have two fixings
Additionally, the property has later been visited by NHBC. NHBC confirmed in its 
investigation report it randomly inspected tiles at different levels of the property and 
found them to be performing as intended
I understand why Mr and Mrs P are concerned about more tiles falling from the 
property  and why they want NHBC to carry out a thorough inspection to all the tiles, 
but I havent seen anything that persuades me the other tiles were not performing as 
intended
Since NHBCs final response, Mr and Mrs P said they have noticed further issues 
with the tiles. NHBC said they will consider any further information provided by 
Mr and Mrs P, which is what I would expect them to do. If Mr and Mrs P are not 
satisfied with NHBCs response they may consider referring a new complaint to our 
service
NHBC did agree a defect had caused the issue with the missing tile, but because the 
claim failed to meet its minimum claim value, it declined the claim. NHBC have 
provided a costed schedule of works which I can see falls below the minimum claim 
value. Ive not seen any alternative costing or sufficient evidence that persuades me 
this costing is obviously wrong. So I dont intend to interfere in NHBCs decision to 
decline the claim
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman