DRN-2781910
The complaint
Miss R complains about the quality of a kitchen she bought using credit from Sainsbury's 
Bank Plc (Sainsburys). 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss R, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Miss R made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
breach of contract
Its an implied term of the contract that the goods should be of satisfactory quality. If theyre 
not the relevant legislation says that the business should allow the consumer to reject them if 
they make that request within the first 30 days. 
Miss R tells us she made that request to the merchant only a few days after delivery. So, if 
there was a fault with the goods she would be entitled to reject them.
But Im not persuaded I have sufficient evidence to suggest that the goods are faulty.
I say that because the independent expert said so and explained:
No failure of product manufacturing found. The deep grain of the timber will create a unique 
finish and variation which is a natural characteristic and not a defect.
That was in line with the suppliers view who had their expert look at the pictures supplied.
I understand that Miss R has had a specialist kitchen sprayer provide his comments on the 
surface finish. He said that the paint was very inconsistent with grain showing on some 
doors but not others. He didnt think there was enough paint application.
Ive considered the various views and have looked at the photographs provided by Miss R 
and the inspector. Im persuaded that the surface finish is likely to be within acceptable 
tolerance and that that the surface is therefore of an acceptable standard. I say that 
because:
the independent inspection was completed by a trade body with significant expertise 
in this area; who I think its fair to say are truly independent. Whilst their initial 
comments were a little ambiguous I can see that they clarified that their opinion was 
the surface finish was a natural characteristic and not a defect;
whilst I dont doubt the expertise of the supplier who provided his view on the matter 
to Miss R, I dont think he can be considered to be independent as he was also 
quoting for work and would be unlikely to be required to complete that work if the 
kitchen was of an acceptable standard;
I think the suppliers explanation that natural variation in grain depth will create 
natural variation in how much of that grain shows through the paint, is a reasonable 
one.
So, Im not persuaded there has been a breach of contract here as I think the paint finish is 
likely to be of an acceptable standard.
misrepresentation
If Miss R was told something that led her to enter into a deal she would not otherwise have 
entered into I would think there had been a misrepresentation and Id ask Sainsburys to take 
some action.
Im not persuaded there has been a misrepresentation here because:
I dont think a reasonable person would expect the images of a kitchen shown on a 
website to be of sufficient quality to show exactly what the completed surface finish 
and texture would look like. I think a reasonable person would want to see physical 
examples before making that judgement and I can see thats what Miss R did;
unfortunately, the sample doors that were sent to her to consider are no longer 
available. So, I dont think I have enough information to suggest she was told the 
paint finish would be different from what she received, and Im not persuaded there 
has been a misrepresentation here.
Im not therefore asking Sainsburys to take any additional action.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman