DRN-2658337
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Pen Underwriting Limited (Pen) unfairly declined their claim on 
their home contents policy for items stolen from their second home.
What happened
Mr and Mrs N were burgled in December 2019. Burglars caused damage to the property and 
stole various high-value items. Mr and Mrs N reported the burglary to the police and 
subsequently made a claim on their home insurance policy. 
Pen arranged for loss adjusters to make enquiries into what happened. After considering 
their comments, Pen declined to pay the claim. Pen said Mr and Mrs N didnt have a 
maintenance contract for their burglar alarm. They noted that it was a condition of the policy 
that Mr and Mrs N had a maintenance contract for their burglar alarm, which hadnt gone off 
when the burglary took place. 
It seems that burglars entered the property through first floor windows at the back of the 
house. The police suspect that the burglars were professional rather than opportunists.
Mr and Mrs N felt it was unfair of Pen to decline the claim based on an endorsement to the 
terms of the policy. They felt that decision is contrary to 2015 Insurance Act. So they 
complained to Pen and asked them to reconsider their claim. 
But Pen didnt uphold the complaint. They said that the wording of the endorsement was 
clear. They said the policy specifically excludes loss or damage by theft unless the alarm is 
fully and properly set, and a maintenance contract is in force for the alarm. They also said 
that the endorsement is material to the risk.
Mr and Mrs N didnt agree. So they brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold their complaint. He didnt think Pen had acted unreasonably when they 
declined the claim due to the endorsement not being met. Mr and Mrs N didnt agree. So 
their complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Its a condition of Mr and Mrs Ns policy that unless a maintenance contract for their alarm 
system is in force, theft wont be covered. The exact wording of endorsement 04, which was 
printed on the first page of the policy schedule is:
This insurance specifically excludes damage/loss by theft or attempted theft from the home 
unless:
i) the alarm is fully and properly set at night and whenever the home is left unattended
ii) there is a maintenance contract for the alarm in force
The endorsement was clearly worded and placed in a prominent position on the policy 
schedule. Mr and Mrs N havent said they werent aware of the endorsement. So Im 
satisfied that Mr and Mrs N shouldve been aware of the requirements under the 
endorsement 04.
Pen provided theft cover for Mr and Mrs N on the basis that their house was protected by a 
fully maintained alarm system, and that they set the alarm at night and whenever their house 
was empty.
Mr and Mrs N have said: The lack of the maintenance agreement didnt give rise to the loss. 
We feel its unreasonable for insurers to rely upon this to not pay the claim.
Mr and Mrs N have also said The 2015 Insurance Act according to my understanding states 
that insurers cannot rely on non compliance with these terms to "exclude, limit or discharge" 
their liability, provided that the policyholder is able to show that the non compliance with the 
particular term could not have increased the risk of the loss which actually occurred, in the 
circumstances in which it occurred.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA), rather than the Insurance Act 2015, which is relevant for commercial 
insurance. But Mr and Mrs Ns position is that Pen shouldnt be allowed to rely on 
endorsement 04 to decline their claim. The implication here is that whether theyd had a 
maintenance contract or not, the burglary wouldve still taken place, as their burglar alarm 
couldnt have stopped it.
But Pen disagreed. They said: This endorsement is material to the claim as the 
loss/damage is as a result of Theft and it is apparent that the intruders were in the property 
for many hours without the alarm operating and no one is able to explain how the alarm did 
not operate (other than the admission that the lack of sensors on the first two floors did not 
provide great coverage). Whilst the Insured has confirmed that the alarm was set, we believe 
this could have not been set properly. The intention of the endorsement is that the property 
is protected by an alarm and therefore a reduced risk, the endorsement then covers for the 
occasions that the alarm would not operate and therefore increase the risk of Theft. Both 
sections of the endorsement, we believe have not been complied with (if the alarm had not 
been maintained and therefore not properly set) and have increased the risk of the loss 
occurring.
So Pens position is that they cant be sure the first clause of the endorsement was met. But 
the second clause hasnt been met as there was no maintenance agreement for the
alarm system. And the failure to meet the endorsement was material to the loss.
Pens loss adjuster reported The risk address was fitted with an alarm however there were 
no sensors on the first floor meaning that the alarm was not triggered when the thieves 
gained entry.  
Pens loss adjuster also reported An alarm system was also fitted at the risk address 
however this incident has highlighted the inadequacies of this system, most notably the fact 
that there are no sensors on the first and second floors of the property. The sensors on the 
ground floor of the property were also poorly positioned as the thieves were able come down 
the ground floor to remove the safe from the study and to leave via the front door.
It appears from what both Pen and Mr and Mrs N have said that the burglar alarm wasnt fit-
for-purpose. But if the maintenance contract had been in place, we could reasonably expect the burglar 
alarm to have gone off. From the details Ive read about the burglary, its clear that the alarm 
didnt go off. The police believe that the burglars were in the house for around six hours 
uninterrupted. Had the alarm gone off, the burglars wouldnt have been allowed to stay in the 
property undetected for six hours. They wouldnt have been able to steal so much property 
or done so much damage. So Im satisfied that the failure to arrange a maintenance contract 
for the burglar alarm was material to the loss.
So Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs N have shown that failing to comply with endorsement 
04 didnt increase the risk of the loss which actually occurred, in the circumstances in which 
it occurred. So Im satisfied that Pen acted fairly and reasonably when it declined the claim 
on this basis. 
I know this isnt what Mr and Mrs N were hoping to hear. Im extremely sorry for what theyve 
been through. But unfortunately Ive seen no evidence that Pen acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when they declined the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman