DRN-3478036
The complaint
Mr Y has complained about the support Telefonica UK Limited trading as O2 offered him 
when he was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mr Y had two fixed sum loan agreements with O2 to be paid back over three years. Hed 
taken the agreements out to pay for two phones. Mr Y also had airtime contracts with O2 for 
the two phones. Mr Y took out agreement 1 in December 2020, and agreement 2 in January 
2021. Both agreements were to be paid back with payments of around £30 per month. I 
understand Mr Ys airtime payments were both around £20 per month. So, in total, Mr Y was 
required to pay around £100 per month towards the loans and the airtime. 
Towards the end of January 2021 Mr Y called O2 to change the date of his bill. He pushed 
back the payment date slightly. O2 recalculated the bill pro-rata, meaning the bill was higher 
than usual  around £180. Mr Y wasnt expecting the bill to be higher than £100 so he 
complained about it. O2 offered to credit Mr Y the difference between the two bills to his 
airtime account for his next bill. 
Mr Y paid his bill on 26 February 2021 and contacted O2 the next day to ask about obtaining 
a payment deferral on his two agreements because his income was going to be impacted 
the following month due to Covid-19. O2 said it couldnt apply the deferral at that time 
because there were no outstanding balances. So it suggested Mr Y call back on 19 March 
2021 when his new bill was produced so a deferral could be arranged. 
Mr Y complained he wasnt getting the support he needed. O2 responded to say the 
information Mr Y was given was correct. It also gave Mr Y a warning for using foul and 
unacceptable language to its advisors.
O2 produced Mr Ys bill on 19 March 2021, but as it had applied the credit from the previous 
month to his airtime balances, there was a credit balance on those accounts, and it 
explained it wasnt able to offer a deferral on the fixed sum loan agreements because of this. 
Mr Y continued to complain and request the payment deferral. O2 explained that customers 
werent able to request a payment deferral in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) Covid-19 specific guidance after 31 March 2021.  So Mr Y complained and made a 
Subject Access Request (SAR). 
O2 offered Mr Y a goodwill credit of £120, equivalent to three months of airtime payments for 
the two accounts, but Mr Y wasnt happy with this. He was offered an additional £20 credit 
on each account. Mr Y wanted credits to be applied to his loan agreements as opposed to 
the airtime account. But it wasnt clear whether O2 could do that.
O2 sent a final response to Mr Y. It said it hadnt been able to complete a SAR response 
because Mr Y hadnt provided his identification. It said its information provided about the 
deferral requests was correct. It said it would set up a payment plan for six months if Mr Y 
was in financial hardship. And it again warned Mr Y about the language he was using 
towards its staff.
Mr Y wasnt happy. He says he had to borrow money from elsewhere to pay his O2 bill. He 
was also unhappy with how his accounts were being reported to the credit reference 
agencies. So he brought the complaint to our service. 
O2 responded to the Financial Ombudsman to say it had applied a goodwill gesture of 
£70.75 to his airtime account even though the bill was correct. It reiterated it was unable to 
offer a deferral because initially payment wasnt due, and subsequently because the airtime 
account was in credit. It also explained Mr Y had rejected various offers to be applied to his 
account. It subsequently acknowledged that it was unclear why it couldnt offer to defer the 
fixed sum loan agreements separately to the airtime contract. So it offered to refund Mr Y six 
months payments towards the two loan agreements, totalling just under £200.
Our investigator looked into things and explained that he could only consider the complaints 
relating to the regulated loan agreements, and not the airtime contract. He thought that O2 
should have offered Mr Y a deferral as per the FCA Covid-19 guidelines. He noted O2 had 
placed a query marker on the credit file, while the dispute was ongoing. But he didnt think 
any action needed to be taken in relation to that because the marker didnt have a negative 
effect on the credit file. 
Our investigator thought O2 should reimburse Mr Y a total of £197.07. This is calculated as 
three payments of £65.69  the combined monthly loan repayments. Our investigator 
thought this would effectively put Mr Y back in the position he wouldve been in had the 
deferral taken place. And he asked if this would extend the agreements by three months, or 
whether O2 would make a refund as a gesture of goodwill. And he thought O2 should also 
pay Mr Y £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr Y explained he expected £197.07 to be refunded as opposed to deferred. And he agreed 
with the £250 compensation. O2 responded to say it couldnt extend the agreement and so if 
it refunded the £197.07 it would become immediately repayable. It said it would agree to pay 
£250 compensation to resolve the complaint, but it didnt think refunding £197.07 in addition 
to that was proportionate. 
Our investigator agreed that compensation of £447.07 seemed too high. But Mr Y didnt 
agree, and so the case was passed to me to make a decision. Mr Y also provided us details 
of payday loans he says he took out during the Covid-19 pandemic.
I sent a provisional decision that said:
I want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to assure Mr Y 
and O2 that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not 
because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key 
issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
Like our investigator pointed out, Ill be focussing on Mr Ys complaint relating to his two 
regulated consumer credit agreements. Our service has the power to deal with complaints 
relating to these sorts of agreements. But due to the nature of how O2 has issued certain 
refunds to the airtime account, Ill be considering those in the round as well. It looks like O2 
completed its SAR response after Mr Y provided what was needed, so I wont comment on 
that further. Having considered the evidence submitted I think, on the whole, O2 has tried to assist Mr Y. 
But, as it has acknowledged, I do think it could have offered better support when he asked 
for a payment deferral. 
The FCA released various guidance throughout the Covid-19 pandemic setting out how it 
expected firms to support customers who faced payment difficulties due to Covid-19. And it 
made a number of rule disapplications. The payment deferral guidance was intended to 
provide exceptional and immediate support for consumer credit customers facing temporary 
payment difficulties due to Covid-19 up to 31 July 2021, unless this was obviously not in the 
customers interest. Customers needed to apply for the deferral by 31 March 2021. After this, 
firms were required to provide tailored support to customers who needed it. 
In Mr Ys case he was told in February 2021 O2 couldnt offer him support at that time 
because his accounts were up to date. He was told to call back the following month when his 
payment became due. Given Mr Y had said his income was impacted by Covid-19 and given 
the requirement for exceptional and immediate support, I think O2 could have done more at 
this point to show it was willing to help him. It seems O2s system couldnt apply the deferral 
at that stage. But if that was the case, I think it should have done more to reassure Mr Y 
and/or diarise future support for him. 
In March 2021 O2 said it wasnt able to offer him a deferral because his airtime accounts 
were in credit. Again, it seems like a system limitation that meant it was unable to offer 
support on the loan agreements because the airtime contract was in credit. I think it could 
have done more to support Mr Y at this point. Mr Y had until 31 March 2021 to ask for a 
deferral, so by not being allowed to in March 2021, it meant he lost that opportunity. 
Mr Y got in touch with O2 because he, like many people, was facing uncertainty and his 
income had been impacted by Covid-19. The FCA guidance was intended to give some 
immediate relief for consumers. So by not doing that I think O2 didnt give Mr Y the support 
he needed at what was already a difficult time. 
Ive reviewed the calls supplied. While O2 was trying to help, it did give Mr Y some 
conflicting information around whether it could move funds from the airtime account to the 
device plan. It wasnt totally clear when he needed to call for help. Mr Y had to repeat his 
story to various agents, and there was some confusion about how compensation was 
calculated. Mr Y also said theres been quite a few dropped calls. So I can appreciate all of 
this added to his frustration. Hes also unhappy he wasnt told the initial airtime refund would 
impact a future deferral request, but Im not sure that wouldve been foreseeable for the 
agents at the time when they were trying to help him. 
However, its only fair to point out it did let Mr Y know that if he was in financial difficulty, it 
would offer a six-month payment plan. It had already offered around £70 in compensation 
when the bill was correct. And it made various offers towards his airtime contract. But this 
didnt solve the issue Mr Y was having of having to pay his credit agreements. Given it looks 
like the FCA guidance was intended for people like Mr Y, I think O2 couldve handled things 
better. 
How to put things right?
As Ive said above, I think O2 did offer some assistance to Mr Y, but I think it couldve done 
more to offer the deferral support he needed at what was already a worrying time given his 
income was reduced. 
A long time has passed since Mr Y asked for a deferral. And the Covid-19 specific deferral 
support ended in July 2021. Im not intending to direct O2 to retrospectively reimburse him the three payments he made that could have been deferred. Mr Y has indicated he wants 
this money refunded, but even had he deferred the payments in the first place, they still 
ultimately would have been repayable to O2. So Im not going to ask O2 to return those 
payments. However, if Mr Y is still in any sort of financial difficulties, Id expect O2 to treat 
him with forbearance and due consideration. 
Ive also considered the evidence Mr Y has submitted detailing short-term lending he took 
out. It looks like he borrowed £500 in November 2020 and £300 in December 2020. So I 
cant say he took out these loans as a result of not receiving a deferral  they were from a 
few months earlier. But I can see he needed to make repayments for the second loan in 
February and March 2021, around the time he asked for assistance. Hes also shown us 
details of another loan he took out for £400 in July 2021, when he could have had a deferral 
in place. Given the times he took out the loans, and the amount of the loans being in excess 
of the required payments, I dont find I can conclude he took the loans out solely as a result 
of not being given a deferral. But I think not having a deferral would have put extra strain on 
his finances at the time and would have caused him some inconvenience. 
Having considered everything, in the round, I think the award our investigator recommended 
and O2 agreed to of £250 is fair in all the circumstances. Im not intending to make any other 
recommendations.
Mr Y strongly disagreed with the decision. He reiterated hed received contradictory stories 
three months in a row, and that O2 contributed to his distress and financial difficulties. He 
said a fair outcome would have been a refund of three monthly payments together with £250 
compensation. He also said O2s actions led to him taking out further borrowing and that he 
had a right to the three-month payment deferral.
O2 hasnt added anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Mr Ys responses to my provisional decision. Hes reiterated what hes 
told us before. And no new evidence has been presented. So for the reasons Ive already set 
out, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
Briefly, Ive acknowledged O2 should have handled things better when dealing with the 
payment deferral request, and the impact on Mr Y of not receiving the deferral. Ive set out 
why I couldnt conclude Mr Y took out the loans solely as a result of O2s actions. And Ive 
explained why I think £250 compensation is fair in all the circumstances of the complaint. 
I should point out that Mr Y doesnt have to accept this decision. Hes free to pursue the 
complaint by other means, such as through the courts, if he wishes.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint direct Telefonica UK Limited trading as O2 to 
pay Mr Y £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman