DRN-3714639
The complaint
Mr D and Miss H complain that Nationwide Building Society didnt tell them they couldnt 
switch properties during their mortgage application process. They ask for compensation for 
having to take out a mortgage with a higher interest rate.
What happened
Mr D and Miss H applied for a mortgage with Nationwide on a non-advised basis. Their 
purchase fell through. They found another property and wanted to continue with their 
application. Nationwide said theyd have to start a new application and choose a product 
from its current range. Interest rates had increased, and the available products had higher 
interest rates than the one Mr D and Miss H had chosen when they first applied.
Mr D and Miss H say they should have been told that they couldnt keep the interest rate if 
the purchase fell through. They say they werent aware of this hidden rule, and dont 
consider it right for Nationwide to say it cant set out every eventuality. Mr D and Miss H say 
if theyd known they couldnt switch properties theyd have acted differently, and not wasted 
time on the first property purchase which had a high risk of falling through. They also 
complain about poor service.
Unhappy with the service from Nationwide, Mr D and Miss H applied to a different lender. 
Nationwide refunded the product fee they paid (with interest due to the delay) and paid 
compensation for poor service. However, Mr D and Miss H say they had to take out a higher 
interest rate and are about £2,000 worse off. 
Our investigator said Nationwide followed its process and didnt treat Mr D and Miss H 
unfairly. Our investigator said the compensation it paid for poor service was fair.
Mr D and Miss H didnt agree. Mr D said the main point of their complaint is that Nationwide 
is operating based on rules it hasnt published or told applicants about. He said they didnt 
need advice as they are financially aware. But its not right that Nationwide expects 
customers to make decisions without the full facts, such as that a mortgage offer can only be 
used for one property given that purchases often fall through. He said they are speechless 
that Nationwide said in response to their complaint that it cannot provide details of every 
eventuality that could happen during an application.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D and Miss H started the application process in mid-November 2021. They received a 
decision in principle (often referred to as a DIP) and a mortgage illustration. The mortgage 
illustration gives information, such as what the monthly payments would be assuming a level 
of borrowing, mortgage term and interest rates. The DIP is a guide as to the amount Mr D 
and Miss H might be able to borrow. Both documents make it clear they arent an offer to 
lend, which is subject to checks.
Mr D and Miss H made a mortgage application on 16 November 2021, on a non-advised 
basis. They paid a product fee to reserve the product rate they chose when making their 
application. The product fee was refundable up to completion. The application set out details 
of the property they wanted to buy (including the address, the property type, size, age and 
construction and access details). 
In late November 2021 Mr D and Miss H asked Nationwide to hold the mortgage valuation 
as the seller wasnt sure theyd be selling. They say they asked Nationwide and their 
solicitors to hold off work on the mortgage. Mr D and Miss H told us they wanted to see if the 
sellers would accept the offer they made after their survey was carried out. The purchase fell 
through. Mr D and Miss H found another property in January 2022, but were upset to be told 
by Nationwide theyd have to start a new application and choose from its current products.
Mr D and Miss H say they werent told the mortgage offer couldnt be transferred to another 
property, and this information wasnt published or available on Nationwides website. As 
Mr D and Miss H didnt have a mortgage offer, I think they must mean they werent told they 
couldnt switch properties part way through the application process. Or possibly they thought 
they could choose a product rate and Nationwide would apply it to future applications, and 
their complaint is that Nationwide didnt tell them this wasnt the case.
Nationwide is entitled to make a commercial decision about its lending criteria and its 
processes. Nationwide says when it processes applications it makes checks on the 
applicants and the property. Given that the property is offered as security for the loan I think 
its reasonable for Nationwide to make checks on the property as part of the application 
process, to check it meets its lending criteria. Nationwide says if the property changes, a 
new application has to be started. When making a new application, customers have to 
choose from the products available at that time.
Mr D and Miss H say theyd have made different decisions (such as not spending time on a 
property purchase with a high risk of falling through) if theyd known they couldnt switch 
properties during the application process. I havent seen evidence that Nationwide misled 
Mr D and Miss H about being able to switch properties during the application process  it 
seems this was an assumption they made. 
Mr D and Miss H say they are speechless that Nationwide said This is not set out during the 
application process as we cannot provide details of every eventuality that could happen 
during your application. We also dont assume that the purchase will fall through, so the 
information is not required at application stage. While I appreciate that Mr D and Miss H feel 
strongly about this, I dont think this is unreasonable. While property purchases do fall 
through, and for a variety of reasons, I think its fair for Nationwide to accept applications on 
the basis the applicants want to buy the property, and theyve reached agreement with the 
vendor. I dont think it needed to explain to Mr D and Miss H at the outset what would 
happen if their purchase fell through, in case Mr D and Miss H wanted to look for a different 
property. Mr D and Miss H applied for a mortgage to buy a specific property, and they chose 
to do so on a non-advised basis. Even so, if there was a high chance of the purchase falling 
through and Mr D and Miss H wanted to know how this would affect their mortgage 
application, they could have asked Nationwide. 
Mr D and Miss H say its wrong that Nationwide doesnt set out the terms and conditions of a 
financial product. But Mr D and Miss H didnt take out a financial product, they only made an 
application. If they had been offered a mortgage theyd have been asked to read the terms 
and conditions before agreeing to take it out. While Mr D and Miss H paid a product fee 
when they made their application, this was refunded because the mortgage didnt complete.
Mr D and Miss H are also unhappy:with the information requested by Nationwide to evidence their income 
with delays by Nationwide which contributed to the purchase falling through
that Nationwide sends emails from a do not reply address, which they sometimes 
replied to. They say it should have an automatic not delivered reply
that Nationwide initially took the product fee twice in error, and it took too long to refund 
the product fee when they cancelled their application.
Nationwide is entitled to ask potential borrowers for evidence of their income. In this case it 
asked that Mr D and Miss Hs accountant complete a certificate to evidence part of their 
income. Having looked at what was requested, I dont think this was unreasonable. 
Nationwide sends emails from a central email address, but asks that customers dont reply 
to that address. It gave Mr D and Miss H details for where they needed to send information 
and documents related to their application. Im sorry if receiving emails from the central 
email address caused Mr D and Miss H confusion, but Nationwide is entitled to make a 
decision about its processes, and I dont think I can fairly require it to change this. 
Based on the available evidence, I dont think Nationwide caused delays that contributed to 
Mr D and Miss Hs purchase falling through. In fact, only two weeks after making the 
application they asked Nationwide to put the valuation on hold while they re-negotiated the 
price with the vendor.
Overall, I dont think Nationwide treated Mr D and Miss H unfairly when dealing with their 
mortgage application. It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require 
Nationwide to compensate them for the higher cost of their mortgage with another lender.
There was a delay in Nationwide refunding the product fee after Mr D and Miss H cancelled 
their application. It paid interest and £150 compensation for the delay, and another £100 for 
not answering all of Mr D and Miss Hs complaint points. I think, in the circumstances, this is 
fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I think the compensation 
paid by Nationwide Building Society is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman