DRN-3919729
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly defaulted his account after he had tried to 
clear the outstanding balance. He wants the default removed from his credit file. 
What happened
Mr S had an account with Santander on which he had a dispute regarding charges. In April 
2020, he received a bank statement showing the charges had been reduced and he had £95 
to pay. He says he visited a Santander branch as soon as he could to make the payment but 
was told his account had been closed and the cashier refused to take his payment. He says 
he was told he didnt need to do anything more as he no longer had an account. 
In September 2021, Mr S says he checked his credit file and found Santander had registered 
a default for £95. He contacted Santander and made the £95 payment and raised a 
complaint that the default had been unfairly applied. Mr S says he didnt receive any letters 
warning him about the default being applied (nor his account closure). He says Santander 
had his contact numbers but didnt call him. He says he has been treated unfairly and wants 
the default removed from his credit file.
Santander issued its final response in November 2021. It said that it had written to Mr S 
about the default being applied if the outstanding balance wasnt settled. As Mr S didnt 
contact it at that time a default was registered. It said the default was recorded correctly and 
when Mr S made contact and paid the outstanding balance it updated his credit file to show 
the default as being satisfied. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She thought that Santander had provided Mr S 
with the information he needed to be able to make the outstanding payment and avoid the 
default. She said the default notice had been sent and as Mr S didnt make the payment in 
the required time Santander hadnt acted unreasonable by applying the default. She noted 
that after Mr S paid the outstanding amount on his account his credit file was amended to 
show the debt as satisfied. Our investigator didnt think Santander was required to do 
anything further to settle this complaint.
Mr S didnt agree. He said that action taken to close his account was unlawful and that the 
default was applied without the correct process being followed. He said the only letters he 
received referred to the outstanding balance of £295 which was in dispute. Following the 
refund of £200 and the balance being reduced to £95, he didnt receive any letters in regard 
to further action or a possible default. He reiterated that he had visited a branch to make 
payment and said the default was applied after only one or two missed payments. Mr S 
didnt accept that his account had been closed and the default applied fairly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I do not intend to uphold this complaint for the following reasons:
Mr S account entered an unarranged overdraft in August 2019 and an unarranged 
overdraft fee was applied. Mr S account remained in the unarranged overdraft for the 
following months and further charges were applied. This resulted in his account being 
overdrawn by £295. Due to this ongoing situation, I cannot say that Santander was 
wrong to move Mr S account to its Collections and Recoveries department. 
Mr S was sent letters about the situation on his account including default letters 
dated February and March 2020. Mr S has provided copies of these, so I accept he 
was aware of the situation on his account at that time. However, at this point Mr S 
was in dispute about the fees and charges on his account.
Following Mr S complaint about the fees and charges on his account, Santander 
refunded £200 as a gesture of goodwill. This was credited to Mr S account in March 
2020 and reduced his outstanding balance to £95. The final response letter sent to 
Mr S in March 2020 set out that the outstanding balance of £95 remained owing and 
provided him with contact details of how to pay this. Based on this I think Santander 
provided Mr S with the information he needed to be aware of the outstanding 
balance, that this needed to be paid and also the information about how to do this.  
Mr S says that following the refund of £200 he didnt receive any letters stating that 
his account would be defaulted if payment of the £95 wasnt made. While I note Mr S 
comment Santander has provided a copy of the default notice it sent to Mr S dated 
1 April 2020. This included the updated balance and said that payment needed to be 
made within 14 days or further action could be taken. Therefore, I find that Santander 
did provide Mr S with the required notice before the default was applied.
Mr S says he visited a branch and tried to make a payment. It isnt clear when this 
happened, but as Mr S was told his account had been closed, I think it would have 
been reasonable for him to make contact in the way that had been set out in the 
March 2020 letter. The letter provided details of how to make the payment by 
telephone and so if Mr S wasnt able to make payment in branch, I think it reasonable 
he would have tried an alternative approach. 
Mr S didnt contact Santander in response to the default letter and so the default was 
applied. While I appreciate this wasnt the outcome Mr S wanted, as he had been 
provided with the information he needed to be aware of the payment required on his 
account, and had been given details of how to make this payment I do not find I can 
say Santander did anything wrong by applying the default.
Mr S says that his account was closed after only one or two payments had been 
missed. However, his account had been in an unarranged overdraft for a number of 
months before the default was applied. While I appreciate he was in dispute about 
the fees and charges his account had been transferred to the Collections and 
Recoveries department. While a refund was applied to his account it still remained in 
unarranged overdraft and as Santander provided Mr S with an opportunity to repay 
the outstanding balance before further action was taken, I do not find I can say 
Santander did anything wrong by taking the action it did.
Mr S says he didnt receive the letters Santander sent in regard to the £95 
outstanding balance and that no telephone calls were made. I can see his address 
details and note that he says he moved after the default was applied. I cannot say 
why Mr S didnt receive the letters but as Santander sent these to the address it had 
on file, I find it did what was required to inform Mr S of the situation on his account 
and the action that could be taken. While I have no evidence that Mr S was called 
about this situation as he was sent letters, I find this reasonable notice.When Mr s contacted Santander in September 2021 and made the outstanding 
payment, his credit file was updated to show the default as settled. I find this 
reasonable.
Santander is required to provide the credit agencies with accurate information and in 
this case, I find it has done this. It provided Mr S with the information he needed to be 
aware of the situation on his account and notice of actions that could be taken. This 
was in line with its usual collections approach, and I do not find I can say it treated 
Mr S unfairly. 
I can understand why Mr S is upset by the situation he has experienced with his account. 
But for me to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that Santander had done 
something wrong or treated Mr S unfairly. For the reasons set out above I do not find this is 
the case and so I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman