DRN-3312902
The complaint
Miss B says Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited, has treated her unfairly in relation to a 
fixed sum loan agreement which financed the purchase of some windows.
What happened
In April 2018 Miss B entered a fixed sum loan agreement with Omni to finance the purchase 
of some windows for installation. These were installed in her mothers house (Ms B) where 
Miss B was living. The installation was completed, and the agreement went live in May 2018. 
In February 2019 Ms B informed Omni shed moved out and told it of her new address.
In May 2020 Ms B was unhappy with the windows. She had discovered that the window 
installers were no longer trading. So she had a third-party window specialist inspect and 
quote on fixing her windows. They said the locking mechanism was broken on the bedroom 
window and that the kitchen window needed work due to poor installation. They quoted £235 
plus VAT to fix both windows.
Ms B and Miss B complained to Omni. Omni considered the matter and felt it hadnt done 
anything wrong. It said the required relationship to make it liable wasnt in place. So Ms B 
and Miss B complained to this Service.
Omni considered matters again and it offered to pay the costs of fixing the windows as a 
gesture of goodwill but said it wouldnt honour the guarantee that went with the installation 
because the required relationship needed to make Omni liable in any situation wasnt in 
place. But Ms B and Miss B want the cost of the repairs and the guarantee.
Our Investigator considered the matter and felt the relationship was in place and that the 
guarantee should be valid, and that Omni should be liable for this. Omni didnt think that was 
correct, so the complaint came to me for a decision.
In January 2022 I issued a provisional decision which concluded the required relationship 
needed for Omni to be liable for the work of the Installers wasnt in place, so Omni hadnt 
done anything wrong.
Ms B said she wasnt happy and still wanted the gesture of goodwill paid. Omni responded 
saying it was happy to pay the gesture of goodwill (£235 plus VAT) it had offered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive quoted the main parts of my provisional decision below in italics and smaller font. Ive 
seen no persuasive reasons from either party to diverge from any of my arguments as set 
out below. Accordingly they form part of this my final decision.
Miss B took a Fixed Sum Loan Agreement with Omni to pay the Installers for the windows 
and their installation. This means Omni has certain responsibilities to Miss B which arise from 
the relevant law, specifically, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). There is 
no need for me to go into great detail about how this operates, but in summary Section 75 has 
the effect of allowing Miss B to hold Omni liable for breaches of contract by the Installers, or 
misrepresentations made by it in relation to the agreement made. Again without going into a 
large amount of detail a breach of contract occurs when one party to a contract fails to 
provide what it has agreed to under that contract. Misrepresentation is when something is 
said which is relied upon and transpires to be untrue leading to detriment. Miss B says the 
contract was breached because the windows werent installed with reasonable skill and care 
and or werent of suitable quality.
However before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are 
some tests set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these I think 
on balance that Miss Bs claim meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the CCA for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This 
means that there needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. This often looks like:
A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing for the purchase)
A creditor (who has to send the borrowed amount direct to the supplier)
A supplier (who has to provide what was purchased to the debtor)
This means the person who paid for the goods, the debtor, should have a contractual
relationship with the company who supplied the goods, as well as with the credit provider, the 
creditor. And this is the crux of the complaint here. Miss B says that the DCS relationship is in 
place so Omni can be held liable for any breach of contract by Dealership.
Omni say it is doesnt believe the DCS relationship is made out here, largely because Miss B 
had moved out long before the issues with the windows came to pass and thus she wasnt a 
beneficiary of the contract. It also points out that it has no relationship with Ms B.
For DCS to be made out I need to decide that Miss B was a contracting party with the 
Installers. But Im not persuaded that is the case. And Ill explain why. Ms B has said in her 
email to this service dated April 2021:
The finance was taken in (Miss B)s name as I had credit already and it was to help increase 
(Miss B)s credit score as the salesman said it would be perfectly ok to do this! I paid for the 
windows each month into (Miss B)s account.
This makes clear that Miss B didnt bear the costs of the windows in any way. It also makes 
clear that the only reason the finance was in her name was to help her credit score and 
because Ms B already had credit already. So it were it not for these credit related issues it 
seems clear that Ms B would have taken out the credit. It maybe that Ms B couldnt have got 
credit for the windows and got Miss B to apply for the credit so Ms B could have the windows. 
Or that Ms B and Miss B decided on this agreement in order to improve Miss Bs credit score. 
Either way it is clear that Miss B didnt bear any costs of the work done here. And it seems 
clear that Miss B only has the credit in her name because of these credit issues because 
thats what Ms B says. It is also clear that this house didnt belong to Miss B but was the 
family home. And its also clear she didnt bear the costs of the windows, Ms B did. 
On the document identified as the purchase contract it is Ms Bs details which are provided 
including date of birth and email. It is true that Miss Bs name does appear on the document, 
but it isnt written where the contractors name goes or where their details are placed, Ms Bs 
details are there. Miss Bs name is written on the top of the document over the Installers 
name and details, not where the contractors name and details go. So Im not persuaded that 
this document shows Miss B was a contracting party.Miss B does sign as customer on the document which is referred to as the Surveyors form. 
But Im not persuaded that this should be conclusive bearing in mind what we already know. 
Firstly Im not persuaded that this document is necessarily part of the contract as it is signed 
three days after the credit agreement was signed. So it appears this form was completed after 
the contract was agreed and was just part of the surveyor measuring up. And it maybe she 
held herself out to the surveyor as being a customer. But it is clear from the purchase contract 
and particularly what Ms B says that Miss B wasnt the person bearing the cost of the 
contract. It is my position that although Miss B would have derived some benefit from the 
windows she wasnt bearing the cost of the windows or the contracting party. Miss Bs role 
was merely providing access to the finance to pay for the windows upfront but not to bear the 
cost of it. So I think Ms B was the contracting party. Im not persuaded this was a joint venture 
because the costs of the windows were not jointly held. The costs were solely the 
responsibility of Ms B. Nor was Miss B benefiting equally to Ms B as she doesnt own the 
house they were being installed in and moved out some time afterward. So although she did 
receive some benefit Im not persuaded this is sufficient to consider her a joint party to the 
contract.
Accordingly it is my position that there are four parties here and that the DCS relationship 
required isnt intact. Accordingly Omni cannot be held responsible for any breach of contract 
with regard to the windows or the guarantee even if that was to be shown.
I should add that with regard to the breach Im not persuaded that this has been made out 
with regard to the bedroom window either. The third-party inspection/quote simply says there 
is a broken window mechanism. It makes no finding as to how this has come about. And 
Omni is correct in its point regarding the guarantee doesnt cover fair wear and tear. It also 
doesnt cover damage caused by accident or misuse. So at this point Im not necessarily 
persuaded there is sufficient persuasive evidence to show that the bedroom window should 
be covered either as a breach of the contract or under the guarantee. However it does seem 
that there is evidence of installation problems with the kitchen window based on what the third 
party has said. But for the reasons Ive explained Im not persuaded Omni can be held liable 
for this at this time.
I shall now address some likely counter arguments. It may be argued that this DCS issue is a 
moot point and Omni should pay irrespective. I disagree. The problems with the windows are 
for the installers. The only reason Omni is potentially liable is due to this legislation Ive 
described. If the legislation wasnt in place then Miss B would have no recourse against Omni 
at all. So it is key that if I am to hold Omni liable the tests required under the Act must be met 
including DCS. And Im satisfied it isnt made out here.
Miss B says the contract has been breached as the windows are defective. But it would be 
unfair for Omni to be held responsible for the problems with the windows when the tests set 
out in the legislation arent met. And it only can be held responsible for breaches or 
misrepresentation once the appropriate relationship has been met. And Im satisfied it isnt in 
place here.
Having considered Omnis response to my provisional decision it has said nothing further 
than it is happy to honour the gesture of goodwill that it had previously made. So I think it 
has treated Miss B fairly in this matter and once this amount has been paid it has nothing left 
to do.
Ms B has responded to this service a number of times to voice her displeasure. However I 
note she has not contended any of the arguments Ive made about the situation with her 
daughter and what the essence of these arrangements were. So Im satisfied that DCS isnt 
in place here and Omni cannot be liable for the guarantee that Ms B and Miss B sought to 
have in place. 
Nor has she argued my rationale is flawed or that Ive relied on factors or evidence which are 
not true or in other ways unreliable. Her comments mainly revolve around the customer 
service received regarding her windows and her displeasure about my change of position from that of the Investigator. But having considered everything she has said since my 
provisional decision was issued carefully Im not persuaded to change my position on these 
matters. Accordingly my decision remains, and Miss Bs complaint is unsuccessful.
So I dont think Omni hasnt done anything wrong here which needs remedy. However Im 
glad that it has chosen to pay the gesture of goodwill it originally offered, and Id imagine it 
would do so within twenty-eight days of receiving notification of Miss B accepting this 
decision to help bring this matter to a close.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, it is my decision that I do not uphold this complaint about 
Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Miss B 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman