DRN-3559102
The complaint
Mrs F complains about Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money (MCF) and their 
decision to provide her with a high-interest loan, which she feels was unaffordable.
What happened
On 4 August 2016, Ms F applied for a high interest loan with MCF. This application was 
approved, and Miss F received the capital sum of £3,000 repayable over 24 months with a 
monthly repayment of £236.50. 
Ms F was able to maintain these repayments until July 2017. And around the same time, Ms 
F was diagnosed with a mental health condition that impacted her ability to work and so, the 
income she received. Ms F began paying MCF a token payment of £1 a month and has 
continued to do so since this date. But Ms F was unhappy about this, so she raised a 
complaint.
Ms F thought MCFs decision to provide her with the loan was irresponsible. She thought the 
information shown in her credit file shouldve suggested to MCF that she had a reliance on 
credit at the time and so, that she would be unable to repay the loan in an affordable and 
sustainable way. Ms F also made MCF aware of how her financial situation had seriously 
impacted her mental health and continued to do so. Because of this, and the fact she was 
unable to pay MCF anything more than the token payment, Ms F wanted MCF to write off 
the remaining balance of the loan and for it to be removed from her credit file. 
MCF responded and didnt agree. They thought theyd completed proportionate checks 
before approving the loan, including verifying Ms Fs income and assessing her credit file. 
And they didnt these checks provided them with any information to suggest the loan would 
be unaffordable. So, they didnt think they had done anything wrong or that they needed to 
do anything more. But they did recognise Ms F stated her mental health had been impacted 
and they offered to send Ms F a Debt and Mental Health Evidence Form (DMHEF) so they 
could consider this further. Ms F remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised the 
continuing impact the loan had on Ms Fs mental health. And they understood why Ms F 
wanted the remaining balance to be written off. But our investigator thought the checks MCF 
completed at the time of the application were proportionate. And they thought MCF 
assessed the information these checks provided at the time fairly and didnt think there was 
any information available that suggested the loan would be unaffordable. So, they didnt 
think MCF needed to do anything more on this occasion.
Ms F didnt agree. She explained at the time she was applying for the loan, she was 
suffering with a mental health condition that caused her to act erratically and irresponsibly. 
And a main part of this was applying for credit. So, she thought this wouldve been 
represented in her credit file and that MCF shouldve recognised this and asked further 
questions. Ms F also referred to two loans she took around the same time, and the 
payments she was required to make to these that impacted her financial situation. Ms F also 
didnt think MCF were fair to calculate the loans affordability on the expenses she provided, 
as this didnt include costs for things such as travel. 
And finally, she thought the fact she utilised the majority of her overdraft on her current 
account shouldve suggested to MCF she was in financial difficulty. So, because of the 
above and other reasons she has provided to our service, Ms F maintained her belief that 
the loan should be written off as her mental health continues to be impacted while it remains 
outstanding. As Ms F didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms F. Ive seen medical 
evidence that shows Ms F was diagnosed with a mental health condition in July 2017. And 
this confirms Ms F was suffering with the symptoms of this since 2015, meaning these 
symptoms were present when she applied for the loan with MCF. I appreciate one of the 
symptoms led to Ms F applying for excessive amounts of credit and so, I can understand 
why Ms F would look at any credit she applied for at the time as being provided to her 
irresponsibly. I also appreciate Ms F continues to be impacted by this mental health 
condition, meaning her income has been substantially affected and this means she doesnt 
have the disposable income to repay her remaining debts. And I fully understand the anxiety 
and stress these debts will cause Ms F on a continuing basis. 
But for me to say MCF should write off the outstanding balance, I first need to be satisfied 
they did something wrong when approving Ms Fs loan application in the first place. So, Id 
need to be satisfied they failed to complete proportionate checks before approving the loan. 
Or, if I think the checks were proportionate, Id need to be satisfied MCF failed to assess the 
information these checks provided fairly. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly how Ive considered Ms Fs complaint. I understand Ms F has referred complaints 
about other loans given to her around this time by other lenders. And its my understanding 
that some of these complaints have been upheld by our service and in some situations, the 
outstanding balances of the loans have been written off. So, I can understand why Ms F 
believes this complaint should be decided in a similar fashion.
But our service is an independent and impartial service and crucially, we decide each 
complaint on its own merits, based on its own specific situation. So, my decision hasnt been 
impacted by how our service may have concluded separate complaints. And because of this, 
there may be times where complaints are similar but the outcome we reach are entirely 
different, as similar complaints can have a differing impact or circumstance.
So, when reaching my decision for this complaint, I have focused solely on the actions taken 
by MCF and the information they had available to them at the time the loan was approved.
And to do this, Ive first thought about whether the checks they completed before approving 
the loan. There are no set amount of checks a business such as MCF are expected to 
complete before providing a customer with credit. Instead, we would expect these checks to be proportionate to the value of the loan thats provided against the income of the customer, 
as well as the loan duration.
I can see in Ms Fs application that she declared her income as around £2,500 after tax. And 
Ms F was provided with a capital loan that just exceeded a months income, with a monthly 
repayment that equated to less than 10% of the monthly income Ms F received. I can also 
see the loan term was set at 24 months, which I dont consider to be an excessive length of 
time.
And I can see MCF used a piece of software to verify Ms Fs income. Alongside this, they 
considered the expenses information Ms F declared on her application for and compared 
this against the information shown on Ms Fs credit file. Considering these checks against 
the loan value and Ms Fs income, I think they were proportionate. And so, I cant say MCF 
have acted unfairly or unreasonably here.
But as Ive explained above, Ive also thought about whether I think MCF assessed the 
information these checks provided fairly.
MCF verified Ms Fs income and I can see it was confirmed there was a high probability her 
declared income matched the income she was receiving into her account. So, I think MCF 
acted fairly when they based their affordability calculations on Ms Fs declared income of 
£2,500 a month.
I can see in Ms Fs declared expenses, she stated she paid £400 a month to existing credit, 
which included both credit card and loan payments. Ive looked at the credit file MCF 
wouldve seen at the time of the application, and this shows Ms Fs minimum payments to 
service her credit card and mail order accounts would be just over £430 a month. So, I think 
the information on Ms Fs credit file suggested the information she declared on her 
application was accurate.
So, when Ms Fs monthly outgoings including her declared cost for housing, utilities and food 
alongside her existing credit commitments were subtracted from her monthly income, Ms F 
would be left with a disposable income of around £1,700. And when the monthly payment of 
MCFs loan was taken into account, Ms F would be left with just of £1,450 disposable 
income a month. So, I dont think the affordability calculations shouldve suggested to MCF 
that the loan was unaffordable and that the loan application should be approved.
I understand Ms F has said at this time she had two other outstanding loans with combined 
monthly repayments of £440. And she thinks these shouldve been included in the 
affordability calculations. But I cant see that these loans were reported on Ms Fs credit file 
at the time she applied for the loan with MCF. So, I dont think MCF wouldve had any way of 
knowing that Ms F held these monthly commitments and so, I dont think its reasonable for 
me to say they shouldve considered these. 
And even if they had, if these were considered it would still have left Ms F with a disposable 
monthly income of over £1,000, considering the expenses she declared on her application.
But I do understand Ms F thinks MCF shouldve realised these declared expenses were 
unrealistic. And shes explained they failed to account for the cost of travel and that £100 
each for housing and food was unreasonable to take as accurate. I dont think Ms Fs point is 
an unfair one here. But I dont think this impacts my overall decision.
First, in relation to the housing costs, Ms F stated she was living with parents. Because of 
this, I wouldnt expect MCF to challenge the £100 Ms F declared as I dont think its 
reasonable to expect parents to charge a child a standard retail rent. So, I think MCF were fair to accept this £100 as realistic.
But I do agree that £100 for food costs seems low, considering Ms Fs location even if she 
was living with parents. And I appreciate other expenses such as travel and clothing havent 
been considered. But even so, I dont think its likely these expenses wouldve led to the loan 
being declined as unaffordable.
As Ive explained above, Ms Fs other loans shes referred to werent showing on her credit 
file. So, without these and including MCFs loan payment, I think Ms Fs disposable income 
looked to be around £1,450. So, even if travel and clothing, plus additional food costs were 
factored into Ms Fs expenses, I think Ms F wouldve been left with a reasonable amount of 
disposable income, based on the information MCF had available to them. 
Ive also thought about the credit application patterns shown in Ms Fs credit file at the time 
of the application, as she thinks the amount of credit she applied for around that time 
shouldve shown to MCF that she may have had a reliance on credit. Although its now 
apparent these applications were as a result of Ms Fs mental health condition.
But Ms Fs credit file at this time shows that there had been no new accounts opened in the 
last six months. And none of her existing accounts had defaulted in the same time period. 
And in terms of searches, it showed that Ms Fs credit file had 2 searches in the last 3 
months, and 4 in the last 12. I dont think these numbers shouldve suggested to MCF that 
Ms F had a reliance on credit, or that she was making an unsustainable number of 
applications for credit.
And it showed in the last 12 months, Ms F had a total debt balance increase of £3,811, 
which I dont think appeared to be unaffordable considering Ms Fs monthly income.
Because of the above, I dont think there was any information available to MCF, both in their 
affordability calculations or Ms Fs credit file, that shouldve suggested the loan they provided 
was unaffordable to Ms F and shouldnt be approved. Because of this, I dont I can fairly say 
that MCF should do anything more, as I dont think theyve made an error.
I understand this isnt the outcome Ms F was hoping for. And I want to stress to Ms F that 
Ive thought at length about her mental health condition and the impact the stress of having 
outstanding debt is having on this. But for me to direct a business to take action, such as 
write a balance off, I first need to be satisfied theyve done something wrong. And in this 
situation, at the time MCF approved the loan, I dont think there was any information 
available to them that would have, or should have, alerted them to Ms Fs situation and 
caused them to change their lending decision.
But I do recognise Ms Fs mental health has continued to have an impact on her finances, as 
it has impacted her ability to work and so the income she receives. I would expect MCF to 
act positively and sympathetically to Ms F regarding this situation now they have been made 
aware of it. I can see MCF have offered to send Ms F a DMHEF for her to complete so they 
can investigate Ms Fs situation and agree a fair and suitable way forward. Im pleased to 
see this option has been made available to Ms F and this is something she may wish to 
consider utilising moving forwards.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms Fs complaint about Madison CF UK 
Limited trading as 118 118 Money (MCF). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman