DRN-2719027
The complaint
Miss S complains that when she made an application for an account with Shop Direct 
Finance Company Limited, trading as Very, her details were merged with her mothers and 
Very are therefore holding her accountable for her mothers purchases.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss S, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I dont think theres evidence here that Miss Ss account was merged with her mothers.   
Miss S says she applied for a Very account in 2016 but Ive not seen a record of that 
application. That may be because an account already existed for Miss S and had been in 
existence since 2012. As that was the case Very have explained that their system would 
refer the applicant to the existing account.
The 2012 application was made in Miss Ss name, using her date of birth, her address and 
using the email address we have on file for her.
It may be that orders were placed by Miss Ss mother using her account details. Thats 
something Miss S isnt alleging. But I cant see there is evidence of her account being 
merged with her mothers and I therefore dont think Very were wrong to refuse to change 
the account into Miss Ss mothers name when she requested it in 2016. 
And I dont think it would now be fair to ask Very to accept Miss S was not responsible for 
purchases made on her account. The statements Ive reviewed show that orders were 
placed on the account until 2019 despite Miss S clearly being aware of the issue in 2016. If 
those orders were made by her mother it would appear they were made with Miss Ss 
knowledge and I think its fair that Very hold her accountable for them. Im not asking them to 
take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman