DRN-3666524
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy because Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) did not reimburse them 
after falling victim to an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
While the complaint was referred by both Mr and Mrs M, to make my decision easier to read, 
I refer only to Mr M as he made the payment that is in dispute. I mean no discourtesy in 
taking this approach.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here. 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
Mr M was looking to purchase a car. Mr M used a car brokering service (whom Ill call C) 
that purported to purchase motor vehicles for its customers. Mr M paid an initial fee of £395 
to C and after some unsuccessful bids Mr M spotted a car that he was interested in. Mr M 
registered his interest and C sent Mr M a buy it now invoice for £14,150 for the purchase of 
the vehicle. 
On the invoice, Mr M noted that the account details quoted were different to the account 
details he had previously paid the £395 fee to. Mr M says he queried this with C. He says he 
was advised that it was a different bank account but that these were the correct details and 
the account he was paying received transfers quickly. So he went ahead and made the 
payment of £14,150 on 8 June 2021. 
Later on in the day Mr M tried to get an update from C without any reply. Hes told us the 
next day he discovered the car he had thought he had paid for through C under the buy it 
now invoice was still showing as for sale - listed as up for auction. 
Mr M says C told him that it could not secure the vehicle but it didnt refund him. Hes told 
us he was given various excuses by C as to why it couldnt provide a refund.
Mr M contacted the car auction who sold the car. The car auction confirmed to Mr M that the 
car was sold during a live online auction a few days after Mr M had paid C and the car was 
sold for less than the price Mr M paid C.
Unhappy that he didnt have the car he thought he had paid for, or a refund, Mr M contacted 
his bank to report the matter.
Lloyds initially told Mr M to wait to see if C would provide a refund. 
When Mr M didnt get a refund, and after receiving some advice, he contacted Lloyds again.
Lloyds considered the complaint under the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM Code). This is a voluntary code that Lloyds has signed up to 
and it requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams in all 
but a limited number of circumstances.
The circumstances where a firm may choose not to reimburse include (so far as they might 
be relevant to this complaint) where the firm can establish that: 
the customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning; or
where in all the circumstances, the customer made the transfer without a reasonable 
basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was expecting to 
pay, the transfer was for genuine goods or services, and/or that the person or 
business with whom they transacted with was legitimate. 
When assessing whether it can establish these things, the firm must consider whether they 
would have had a material effect on preventing the APP scam.
Initially Lloyds reimbursed Mr M in full for the first payment of £395. And it accepted liability 
in part for the second payment and re-imbursed 50% of the £14,150 payment Mr M made  
so £7,075.
When Mr M received the £7,075, he contacted Lloyds to find out what the payment amount 
was for. Mr M says he wasnt provided with the best service at this point, and it wasnt clear 
what was being refunded and why or what the next steps were. Mr M says he was told that 
Lloyds was waiting on information from the receiving bank (the bank whom the payment was 
made to) and a review by a manager.
Ultimately Lloyds did review the matter. And in doing so concluded it had refunded Mr M in 
error. Lloyds noted that under the CRM Code civil disputes arent covered. Lloyds 
considered this was a civil matter between Mr M and C. Lloyds agreed that it wouldnt seek 
to recover the funds it had already paid Mr M.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint, and at that time, she also thought the 
matter might be a civil dispute between Mr M and C. 
Mr M disagreed and remained of the opinion that he was the victim of a scam as C never 
intended to purchase the vehicle and couldnt provide him with a refund. Mr M considered 
under the CRM Code he should be reimbursed in full. 
As the matter wasnt resolved, its been passed to me to decide.
Having reviewed what happened, I was persuaded Mr M was the victim of an APP scam. I 
considered the payment he made can be considered under the provisions of the CRM Code 
and the exclusion relating to private civil disputes had not been fairly applied by Lloyds and 
Mr Ms claim should not be excluded on that basis. I was also of the opinion that under the 
CRM Code there were no other exceptions to reimbursement that could be applied. So I 
thought Mr M should be reimbursed the remaining amount he lost in full.
I contacted both parties, informally, to let them know of my initial thoughts and that Mr M 
should be reimbursed the outstanding loss. Mr M agreed. And Lloyds asked for final decision 
setting out and formalising my findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint and the responses briefly, in less detail 
than has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, 
Ive focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here  which is to determine whether 
Mr M was the victim of an APP scam or whether Lloyds acted fairly in considering the matter 
to be a civil dispute meaning Mr Ms payment wasnt covered by the CRM Code. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as an alternative to the courts.  
Having carefully considered Mr Ms complaint, I am satisfied that under the terms of the 
CRM Code, Lloyds should reimburse the money Mr M lost in full. Ill explain why.
Why I consider Mr and Mrs M should be reimbursed under the CRM Code
The CRM Code states:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to: 
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for 
goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in 
some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier; *
*Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint.
Lloyds argue this it is a civil matter between Mr M and C, not an APP scam.
Having carefully considered this aspect and information around (which includes third party 
information from the receiving bank and the car auction company), Im persuaded Mr M was 
the victim of an APP scam. I consider the payment he made can be considered under the 
provisions of the CRM Code and the exclusion relating to private civil disputes has not been 
fairly applied by Lloyds and Mr Ms claim should not be excluded on that basis. Ill explain 
why.
In this case, I have also been provided with evidence about C around the time Mr M made 
payment to it. However, I cant disclose the in-depth details, due to data protection laws. But 
I have taken it into consideration in determining this case. 
So, here, I have to take all the above into consideration and determine whether I think C 
obtained funds from Mr M without having the intent to use those funds in the way they were 
intended, causing Mr M a financial loss through deceit. 
Based on the circumstances of this case and the information I have seen and been provided 
with, Im persuaded on balance that Mr M was deceived into making a payment in which 
there was seemingly no intent from C to use the funds Mr M paid it, to buy the car  through 
the buy it now invoice it had sent Mr M. 
Mr M made the payment under the buy it now option and the car auction has confirmed to 
Mr M that the car was not purchased under the buy it now option. It was in fact sold through 
a live auction two days later. So, in this case, C had obtained funds from Mr M  under the 
agreement that it would purchase the car from the car auction through buy it now  but it 
didnt. Importantly it then wasnt able to refund Mr M either. So it seems to me C obtained monies from Mr M and had no intent to use them in the way 
agreed and then didnt have the ability to refund Mr M. To my mind, it can fairly and 
reasonably be said Mr M can be classed as the victim of deceit by C in which he lost money 
and he can therefore be classed as being a victim of an APP scam and one that is within the 
remit of the CRM Code.
Lloyds, in its submissions on this case, has commented that it wouldnt have known C was 
no longer operating in good faith and explained that once it became aware it has considered 
complaints about payments made to C.
However, I am mindful that the CRM Code was designed / implemented to reimburse 
customers that have fallen victim to a scam. 
So the test I have to apply is not what Lloyds knew at the time and what it could have 
possibly done to prevent it  but whether a consumer (in this case Mr M) who lost money 
through deceit can be classed as a victim of a scam  and therefore have their claim 
considered under the CRM Code. 
In the circumstances of this case, and as explained above, Im satisfied Mr M can be 
deemed as being a victim of a scam meaning Mr Ms claim can be considered under the 
CRM Code.
I dont think it is fair or reasonable for Lloyds to only consider complaints or claims made by 
those consumers who made payments once it was aware of the issue surrounding C. I 
consider this is too narrow a view to take and is unfair on Mr M who paid money to C as a 
result of intentional deception by C. And Im mindful that those instances of the C not acting 
in good faith ultimately led to Lloyds becoming aware of the issue.   
I appreciate Lloyds wouldnt have known about C until the issue became more widespread. 
But as explained, that isnt the point nor the test here. The test I have to apply is whether 
Mr M who lost money through deception can be classed as being a victim of a fraud / scam 
and therefore have his complaint looked at under the voluntary CRM Code, of which Lloyds 
is a signatory. 
Taking all the above into account, and in the circumstances of this case, I am satisfied the 
payment Mr M made can be considered under the provisions of the CRM Code for the 
reasons already explained and it isnt a civil dispute.
Are there any other exceptions to reimbursement under the CRM Code?
When considering the CRM Code, I dont think there are any exceptions to reimbursement 
that apply. In short, Mr M had a reasonable basis of belief for believing the person or 
business with whom he transacted with was legitimate. Mr M simply wasnt to know at the 
time of making the payment that C would obtain funds from him with no intent to purchase 
the vehicle it said it would.
And because of this, Im also mindful that in this instance no warning would have had a 
material effect on preventing the scam. So I dont think Lloyds can choose to decline 
reimbursement on the basis that Mr M ignored an effective warning. 
Lloyds initially reimbursed Mr M in full for the first payment and then 50% of the second 
payment and it isnt seeking to recover that. So it follows that I consider that Mr M should 
now be reimbursed the remaining loss.The level of service Mr M received
I understand that Mr M was unhappy with the service he received from Lloyds. Lloyds 
recognised this and offered £100 which wasnt accepted by Mr M at the time. Having 
reviewed this aspect, I do think Lloyds could have been clearer in its actions when Mr M 
reported the matter. It logged the matter as a scam, and reimbursed Mr M the first payment 
and 50% of the second payment (£7,075). Mr M wasnt informed what the £7,075 was for 
and was also given conflicting information about what was to happen. There was also a 
delay in matters and then Lloyds ultimately informed Mr M that it considered it had paid him 
in error and the matter was a civil dispute. I think Lloyds could have gathered enough 
information from the outset and made its determination. I dont think £100 is sufficient 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused and it should increase this to £250.
Putting things right
Lloyds Bank PLC should:
Refund Mr and Mrs M the remaining money lost to the scam (that being £7,075.00).
Pay interest on that amount at 8% simple per year from the date their claim was 
declined under the CRM Code until the date of settlement. 
Pay Mr and Mrs M £250 (in total) for the distress and inconvenience caused.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds Bank PLC to take off tax from this interest. 
Lloyds Bank PLC must give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, Ive decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms
complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
I direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay compensation, as set out above, within 28 days of receiving 
notification of Mr and Mrs Ms acceptance of my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman