DRN-2076285
The complaint
Mr L complains he lost out because Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt tell him about a corporate 
action affecting a company he held shares in.  
What happened
Mr L has an account with Barclays Smart Investor. In May 2019, a company he held shares 
in announced they were making new shares available through an offer for subscription. 
Mr Ls complaint is that Barclays didnt inform him of the offer for subscription and didnt tell 
him of their decision not to take part in the offer. Mr L later bought extra shares at the market 
price and says this cost him about £400 more than if hed been able to buy them through the 
offer for subscription. 
Barclays told Mr L they dont offer subscription events through their Smart Investor platform 
and they hadnt done anything wrong in this case.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ls complaint. She thought Barclays had made a decision
which wasnt in Mr Ls best interests and had put him at a disadvantage in comparison to 
other shareholders. She thought Barclays should compensate Mr L for having to buy shares 
at a higher price than he could have achieved if hed been able to take part in the offer for 
subscription. 
Barclays disagree with our investigator and have asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays have said the type of corporate action involved in this case is not one they offer 
through their Smart Investor platform. They have referred to the Smart Investor account 
terms relating to corporate actions which say: 
(i) we will not be responsible for taking any action in relation to these matters, except 
to give effect to Default Action if you do not give us an Instruction;
 
(ii) to the extent permitted by Regulatory Requirements we will not be obliged to 
notify you or obtain your Instructions in relation to these matters; 
Barclays have also said the offer for subscription was open to the whole market and no 
preferential price was available to existing shareholders like Mr L. They say the offer 
required applications to be made on paper and payments made by cheque, and thats not a 
service theyre able to offer. Mr L would have had to apply for shares in his own name and 
then lodge them as part of his Smart Investor account. 
Ive noted what Barclays have said. Mr L holds an execution only account and hes 
responsible for knowing whats happening with the companies he holds shares in. And I 
think Mr L should have been aware of the terms of his account in which Barclays make clear 
they dont have to let clients know about corporate actions in relation to their assets or take 
any action (except where theres a default action). 
Barclays have made a commercial decision not to offer corporate actions of the type 
involved in this case through their Smart Investor platform. Thats a matter for Barclays and I 
cant tell them what services they should offer to their customers. So I wont be telling 
Barclays to write a letter agreeing to notify shareholders of future corporate actions, as Mr L 
has requested. 
  
But Ive also thought about Mr Ls complaint that he was put at a disadvantage in 
comparison to other shareholders. He says other shareholders would have been notified of 
the corporate action and were able to buy shares through the offer for subscription. 
In deciding whether I think Barclays have done anything wrong, Ive taken account of the 
high level principles that apply to all businesses regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. One of the principles says that firms must pay due regard to the interests of their 
customers and treat them fairly. Another says that firms must pay due regard to the 
information needs of their clients. 
An as an existing shareholder, I think it was in Mr Ls interests to receive information about 
the offer for subscription. As the custodian of his shares, Barclays would have been sent 
notification of the offer, although theyve said they cant confirm they received the relevant 
document because they receive so much similar information every week. 
Barclays didnt tell Mr L about the offer. As Mr L bought additional shares soon after, Im 
satisfied he would have done so through the offer for subscription if hed been notified about 
it. So, I think Mr L has lost out as a result of Barclays actions. Ive therefore decided to 
uphold Mr Ls complaint and ask Barclays to compensate him for his loss. 
Putting things right
Barclays should put Mr L back in the position hed have been in had he bought the same 
number of shares at the price available through the offer for subscription. They should pay 
Mr L the difference between what he paid for the shares and what he could have achieved 
through the offer for subscription. Barclays should also refund Mr L any commission, dealing 
charges or fees paid taking into account any scaling back. And they should add interest of 
8% simple from the date Mr L bought his shares to the date of settlement.
I understand Barclays paid Mr L £100 for loss of expectation when he first made his 
complaint, and later a further £50 for delays in responding to him. Barclays can deduct the 
£100 from the amount they calculate is owning to Mr L based on what Ive said above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.  
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right in the way Ive set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman