DRN-1699086
The complaint 
Mr S has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him two packaged bank 
accounts. The first was called a Silver account and the second a Gold account. He paid 
monthly fees for the accounts and received several potential benefits in return. He thinks that 
Lloyds should refund him the fees he paid for these accounts, plus interest. 
What happened 
Mr S has banked with Lloyds for quite a long time. Lloyds has sent us information from its 
records, which it says shows that:
in February 2008, Mr S opened a fee-free account,
in July 2008, it sold him the Silver account, which replaced his fee-free account and 
for which it charged a fee,
in January 2012, it sold him the Gold account, which replaced his Silver account, and 
for which it charged a higher fee.
I think Lloyds records about this are probably reliable, and I have taken them to be accurate. 
Lloyds has said that Mr S complained about the Gold account too late for us to look into it 
under the rules which determine which cases we can consider.
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Ss complaint. The adjudicator agreed 
with Lloyds that we couldnt consider the part of his complaint about the Gold account, which 
Mr S seems to have accepted. The adjudicator also thought that Lloyds had treated Mr S 
fairly when it sold him the Silver account and didnt recommend that it should give him any 
money back.
Mr S didnt agree with the adjudicators findings about the Silver account and asked for an 
ombudsman to review this part of his complaint. So, it has come to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mr Ss complaint. Ive
looked into everything that Mr S and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the case and
Ive decided not to uphold it. Ive explained why below.
Firstly, I would to confirm that I accept Lloyds position that we cannot look into the part of Mr 
Ss complaint about the Gold account. I have not considered it any further. I have only 
reviewed the way it sold him the Silver account. 
Both Lloyds and Mr S have told us that it advised him to buy the Silver account, probably 
during a meeting at one if its branches. In an advised sale like this, I would have expected 
Lloyds to check that the account was a reasonable match for Mr Ss needs and financial 
situation, tell him clearly about its benefits and costs, and give him a fair choice about 
whether to buy it. 
In July 2008, the main benefits of the Silver account included European travel insurance, use 
of a car breakdown service and insurance for mobile phones. I understand that Mr S 
travelled to Europe from time-to-time and also used a mobile phone. Lloyds has also sent us 
extracts from some of Mr Ss bank statements which show that he made quite regular 
payments at garages, so he may well have had use of a car. So, it seems to me that Mr S 
had a potential need for at least some of the benefits that the Silver account could provide. I 
accept that he may not have needed all of them, but the account came as package which 
Lloyds couldnt easily adjust for individual customers. I think that it was reasonable for Lloyds 
to recommend it to Mr S. 
Mr S has accepted that Lloyds told him about the monthly fees but has told us that it didnt 
tell him about the benefits. Hes said he wasnt provided with any information about the 
benefits. just the monthly account fee. I find this unlikely. Lloyds was trying to sell the 
Silver account to Mr S, and it seems to me that it would have been in its own interest to tell 
him what he could get in return for the monthly fee. Moreover, Lloyds has sent us a copy of 
one of its sales documents for the Silver account which Mr S signed in 2008. The document 
described the mobile phone insurance and travel insurance in outline and Im confident that 
it shows that Lloyds told Mr S about these benefits. It may not have told him everything or 
checked everything thoroughly; but I havent seen anything to show that it left out anything 
that would have been unfair to Mr S. 
Mr S has also told us that Lloyds pressured him into buying the account. However, at the 
time he bought it, he had already held the fee-free account for several months and I think its 
unlikely that Lloyds told him he couldnt or shouldnt keep that account. I accept that Lloyds 
may have talked positively about the Silver account, but this isnt the same as applying 
undue pressure. I think its more likely that Lloyds gave Mr S the choice to keep his fee-free 
account or to buy the Silver account.
In recent correspondence with us, Mr S has told us that he changed accounts so that he 
could use his debit card in shops, and that the reason he needed to change his account to 
the one with monthly account fees (was) to have all of the facilities that he needed. 
However, I understand that his fee-free account gave him a debit card which he could use in 
shops, and I havent seen anything to make me think that Lloyds told him otherwise. And if 
the Silver account offered him other facilities which he thought he needed, this would have 
been a matter for him. It doesnt indicate mis-selling by Lloyds. 
So, in summary, I think that it was reasonable for Lloyds to recommend the Silver account to 
Mr S and Im satisfied that it told him about the costs and benefits of the account and gave 
him a choice. I dont think that Lloyds mis-sold the Silver account to Mr S.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint that Lloyds Bank 
PLC mis-sold the Silver account to him. 
I am not going to tell Lloyds to give Mr S any money back.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.  
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman