DRN-2732340
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Yorkshire Building Society (when it was trading as Chelsea 
Building Society) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
As Yorkshire Building Society is responsible for dealing with this complaint, to keep things 
simpler, from now on Ill just refer to Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) as the business that 
sold this PPI.  
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI taken out alongside a mortgage Mr and Mrs N took out in 
2011.
When Mr and Mrs N complained to YBS it agreed that it had mis-sold PPI to Mrs N. YBS 
made a payment to Mrs N that was in line with what wed expect to see in these 
circumstances. 
So our adjudicator concentrated on looking at Mr Ns mis-sale complaint and in my decision 
Im doing the same. 
Mr N complained that when the PPI was sold to them over the phone Mr and Mrs N were 
given the impression it was compulsory.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
Mr N disagreed. He mainly said that he didnt think our adjudicator had properly understood 
the facts in this case and that 3 significant factors had been overlooked. I've briefly 
summarised these as follows:
Mr N said-
ohe and his wife would not have taken out PPI if theyd been made aware from 
the outset that Mrs N was ineligible for the policy and so its unfair that YBS 
has refunded only her costs  they feel that Mr Ns PPI costs should be 
refunded too.
othe PPI was mis-sold to them by an advisor from Chelsea Building Society 
who inferred that purchasing the product would lead to a favourable mortgage 
rate  and its not fair to expect Mr and Mrs N to be able to prove that now 
and the burden of proof lies with YBS to refute this complaint 
oYBS has been responsible for delay in dealing with their complaint.
Mr and Mrs N have asked for an ombudsman to review the case, so the complaint came to 
me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Im sorry Mr and Mrs N feel our adjudicator didnt fully understand everything theyve said or 
give due weight to what theyve told us they remember about the sale. 
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs N that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive 
independently reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
YBS has confirmed that Mr and Mrs N each had a PPI policy set up in their own names. And 
it looks like they each took out an amount of benefit that effectively covered their half share 
of the mortgage monthly repayment. Thats quite an unusual arrangement  in my 
experience, the parties to a mortgage often just take out a single policy and then share the 
benefits between them in proportion to their respective contributions to the monthly 
repayments. But the fact that Mr and Mrs N were sold a policy each, and YBS upheld 
Mrs Ns mis-sale complaint, arent reasons on their own for me to say that it follows that YBS 
mis-sold the policy Mr N took out. Heres why I say this.
The first thing Ive thought about is whether YBS gave Mr N a choice about taking out the 
PPI. In order to be able to uphold this complaint Id have to find that its likely that Mr N 
wasnt given a fair choice about taking out PPI or that the policy was added to 
Mr and Mrs Ns mortgage account without their knowledge or consent. 
It seems that Mr and Mrs N cant remember precisely what happened and it wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs N to remember exactly what was discussed when they 
took out the policy as this was so long ago. However, where the evidence is inconsistent or 
incomplete as some of it is here I will make my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities  that is what is more likely to have happened taking into account the evidence 
that is available , what the parties have told me and also thinking about what we know about 
these types of sales at that time. This means that what they say isnt enough on its own for 
me to be able to uphold their complaint. 
Ive seen Mr and Mrs Ns completed mortgage application. This mentions that:
You must consider how you would pay your mortgage if you become unemployed, sick or 
had an accident and therefore could not work. The Chelsea offers a flexible Mortgage 
Payment Insurance package to meet your requirements. A member of staff will discuss your 
needs with you.
It goes on to say that its a condition of the mortgage that the property must be adequately 
insured by taking out building insurance. 
But I dont think theres anything in the wording or layout of the mortgage application itself 
that wouldve made Mr and Mrs N think that PPI was required in order to obtain the 
mortgage they wanted.And it looks like Mr and Mrs N had a discussion with an advisor about their financial situation 
shortly after their mortgage application was completed when they discussed their need for 
protection generally  including taking out PPI. I think this might be the phone call Mr and 
Mrs N recall. Theres no recording of this (or any) phone call when YBS discussed PPI with 
Mr and Mrs N. And YBS cant supply a call script to show how its advisors were instructed to 
explain and present PPI. But thats not surprising after so long. And it doesnt make any 
overall difference to the outcome of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy of the letter sent to Mr and Mrs N by the advisor setting out her 
recommendations  the Statement of Demands and Needs. This includes 
recommendations that Mr and Mrs N each take out PPI with a benefit amount of £400. It also 
says that only building insurance is compulsory. 
The letter also records that Mr and Mrs N accepted the advisors recommendations. 
I've also seen some of the other mortgage paperwork including a Statement of Fact which 
sets out details of the cover Mr N selected and the insurers policy summary set out in a Key 
Facts document. Its not clear to me exactly when these documents were sent to 
Mr and Mrs N. But theres nothing mentioned on any of these that wouldve given 
Mr and Mrs N any reason to think that having PPI wasnt optional.  
Mr N and Mrs Ns mortgage was a major financial commitment, and their home couldve 
been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept up to date. PPI offered them useful 
benefits and I can see why they mightve felt it was useful to have. 
Looked at overall, although I dont know exactly what was said to Mr and Mrs N about having 
PPI, the paperwork I've seen makes me think that, on balance, YBS did enough to make 
Mr N and Mrs N aware that they had a choice about protecting their repayments. And I think 
its likely that PPI was added to their account when Mr N and Mrs N decided they wanted the 
benefits PPI offered and they chose to buy it. Although I can completely understand why 
they mightve forgotten this after so long. 
As YBS recommended the PPI to Mr N it had to check that the policy was suitable for him. 
Mr N told us he was able to rely on getting up to 3 months sick pay from his employer. 
But the policy couldve paid out for significantly longer - up to 12 months per accident and 
sickness claim. So the PPI provided better protection than Mr N couldve relied on getting 
through his employer. 
And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Mr N with a useful benefit at a difficult 
time  especially bearing in mind that he mightve had some extra costs as a result of being 
sick or disabled. 
PPI couldve also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mr N lost his job and 
became unexpectedly unemployed and he met the requirements to claim.
I've taken into account that Mr N also told us he had a redundancy payment from his former 
employment that he couldve used to help pay his mortgage. I dont have any more details 
about this. But if Mr and Mrs N decided to borrow the money they needed to pay for their 
new home, rather than use any lump sum they already had available to keep down the cost 
of their borrowing, this suggests to me that it was important to them to keep their lump sum intact. Having PPI meant Mr N could protect this lump sum and keep it to spend on other 
things or to provide financial security for the future. 
And although Mr N also mentioned that he would rely on increasing overdraft limits or using 
credit cards to cover the mortgage monthly repayments if he couldnt work, I cant fairly say 
that these were guaranteed ways to pay the mortgage. The purpose of PPI was to provide 
dependable protection for the mortgage in the event of unplanned and unforeseeable events 
 and to give Mr and Mrs N the security and peace of mind that theyd be able to do this 
without needing to incur more debt.
Thinking about all the information I've seen and been told, I think PPI was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr N.  
Its possible some information YBS gave Mr N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. There were some things the policy didnt cover  but it doesnt look like that applied to 
Mr N. So I dont think having more information about the policy exclusions and limitations 
wouldve made any difference to his decision to take out the cover as hed still have had the 
other benefits the policy offered.   
It appears that YBS sent Mr N and Mrs N an illustration showing the cost of the cover and 
the benefit selected. So I think Mr N and Mrs N wouldve known how much they would need 
to pay for the PPI each month and they found this acceptable. Its a monthly premium policy 
so they couldve cancelled this at any time without extra cost if their circumstances changed 
or they decided they no longer wanted the cover. 
Given their circumstances, even if YBS didnt provide Mr N and Mrs N with all the 
information it shouldve done, I think it unlikely that having clearer information wouldve put 
Mr N and Mrs N off taking out the policy for Mr N. On balance, I think Mr N would still have 
taken out the policy when he did.
I've thought carefully about Mr Ns point that he wouldnt have taken out this cover if hed 
known at the start that the policy Mrs N took out was mis-sold to her. But I dont think I've 
seen enough overall to make me think thats likely.
Ive seen information that shows Mr and Mrs N had a need for the policy. And the fact that 
they both chose to take out the cover, knowing that it was up to them to say if they wanted it, 
makes me think its more likely that Mr N wouldve still taken out his policy.  
Its possible that Mr N mightve decided to buy sufficient cover to protect the whole mortgage 
monthly repayment, not just his half share. But if hed done that, the policy wouldve cost him 
more money than he paid for the PPI he took out. The policy he paid for offered Mr N all the 
PPI benefits he signed up for when he took the policy out. And YBS has already refunded 
Mrs N in respect of the policy it sold her. So it doesnt look to me like Mr N or Mrs N have 
lost out in money terms as a result of anything YBS did wrong when it sold PPI to 
Mr and Mrs N. 
The policy was still running when Mr N  first complained and I see that YBS has already 
reminded him that he can cancel the cover anytime he wants to. 
I dont know if the policy is still live. But Id remind Mr N that he and Mrs N might want to take 
this opportunity to review their PPI cover to ensure it offers them the protection thats right for 
them in their present circumstances. 
Ive taken into account what Mr N has told us about what happened when he tried to claim 
under the policy. But I am just dealing here with his mis-selling complaint, so this information doesnt change my decision. If Mr N wants to complain separately about a failed claim then 
in the first instance he will need to raise his concerns with YBS and/or the insurer. 
And, to be clear I am just dealing with the mis-sale aspect of this case not about any 
complaints Mr and Mrs N had about the service they received after theyd complained.
I appreciate that what I've said will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs N, But I hope that setting 
things out as I've done helps explain how I've reached my conclusions. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Neither party made any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold 
this complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman