DRN-2025000
 
The complaint
Mr H complained about an instalment loan he took out with Western Circle Ltd (trading as 
Cashfloat) and said this was unaffordable for him. 
What happened
Mr H took out a Cashfloat loan for £400 in June 2019 which he was due to repay in 
three instalments of around £210. The loan hasnt yet been paid.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr H and Cashfloat told us about this loan. 
Overall, taking into account the loan amount, what was apparent about Mr Hs 
circumstances at the time and his history with the lender, our adjudicator didn't think it 
wouldve been proportionate for Cashfloat to ask Mr H for the amount of information needed 
to show the lending was unsustainable. 
And our adjudicator didnt think that there was anything in the information Mr H provided or 
the information Cashfloat shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been 
proportionate to start verifying what Mr H had told Cashfloat. 
So our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint.  
Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. He mainly said that 
£400 was a lot of money and as he had no prior history with the lender a credit check 
shouldve been standard.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Cashfloat provided Mr H with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use so it needed to 
make sure that it didnt provide the loan irresponsibly. 
In practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr H could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Hs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint. 
Before lending to Mr H, Cashfloat asked him for information about his financial situation, 
such as his monthly income and his outgoings. It also asked about any other credit 
commitments and it carried out a credit check  which it has sent me. 
Cashfloat says it agreed to Mr Hs application after carrying out all the proper checks. And it 
relied on information Mr H provided about his monthly income and expenditure as well as 
information obtained from a credit reference agency. 
Cashfloat says the information it recorded for Mr H showed that hed be able to comfortably 
make the loan repayments. And in these circumstances, it was reasonable to lend. 
This was Mr Hs first loan with Cashfloat. So I think Cashfloat was reasonably entitled to rely 
on information Mr H provided. Looking at the monthly loan repayment amounts and the loan 
term, and taking into account the information it seems Mr H told Cashfloat about his monthly 
income and what he was paying out, this repayment amount looked comfortably affordable 
for Mr H. And I havent seen anything in the information that Cashfloat gathered about Mr H, 
including whats shown in the credit checks that Cashfloat carried out, that makes me think it 
shouldve realised that Mr H was going to find it difficult to afford to pay this loan in a 
sustainable way.  
Im sorry that Mr H had a problem with debt and that making the loan repayments hed 
signed up to was difficult for him. I accept that in reality Mr Hs actual circumstances possibly 
werent fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the other information Cashfloat 
obtained. 
But its reasonable to expect that Cashfloat couldve only decided Mr Hs lending application 
based on the information it had available at the time. And, at this stage of the lending 
relationship, I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Cashfloat to ask Mr H to 
prove what he was declaring or check other information sources to verify what he had told 
them (or omitted to say) about his financial circumstances. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Cashfloat to lend without making any more detailed 
enquiries into his circumstances as there wasnt anything obvious, in the information it had, 
to suggest Mr H wouldnt be able sustainably to repay the loan.
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything that Mr H has said, including 
the comments made in response to our adjudicators view. I accept that the loan was for a 
significant amount. I think when the adjudicator referred to the loan amount he was thinking 
about this in relation to Mr Hs overall financial situation  which suggested a loan this size 
looked like it was affordable for Mr H based on what Cashfloat knew about his 
circumstances.
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
Id just take this opportunity to remind Cashfloat (or any third party) that it should discuss 
payment options with Mr H and treat him fairly and sympathetically.
If Mr H needs further time to pay what he owes Cashfloat and/or he would like help to sort 
out an agreed payment schedule or advice on how to manage his finances theres more 
information about how to get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide him with 
useful contact details if he gives us a call. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman