DRN-3265870
The complaint
Mr T had a car insurance policy with esure Insurance Limited (esure). Mr Ts son was also
included on the policy as a named driver. On 30 October 2020 Mr Ts son says that the
insured car was stolen from outside his place of work. However, esure has declined to pay
Mr Ts claim and instead voided the policy. Mr T and Mr Ts son complain that this is unfair
and esure should pay the claim.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 5 November 2021. I have repeated the content below:
Mr T is represented by his son. Mr Ts son says that an incident occurred whilst he was at
work which led to the car in question being stolen. Mr T made a claim to esure for the lost
value of the car.
After considering Mr Ts claim, esure explained to Mr T that it was voiding his policy from 27
May 2020 when he last changed vehicle. It said that it would not pay the claim because it
had discovered that Mr Ts son was the registered keeper of the vehicle. It said it would
refund the policy premium less an administration fee.
Mr T complained that this was unfair. He said that the fact that he was named as the owner
of the car was an oversight cause by the earlier renewal of the policy. Mr Ts son said he had
obtained quotes from esure based on his ownership of the car which showed that it would
have offered insurance if he had been the registered owner. He said this would have cost
the same or less than the policy Mr T had. So it was unfair to void the policy.
Esure considered Mr Ts complaint but did not uphold it. It said that when the policy was
taken out Mr T was said to be the owner of the car. However Mr Ts son was actually the
owner and esure said that if it had known this then it wouldnt have offered cover. Therefore
it thought its decision to void the policy from outset was correct.
Mr T referred his complaint to this service and it was considered by an investigator.
The investigator thought initially that esure had acted appropriately in declining the claim.
However Mr Ts son subsequently provided information which persuaded the investigator
that Mr T hadnt deliberately or recklessly given esure incorrect information about the
ownership of the car. She thought that esure would have insured Mr Ts son and that it
should reassess the claim.
esure didnt agree. It said that the address it had been given as to where the car was kept
was most likely incorrect. It said this as Mr Ts son had said the car had been stolen from his
place of work  which was in London. The car was said to be kept at an address (Mr Ts
address) in Glasgow. So most probably the car was actually kept in London  rather than
Glasgow  a factor taken into account when insurance is provided.
It also said that there were some differences between the details provided to esure by Mr Ts
son when he obtained his recent quotes and the details relevant to the actual car insured
previously. This meant that the insurance would have been significantly more expensive with
Mr Ts son as the registered keeper of the vehicle.
The investigator was persuaded to change her view of the complaint. She thought there was
a benefit to be gained in taking out the insurance with Mr T as the registered keeper and
owner of the car. She felt that esures decision to void the policy on the basis that it had
been provided with incorrect information about the owner of the car was reasonable.
Mr Ts son did not agree. He provided new quotes which showed that he would have been
able to obtain cover in his own name on the car. He reiterated that the reason the insurance
for the car was in his fathers name was because of a previous change of car. The previous
car was owned by his father and when it came to change the car, they simply changed the
car on the policy but not the registered keeper. This was an oversight and not a deliberate
intention to provide incorrect details to save money.
As the complaint has not been resolved it has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ts son has not disputed that he owned the car in question, or it was registered to him.
And I note that in correspondence with esure, Mr Ts son confirmed he was the registered
keeper of the car.
However he says that the fact that his father, Mr T, was noted as the registered keeper and
owner (and main policyholder) was an oversight. He says that the car insured with esure
(which I will call car A) immediately before the car that was stolen (which I will call car M),
was registered to, and owned by, his father. Mr Ts son says that when he purchased car M,
they simply contacted esure to change the car on the policy. As it was simply a change of
car and the insured drivers were the same (Mr T and his son) then they did not think to
inform esure that the registered keeper was different, or it was actually Mr Ts son that
owned the car.
I would note for completeness that the esure certificate of motor insurance records Mr T as
the policyholder and his son as a named driver who can drive the car.
And I also note that esure obtained details of the V5 DVLA vehicle registration document for
car M. This recorded that Mr Ts son was the registered keeper of the vehicle from June
2020. It is for this reason that esure voided the policy and declined to pay the insurance
claim. It has said that it would have declined the application for car M if it had known of the
true situation.
Where a policyholder makes a mistake or doesn't answer an insurers questions accurately
in the policy application process, that inaccuracy is known as a misrepresentation. And
theres specific law - the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012
(CIDRA) - which sets out what insurers may do when a consumers made a
misrepresentation. CIDRA says that a consumer must take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation. So I've first thought about whether Mr T made a misrepresentation. I
think he made a misrepresentation because when he asked for car M to be insured he had a
duty to notify esure of any relevant changes or factors he would be aware of that might affect
the policy. A significant change was that, unlike car A, he would not be the owner or
registered keeper of the car.
I would note at this point that esure say that when it spoke with Mr T about changing the
insured car from car A to car M, he was asked if he was the owner and he said he would be.In order for an insurer to have a remedy under CIDRA it needs to be able to show that, but
for the misrepresentation, it wouldnt have entered into the contract (the policy) or would only
have done so on different terms. In those circumstances CIDRA refers to the
misrepresentation as a qualifying misrepresentation. I believe that Mr T made a qualifying
misrepresentation.
In those circumstances, esure could apply the remedies CIDRA offered to it. Those
remedies depend upon whether the misrepresentation was either: careless; or deliberate or
reckless.
We have asked Mr Ts son to provide evidence that car A was registered and owned by Mr
T. Mr Ts son has provided a finance agreement for a loan to purchase car A. This records
Mr T as the person obtaining the loan for the car. A part of the V5 registration document for
car A has also been supplied but this does not contain any detail about the ownership of car
A.
Mr Ts son has also provided a DVLA record dated 5 October 2020, addressed to Mr T, that
confirms Mr T is no longer the registered keeper of car A.
Furthermore, Mr Ts son has provided confirmation from DVLA that the registered keeper of
car A from 9 February 2011 to 5 October 2020, was Mr T.
It is clear therefore that the registered keeper and owner of car A was Mr T.
We have also asked Mr Ts son why car M was registered to an address in Scotland but his
place of work (where car M was stolen) is in the south east of England. Mr Ts son has said
he was initially working in Scotland but had the opportunity of investing in a business in
London  where his partner in that business works. He says he invested in the business in
August 2019 but did not move to London. He travels occasionally to London because of that
business but lived in Scotland  his partner managed the business. When he visits London
he either stays with friends or stays at a hotel. Now that the business is more developed he
plans to move to London permanently. He jointly owns the property in Scotland with his
father. Mr Ts son provided evidence of hotel stays in December 2019, July 2020, October
2020, November 2020 and July 2021.
Given the evidence I believe it is more likely that Mr Ts son is correct and the car was not
kept in London but used for travel there.
In my view Mr T (and Mr Ts son) would have known that Mr T didnt own car M and was not
the registered keeper of it. Furthermore Mr T was named as the main driver on the policy
which I believe is unlikely given that Mr Ts son purchased the car, was the registered
keeper and appears to be using the car to travel to the south east of England. Therefore
when Mr T changed the car esure insured in 2020, he should have told it of these matters.
Having said that, bearing in mind that Mr T was the keeper and owner of car A, it is entirely
plausible that, given those insured were to remain the same, Mr T (and Mr Ts son) would
have simply changed the car to be insured on the policy, not giving thought to the fact that
they should inform esure of the change of ownership. As I have said, I believe that is a
misrepresentation but I think it is a careless one, not deliberate or reckless.
Whilst esure have said that, if they had been given correct information, they would have
declined to insure Mr T and his son, I dont believe that is likely or what the evidence shows.
Although probably more expensive, Mr Ts son has provided evidence that esure would have
insured him if he had been the owner/keeper of car M.
esure seem to have arrived at its decision based on a retrospective assessment  that this
was a case of fronting (essentially where an application is made knowingly on the basis thatone individual is the main driver/keeper but in actual fact it is another individual that is the
main driver/keeper). Firstly, as discussed, I dont believe that is evidenced here (I believe it
is more likely an oversight), and secondly I do not believe that is the correct approach. The
approach that should be taken is what terms would have been offered if esure had received
the correct information, not on the basis that there was fronting  esure wouldnt have been
aware of that at the point of application (or more accurately policy alteration). In any event, I
do not believe that it has been demonstrated that fronting was taking place.
Bearing this in mind I currently intend to uphold Mr Ts complaint insofar as esure would
have insured him had it been given the correct information. I therefore believe a
proportionate remedy is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, on the basis that esure
has indicated in would have charged a higher premium if informed of the correct details.
It might help if I explain that theres specific law - the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) - which sets out what insurers may do when a
consumers made a misrepresentation. And that says that where, but for that
misrepresentation, an insurer would have offered the policy, but charged a higher premium,
then the insurer may settle any claim on a proportionate basis. By that I mean it can work out
what percentage of the correct premium the policyholder had actually paid compared to what
they should have paid and limit its settlement of any claim to that percentage (as set against
the overall settlement figure).
In this case esure has indicated that if Mr T/Mr Ts son had given it the correct information
then it would have charged them considerably more for the premium. So esure should
calculate the correct premium it would have charged had it been given correct information. It
should then calculate what percentage of that premium it was actually being paid. It can then
apply this percentage to the correct claim value due to the theft of car M.
My decision assumes that there would otherwise have been a valid claim under the policy.
Mr T and Mr Ts son would need to provide any details esure reasonably require to carry out
the calculation and/or assess the claim.
esure did not accept the provisional decision. In summary it said:
The decision condones insurance fronting.
Mr T (I assume here esure is referring to Mr Ts son) did not approach it for an 
insurance quote and instead, engaged in deception by his father saying he was the 
owner.
It is telling that Mr Ts son only obtained a quote after the policy was declared void. 
Mr T (I assume esure is referring here to Mr T and not his son) was asked a clear 
question and answered it clearly (I assume esure refers to Mr T being asked who the 
registered keeper of car M was when the car being insured was changed from car A 
to car M).
It is not a case of applying a proportionate remedy under CIDRA. The only way for 
the situation to be avoided would have been for Mr Ts son to obtain a new policy 
himself  the old policy being cancelled. It cannot see that a reasonable remedy 
would be to set up a new policy, backdate this five months and backdate the 
cancellation of the policy five months. If Mr T had told it he didnt own the car it would 
have refused cover. 
It remains unpersuaded that Mr Ts son lived in Glasgow but commuted to London. It notes that Mr Ts son was able to go home to get a spare key for the car.
The policy was littered with misrepresentations  the ownership of the car, a 
conviction not declared, and Mr Ts son being listed on the policy as a student and 
hotel worker when he was running a business in London. These are deliberate 
misrepresentations.
A proportionate remedy is not possible as it could not have offered a premium based 
on Mr T being the policyholder and Mr Ts son being the owner and keeper as its 
system does not allow it. It is not possible to backdate the policy or cancellation 
either.  
I reviewed the complaint and issued a further provisional decision dated 16 December 2021. 
The content was as follows:
Esure has said that my previous provisional decision would appear to condone fronting. I 
would confirm that my decision did not. As I said in the provisional decision, I did not believe 
it was demonstrated that this was a case of fronting  it was not demonstrated that Mr T 
knowingly made representations in order to obtain a specific benefit. 
For essentially the same reason I disagree with esures premise that Mr T or his son 
necessarily engaged in deception. I said the evidence did not demonstrate that. 
It is unclear what esure is seeking to suggest when it says that it is telling that Mr Ts son 
only obtained a quote after the policy was declared void. But I dont think that unusual. If it 
was the case that the application being made on the basis of the car being registered to Mr 
T, rather than his son, was an oversight and Mr Ts son or Mr T thought the car was correctly 
insured prior to esures refusal to pay the claim, it would only be on esures refusal and it 
highlighting the basis of the insurance that Mr Ts son would seek to obtain a quote. There 
would be no reason to do so prior to that, especially if Mr T and his son thought the car 
correctly insured. 
Mr Ts son did not say that he commuted to London every day. He said that he went to 
London occasionally to check on the business that he had an interest in. The evidence he 
has provided in terms of hotel stays would support that. 
I did set out in my previous provisional decision that, in a case of careless misrepresentation, 
esure should apply a remedy under CIDRA appropriate to that. That was to pay a claim on a 
proportionate basis.
However esure has pointed out that this would not be a remedy under CIDRA because it 
would not have been able to offer cover (essentially change the policy Mr T and his son had) 
on the basis that Mr Ts son was the registered keeper and owner of the car.  
I accept esures submissions that it would have essentially had to provide a new policy if Mr 
Ts son was the owner and registered keeper of the car. If the correct circumstances had 
been disclosed to esure when car M was to be insured, esure would not have been able to 
insure car M because under the policy they had, Mr T was the main driver, owner and 
registered keeper of the car. None of those facts were correct in respect of car M. It would 
not have been able to offer cover with Mr T as the main policyholder, owner and registered 
keeper  essentially the policy in existence would not have continued and would have 
become void. So a proportionate remedy under CIDRA (the applicable insurance law) is not available. In 
fact, as esure could not have supplied or changed the basis of the current insurance on the 
basis that Mr Ts son was the owner, registered keeper and main driver, the correct remedy 
under CIDRA is for the policy to be voided  here from the point the policy was altered to 
cover car M. 
I appreciate that Mr Ts son may say that he would have applied for a new policy on the 
basis that he was the registered keeper and owner. However that would have been a 
different, new policy and there is no certainty that this would have been obtained with esure. 
It should be remembered that this was not a situation of esures making  it is not liable for 
car M being uninsured  that has arisen because of the incorrect details given by Mr T to 
esure. In any event, granting Mr T or his son an award on the basis that another policy would 
have been taken out is not the applicable redress under CIDRA. 
I am sorry for the disappointment this will cause but I do not believe, on review and taking 
into account esures submission, I can now uphold the complaint and award redress based 
on a proportionate remedy. 
What I do believe esure should pay, however, is a refund of whatever premiums Mr T or his 
son paid after the car was changed on the policy to car M. That is with the addition of 8% 
simple interest on those premiums from the date they were paid to the date they are 
refunded. I do not believe the misrepresentations have been demonstrated to be deliberate 
or reckless so a refund should be paid.
I upheld the complaint but only on the basis that esure should refund the premiums as set
out above. 
I have not received any further submissions from esure.
Mr Ts son queried whether a claim would now be paid (it was confirmed it would not be) but 
made no further submissions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bearing in mind and that I have not received any further submissions since I issued my 
provisional decision of 16 December 2021, having reviewed the complaint, I would confirm 
that my findings remain as set out in that decision. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint but only on the basis that esure should refund the premiums paid - as 
set out in my provisional decision of 16 December 2021. I make no other award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2022. 
David Bird
Ombudsman