DRN-4303921
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the way Fairmead Insurance Limited has dealt with a claim 
they made under their home insurance policy.
Mr B has primarily dealt with the claim, so for ease of reading Ill refer to him only.
Reference to Fairmead includes its appointed agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr Bs property is on a steep slope. A new home was going to be built on the 
neighbouring plot of land, downslope. To facilitate that, groundwork began, including 
excavating into the slope below Mr Bs property.
Around the same time, there was an escape of water from a pipe at the top of the 
slope which caused water to leak downslope and under Mr Bs property.
There followed ground movement which caused damage to Mr Bs home. He got in 
touch with Fairmead in August 2021.
Fairmead appointed a loss adjuster who inspected the damage soon after. They took 
expert advice, as did Mr B. The loss adjuster noted a number of policy exclusions 
that may apply. They also noted the neighbouring plot of land was owned by a 
company, H. Mr and Mrs B are directors of H. I understand the neighbouring plot 
doesnt have buildings insurance. But even if it does, its not insured by Fairmead. 
Because of these factors, Fairmead said it needed to consider the position.
By June 2022, Fairmead hadnt given a claim outcome and Mr B complained. He 
said hed spent a lot of money taking expert advice, the house was deteriorating and, 
noting repairs were likely to be very expensive, he was concerned about whether 
Fairmead would cover the claim. He was also unhappy with how long things were 
taking and said there had been a lack of communication by Fairmead.
Fairmead said this was a particularly complicated case, which meant a large amount 
of investigation was required. But it agreed there had been some unnecessary delays 
and a lack of proactive communication at times. It offered Mr B £100 compensation. 
It also confirmed it had accepted the claim and was preparing a schedule of work. 
Lastly, it agreed to review the costs Mr B had incurred taking expert advice.
By January 2023, Fairmead said the schedule of work had been prepared. It included 
superstructure repair only. Mr B was concerned this wouldnt properly address the 
problem and referred his complaint to this Service. He thought the house needed to 
be stabilised. Fairmead said it hadnt ruled out the possibility of stabilisation, although 
it thought this needed further expert discussion. It accepted there was a delay 
reaching this stage and offered to increase the compensation to £200.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. Because Fairmead had 
accepted the claim for crack damage was covered by the policy, he said it should 
carry out a lasting and effective repair. That might involve underpinning, as Mr B has 
suggested, or it might not, as Fairmead has suggested. But as a discussion about 
how to carry out a lasting and effective repair was ongoing, he didnt think it was 
appropriate at this stage to make a finding about how to carry out the repair.
Our investigator also said there had been avoidable delays, distress and 
inconvenience and asked Fairmead to pay a total of £750 compensation. And he 
asked Fairmead to assess the costs Mr B had faced for expert reports, pay for any 
that were integral to, or made a difference to, the claim, plus interest.
Fairmead didnt agree with our investigator. It said underpinning the property wouldnt 
stabilise it because it wouldnt prevent slope movement. It set out several options to 
stabilise the slope, but it said all of them would have to been carried out on the 
neighbouring plot of land  which isnt insured by Fairmead.
In May 2023, a meeting between various experts was held at the property. Fairmead 
said it was agreed between all parties that the slope required some form of support. It 
maintained Mr Bs property didnt need to be underpinned on the strength of the 
current evidence  but it agreed to pay for further investigations into the ground 
beneath the property and consider the matter further. Mr B said his appointed experts 
maintained the property needed underpinning, regardless of any slope stabilisation. 
But he agreed to Fairmead proceeding with the investigations.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ordinarily the scope of a complaint would be up to and including the latest final 
response from the insurer. Here, that was in August 2022. At this time, Fairmead had 
accepted the claim, but it hadnt set out how it intended to settle it. For example, 
whether it would repair the superstructure of the building only or whether it would 
also carry out some form of stabilisation work, to the building and/or the slope.
Since then, there have been further discussions between the experts about the most 
appropriate way to put the damage right  but an agreement hasnt been reached. 
More recently, Fairmead has made an offer to carry out further investigations to help 
decide what the most appropriate way would be. I think thats relevant to the outcome 
of the complaint, so Ill expand the scope to include everything thats happened up to 
and including that offer in June 2023.
The main point of dispute is what kind of work Fairmead should carry out to put the 
damage right. The other points in dispute are the reimbursement of invoices Mr B 
has paid for expert advice and the way Fairmead handled the claim, including the 
timescale and communication. Ill consider each point in turn.
How should Fairmead put the damage right?The policy says we will pay the rebuilding cost up to the sum insured shown on 
your schedule to restore, repair or rebuild your home following damage to the 
buildings. Words in bold are defined in the policy but thats not relevant here.
In summary, this says Fairmead will settle the claim by paying to carry out the work 
required to put the damage right. Its a longstanding fair and reasonable principle that 
an insurer should ensure the settlement provides a lasting and effective solution. 
That means properly putting right the damage for a reasonable amount of time.
I understand Fairmead accepts that principle. The question is how to fulfil it in this 
case. In summary, should the building be underpinned and/or the slope stabilised 
before superstructure repairs are carried out? There are secondary questions about 
the most appropriate method of each, if they were to go ahead. As I understand it, 
the relevant part of the slope is on the neighbouring plot of land. Fairmead doesnt 
insure that land, and thats complicated the matter further.
In brief, the position reached by each party is as follows:
oFairmead considers the cause of the damage is the excavation downslope, 
rather than the water leak from above. It says if the slope is stabilised, the 
building will stabilise as a result. So underpinning wont be necessary and 
superstructure repairs alone can be carried out.
oMr B considers the cause of the damage was the water leak weakening and 
destabilising the ground beneath the building. He thinks the building needs to 
be underpinned to stabilise it. The slope may also need supporting, but that 
alone wont be sufficient to stabilise the building.
Both parties have taken advice from a number of suitably qualified and experienced 
experts, including chartered structural engineers and geotechnical consultants. Many 
of the experts have met each other at the building and discussed the matter in depth. 
But they havent been able to agree how to put the damage right.
Fairmeads recent offer is to arrange and pay for significant investigations into the 
ground beneath the property and use the evidence collected to decide how to put the 
damage right. Im satisfied this is a reasonable and pragmatic way to progress the 
claim. Ill explain why.
Theres a lot at stake for both parties. Mr B understandably fears for the stability of 
his home. Hes concerned it may collapse if damage continues and the structure isnt 
strong enough to resist any further movement. And for Fairmead, the claim could 
potentially be considerably expensive. So I think its important the decision on how to 
put the damage right is taken with the benefit of relevant and reliable evidence. Given 
theres a disagreement between the experts, I think more evidence is the most 
appropriate way to break that deadlock and move the claim forwards meaningfully.
The investigations should be carried out promptly. I understand the investigations are 
to be carried out over a period of six months, following which a report, including the 
results, will be prepared. That should be shared with Mr B. I expect Fairmead to 
review the report and let Mr B know how it intends to put the damage right. It should 
bear in mind the principle noted above about providing a lasting and effective repair.
InvoicesIn its August 2022 final response, Fairmead agreed to consider the invoices Mr B had 
paid for expert advice. However, it doesnt seem to have done that until being 
prompted by our investigator recently.
Mr B has submitted nine invoices, totalling around £30,000, and they have been 
shared with Fairmead. It accepted that many of them were for work that Fairmead 
would have paid for, had Mr B not done so himself, and indicated it would pay these 
invoices  although it didnt specify which they were. Nor did it set out why it wouldnt 
pay the remaining invoices. It suggested it may be pragmatic to pay them all.
Our investigator recommended Fairmead pay all the invoices unless it could present 
a compelling reason for not doing so. Fairmead didnt provide any meaningful further 
comment on this point.
Fairmead has had plenty of time since August 2022 to gather the invoices, consider 
each one and agree to pay it or look into what the invoice was for in more detail by 
speaking with Mr B and/or the expert involved. And if it didnt agree to pay one, it 
could have explained why. Despite being prompted by our investigator, it hasnt 
taken any of these steps. Since Fairmead has indicated it agreed to pay most, if not 
all, of the invoices, and it hasnt raised any specific objection to paying any of them, 
Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for Fairmead to pay all of them.
Whilst some of the invoices are relatively recent, others are up to 18 months old. As 
Fairmead hasnt engaged with the invoices, Mr B has been left out of pocket by a 
significant amount of money, in some cases for a very long time. To put that right, 
Fairmead should pay interest on each invoice, from the date Mr B paid each one to 
the date Fairmead reimburses them.
I understand Mr B may have more invoices to submit. If he does submit any, 
Fairmead should consider them promptly. It should either pay them or explain why it 
wont to Mr B  and again, it should do this promptly.
Claim handling
Initially, Fairmead appointed a loss adjuster, who visited and reported back promptly. 
By October 2021, it was aware of the expert opinions on the cause of the damage 
and the relevant policy considerations.
Fairmead accepted the claim in June 2022, although it only seems to have told Mr B 
that when it responded to his complaint in August 2022.
I recognise the claim is high value and there were a number of points to consider 
before accepting it. But Im not persuaded that meant it was reasonable for Fairmead 
to take around eight months to accept the claim. I think two would have been 
reasonable, so theres an avoidable delay of around six months.
Fairmead has accepted there were further delays in late 2022 and early 2023.
Since then, there have been numerous discussions and disagreements between the 
experts about how to put the damage right. Its a complex matter with significant 
implications for both parties. Although I know the lack of tangible progress with 
putting the damage right is causing Mr B considerable distress, I think its inevitable 
the claim would take some time during this stage. However, Fairmead has often been 
slow to follow up actions with Mr B, particularly following the meeting in May. It would have been frustrating for Mr B to think some points of agreement had been reached 
and a way forward agreed, only to have wait many weeks for an update.
If Fairmead had been in regular contact with Mr B throughout the claim and managed 
his expectations about what was happening and how long it was likely to take, he 
would have been aware of the position. I think that would have reduced the avoidable 
distress hes suffered during the claim.
Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied a total of £750 compensation is 
reasonable in the circumstances. If Fairmead has paid the £100 and/or £200 it 
previously offered Mr B, that can be deducted from the total.
Responses to my provisional decision
Fairmead hasnt responded to my provisional decision. I understand that to mean it doesnt 
wish to challenge or comment further on any of the points made.
Mr B said he agreed in principle with my provisional decision but had some queries. Ill 
summarise them:
Who will determine what a lasting and effective repair is?
Can this case be left open whilst the investigations are carried out and a decision be 
made by this Service after that?
The damage to the house continues to worsen. Its causing, amongst other things, 
problems fully shutting external doors. Mr B is concerned its becoming uninhabitable 
and impractical to live in. Can Fairmead carry out temporary repairs?
The investigations have begun and he thinks they show the movement is more 
sideways than downward, which means the problem was more likely caused by the 
water leak than the building work.
More information has become available about the extent of the water leak, which 
again he thinks indicates it was more likely to be the cause.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties are broadly agreed that my provisional findings are a fair way to break the 
current deadlock and progress the claim. Indeed, the investigations are already underway.
At this stage, I think its too early to draw conclusions about what the investigations may 
show. In my view, its best to let the investigations continue to their conclusion and for the 
experts to reach informed opinions with the full investigation results available.
I dont think it will be practical or helpful to keep this case open whilst investigations are 
ongoing. Once theyre complete, Fairmead should tell Mr B how it intends to put the damage 
right. If both parties agree, the claim can proceed and there will be no need for this Service 
to be involved. The parties will have decided between them, based on expert advice, what a 
lasting and effective repair is.If an agreement isnt reached, Mr B will be entitled to raise a new complaint about 
Fairmeads decision and refer it to this Service if he wishes. So he wont lose that 
opportunity because this case has already been resolved. By that stage, its likely the 
investigations will have been exhausted, all expert opinions gathered, and so this Service 
can determine what a lasting and effective repair is, if need be.
Both parties are agreed that paying the invoices, plus interest, and compensation, fairly 
resolves the other complaint points. So I wont comment further on those points.
Its clear Mr B is concerned about the level of damage at his home. Videos hes shared 
highlight the difficulties he and his family are facing. I would expect Fairmead to consider this 
and take the appropriate steps. Initially that means inspecting the problems Mr B has raised 
and deciding whether temporary repairs can be carried out to keep the home habitable.
The policy covers the cost of comparable alternative accommodation if Mr Bs home 
cannot be lived in following damage covered by the policy. So if temporary repairs cant 
keep the home habitable, Fairmead should consider alternative accommodation.
I dont think its appropriate for me to make a finding about that at this stage as Fairmead will 
need to consider the damage and the impact its having on Mr B and his family before 
deciding what steps to take. But it should do this promptly.
Overall, I remain satisfied that my provisional findings are fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
Carry out and pay for the investigations.
Pay each of the nine invoices.
Pay interest on each invoice, at 8% simple per year, from the date Mr B paid each 
invoice to the date of settlement*.
Pay a total of £750 compensation**.
*If Fairmead considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
**Fairmead must pay the award within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr B accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the award from the 
deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman