DRN-3564525
The complaint
Mr M complained because Metro Bank PLC closed his accounts.
What happened
On 30 April 2021, Metro wrote to Mr M. It said that following a review of his accounts, it was 
unable to continue as his bankers. It said it was therefore writing to give him formal notice 
that in 60 days time, on 1 July, his accounts would be closed. The letter told Mr M to make 
alternative arrangements, and said it wouldnt be offering him any new banking services.
On 2 July, Mr M tried to use his Metro card and it was declined. He went into a branch, 
where Metro staff told him about the April letter. Mr M said he hadnt received this, and the 
branch printed off a copy for him. Mr M said this should have been sent by recorded delivery, 
not normal mail. He was unhappy because the letter didnt give a reason for the closure. He 
complained.
In Metros final response, it said that it had had an alert that another bank had uploaded a 
record about Mr M on an anti-fraud database. It investigated the alert, and decided to stop 
providing him with banking facilities. Metro said it had written to him on 30 April at his 
registered address, and having reviewed the decision, it had been the correct decision in line 
with its policies.
Mr M wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said Metro had made no effort to 
contact him about his concerns, and had judged him to be guilty without offering him the 
opportunity to prove his innocence. He wanted an apology, and compensation for the trouble 
and upset hed suffered when hed been without any banking facilities between 1 July and 12 
August 2021. 
He said being without banking facilities for this period had meant:
- hed had to arrange for his salary to be paid temporarily into his mothers account, 
causing doubt on his credibility;
- hed then had to arrange for his mother to pay his direct debits, and to go to the bank 
at lunchtime to withdraw cash for him;
- as he didnt have a debit card, hed had to carry large amounts of cash, which made 
him feel vulnerable, so hed refused some social invitations;
- his car payment company had said his mother could make one payment on his 
behalf but no more, so hed been afraid his car would be possessed, affecting his 
credit score;
- although his mother had been supportive, hed felt lonely and isolated;
- hed lacked motivation at work so the quality of his work had been affected;
- it had caused him a great deal of stress, and had inconvenienced and stressed his 
mother too.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. She said Metro had acted fairly when it had 
closed Mr Ms account, because of the information which it had seen another bank had 
recorded against Mr M. It had closed Mr Ms accounts in line with the terms and conditions of 
the accounts. The adjudicator recognised that Mr M hadnt received Metros letter giving him 
notice that it was going to close his account. But she said it had been correctly addressed, 
and first class post was considered a reliable means of communication, so she wouldnt 
expect Metro to have sent it by recorded delivery.
Mr M wasnt satisfied and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, this decision only relates to Mr Ms complaint against Metro. Mr M has also complained 
about the bank which recorded the marker against him on the anti-fraud database CIFAS. 
The two complaints, about two different banks, are dealt with separately. This decision 
relates only to whether or not Metro treated Mr M fairly and reasonably.
CIFAS is a fraud prevention agency, which has a large database on which information is 
recorded to protect financial businesses and their customers against fraud. Another financial 
organisation had recorded a marker against Mr Ms name. Mr M subsequently contacted 
CIFAS and obtained information about which organisation had recorded this, and under 
which CIFAS category: Misuse of facility.
Banks can close a customers account if they wish to, and dont have to give a reason  in 
the same way that customers can choose to close an account and dont have to give a 
reason. But banks can also close accounts without giving notice in some circumstances. 
This is set out in the terms and conditions of Mr Ms Metro accounts:
  11.2 If we decide to suspend or stop providing our services 
For any of the reasons set out below, we may: 
 suspend, stop or reduce a service, facility or an account we provide

We may take any of this action for the following reasons:
 
If we think that:
-there has been fraud or other suspicious activity involving your account (or we 
suspect this is the case)
--
- you have used, are using or getting, or may use or get a service or money illegally, 
fraudulently or improperly, or that someone else acting on your behalf may do so

we may close an account, or stop providing a service or facility or end this agreement. We 
may do this immediately or if we are taking this action because you have broken your 
obligations under this agreement after the end of any notice that we have to serve you under 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974, as amended.
I consider that it was reasonable for Metro to rely on the CIFAS database when taking its 
decision. It didnt have to conduct its own investigation into why the other organisation had 
recorded the marker, or whether it was correct. And the presence of a CIFAS marker relating 
to fraud, clearly met Metros terms and conditions for closing a customers accounts. 
According to those terms and conditions, Metro didnt have to give Mr M notice in such 
circumstances. I accept that Metro sent the 30 April 2021 giving him 60 days notice, though 
I recognise that Mr M said he didnt receive this. But the fact that Mr M didnt receive the 
letter doesnt make any difference to the outcome. Metro sent it to Mr Ms registered address, and it didnt have to use recorded delivery. Nor in fact did it have to give any notice 
when fraud was suspected, though it chose to do so.
So Metro was entitled to close Mr Ms accounts, and I consider it acted fairly and reasonably 
in all the circumstances of this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman