DRN-2228367
The complaint
Mr G complains Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited unfairly calculated his pre-incapacity 
earnings in relation to his income protection claim.
What happened
Mr G worked as a Director of his own company which I will refer to as D. He holds an 
income protection policy with Aviva, which is designed to pay a monthly benefit in the event 
of him being unable to work due to incapacity. 
Mr G stopped working due to incapacity in December 2010, and made a claim against his 
policy. Aviva accepted the claim and carried out an assessment of Mr Gs pre-incapacity 
earnings. 
Aviva said it calculated Mr Gs pre-incapacity earnings based on the information he and his 
accountant originally provided. However, after it received Mr Gs tax returns and the 
company accounts for D, it calculated his yearly pre-incapacity earnings to be a significantly 
lower amount.
In 2013, Aviva identified it hadnt seen evidence that Mr Gs 2010 dividend income had been 
declared to HMRC. It contacted Mr G and advised him of the evidence it needed to see, and 
said it would reduce the level of his benefits if it didnt receive this. 
Mr G said he thought it was unfair for Aviva to request further information of him after it had 
already accepted the claim. And said this impacted his mental health. 
Mr G declared the dividends to HMRC retrospectively, and provided evidence to Aviva. 
Aviva accepted this evidence and re-calculated Mr Gs pre-incapacity earnings again. But Mr 
G disagrees with the amounts it arrived at. 
Mr G said he thinks Aviva deliberately made an incorrect assessment of his earnings to 
lower the value of his benefits. And he said Aviva refused to accept further information and 
evidence from him about his pre-incapacity earnings. 
Mr G complained to Aviva. Aviva responded and said it thought it had calculated Mr Gs pre-
incapacity earnings correctly. It said it had based its calculations on Mr Gs salary and 
dividends, and that this was not the same as the turnover generated by D.
Unhappy with Avivas response, Mr G brought his complaint to this service. An investigator 
here said she didnt think Aviva had calculated Mr Gs earnings unfairly. 
Mr G disagreed and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. He has made a detailed 
submission, and Ive summarised the key points below:
Aviva made incorrect assumptions and acted outside the policy terms; 
Mr G and his accountant provided Aviva with various evidence of higher earnings;
Avivas request for further evidence relating to Mr Gs dividends impacted his mental 
health; 
Mr G only took as much dividend as would be tax beneficial to him, and this has been 
ignored by Aviva; and 
Aviva has not responded to his query about converting his policy.  

Aviva didnt make any further comments. 
As Mr G didnt agree with the investigators view, the case has been passed to me to make a 
final decision. 
Mr G has raised some further points in relation to data Aviva has provided to him. As these 
are points which have not been investigated as part of this complaint, Mr G will need to 
address these issues to Aviva directly as a separate complaint.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with the investigator that this complaint should not be 
upheld. And for broadly the same reasons, which I will explain. 
Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Aviva has a responsibility 
to handle claims promptly and fairly. And Ive looked at the relevant terms of Mr Gs policy. 
The terms relating to pre-incapacity earnings are set out as follows: 
Pre-Incapacity Earnings  includes earnings from all the Insureds Employment, as 
follows: 
For the employed this means, 
the Insureds pre-tax earnings for PAYE assessment purposes in the 52 
weeks immediately prior to the Period of Incapacity as currently shown on 
Inland Revenue form P60 in respect of earnings in the United Kingdom, and 
agreed by the tax authorities in the relevant country in respect of earnings 
outside the United Kingdom, and 
Benefits in Kind, to a maximum aggregate total of £20,000, received by the 
Insured in the 52 weeks immediately prior to the Period of Incapacity in 
respect of the following benefits as currently shown on Inland revenue Form 
P11D [] and
Dividends received by the Insured in the 52 weeks immediately prior to the 
Period of Incapacity from a limited company, with no more than 4 
shareholders, in which the Insured is employed as a full time working 
Director, and which represent the Insureds share in the net trading profit of 
that company from its normal, regular business. Im satisfied based on these terms, that the following actions by Aviva were not 
unreasonable: 
reviewing Mr Gs income as an employed Director of D;
asking him to provide tax returns and company accounts; 
basing its calculations on the 52 weeks prior to Mr Gs incapacity; and
excluding benefits in kind which were not listed on the P11D tax form.  
Aviva calculated Mr Gs pre-incapacity earnings based on the information contained in his 
company accounts, and tax returns filed both in the UK and abroad.  Im aware Mr G 
provided Aviva further details to evidence his income, including payslips and bank 
statements. And Ive seen evidence that Aviva considered these. But it concluded that these 
were remittance advices and bank statements relating to D, and didnt reflect Mr Gs 
personal income. And I think this approach was reasonable. 
The investigator set out a detailed description of the figures and calculations used by Aviva 
in her view. I wont repeat this here, but Ive reviewed the figures, and Im satisfied theyre 
accurate. 
Ive considered what Mr G has said about the way D structured its business and the actions 
taken to achieve tax efficiencies, as well as his comments about his business expenses. But 
I dont think this makes a difference. The policy terms are clear on the documents Aviva 
should rely on to calculate Mr Gs pre-incapacity income. And Im satisfied Aviva has 
assessed his income fairly in line with those terms. 
I note Aviva agreed to include Mr Gs wifes earnings from the company in its calculation of 
Mr Gs income, as she didnt play an active role in the business. The policy doesnt require 
Aviva to include this income, so I think this demonstrates fair treatment towards Mr G. 
I appreciate Mr G said Avivas later request for evidence of dividends declared to HMRC 
impacted his mental health. And Im sorry to hear this. Aviva is entitled to review an ongoing 
claim, and the evidence it asked for is in line with the policy terms.  Once Mr G had declared 
these dividends to HMRC and provided Aviva with the additional evidence, it re-calculated 
his pre-incapacity earnings accordingly.  So I dont think Aviva acted unreasonably here. 
In his response to the investigators view, Mr G said he had asked Aviva about the benefit of 
converting to a business policy, but it had failed to respond.
Aviva has provided me with email correspondence sent to Mr G where it advised him the 
conversion option within his policy was no longer available to him, as the policy ends within 
five years. It also said it thought this option would be of no benefit to Mr G in his particular 
circumstances. So Im satisfied that Aviva has provided Mr G with the relevant information 
on this point.  
Having reviewed the ongoing correspondence between Mr G and Aviva, Ive not seen any 
evidence that Aviva refused to consider any new information he provided about his earnings. 
So Im also not persuaded Aviva acted unfairly in that respect. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman