DRN-4361803
The complaint
Ms H complains that Nationwide Building Society repeatedly blocked her account and tried
to force her to come into the bank to produce identification (id), despite her disability and
having already produced it.
What happened
Ms H opened her account with Nationwide in late 2019. She attended her local branch with
id and explained to Nationwide her disability and needs.
In September 2020 her account was blocked following receipt of a large sum of money into
the account. I understand that she was asked to produce her id in person again due to an
error in Nationwide not recognising on its system the resolution of the previous block. She
had several phone calls with Nationwide in the course of which she explained her situation
and was allowed to confirm her id by email.
Ms Hs account was blocked again by Nationwide in July 2021 following further transactions
amounting to more than $1,000 (or the equivalent in GBP) in seven days. This time she was
trying to buy petrol and she says she and her disabled son were caused a great deal of
distress.
Her account was blocked on a third occasion in February 2022 when she was about to visit a
medical professional who she needed to pay. Nationwide confirmed that the issue was finally
fixed in March 2022 so it would not reoccur. Ms H has now switched her account to another
provider.
Nationwide paid Ms H a total of £275 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience
caused.
Ms H complained in part of discrimination in that Nationwide blocked her account when she
was on benefits and it repeatedly asked her to attend her branch in person when it knew she
was disabled.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Investigator said that she didnt believe
Nationwides checks could be avoided due to its regulatory requirements. However, she said
it couldve done more to help Ms H as a vulnerable consumer. But she said that the
compensation paid was in line with our approach.
Ms H disagreed, pointing out that:
Each time Nationwide didn't communicate with her at the time it blocked her account,
instead she had to find out when she tried to use her card.
She always had sufficient id at her local branch. Nationwide refused to communicate with
her branch and refused to allow her to communicate with her branch directly to provide
the required information.
She spent hours in distress on calls before Nationwide finally remedied the issue by
contacting the branch and finding its own system was at fault.
It didnt explain why it blocked the account until its final response letter.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that, although I accepted our Investigators 
findings, I thought that Nationwide should increase the compensation paid to £400.
Both parties accepted my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings are set out below, in italics:
Firstly I will be considering in this decision the three times Ms Hs account was blocked. If
she had further problems with Nationwide when she tried to switch accounts away from it
she will need to take that up with Nationwide as a new complaint.
Ms H has complained that Nationwide has failed to make reasonable adjustments for her. In
other words, has failed in its duty to make reasonable adjustments under the relevant
legislation. Whilst I have considered that, my decision concerning Ms Hs complaint is based
on what I think is fair and reasonable. Only a court could make a finding as to whether any
business breached its duty under the relevant act.
Ms H is a vulnerable consumer due to some health issues and she also has a disability. She
says she told Nationwide shortly after opening her account, when she was required to attend
the branch to produce her id documents. In particular she would have difficulty in attending
her branch in person. I have taken that into account and with regard in particular to the
Guidance for firms on the fair treatment of vulnerable customers published by the FCA
(Financial Conduct Authority), which applied at the time.
Nationwide is permitted under its terms and conditions to block the account, particularly
where it is concerned about security. I understand the reason why it did this in
September 2020 was because of a large deposit into the account. Nationwide required id
and the commencement date of Ms Hs then current address, and her nationality, to comply
with the Wire Transfer (now Funds Transfer) Regulations (FTR). Nationwide did resolve the
block by phone and email, though not without causing Ms H some anxiety. I think she was
aware why it had applied the block, in particular she says she asked it to upgrade her
account so the block wasnt triggered in the event of her transferring in a large sum of
money. However, as I shall set out below, she shouldn't have had to ask for this to happen.
I do think that Ms H had every right to expect that the problem had been resolved. So when
the second block was applied I can understand her anxiety, especially as there was a large
payment into her account but this consisted mostly of benefits. And as Nationwide said in its
final response letter, although the block was applied because it didnt have sufficient id, this 
was its error which was supposed to have been resolved. This was all the more upsetting as
she was attempting to pay for petrol at the time and it could have been much worse if a
neighbour hadnt fortunately been there to help her. Nationwide paid her £125
compensation, I shall set out below what I think is the appropriate award.
Again the problem should have been resolved but Ms Hs account was then blocked for the
third time. I understand this took a while to be resolved and given that it was a repeatederror, Nationwide paid her £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. I shall set out
below the overall amount I think Nationwide should pay to reflect the distress and
inconvenience caused to Ms H.
The Guidance I have referred to says that firms must understand the needs of vulnerable
customers. In Ms Hs particular case because of her disability she would have had difficulty
attending a branch in person. Nationwide has admitted after the first block its system should
have been updated to register the fact that she had produced the appropriate id. So, the fact
that a block was applied on two further occasions caused Mrs H particular difficulties. She
was left at the petrol station having no means to pay on the second occasion, and on the
third occasion when the account was blocked she couldn't pay a medical professional. She
has told our investigator that she struggled without access to her account and had to rely on
food banks.
As Ive said, Im not in a position to make specific findings on discrimination. However, if the
blocks were triggered by Nationwides requirements under the FTR, clearly as regards
vulnerable customers these were inappropriate. Whether Nationwide needs to look at its
systems or whether this was just human error, clearly Ms Hs needs weren't adequately
taken into consideration. And I've noted that under its terms and conditions it will usually
advise the customer of the block. I appreciate in certain circumstances this might not be
possible. Although I don't think that applied in this case .
I have taken into account the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms H, and her response
to the Investigators view. I have also considered her position as a vulnerable customer and
the additional distress and inconvenience caused to her because of this. Our Investigator
was under the impression that Nationwide had paid Ms H £325, although from the papers
I think this was £275. I think that the overall compensation that Nationwide should pay to
Ms H should be £400.
As both parties have accepted my provisional findings, I remain persuaded by them. Those 
findings are now final and form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
Nationwide should pay Ms H a total of £400 compensation. It has already paid £275 so
should pay a further £125.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Nationwide Building Society to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman