DRN-2075149
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG has declined a claim they 
made on their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A bought an annual multi-trip insurance policy, underwritten by URV to cover 
them from 12 March 2019 to the 11 March 2020. They renewed their insurance on 10 March 
2020 and took out a new policy, which was also underwritten by URV. This policy covered 
them from the 11 March 2020 until 10 March 2021 and was a different brand of cover. 
Mr and Mrs A booked a holiday in August 2019, whilst the first policy was in place. They 
booked flights and accommodation separately. Mr and Mrs A were due to travel on the 18 
March 2020 but the day before they were due to fly, on 17 March 2020, the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised all but essential international travel due to Covid-19 
(Coronavirus). 
The airline cancelled Mr and Mrs As flight and theyve received a refund from the airline. But 
theyve not been able to get a refund for the accommodation as the terms of booking dont 
allow a refund for cancellations within 60 days of the planned arrival at the accommodation 
and they dont benefit from other consumer protection. As Mr and Mrs A paid by bank 
transfer they havent been able to obtain a refund from any other source.  
Mr and Mrs A made a claim on their travel insurance policy and this was declined. URV said 
the policy hadnt been purchased until 10 March 2020. They said the risk of the FCO 
advising against travel to their planned destination had been well publicised for some time. 
And they said there had been widespread coverage in the media, the cancellation of 
hundreds of flights and that the FCO restriction was not unexpected. So URV said they 
wouldnt cover the cancellation claim. Mr and Mrs A made a complaint to our service. 
URV said that the policy clearly outlined what the policy covered. They said there was no 
cover due to fear of an epidemic, pandemic, infection or allergic reaction and no cover due to 
the advice or recommendation of the FCO applicable at the time of departure.  
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mr and Mrs As complaint. She 
didnt think it was fair to say that Mr and Mrs A had taken out the policy with the intention of 
claiming as theyd had continuous cover with URV and it just so happened that their renewal 
date was the 10 March 2020. She pointed out that there was no evidence that URV had 
highlighted to Mr and Mrs A when they bought the policy that they wouldnt be covered for 
Covid-19 claims. So she didnt think it was reasonable for URV to suggest that Mr and Mrs A 
would have known it was an uninsured risk. And she noted that the policy schedule made no 
mention of excluding cancellation claims from the 3 March 2020 for Covid-19 related claims. 
She recommended URV paid the claim plus 8% simple interest from the date of the claim to 
the date of settlement.  
URV didnt agree. They say the policy lists what it covers and is priced according to that 
level of risk. They said a global pandemic was never intended to part of the cover and 
therefore the reason for the cancellation wasnt due to an event the policy was designed to 
cover. So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for 
Businesses, which URV must follow, including:
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due care, skill and diligence 
Principle 6 - A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly 
Principle 8  A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and 
its customers and between a customer and another client. 
The relevant FCA regulations include ICOBS 8.1.1R which says:
An insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress
(3) not unreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy); and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
And ICOBS 6.1.5 which says: 
(1) A firm must ensure that a customer is giving appropriate information about a policy in 
good time and in comprehensible form so that the customer can make an informed 
decision and the arrangements proposed.
 
(2) The information must be provided to the customer: 
a.Whether or not a personal recommendation is given; and 
b.Irrespective of whether a policy is offered as part of a package with: 
(i) A non-insurance product or service; or 
(ii) Another policy. 
(3) Appropriate information is both objective and relevant information, and includes 
Insurance Product Information Document information (IPID)
(4) Where the firm is proposing a policy (including if appropriate on renewal) in good 
time means in good time prior to the conclusion of the policy.   
The policy terms and conditions The relevant policy terms say: 
A policyholder also isnt covered under any section, unless specified, for any of the 
following circumstances:
You travelling to an area that is classified as Advise against all travel or Advise 
against all but essential travel by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office at the time 
of your departure
But there is no cover under the cancellation section if the consumer cancels because of a 
change in FCO guidance. On page 10 of the policy it set out the circumstances in which 
cancellation is covered. At the bottom of the page, next to the wording BE AWARE! the 
policy says:
No cover is provided under this section for the advice or recommendation of the 
Foreign and Commonwealth Office applicable at the time of your departure.
Ive also taken into account the IPID. On page 2 of the document it explains that a 
policyholder wouldnt be covered for travelling against FCO advice. But it doesnt say that 
cancellation wont be covered. 
The purchase of the policy
URV argues that at the time Mr and Mrs A purchased their policy the FCO restriction wasnt 
unexpected. Theyve said that FCO advice for their destination had been well publicised for 
some time and there had been widespread media coverage of the UK experiencing an 
epidemic. So, in summary, they say that the cancellation was a known risk at the point Mr 
and Mrs A took out insurance on 10 March 2020. 
Im not persuaded by that argument in the circumstances of this case. Mr and Mrs A have 
given a credible and persuasive explanation for the date of their purchase. They previously 
had an insurance policy, underwritten by URV, which happened to expire on 10 March. They 
arranged continuous cover with a new policy, also underwritten by URV, when their previous 
annual policy expired. They explained they switched brands to obtain a saving due to the 
medical conditions they were declaring. Ive found that to be a plausible explanation and 
consistent with the information contained within the policy schedules provided.   
As Ive outlined above URV were required, even during a non-advised sale, to give Mr and 
Mrs A enough information about the policy to make an informed choice about whether the 
policy was right for them. I note that URV hasnt been able to demonstrate that they 
highlighted to Mr and Mrs A during the sales process that they wouldnt be covered for 
Covid-19 related claims. Theres also no mention of it in the policy certificate, the IPID or the 
policy terms. So, if URV considered Covid-19 a known risk then Id have expected that to be 
clearly highlighted to Mr and Mrs A during the sales process and on the policy 
documentation. 
URV also referred to widespread coverage about Mr and Mrs As destination. But Ive looked 
at the FCO guidance in place at the time for Mr and Mrs As destination. The FCO update on 
14 February 2020 said there were no confirmed Covid-19 cases and didnt advise against 
travel there. There were some restrictions on travellers from other countries who entered, 
but those restrictions didnt apply to people travelling from the UK. And the update of 
8 March 2020 said there were still no confirmed cases. Again, the restrictions on travellers 
didnt apply to people travelling from the UK.  
The FCO didnt advise against all but essential travel until 17 March 2020, a week after the policy was purchased. And the guidance in place at the point Mr and Mrs A took out the 
policy didnt suggest that they would need to claim. I also note the policy was also purchased 
before the WHO declared a pandemic. 
I dont think, in this case, its fair to say Mr and Mrs A knew that they would need to cancel 
their trip or were purchasing their policy for this reason.  
The declined claim
The cancellation terms and conditions dont cover Mr and Mrs As reason for cancellation. 
But Ive gone on to consider whether it is fair and reasonable for URV to decline their claim. I 
dont think it is.
The policy terms and conditions mean that Mr and Mrs A wouldnt have been covered if 
theyd travelled against FCO advice but they also wouldnt have been covered if they 
cancelled. However, the role of the ombudsman is to consider what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of a case. 
I dont think it was fair and reasonable to place Mr and Mrs A in a position where, whatever 
they decided, they wouldnt have been covered by their policy. I dont think this is treating Mr 
and Mrs A fairly.
I also think that this is significant limitation in the cover of the policy and ought to have been 
clearly drawn to Mr and Mrs As attention. But this isnt mentioned either in the IPID either. 
Mr and Mrs A would have had to look to page 10 of the policy terms and conditions (and 
cross reference the general exclusions with the cancellation section) to understand that they 
werent covered if the FCO guidance changed.
Putting things right
URV needs to put things right by paying Mr and Mrs As claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms. They should also add 8% simple interest from the date of the claim to the date 
of settlement.
If URV considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs A how much its taken off. It should also give them a 
tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs As complaint and directing Union Reiseversicherung AG to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman