DRN-2876309
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs C complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc gave them unsuitable mortgage advice.
What happened
Mr A and Mrs C held a mortgage with HSBC. Part of the balance was on a capital and 
interest repayment basis. The other part was on an interest only repayment basis. 
Arrangements like this are often referred to as a part and part mortgage. The two separate 
parts of the mortgage had marginally different repayment terms  with the interest only part 
of the mortgage due to be repaid approximately 18 months after the capital and repayment 
part.
In February 2015 they contacted HSBC to review their mortgage arrangements. At that point 
the balance on the interest only part of their mortgage was around £87,200. And the balance 
on the repayment part of their mortgage was around £22,600.
HSBCs notes from the time indicate that Mr A and Mrs C had a budget of just over £530 per 
month for mortgage payments. The notes say they wanted to keep their monthly repayments 
within that budget but were keen to repay the capital and repayment part of their mortgage 
more quickly. The notes say their priority was to have the stability of fixed payments in the 
short term. And the notes also indicated that Mr A and Mrs C were happy with the part and 
part nature of their mortgage and that they intended to repay the interest only part of the 
mortgage from the sale of other properties which they owned, mortgage free, and rented out.
HSBC recommended that the mortgage continue on a part and part basis and that Mr A and 
Mrs C take a two-year fixed interest rate. It recommended that the term of the capital and 
repayment part of the mortgage reduce, so that it was now due to be paid off just over three 
years before the interest only part of the mortgage. Mr A and Mrs C accepted the 
recommendation made.
In 2020 Mr A and Mrs C complained about the advice given to them by HSBC. Initially they 
complained that their mortgage was mis-sold when it was originally taken out as they felt it 
wasnt suitable for them.
This issue was referred to our service and dealt with under a separate complaint. We 
concluded we didnt have jurisdiction to consider Mr A and Mrs Cs complaint about the sale 
of their mortgage as it had been brought too late for us to consider.
Mr A and Mrs C have since complained about the advice they were given in 2015 being 
unsuitable as they think HSBC shouldve recommended that they switch to a repayment 
basis. It was agreed that we can look into this complaint and that is what is being considered 
here.
One of our investigators looked into matters. He acknowledged Mr A and Mrs C had 
indicated recently, as part of their complaint, that some of their concerns stem from not now 
wanting to sell the properties they rent out to repay the interest only borrowing. But based on 
what hed seen he didnt think this is what HSBC had been told at the time of the advice. And 
the recommendation made as part of the mortgage review in 2015 seemed to meet Mr A and 
Mrs Cs needs. So, he didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong.
Mr A and Mrs C disagreed. They said they still felt the advice given wasnt what was best for 
them. As Mr A and Mrs C didnt agree with our investigators opinion, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy of the mortgage advice report completed by HSBC in February 2015 
following its review of Mr A and Mrs Cs mortgage arrangements and needs. This document 
includes a clear section setting out HSBCs understanding of Mr A and Mrs Cs needs and 
objectives. The report says these included;
Maintaining the part and part nature of the mortgage as Mr A and Mrs C were 
confident that the interest only portion would be repaid from the sale of their buy-to-
let properties.
Paying more towards the capital and repayment part of the mortgage to pay that 
portion off faster.
Keeping to the monthly budget and the budget for upfront costs, as Mr A and Mrs Cs 
children were due to start higher education and they expected to need to provide 
some financial support for this.
Not using any of their existing savings to reduce the overall mortgage balance  for 
similar reasons with expected upcoming costs.
Having stability around the level of mortgage repayments, in the short term at least, 
again due to expected upcoming costs assisting their children.
The recommendation by HSBC appears to have achieved these aims. HSBC recommended 
keeping the term of the interest only borrowing the same  to keep repayments as low as 
possible for that part of the mortgage. It recommended reducing the term of the repayment 
part of the mortgage  to enable it to be repaid sooner. And it recommended a fixed interest 
rate product that meant the upfront product fee and monthly repayments were within the 
relevant budgets discussed at the time.
Mr A and Mrs C havent argued that their circumstances were not as described in this report. 
It appears they were sent a copy of this summary, before proceeding with the 
recommendation. And I havent seen anything to suggest that they disputed the summary of 
their objectives at the time either.
Mr A and Mrs C argue that HSBC shouldve recommended that they move their borrowing 
onto a repayment basis as this would mean they wouldnt need to sell their rental properties 
 which they are reluctant to do now because they generate an income. And they think this 
wouldve been better for them. But given the outstanding balance of the interest only portion 
of their mortgage at the time, approximately £87,200, switching this to a repayment basis 
wouldve increased their monthly mortgage repayments significantly  and certainly a long 
way beyond the budget that they informed HSBC of. So, I can see why HSBC didnt think 
this was appropriate, based on its understanding of their circumstances.In addition, the repayment strategy that Mr A and Mrs C outlined at the time  selling their 
buy-to-let properties  appeared viable as the estimated valuation of these properties, 
according to what Mr A and Mrs C appear to have told HSBC, exceeded the amount of 
interest only borrowing. And guidance from the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, to 
lenders at the time indicated that the sale of assets, such as other properties, may be 
considered a suitable repayment strategy.
So, taking all of this into account, I think the recommendation made by HSBC in 2015 to 
Mr A and Mrs C appears to have been suitable. This is because it appears to have met their 
needs and objectives at the time.
As Ive said, the information Ive seen suggests the mortgage advice report Ive referred to 
was shared with Mr A and Mrs C. Ive also seen a copy of a follow up letter sent after the 
initial recommendation was made, following a change in available mortgage products. This 
detailed a slight change in the recommended product  a lower fixed interest rate that had 
since become available. 
Ive also seen a copy of the mortgage offer from the time. This sets out clearly and 
prominently the terms of the borrowing. And I can see this was signed by Mrs C confirming 
agreement to the terms.
So, based on this, in addition to the advice being suitable, I also think HSBC provided Mr A 
and Mrs C with clear information about the reasons for the recommendation, before they 
decided to accept it. As a result, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong with regard to the 
advice it provided in 2015.
As Ive said, I understand from what Mr A and Mrs C have said when bringing their complaint 
that part of their concern is, they are now reluctant to sell their rental properties, which make 
up their intended repayment vehicle. If they havent done so already, they should speak to 
HSBC about their mortgage arrangements to discuss this further. And Id expect HSBC to 
engage with Mr A and Mrs C about this, and give fair consideration to any requests or 
alternative proposals they may make. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman