DRN-4354800
The complaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) defaulted his credit card account.
What happened
Mr G had a credit card from Santander. It was being repaid monthly by direct debit. During 
2020, his personal circumstances were such that his current account was blocked and the 
monthly payments stopped. He wasnt living at the address Santander had on file. 
The credit card fell into arrears and several letters were sent by Santander about the arrears 
 dated February 2020, March 2020, April 2020, and September 2020. On 13 October 2020, 
they sent a Notice of Default to Mr G with the arrears at £365.80. Payment of the arrears 
was asked for within 14 days. The account was then defaulted. The balance in November 
2022 (when Mr G complained to Santander) was £2,948.26.
Mr G complained. He said he hadnt been advised of the default by Santander when he 
called them about several matters. He hadnt been living at his address and so hadnt 
received the letters or Notice of Default. He said he wasnt aware his current account had 
been blocked and that the monthly payments werent being made. He said the default was 
unfair and should be removed.
Santander said theyd followed their default processes correctly. The account had been in 
arrears for a long period of time and was then defaulted. In a second response in December 
2022, Santander accepted that Mr G had been misinformed in a call at that time  when he 
had been told the balance on the account was zero and the default had been removed. They 
noted that Mr Gs accounts had been frozen in January 2020 due to a court order. Mr G had 
not advised them that he had moved address. Santander declined Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G brought his complaint to us. Our investigator issued three views. In the last one, he 
said Santanders default processes were followed correctly, but he agreed that Mr G had 
been misinformed in a call on 23 December 2022  when he was told the balance was zero 
and the default removed. For that, he agreed with Santander that compensation of £150 
should be paid. But the default should remain in place.
Santander agreed to pay £150 but Mr G didnt agree with this outcome. He asked that an 
ombudsman look at his complaint, and so it has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Due to Mr Gs personal circumstances, he wasnt living at the address Santander had in their 
records. I can also see that his credit card account was paid off each month by direct debit  
until January 2020, when Mr Gs current account was frozen by order of the court. So  the 
direct debit wasnt paid from that time.
Santander sent Mr G letters about the increasing arrears in February 2020, March 2020, 
April 2020, and September 2020. And then  a Notice of Default in October 2020 with the 
arrears at £365.80. The letter said this amount should be paid within 14 days, or a default 
would follow and legal action taken. The letters were sent to Mr Gs home address. Mr G 
says he wasnt aware of them, nor was he told his account was in default when he spoke to 
Santander.
So  I have considered what happened here.  As a principle, we expect firms (such as 
Santander) to send Notices of Default and arrears letters to the address they have in their 
records. We asked Santander whether Mr G advised them of his alternative address  and 
they said he hadnt. I listened to a call Mr G had with Santander in June 2022 and in that, he 
said he hadnt told Santander of his personal circumstances nor his change of address. So  
I cant reasonably expect Santander to have changed Mr Gs address in their records, nor 
correspond with him at any other address. And so  Santander followed the accepted 
process for sending such letters to the address they had on file. So here  they acted 
reasonably.
On the call in June 2022, I also noted that Mr G advised Santander that the block on his 
accounts had been lifted by order of the court  so it seems reasonable also to say that he 
must have been aware of the original order of the court to freeze his accounts, and that the 
direct debit would have been stopped. 
I also noted (from Santanders records) that Mr G called them in March 2020, April 2020, 
and July 2020  and advised them at that time of the block and the cancellation of the direct 
debit. So  it is reasonable for me to say that Mr G must have been aware of the cancellation 
of the direct debit, and the effect on his credit card payments.
I listened to the call which took place in December 2022. Mr G was clearly misadvised that 
his balance was zero and that the default had been lifted. We asked Santander more about 
this  and they believe he was so told because the account had been written off in 
Santanders systems when it was passed to a debt collection agency. Of itself, this doesnt 
persuade me to ask Santander to remove the default  it was a communications error, but 
that doesnt mean they didnt follow the correct process in defaulting Mr Gs account  which 
is the crux of this complaint.
Mr G argues that he wasnt told about the default when he called Santander. Ive listened to 
the two calls that are available - in June 2022, and it is the case that Mr G wasnt then 
advised about the default. But I dont think that suggests that Santander were wrong to 
default his account when they did so much earlier  in October 2020. 
Mr G has also said his credit file showed the default was removed and reapplied in July 
2023. We asked Santander more about that  and they confirmed theyd not advised any 
information to the credit reference agencies (CRAs) at or around that time. And therefore  it 
appears this must have been an issue with the CRAs  and something Mr G must take up 
with them.
Santander have agreed to pay compensation of £150 for the error made when they spoke to 
Mr G in December 2022. Ive considered whether this is reasonable in the circumstances. Mr 
G argues that his mental health suffered because of the loss of expectation  he thought his 
issues had been sorted out, but then learnt that wasnt the case. I can appreciate what he 
says here. 
But - I can see our investigator explained how we look at compensation claims. And Im satisfied that this was a single large mistake which caused some distress and 
inconvenience, and loss of expectation  and that the amount of £150 is appropriate for what 
happened.
My final decision
Santander has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint and I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman