DRN-4004905
Complaint
Mr K has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr K with a loan for £1,000.00 in December 2021. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of just over £60. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ks complaint. She recommended that Mr Ks 
complaint be upheld. 118 118 Money disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My provisional decision of 13 February 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 13 February 2023 - setting out why I wasnt intending to 
uphold Mr Ks complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a 
summary of my findings. 
I started out by saying that weve set out our general approach to complaints about 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including the key rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me decide Mr Ks 
complaint.
I explained that 118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, what this means is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be 
able to understand whether Mr K could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money said it agreed to Mr Ks application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against credit 
searches it carried out. In its view all of this information showed Mr K could afford to make 
the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr K said the loan was 
unaffordable.
I carefully thought about what Mr K and 118 118 Money said. 
The first thing I said was that this loan was a first loan for Mr K with 118 118 Money. And it 
was for a low amount with modest repayments. 118 118 Moneys credit search showed that 
Mr K didnt have that much in the way of existing debts. 
And while Id seen that there was some debate about this matter between 118 118 Money 
and our investigator, I wasnt persuaded that Mr K using 97% of such a low credit limit or 
having been over this limit a couple of times in themselves demonstrated that this loan was 
clearly unsustainable.  
Furthermore, while I noted our investigators concerns, the proceeds of this loan were 
enough to clear Mr Ks balance and allow him to repay what he owed in low monthly 
repayments. 
So I didnt agree that this loan was clearly going to increase Mr Ks indebtedness in a way 
that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. In my view, Mr K could have placed himself in 
a much better position, in terms of his indebtedness, at this stage had he wished to do so.
I accepted that Mr K said he experienced difficulty making the payments. And the reason 
why might have had difficulty was because he might have gone on to re-establish a balance 
on his revolving credit account. But 118 118 Money could only make a reasonable decision 
based on the information it had available at the time.  
As this was the case, I didnt think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Mr K - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. And in any event, Mr K hadnt provided 
me with anything which clearly demonstrated that further checks would have clearly shown 
the low monthly payments here to be unaffordable either. 
So overall and having considered everything, I concluded by stating that it was my intention 
to issue a final decision which found that 118 118 Money didnt treat Mr K unfairly or 
unreasonably when providing him with his loan. And this meant that I wasnt intending to 
uphold Mr Ks complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I wasnt intending to uphold Mr Ks complaint in my provisional 
decision of 13 February 2023. As Ive not been provided with anything further by the parties, 
Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. So Im still not upholding Mr Ks complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr K. But I hope hell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 13 February 2023, Im 
not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Jeshen NarayananOmbudsman