DRN-4275298
The complaint
Mr F complains about the quality of a car supplied to him by BMW Financial Services(GB) 
Limited trading as MINI Financial Services (BMWFS) under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr F entered into an agreement with BMWFS for a used car costing £13,490. 
Under the terms of the agreement  everything else being equal  Mr F undertook to make 
47 monthly payments of £220.64 followed by 1 monthly payment of £6,617.31  making a 
total repayable of £16,987.39 at an APR of 8.9%.
In January 2023, after the car broke down, Mr F had the car inspected by the original 
supplying dealership who I will call L. L diagnosed that a new fuel pump was required at a 
cost of approximately £1,800. 
In March 2023 L, before fitting the required new fuel pump, identified swarf within the 
system. This led L to diagnose that a new fuel system was required at a cost of over £8,000. 
Mr F didnt go ahead with the identified repair and had L return the car to him.
In April 2023, and after Mr F had complained that he had been supplied with a car that was 
of unsatisfactory quality, BMWFS issued him with a final response letter (FRL). Under 
cover of this FRL BMWFS said that given how long Mr F had been in possession of the car 
before the fault with it came to light, it wasnt upholding his complaint.
Unhappy with BMWFS FRL Mr F referred his complaint to our service.
Mr Fs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that Mr F 
had indeed been supplied with a car that was of unsatisfactory quality. She then went on to 
explain what, in her view, BMWFS should have to do to fairly and reasonably compensate 
Mr F.
BMWFS didnt agree with the investigators view so Mr Fs complaint has been passed to me 
for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont intend on commenting on everything that occurred, or every complaint point, concern, 
or issue the parties have raised. Instead, Ill focus on what I think is important in reaching a 
decision which is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I dont mean this as a 
discourtesy to either party, instead it reflects the informal nature of this service and my role 
within it. But Id like to reassure both parties that Ive considered all the information that has 
been provided when reaching my decision.
Mr F acquired the car through a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS and as the supplier 
of the car, BMWFS is responsible for the quality of it. Where the car is found to not be of 
satisfactory quality, BMWFS can be held liable for that. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 
(CRA) is relevant legislation when considering the quality of goods and services. This 
essentially says that the car should be of satisfactory quality at the time its supplied to Mr F. 
Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect, considering amongst other 
things the age and price of the car. Section 9 of the CRA refers to satisfactory quality and 
notes that the quality of goods includes their state and condition. It goes on to list the 
following aspects, amongst others, of the quality of goods, (a) fitness for all the purposes for 
which goods of that kind are usually supplied; (b) appearance and finish; (c) freedom from 
minor defects; (d) safety; (e) durability. 
The used car that Mr F acquired in June 2021 cost nearly £13,500, was a little over five and 
half years old and had travelled approximately 44,500 miles. When considering a car of this 
age and mileage it would, in my view, not be unreasonable to expect it to be showing signs 
of wear and tear and not be in the same as new condition that it would have been in when 
first manufactured. This will be in relation to the mechanical components and its cosmetic 
appearance. The price Mr F paid for the car was considerably cheaper than the cost of the 
car new, and this is to take into account the general condition, mileage and wear and tear 
the car had experienced since first being manufactured.
There is no dispute there is a problem with the car and the estimate from L is sufficient 
evidence in my view to demonstrate that there is a serious problem with the car preventing it 
from being used. 
BMWFS states that given how long Mr F had been in possession of the car before the fault 
with it came to light it isnt liable, under the CRA, to meet his claim against it for 
compensation. But I disagree and Im not persuaded that BMWFS has taken into 
consideration of the CRA requirements around durability.
As referred to above, one element of satisfactory quality under the CRA relates to durability 
and that ultimately means that goods should last a reasonable amount of time. Exactly what 
is a reasonable amount of time will depend upon a number of factors. But of significant 
relevance here, in my view, is the nature of the fault and the mileage the car has travelled. 
The fault is a significant one and relates to key parts of the car. And generally speaking it 
would be reasonable to expect the fuel system and pump to last in excess of ten years 
and/or 100,000 miles. So what has happened in this case is, in my view, a significant 
premature failure.
Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr F has misused the car or done anything to cause the fuel 
system and pump to fail. Having considered all that has been provided in this case Im 
satisfied the car, and in particular the fuel system and pump, werent sufficiently durable 
when considering the requirements of the CRA. And as it wasnt sufficiently durable, Im 
satisfied the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.The required repairs to the car are significant and expensive. In addition to this, the car has 
been idle for a significant amount of time and further faults with it might be present. So with 
this in mind, and what I say above, Im persuaded that Mr F should be allowed to reject the 
car and that BMWFS should end Mr Fs agreement with nothing further payable under it and 
that it should collect the car from its current location at no cost to Mr F.
For the periods Mr F had use of the car I consider it reasonable for him to pay for that use 
through the monthly agreement repayments. Its not however reasonable for Mr F to be 
expected to pay for the use of the car after January 2023 and BMWFS should therefore 
refund the monthly repayments Mr F has paid since this date together with simple interest at 
8% a year.
Im also satisfied that being supplied a car that was of unsatisfactory quality has caused Mr F 
some considerable trouble and upset. And taking everything into account Im satisfied, like 
the investigator, that BMWFS should pay Mr F £200 for this.
Finally, and for the sake of completeness, I would like to make it clear that Im satisfied that 
Mr F acted in good faith and reasonably in approaching L (the original supplying dealership) 
rather than BMWFS in January and March 2023. And it wouldnt be fair, or reasonable, for 
BMWFS to hold Mr F liable for anything L has done, or failed to do, whilst the car was in its 
possession.
My final decision
My final decision is that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited trading as MINI Financial 
Services must:
end the agreement with nothing further for Mr F to have to pay
collect the car at no cost to Mr F
refund to Mr F all the agreement payments he has made since January 2023
pay Mr F 8% simple interest a year on the above refunds from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement*
pay Mr F £200 for distress or inconvenience this matter has caused him
remove any adverse information it has recorded with credit reference agencies in 
respect of Mr Fs agreement
* HMRC requires BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited trading as MINI Financial Services to take off 
tax from this interest. If Mr F asks for a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off this 
should be provided
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman