DRN-3383963
The complaint
R, a limited company, complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) caused unnecessary 
delays following their loan application.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide an 
overview of key events here. 
R had secured lending through Lloyds for the purchase of properties a number of times over 
the years. R purchased a property in 2017, which was a mix of residential and commercial 
units, with funding from Lloyds. R then began working with Lloyds in 2018 to try and secure 
borrowing to develop that property. 
R raised a complaint with Lloyds in September 2020 and said their application for a 
development loan had been badly handled and significantly delayed by the Lloyds 
relationship manager. They said they suffered a number of losses as a direct result. 
Lloyds responded and agreed it provided poor service. It failed to reply to emails and caused 
frustration and inconvenience over a long period of time. It offered R £2,000 to compensate 
for this. 
Lloyds said although the relationship manager indicated Lloyds were supportive of Rs 
application, no lending was guaranteed until a formal offer was made, and no formal loan 
offer was issued. Lloyds said it was not responsible for any loss of rental income or any 
utility costs that needed to be paid while the property was vacant, as it said R prematurely 
gave notice to their existing tenants.  
R then complained to this service. They said the property purchased required funding to 
redevelop it, and Lloyds had full knowledge of this. R said the Lloyds relationship managers 
response to emails was sporadic and delayed, so the builders had to move onto other 
projects causing substantial delays and rental income was lost. R asked to be compensated 
for losses incurred as a direct result of the relationship managers negligence. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said while it seemed Lloyds was supportive 
of the loan, there was no formal confirmation that it had been approved. So she said any 
losses incurred by R as a result of moving forward with the redevelopment without knowing 
the funds from Lloyds would be made available was a risk R took themselves. Looking at the 
service provided, our investigator said it was clear Lloyds provided poor service and could 
have dealt with this situation sooner by assigning Rs account to another relationship 
manager. However, she thought the £2,000 already offered was a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
R responded and said they didnt get to the point of agreeing the loan because of the poor 
service offered by the relationship manager. As R didnt agree with what our investigator 
said this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure R that I have taken all of the information provided into consideration, even if 
not every point made by R is mentioned in this decision. Ill only address the comments and 
evidence I see to be relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome here.
Both parties have agreed that the service provided to R by the Lloyds relationship manager 
fell well short of the standards Lloyds sets for itself. This is why Lloyds has already offered R 
£2,000 to compensate for the frustration and inconvenience caused. The issue here is that R 
thinks Lloyds should do more and compensate for actual financial losses that they say were 
incurred as a result of that poor service. So Ive considered this.   
I can see that R started the redevelopment works on the property prior to securing the loan, 
and this was because they were able to use their own funds to start the work. At this stage, 
while they werent relying on funding from Lloyds, they were in contact with the relationship 
manager and let him know when the funding from Lloyds would be needed. R said the 
relationship manager told them the additional funding had been discussed and agreed with 
the underwriters, but from what Ive seen, the funding wasnt formally agreed. 
Its my understanding that R has a history of borrowing in a similar way from Lloyds and so 
has some experience of the lending process. It might be the case that given their history of 
borrowing from Lloyds, R assumed the lending would be forthcoming, and so made the 
decision to not delay the work any further and start without a formal offer. But, given their 
experience, I think they would also have known that until a formal loan offer is made, 
borrowing is not guaranteed. And its only at the point in time that Lloyds formally agree to 
lend, that any avoidable delays on Lloyds part might mean it could be liable for costs 
incurred as a direct result of the delays. 
I can appreciate why R have found this situation extremely frustrating. The service provided 
was very poor and the relationship manager often failed to respond to attempts to contact 
him for lengthy periods of time, and would often only respond when R indicated they would 
complain. I know that R thinks they might have secured the loan earlier, were it not for the 
significant delays caused by the relationship manager. But I cant say this would have been 
the case and, in any event, Lloyds are under no obligation to provide lending which is why 
lending shouldnt be relied on until its formally agreed. So I cant see that it would be fair to 
hold Lloyds responsible for losses incurred in redeveloping the property, before it formally 
agreed to be involved in the funding of the redevelopment. 
Ive also looked at whether the £2,000 compensation already offered by Lloyds is fair, given 
the poor level of service provided. Its important to note that this service does not award 
compensation for distress to limited companies as limited companies are legal entities in 
their own right who cannot experience distress. So Ive looked at whether the amount is fair 
considering the inconvenience caused, and Im satisfied its in line with what this service 
would suggest for this level of inconvenience over a lengthy period of time. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 Martina Ryan
Ombudsman