DRN-2465968
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (trading as Very) have 
disposed of an item that she returned, and she still has to pay for the item. 
What happened
Mrs A ordered a gaming console 4 for her son through Very on 10 January 2020 for 
£249.99. She bought it on a Buy Now Pay Later plan but paid for it in full on 30 January 
2020. 
 
In June 2020, Mrs A returned the item to Very asking for a refund as her son was not using 
it.  Very made a cash refund of £249.99 to Mrs A on 18 June 2020 for the console and a 
refund of £18.74 for the warranty on 19 June 2020.  A cheque was issued to Mrs A for the 
value of the item, which she cashed. 
Very subsequently examined the item on 9 July 2020 and found that the console had been 
used as it was scratched, and the earphones were missing. They decided that it was not 
eligible for a return. They returned the item to Mrs A. 
Mrs A disputed that the item had been used, telling Very that she had opened it and checked 
it, but had not used it as it was intended as a gift. She asked for the matter to be 
reconsidered, and on 23 July 2020 Mrs A was advised that the item could be returned again 
for a second inspection. 
On 29 July 2020 Mrs A was told by Very that the outcome would be communicated to her 
once it was received. 
On 30 July 2020 the item was inspected for a second time. Verys records show that on 
inspection the seal was broken and so the item was non-returnable, and also that the 
customer had had the item for 7 months. 
Very sent a letter to Mrs A on 31 July 2020 telling her that the item was not eligible for a 
return and she was required to pay for it. It says We will hold the item in our Returns Centre 
for six weeks. At the end of this period, if you have not contacted us, the item will be 
disposed of and no refund will be given. The six-week period would end on 11 September 
2020.
Mrs A contacted Very on 8 August 2020 to dispute this outcome and her complaint was 
escalated to the Customer Excellence Team. 
On 16 September 2020, Very issued a final response to Mrs A, confirming that the item was 
not returnable under the service guarantee as it had been opened and held by the customer 
for seven months.  
On 17 September 2020 Very sent a letter to Mrs A advising, Weve let you know that the 
item you returned to us would be held for 6 weeks and then disposed of unless you 
requested for it to be sent back to you. As your recent request is outside of the holding 
period the option to request it back no longer exists. 
On the same day, Very recharged Mrs As account to the value of £249.99 for the item.
 
Mrs A complained to us that she now has to pay for an item that she no longer has and 
cannot be returned to her. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs As complaint. She decided that Very had 
followed their returns policy and that Very hadnt done anything wrong.  
Mrs A disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to explain that there are two separate businesses that trade under the Very 
brand. The retail arm of Very is called Shop Direct Home Shopping Limited (SDHS). This is 
the business which sells the goods, and which received the return when it was sent back. 
They are responsible for processing the return, inspecting it, and it was SDHS who wrote to 
Mrs A on 31 July 2020 telling her that they would hold the item for six weeks and then 
dispose of it. 
The financial arm of Very is Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (SDFC). This is the 
business which is responsible for the credit provided to Mrs A to purchase the item. When 
Mrs A complained on 8 August 2020 to dispute the decision of 31 July 2020, her complaint 
was escalated to the Customer Excellence Team. They are part of (SDFC) and they issued 
the final response on 16 September 2020 advising that the complaint had not been upheld. 
They were satisfied that SDHS had fully inspected the item and found it to be used following 
the two inspections carried out, and that therefore it wasnt returnable under the terms of the 
guarantee. 
Where goods are bought using credit, in some circumstances the lender has equal 
responsibility for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the retailer. Ive thought about 
this, whether SDFC have properly considered whether SDHS has followed their own terms 
and conditions that apply to Mrs As agreements with Very, Verys records, and the 
testimony of Mrs A. 
Firstly, there is no suggestion here that there was anything wrong with the console sold to 
Mrs A. She simply decided, some time after buying it, that it was no longer required. That 
doesnt give rise to a claim under the Consumer Rights Act, or any other relevant legislation 
affording cancellation rights. But Mrs A does have a contractual right, in certain 
circumstances, to return goods that are not defective. 
SDHSs terms and conditions of their Home Approval Guarantee say:
4.5 Please note that if you wish to return goods under our Approval Guarantee, you have 28 
days from receipt of the goods to return them to us. 
Verys returns policy on their website further says, 
If you return goods outside the scope of the Approval Guarantee and have not exercised 
your legal right to cancel (explained below) we reserve the right to either:return the goods to you at your cost or
accept the return of the goods subject to us making a deduction from the refund to 
reflect any loss in value arising from your handling of the goods and to us applying a 
charge to cover our processing costs.
The website also says that returns should unused, complete, and in the original packaging.  
Very satisfied themselves that the item had been used through two inspections, returning it 
to Mrs A once but agreeing to take it back a second time to re-examine it. 
I accept that SDHS were entitled to refuse a refund to Mrs A for the console. The item was 
purchased in January 2020 and it was not returned until June 2020, which was clearly 
outside the 28-day period for the Home Approval Guarantee. That being the case, theres 
been no breach of the agreement, and I cant fairly conclude that SDFC has any liability to 
Mrs A for SDHSs refusal to accept the return. 
SDFC were not responsible for the disposal of the item and I do not understand them to 
have control over the actions of SDHS in relation to retaining or disposing of goods. The 
disposal doesnt give rise to a breach of contract such that SDFC might be held responsible 
as lender for the actions of the retailer. However, I need to be satisfied that SDFC acted 
reasonably in recharging Mrs A for the item. 
In this case, Mrs A was on notice that she needed to make contact within six weeks, or the 
item would be disposed of. She didnt make any contact asking for the return of the goods, 
although she did make contact to complain. 
Its possible Mrs A might have been prompted to take this action if someone had explained 
to her that the complaint process would not prevent her item from being disposed of. But I 
havent seen anything to suggest either arm of Very were aware Mrs A had made this 
assumption, or that they led her to do so. And as Ive already noted, SDHS had inspected 
the item and told Mrs A the outcome of those inspections. I cannot fairly say that SDFC have 
done anything wrong in recharging Mrs A for the item.  
I can appreciate Mrs As frustration that she no longer has the goods, and now has to pay for 
them. I can also see that as she was going through a complaint process she may have 
thought that she would still have the option for the return of the goods at the end. But that 
wasnt down to anything Very told her. Ultimately, it was Mrs As responsibility to request the 
item be returned, having received Verys letter of 31 July 2020 in which they had made their 
position clear.   
My final decision
My decision is that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited do not need to do anything 
further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman