DRN-4091566
The complaint
Mr F complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) dealt with 
a claim he made on his motor insurance policy following an accident that wasnt his fault. 
Any reference to Advantage includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr F has motor insurance with Advantage which runs from November 2021 to November 
2022. 
Mr F says his car was damaged by a third party following an accident at the beginning of 
March. The car was initially fine to drive but over the week it developed an angry noise and 
so Mr F reported it to his insurer. 
Advantage told Mr F to take his car to the agent handling the car repairs, who Ill refer to as 
E. Mr F says his car was swapped for a rental one and from then his car was either with E or 
the garage. 
At the end of April he contacted his insurer for an update. The repair garage subsequently 
contacted him and asked him to book his car in for a repair since they hadnt received it. But 
Mr F had provided E with his car in March. 
Mr F says his car took a further six weeks to repair and so he was without his car for three 
months in total. Mr F was told he could collect his vehicle through an online repair portal at 
the end of June. 
Mr F says he moved house in mid-June and ensured he notified his insurer, the repairing 
garage, and E of the move. Mr F says E contacted him to say he would need to pay his 
policy excess and collect his car, earlier than Mr F had arranged. E offered to deliver his car 
to his home address, but that was his old address; and he would need to return the rental 
car at the same time. So Mr F had to make arrangements to collect the car earlier than he 
had expected.
When he received his vehicle he realised the noise that had developed after the accident 
was still there. Mr F took his car for its annual service at the beginning of July and made 
Advantage aware of the issue with the sound. 
The garage that carried out the service told him the sound was due to a dislodged wheel 
bearing which meant the car was not safe to drive. So Mr F arranged for the necessary 
repair to be carried out and asked the repairing garage to do a report of the issue so he 
could send it to Advantage. 
Mr F says Advantage didnt accept the dislodged bearing was due to the accident since the 
car had no exterior damage to that part of the vehicle. 
Mr F says he wants Advantage to pay his costs. He says the cost of repairing his car was 
approximately £1000, plus the time it took to call and chase the various agents involved.
Mr F complained to his insurer about the way his claim was dealt with. Advantage accepted 
the repair took longer than it should have. It said this was due, in part, to a delay with parts. 
But there was some confusion about the confirmation of the repair. As a result it upheld the 
complaint and sent Mr F a cheque for £100 by way of compensation. In respect of the 
outstanding repair it said based on the evidence it didnt agree the repair was accident 
related.
Mr F wasnt happy with the response received from Advantage so he referred the complaint 
to this service. Our investigator looked into things for him. She said there had been 
significant avoidable delays in repairing Mr Fs car. And to acknowledge this she thought the 
compensation should be increased to £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. In 
respect of the additional repairs to Mr Fs car the investigator said in the absence of any 
independent evidence to say for sure the wheel bearing issue was definitely caused by the 
accident she wouldnt be able to ask Advantage to do anything further in this regard. 
Mr F didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why. 
Id like to assure Mr F that Ive considered all of his points, including what hes said in 
response to our investigators view via his representative. Ive focused on what I think is 
most relevant to the outcome of this complaint, rather than addressing each point 
individually. 
Claim delays
Mr F feels Advantage didnt communicate with him as he would have expected and there 
were periods of delay where the repairs werent being progressed. I have reviewed the 
information provided by both sides. I can see Mr F had to chase Advantage on more than a 
few occasions, and there were times when he was told things would happen that then didnt; 
such as arranging to collect his car on a particular date. 
Advantage accepted there were periods of delay during the repair process and I have 
discussed this further below.  
Wheel bearing 
Mr F believes the damage to his wheel bearing was related to the incident in which the side 
of his car was hit by a third party. 
When looking at complaints relating to claims for damage to a vehicle our service cant 
determine how the damage occurred. Instead what we look at is the information the 
insurance company relied on to make its decision and whether it treated the customer fairly 
in doing so. 
In this case Mr Fs car was repaired by the repairing garage and the work it carried out was 
specified and agreed by Advantage. Advantage reviewed the report provided by Mr F. It said, there was no indication of wheel damage, no damage to panels over either wheel, no 
geometry selected or required, images do show old damage to near side rear wheel, near 
side front wheel bearing reported, from images we have near side front wheel has no visible 
damage or contact. This would indicate wear and tear, bearings are a wear and tear item, 
and are often picked up on an MOT. We have no evidence to support this as being related to 
this incident.  The repairing garage didnt have any approval to repair the wheel bearing. All 
accident-related repairs were authorised and carried out.
Advantage sent Mr Fs report to its own engineers. But the engineers didnt agree the 
dislodged bearing was due to the accident. 
Mr F provided evidence from the garage that carried out his service and repairs. The report 
says, investigated noise from n/s. wheel bearing noise and rough on rotation. Stripped and 
inspected bearing, no signs of any corrosion, bearing possibly dislodged due to imp. The 
fact there was an issue with the wheel bearing is not in dispute. According to Advantages 
engineer the damage to the wheel bearing was not due to the accident. And Mr Fs report 
only says the bearing possibility dislodged due to the accident. 
Mr F has said Advantage should have been aware of the damaged wheel bearing but failed 
to address it when his car was being repaired. But it isnt the insurers responsibility to repair 
all issues identified on the vehicle. Its responsibility is limited to repairing the accident-related 
damage only. The terms and conditions of Mr Fs policy are clear the insurer will cover the 
costs of repairing damage caused by an accident only. Since Advantage said the wheel 
bearing wasnt accident-related its repair wasnt covered by the policy.
I can see Mr F believes Advantage shouldnt have turned down the repair to the wheel 
bearing. But Advantage have declined that part of the claim because the wheel bearing is a 
wear and tear issue and is unlikely to have been caused by the accident. And since its not 
caused by the accident it isnt covered by the policy.  
I believe Advantage made a fair decision not to cover the damage to the wheel bearing and 
is entitled to rely on the information provided to it by its engineer. 
Having thought about this carefully Im not persuaded Mr F has demonstrated that its more 
likely than not his wheel bearing was damaged in the accident. And thinking more widely 
about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances I dont think it would be fair to 
compel Advantage to pay for that repair on Mr Fs car. 
Putting things right 
Having reviewed all the documentation it is clear to me an award is due for the distress this 
whole episode caused Mr F. However dealing with an insurance claim involving such 
damage is inevitably inconvenient and taking time off work or making phone calls and 
responding to emails is necessary for a lot of cases like this. And I wouldnt normally award 
compensation for what would be considered the normal handling of an insurance claim. 
I can see there has been some confusion over where Mr Fs car was, and who should notify 
the repairing garage that the car had been dropped off for repair, and when Mr F could 
collect his car once the repairs were completed. I can see Mr F would have been frustrated 
at having to chase Advantage for updates and information. I think this was unfortunate but 
Im pleased Advantage recognised it could have provided a more proactive and transparent 
process and offered Mr F £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Our investigator 
felt £200 was more appropriate in the circumstances of the claim. And I agree.  I know Mr F will be disappointed with my decision. Advantage has accepted there were 
some delays in progressing Mr Fs car repairs. But the handling of the repairs themselves is 
what I would have expected. So I cant fairly ask Advantage to do anything more in respect 
of the those. 
Putting things right
To compensate Mr F for the delays in dealing with the claim Advantage should pay £200 in 
compensation. I say this because its not clear why there were such delays after Mr F had 
dropped his car off in March to when the car was picked up for repair. And its clear to me 
the impact that this has had on him; particular stress and upset to Mr F. Im therefore 
satisfied £200 is fair and reasonable compensation for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I am upholding this complaint and direct Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr F £200 in resolution of his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman