DRN-3176568
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr M bought solar panels for his home in 2016. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr M alleges that the installer misled Mr M into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding.
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the 
documents from the time of sale (which Mr M signed) made clear that there would be a 
monthly deficit between the benefits of the solar panels and the loan repayments. Including 
that the benefits of the solar would not cover the purchase price (including the costs of the 
loan, such as interest) until 20 years after purchase. So, the adjudicator did not think a 
misrepresentation had taken place. 
Mr M disagreed. His representatives allege that Mr M may not have had access to this 
documentation at the time of sale, or that he didnt have an opportunity to read it. They 
suggest that in their experience this sort of sale was often conducted based on verbal 
representations rather than documentation. And that sometime clients didnt receive the 
sales documents until after installation. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our adjudicator, Ive been asked to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Im satisfied that Mr M was provided with the sales documents, as his representative sent us 
a copy which he had taken photos of. It seems likely that he wouldve seen these at the time 
of sale, as he has signed the document. His representative says this was signed 
electronically. But even if that was the case and he didnt receive his own copy of this until 
later, I think he then wouldve had the opportunity to read them and that it shouldve been 
clear to him that the solar panels were not self-funding in the way he says he was told they 
would be. If that was within the cooling off period he couldve cancelled the contract. And if it 
was outside that time he couldve made a complaint. 
Im also mindful that the installer prepared documents that clearly showed the monthly deficit 
between the benefits of the solar panels and the monthly loan repayment for each year of 
the loan. Not just for a 15-year loan term, but also for two shorter loan terms where the 
monthly deficit was much greater. On balance, I think these figures were most likely 
discussed in order that Mr M could choose the loan term he felt was most appropriate. 
So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would justify me upholding this complaint. While Mr Ms memory of 
what happened provides some evidence, I find the documents from the time of sale to be 
more persuasive in terms of what information he was likely to have been given to him at the 
time of sale. And that even if he was told something different, they ought reasonably to have 
prompted him to question what he had been told. That he didnt do that tends, I think, to 
suggest that the documents most likely did not contradict Mr Ms understanding, at that time, 
of what he was signing or had signed up to.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman