DRN-2435616
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc wont refund the cost of a training course which he 
paid for using his Sainsburys Bank credit card.  
What happened
In June 2019 Mr Y attended an investment seminar hosted by a company which Ill call W. 
The seminar was held at a hotel in London. While there, Mr Y signed up to a training course 
costing £2,364. He split the cost over two credit cards, paying £1,260 using his Sainsburys 
Bank card. 
W later contacted Mr Y to arrange the dates of his training. A few days after that, however, 
he contacted W to say that he no longer wanted to take the course. It seems that he had 
read some online reviews indicating that a number of the claims made for the course were 
not true. He asked for a refund, which was declined. 
Mr Y therefore contacted both credit card providers. Initially, both declined his request, 
although the other provider reviewed its decision and refunded the payment on Mr Ys 
account. Sainsburys Bank did not, however, and Mr Y referred the matter to this service. 
One of our investigators reviewed what had happened and recommended that Sainsburys 
Bank refund the payment of £1,260. She said that the effect of The Consumer Contracts 
(Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013 (the Regulations) 
was that Mr Y had 14 days in which to cancel the contract with W. He had validly exercised 
that right and so should have received a refund. 
Sainsburys Bank did not agree that the contract was an off-premises contract. There was 
therefore no right to cancel and no breach of contract on the part of W. It asked that an 
ombudsman review the complaint.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that, because he paid for the 
course using his credit card, if Mr Y has a claim for breach of contract against W, he has a 
like claim against Sainsburys Bank. The investigator took the view that Mr Ys contract with 
W was an off-premises contract which was to be read as including a right to cancel. Mr Y 
had validly cancelled the contract and so W was in breach of contract by not providing a 
refund. 
Under the Regulations The consumer may cancel a distance or off-premises contract at any 
time in the cancellation period without giving any reason, and without incurring any 
liability [Regulation 29]
Mr Ys contract with W was not a distance contract. It was concluded face-to-face. The 
investigator thought however that it was an off-premises contract. 
Regulation 5 says that a contract concluded in the simultaneous physical presence of the 
trader and the consumer, in a place which is not the business premises of the trader is an 
off-premises contract. And it says that business premises  means - 
a) any immovable retail premises where the activity of the trader is carried out on a 
permanent basis, or
b) any movable retail premises where the activity of the trader is carried out on a usual 
basis
The contract was concluded at a hotel which M was using for a seminar. The hotel was not a 
place where Ms activity was carried out on a permanent basis. It is reasonable to assume 
that M had simply hired a conference room or rooms at the hotel to run a seminar. It had its 
own premises where the course was to be delivered. Neither was the hotel movable retail 
premises where M operated on a usual basis. Apart from anything else, it was not movable.
The form which was completed when Mr Y agreed to buy the training package included a 
statement that the agreement was deemed an on premises contract and that the cooling-off 
period did not apply. Mr Y did not sign the statement. But in any event, as the investigator 
noted, whether or not the agreement was an off-premises contract is a question of fact. And 
generally it is not possible to agree by contract that statutory consumer protections (such as 
those given by the Regulations) should not apply. 
It follows that Regulation 29 applied here and that Mr Y was entitled to cancel the contract 
and seek a refund from M. He did that within the time allowed under the Regulations but did 
not receive a refund. In my view it would therefore be fair for him to receive a refund from 
Sainsburys Bank. 
Putting things right
In refunding the payment which Mr Y made using his credit card, Sainsburys Bank should 
backdate the refund to the date of payment, so that any interest or charges resulting from it 
are also refunded. If Mr Y has paid the balance, it should make the refund direct and add 
interest at 8% a year simple from the date of payment to the date of the refund.     
My final decision
My final decision is that Sainsburys Bank Plc should refund to Mr Y the payment of £1,260.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman