DRN-2698243
The complaint
Mr F complains about an Exchange Traded Fund he invested in through his share dealing 
account with Trading 212 UK Limited, trading as Trading 212. He says he was mis-sold the 
investment, and lost money as a result.
What happened
Mr Fs position
Mr F invested in an inverse Exchange Traded Fund (ETF), Lyxor Daily Shortdax x 1, on 19 
March 2020. Hes explained he invested in 2790 positions, and when the price of the trade 
went against him, he suffered a 20% loss, despite only a 10% price change. He says 
Trading 212 incorrectly invested his funds into Lyxor Daily Shortdax x 2, and that he didnt 
know that he had invested in a leveraged product. This meant his investment went from a 
1:1 ETF, to 2:1, and magnified his losses. Mr F told us he has lost around £41,000 as a 
result of this.
Mr F has told us the Key Information Document about the instrument wasnt easily available, 
which is against regulations. Mr F has also said the document wasnt available on the mobile 
application, which is what he used to manage his investments. He says if it was available 
after the first investment, he would not have invested in this again. Mr F has said he didnt 
become aware of the error until 30th March 2020, by which point he had already made the 
investment. He says he was assured by Trading 212 that he was investing in a 1:1 ETF. He 
would like his losses reimbursed.
  
Trading 212s position 
In March 2020, Trading 212 say they received Mr Fs complaint that they invested in the 
wrong instrument, and that the funds were not invested in Lyxor Daily Shortdax x1. In April 
2020, they confirmed that the product was incorrectly labelled and was actually Lyxor Daily 
Shortdax x2. Trading212 say Mr F held 2790 positions before he expressed his concerns, 
and so they calculated his losses based on this. They agreed to reimburse him £2400 which 
they calculated to be the difference between the two products. This was half of his losses 
based on 2:1 leverage, as he had always intended to invest in a product that was 1:1. 
Trading 212 say Mr F purchased further positions after he had complained to them on 20th 
March 2020. They say his complaint was that he had been mis-sold the investment, but that 
because he was the one that informed them that it was the wrong product, they dont feel 
they should be held responsible for any additional losses incurred after this date. Trading 
212 say Mr F made the decision to invest in a further 9392 positions, in the same product 
knowing at this point it was a leveraged product. They say any losses he incurred with these 
positions can be attributed to liquidity issues in the market. 
In addition, they say the Key Information Document is easily accessible on the main page of 
their website.
Investigators view
Our investigator looked at the complaint and agreed with Trading 212 that the losses he 
incurred on the 2790 positions, before notifying them of the error, should be reimbursed and 
that their offer was fair. He didnt think the losses incurred on the further 9392 positions 
should be reimbursed, as Mr F was aware of the issue before he made these further 
investments. He also commented on the accessibility of the Key Information Document, and 
he didnt think this was difficult to locate.
Mr F rejected Trading 212s offer of £2400, as he says this doesnt factor in all of his losses. 
He doesnt accept that liquidity issues explain the discrepancy in his losses. Because he 
didnt agree with the investigator, his complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering the complaint, I first need to look at what the business should do in this 
situation. They are expected to consider Mr Fs appropriateness for trading, including 
checking his experience and knowledge of these types of investments, to understand the 
risks involved. Although this doesnt mean he had to have traded this product before, they 
need to look at what types of investments he has previously held. In his application for 
opening the Trading 212 account, Mr F said he had previously traded in CFDs, Foreign 
Exchange, Shares, Futures, Warrants, and Options. In addition, he said he had knowledge 
of leverage and stop losses, and also had use of a CFD practice trading account. This range 
of experience would satisfy the requirements of appropriateness, and also clearly shows his 
appetite for risk.
I would then need to consider whether Trading 212 explained to Mr F how the investment 
worked, and what risk is involved. Risk warnings are often given as part of the terms and 
conditions of an account, or in a separate document provided by the business. I have seen 
that Mr F confirmed he had read the Client Agreement, the Client information, the Risk 
Disclosure Notice, and Terms of Use. 
The core of Mr Fs complaint relates to this - that the product information Trading 212 had 
given him was incorrect. It was listed as Lyxor Daily Shortdax x1 instead of x2. He says that 
the Key Information Document (KID) whilst it was correct in listing the product, was not 
easily accessible and wasnt available on the mobile app that he was using. Trading 212 
didnt agree with this. They said the link to the KID was on their website, right next to the 
product and was readily available. I agree with Trading 212, from what I have seen, the KID 
was easily accessible, and that they have complied with any requirements to provide the 
information here.
In terms of the product name being incorrect, I agree with Mr F. The incorrect product name 
meant he invested in a different product which doubled his losses, when he had no intention 
of doing this. Trading 212 have also accepted an error was made in the product name and 
have agreed to reimburse Mr F his losses. They made an offer of £2400 based on 2790 
positions purchased prior to making the complaint on 30 March 2020. Their offer doesnt 
factor in any losses incurred after 4 April 2020, when Trading 212 confirmed the error had 
been made. I agree with their approach to this, because Mr F could have closed these 
positions at this point. With the experience he mentions in trading previously, I feel he was in 
a position to understand the impact of leverage and make an informed decision to mitigate 
any further losses that would have been incurred on these positions. Instead he chose to keep these positions open until June 2020, which increased his losses further, so I dont 
think it would be fair to hold Trading 212 responsible for the additional losses. 
Trading 212s offer of £2400 was calculated using the current price 4.929 EUR, and took 
away the average opening price 6.8591 EUR. The total loss for these positions was 
5,384.979 EUR, and half of this amount based on x 2.1 loss is 2,692.4895 EUR. Converted 
to GBP this is £2370. Trading 212 rounded their offer up to £2400. This offer is fair and in 
line with an award I would make in this situation.
Mr F was unhappy with this offer, because it didnt compensate him for the further 9392 
positions that he had purchased in this product. I understand why he feels strongly about 
this, particularly as Trading 212 didnt admit the error until 4 April 2020. So, I reviewed the 
communications between Mr F and Trading 212 to see what had actually been said. On the 
day of his initial investment, the same evening, he sent them an email saying, The 
product is listed on your app as Lyxor Daily Shortdax x1. After tallying up my performance 
at end of day, losses were double what I expected, and similar to the leveraged x2 funds.
Mr F then emailed them again the following day to say You've mis-sold me this financial 
product. You say the product is unleveraged, but in reality, it's x2 leveraged. This was the 
formal complaint he made, but he then proceeded to purchase a further 9392 positions 
between 20-24 March 2020. Regardless of the fact that Trading 212 hadnt admitted to the 
error until much later, it is clear to me that Mr F had become aware that something wasnt 
right on 20 March 2020. His email is clear in saying that he believed it to be a leveraged 
product, and so I am persuaded by the evidence that Mr F continued to make further 
investments knowing it wasnt the x1 product he had initially expected. This leads me to 
conclude that he decided to continue investing in this product at his own risk, so I dont think 
it would be fair and reasonable to hold Trading 212 responsible for any losses incurred in 
these further positions.
I know Mr F doesnt accept Trading 212s reasoning for the losses in additional trades, so I 
think its important to understand the instrument that he has invested in, and the impact this 
has. An ETF is traded on an exchange just like stocks, and so the shares will fluctuate in 
price the same as stocks on the market. Mr F invested in an Inverse ETF linked to the 
German DAX 30 Index, which essentially bets that the index will decline. Where the index 
shows an increase, the Inverse ETF will show a loss. That said, the ETF doesnt necessarily 
have to move in equal proportions to the index. Other factors such as exposure to other 
companies participating in the index play a part in this movement.
The Inverse fund would also be impacted by daily rebalancing, so even if the market moved 
in Mr Fs favour, it is likely to still underperform over a period of time. Even where the market 
falls generating a profit on an Inverse fund, any rise in the market would generate a loss 
which would outweigh any profits made. For this reason, it is generally suitable for day 
trading, and not usually held for medium to long term. Mr F should consider this when 
thinking about the losses hes incurred. He held these for several months and only liquidated 
these in June 2020. Given the circumstances, it was ultimately his responsibility to decide 
how to manage his positions. As Ive explained above, I am satisfied he made the decision 
to invest in these further positions himself, and I dont think Trading 212 can be held 
responsible for any losses incurred on these trades.
I am sorry to hear Mr F has been going through a difficult time, particularly as hes informed 
us of his circumstances and health concerns. While this may be something that would have 
impacted his account opening, or the way in which information was given to him, I havent 
seen anything that would suggest Trading 212 knew, or ought to have known about this 
then. So I wouldnt expect them to have done anything differently, as they hadn't been aware 
of this at the time.  Having thought carefully about Mr Fs complaint, with the losses hes incurred, he will be 
disappointed with the outcome of my decision. As Ive explained above, I feel Trading 212s 
offer to reimburse him £2400 is fair and reasonable and I will not be asking them to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against 
Trading 212 UK Limited trading as Trading 212. They should make payment of £2400 to 
Mr F in accordance with their initial offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman