DRN-3175509
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited declined to replace 
a defective carpet it had provided following a previous claim in 2019, under their home 
insurance policy. 
Mr and Mrs D are represented by their son, Mr D in this complaint. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D say a carpet was damaged by a leak a few years ago. Lloyds arranged for this 
to be replaced under their home insurance policy. 18 months later they say the carpet has a 
lot of lines across it and has become very flat. They dont think the carpet is of good quality, 
which is why its showing signs of wear. Mr and Mrs D think the carpet is faulty and want 
Lloyds to replace it. 
Lloyds says it accepted an accidental damage claim under Mr and Mrs Ds home insurance 
policy in January 2019. It appointed its carpet specialist to deal with the claim. It says the 
carpet was replaced with one of similar quality. When it was contacted in January 2021 it 
says it gave incorrect information that a warranty was still in place when in fact it wasnt. It 
paid £150 compensation for this error and for a delay in handling the complaint. 
Lloyds arranged an inspection of the carpet because of Mr and Mrs Ds view that it was 
faulty. The report says the signs of flattening are in the main traffic area and turning 
points. It says the distorted pile and lines are not due to a manufacturing issue but due to 
wear and tear over the last 18 months.       
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy that Lloyds wouldnt replace the carpet and referred their 
complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold their complaint. He thought it was 
reasonable that Lloyds had relied on an inspection carried out by a carpet specialist, in 
determining its view that the carpet wasnt damaged due to a manufacturing fault. Based on 
this he thought Lloyds had treated Mr and Mrs D fairly. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree that this was a fair outcome because of the extent of lines and flat 
areas showing in the carpet after 18 months. They asked for an ombudsman to review their 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs D, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair 
When Mr and Mrs D contacted Lloyds in January 2021 to complain about the lines and flat 
areas in their carpet, it arranged an inspection by a carpet specialist. I think this was 
reasonable and something wed would expect an insurer to do in these circumstances.
I have read the report to understand what the specialist considered and concluded. The 
report says:
Upon close inspection of the carpets, I found that the carpet pile was flattening in the 
entrance doorway to the room and in front of the chair and settee. There were also lines 
appearing in the main traffic area of the lounge part of the through lounge/diner, there are no 
issues with the dining area. The affected areas are located within the main footfall traffic 
areas and turning points, the layout of the property and placement of furniture has created. 
The TV shuffle areas in front of the seating areas of the room as well as the natural turning 
circles within the traffic pathways are all showing the distorted carpet pile and lines. The 
distorted pile and lines are due to the turning action of a person's feet in the natural turning 
points of the traffic pathways as well as the movement of feet within the TV shuffle areas. TV 
shuffle is the movement of feet whilst a person is seated.
I therefore return my report for your consideration and confirm that there is flattening of the 
pile and lines which are caused by localised conditions and therefore not manufacturing 
defects.
Conclusion: No Manufacturing Defects Found.
Mr D has since supplied a carpet inspection report from a flooring services company. The 
report says:
1) The new carpet has been fitted on existing underlay, which I felt should have been 
removed and replaced with new, as said underlay is several years old and showing signs of 
breaking down.
2) The carpet used to replace original is not on par with the quality of the previous one, 
therefore the carpet in question is now showing premature signs of deterioration and wear. 
We supplied a copy of this report to Lloyds and asked for its comments. It didnt think the 
report provided detailed information as to why it thought the carpet wasnt on par with the 
previous carpet. We asked it to comment specifically on the underlay point. Lloyds says an 
insurer is required to replace damaged items only. It says the underlay didnt form part of the 
original claim. It also says this is why its specialist didnt need to inspect the underlay.
Lloyds says Mr and Mrs Ds flooring company doesnt understand how home insurance 
works. And hasnt provided additional evidence to support its view regarding the condition of 
the underlay or carpet. 
Lloyds asked its carpet specialist, also responsible for installing the carpet in 2019, whether 
the quality of the replacement was similar to that it was replacing. It says:
 the assessor (who is a carpet fitter and very used to dealing with carpets on a daily basis) 
confirmed the type of carpet on site and the policy holder picked a sample there and then. 
How we know that the carpet is like for like is from the following points;
The backing of the carpet is felt indicating that the carpet is lower end/lower quality. You 
can also see by the photos that the carpet is a shorter pile. We have validated based on a 
Cormar Sensation, which the assessor confirmed would be like for like, in our true opinion, 
the Cormar carpet is actually a better quality carpet than the one the policy holder originally 
had. I have thought about the report Mr and Mrs D provided. I acknowledge the points raised, but 
little detail is provided to explain why the carpet Lloyds fitted is considered inferior to the one 
it replaced. I acknowledge the comment regarding the underlay. But Lloyds confirms this 
wasnt damaged or included as part of the claim in 2019.
If the underlay wasnt damaged in the incident in 2019, but had suffered wear and tear, 
Lloyds isnt obliged to pay for the replacement. The policy has a clause which says Lloyds 
will not pay for damage where this results from:
A gradually operating cause. This is something that happens gradually over time.
-Wear and tear.
This kind of clause is common in home insurance policies. It isnt inherently unfair  wed 
expect an insurer to cover damage caused by an insured event but not to replace things 
worn out through age or use over time. And its set out clearly in the main body of the policy. 
What I must ask here is has Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably overall when handling this 
matter. 
Lloyds has relied on the view provided by a qualified and recognised expert. From this it 
concluded theres no requirement for it to arrange a replacement carpet. 
We arent carpet experts and must rely on the expert opinion provided. Based on the 
evidence provided I think Lloyds has behaved in a fair and reasonable way when 
considering Mr and Mrs Ds claim. I have considered both expert reports. But on balance I 
think the expert opinion Lloyds provided is more persuasive in confirming that any lines and 
flattening effects are not the result of an issue with the carpet. Its provided a detailed 
account of how this wear has likely occurred and why its present in the areas identified. 
Mr D has supplied documentation from the carpet manufacturer to show the warranty was 
for a 24-month period not 12 months. I dont think this impacts here, given the specialists 
view that there is no fault with the carpet. But I think it was fair that Lloyds paid Mr and Mrs D 
£150 compensation for confusion around this point and for a delay in its communication.  
Having considered all of this, I dont think Lloyds acted unreasonably in declining to replace 
Mr and Mrs Ds carpet. So, I cant fairly ask it to do more to resolve their complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman