DRN-3135802
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Wilson Tarquin Ltd demanded a fee for making a claim for mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) on her behalf. Mrs B complains that she hadnt 
authorised them to go ahead with a claim  and that she felt intimidated and harassed by 
their phone calls.
What happened
Mrs B says that, in August 2019, she asked Wilson Tarquin to carry out a free PPI search for 
her. She says she received a confirmation email from them saying We have received your 
welcome pack back at our office and we are preparing your file to begin our free 
investigation. 
Mrs B says she heard nothing more from Wilson Tarquin until December 2020, when she 
received a phone call from them out of the blue. She says she didnt recognise the company 
name. She says shed received a number of silent calls around that time, which shed found 
stressful and intimidating. Mrs B complained that she hadnt signed any document 
authorising Wilson Tarquin to make a PPI claim on her behalf and asked them to stop 
harassing her with phone calls. 
In response to her complaint, Wilson Tarquin said Mrs B had signed up to their services on 8 
August 2019 using a mobile device  and that they were satisfied that shed entered 
personal data including her date of birth, address, telephone number and email address. 
They said her signature had been obtained in E-sign format and that this may have some 
differences to her usual wet signature. They didnt accept that theyd done anything wrong in 
their attempts to contact her by telephone. They sent her an invoice for their fee of £375.62 
for a successful PPI claim made on her behalf.
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs B. He thought the engagement letter shed signed 
made it clear Wilson Tarquin offered a full claim service  and that shed agreed to their fee 
of 24% (including VAT) of any gross compensation she received. But he felt theyd given Mrs 
B the impression that theyd carry out a free PPI check - and that 16 months without any 
update was unreasonable. He thought this had led to the upset Mrs B had felt when she 
started receiving calls she didnt recognise. He said Wilson Tarquin should pay her £200 
compensation for the upset shed been caused by this lack of updates, and that their invoice 
should be reduced accordingly.
Wilson Tarquin disagreed. They said in this case no update had been provided until 
December 2020 because they had no update to give. They said it had been impossible for 
them to chase for updates at that time because the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had 
asked them not to do so, due to the backlog of PPI claims submitted just before the 
deadline. They stressed that this was outside their control and that the lender shouldve sent 
holding letters. They felt Mrs B was aware that shed signed up for their services and who it 
was trying to contact her. 
Wilson Tarquin said that Mrs B would never have received a PPI refund without their 
involvement and that a £200 reduction off the fee balance would not reflect the level of work 
theyd put into the case. They offered a reduction of £100 off their fee as a goodwill gesture.
Mrs B said she didnt accept this because she felt Wilson Tarquin had harassed her, ignoring 
her requests to stop contacting her when she wasnt well. 
My provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The FCA sets out rules and guidance that businesses such as Wilson Tarquin must follow  
these are set out in the Claims Management Conduct of Business Sourcebook (CMCOB). 
This includes the following requirements:
Not to take any payment from a customer unless theyve signed an agreement that 
provides for payment to be made (CMCOB 2.1.10);
To provide customers with certain information before entering into an agreement 
(CMCOB 4.2.2);
To provide updates on the progress of the claim at least once every six months 
(CMCOB 6.1.9).
Ive considered Mrs Bs complaint with these rules in mind. 
Was there a signed agreement?
Mrs B feels strongly that she didnt authorise Wilson Tarquin to make a claim on her behalf - 
she says she only agreed to their offer of a free check to see whether shed ever had PPI. 
Im satisfied that shed had to fill out some kind of instruction to them for this service, 
because the email she received from Wilson Tarquin on 9 August 2019 said theyd received 
her welcome pack. The letters of engagement and authority theyve shown us are both dated 
the previous day. So, although Mrs B may not recall signing those documents and questions 
whether this was in fact her signature, I find it most likely that she did sign and return them to 
Wilson Tarquin electronically, using a mobile device.
However, CMCOB 2.1.11 sets out further guidance about the signing of an agreement which 
I consider to be particularly relevant in this case. It says that, for an agreement to be 
regarded as having been signed, Wilson Tarquin also need to have complied with the 
requirements of CMCOB 4. This includes a requirement to provide Mrs B with certain 
information before she entered into the agreement - and to satisfy themselves that she 
understood what she was signing up for. Ive gone on to consider these points in more detail.
Was adequate information provided before Mrs B signed the agreement?
CMCOB 4.2.1 requires Wilson Tarquin to provide the customer with a single-page summary 
document written in plain language, so its meaning is easy to understand. This must 
include:
a brief description of the services the firm will provide;
a fee illustration or estimate;
a brief description of the customers right to cancel the agreement;
a brief description of the customers right to end the agreement and any fees the 
customer will have to pay if they do so.I consider the provision of clear information about the agreement to be fundamental to 
ensuring customers understand what theyre signing up for. And based on the evidence Ive 
seen so far, Im not satisfied that Mrs B wouldve appreciated what she was signing up for 
here  even if shed downloaded and read the documents Wilson Tarquin say they provided. 
I say this because I consider those documents to have misrepresented the service they were 
offering to carry out on her behalf. 
Wilson Tarquins letter of engagement said that, by signing the document, Mrs B was 
entering into a legally binding agreement for their claim service. Their terms and conditions 
went into more detail about what this service consisted of. They said that, if Wilson Tarquin 
believed PPI had been mis-sold to Mrs B, theyd prepare and present a detailed claim to the 
creditor. And that theyd correspond and negotiate with the creditor to try to get 
compensation. They said theyd update Mrs B on the current stage of the claim whenever 
any progress was made or every six months, whichever was sooner. 
Mrs B signed the agreement three weeks before the deadline for making complaints about 
mis-sold PPI. To help deal with the large volume of complaints at that time, lenders had 
begun streamlining their processes. Many lenders decided that, as soon as they identified 
that a customer had previously been sold PPI, theyd automatically convert the enquiry into a 
complaint. This meant that, in Mrs Bs case, Wilson Tarquin didnt have to do any further 
work to convert the results of the free PPI check into a complaint or to claim compensation 
- the lender did this automatically. 
Mrs B has told us that she expected to hear from Wilson Tarquin if they found shed had PPI, 
so that she had the option of deciding whether she wanted to make a claim herself. Having 
reviewed the information Wilson Tarquin made available to her, Im not satisfied that they 
clearly explained whether shed be able to cancel or terminate the agreement after her free 
PPI check  or what charges might apply if she did so.
 
The terms and conditions say Mrs B could cancel the agreement at any time. They clearly 
state that she wouldnt have to pay anything if she cancelled within 14 days of signing the 
agreement. But I can make no sense of the clauses about cancellation at a later date - I find 
these to be poorly written, unclear and confusing. They state that, if Mrs B cancelled at any 
time after the pre-submission and Wilson Tarquin had been notified that an offer of 
reasonable compensation is due to her, shed be liable to pay the success fee. No 
explanation is given as to what a pre-submission is. And in the absence of any further 
explanation or updates from Wilson Tarquin, I cant see how Mrs B wouldve known when 
she could no longer cancel the agreement without charge.
 
For the reasons Ive set out, I consider the information Wilson Tarquin provided to Mrs B to 
have misrepresented the service they were offering - and not to have made clear when she 
could terminate the agreement without charge. And because Im not satisfied that Mrs B 
understood the nature of the agreement she signed, I dont consider it to be fair for her to be 
bound by it  or to have to pay Wilson Tarquins fee.
Were appropriate updates provided about progress of the claim?
Ive considered the representations Wilson Tarquin have made about the practical difficulties 
they faced at that time. But Im not persuaded that it was reasonable for them to have no 
contact with Mrs B between August 2019 and December 2020. If theyd provided periodic 
updates, I think she wouldve been aware that they were providing her with an ongoing claim 
service  and this may have prompted her to ask about cancelling the contract. 
Wilson Tarquin say Mrs B wouldve received a letter from the lender in November 2020, 
advising her that shed be receiving some compensation. They said their terms and conditions required her to contact them when she received that letter. They say she mustve 
received it, because the lender wouldnt have issued their final response the following month 
unless shed supplied proof of her current address. They feel she knew who was trying to 
contact her in December 2020. Ive thought about the point theyve made here.
Having listened to the recording of the call made to Mrs B on 15 December 2020, Im 
satisfied that she didnt recognise Wilson Tarquin as a company shed contracted to provide 
a PPI claim service. Theyd advised her that they were preparing to begin her free 
investigation on 9 August 2019. Having heard nothing more from them for 16 months, I can 
understand why shed think theyd simply carried out a free PPI check for her. And I think it 
was reasonable for her to assume nothing had come of this - and that was the end of their 
involvement.
 
Ive seen evidence that Wilson Tarquin called Mrs B at least 12 times over a period of six or 
seven weeks, each time leaving no message as to whod tried to contact her. Mrs B has told 
us shed suffered very severe health problems and had been very unwell at the time of 
receiving these silent calls. She says they caused her a great deal of distress - and that she 
felt harassed and intimidated by their continued demands for payment after shed disputed 
their fee.
 
Having listened to the recordings of those calls, I dont underestimate the distress and 
inconvenience Mrs B has been caused. But I bear in mind the benefit shes had by not 
having to submit a PPI enquiry to the lender herself. So, I dont think it would be appropriate 
to make any further award. 
I said I was minded to direct Wilson Tarquin to cancel their invoice to Mrs B and not to 
enforce payment for any sums that might otherwise be due to them under the terms of the 
agreement. I invited both parties to send me any further information or comments theyd like 
me to consider.
Mrs B said that she was satisfied with my provisional decision and didnt feel she needed to 
add anything further. Wilson Tarquin didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information in response to my provisional findings, 
I see no reason to depart from them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and direct Wilson 
Tarquin Ltd to cancel their invoice to Mrs B, and not to enforce payment for any sums that 
might otherwise be due to them under the terms of the agreement.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman