DRN-2556949
The complaint
Mr A says Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr A took out the policy alongside a mortgage in December 2001. 
Mr A paid a monthly amount of £26.63 for the policy, which provided a monthly benefit 
amount of £441. If Mr A was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant  the policy 
would have paid out this amount for up to 12 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As case. Having done so, I dont uphold Mr As 
complaint and Ill explain why.
Santander had to make it clear to Mr A that the policy was optional, and it had to get his 
consent before it added PPI to his account. Santander says it would have done this, but 
Mr A says he was led to believe it was a requirement of his application.
The sale took place a long time ago, so while Ive seen Mr As mortgage application, neither 
party has been able to provide much information about how the policy was sold. Because of 
this, I need to decide what I think is most likely to have happened. 
Over the years, weve seen a number of Santander cases involving various methods of sales 
from around the same period Mr A would have been sold his PPI. Using what I know 
generally of Santanders sales practices at the time, I think its more likely than not Mr A 
would have been given an option to take out the PPI and that Santander would have gained 
his consent before setting up his PPI.
Both parties agree that Santander would have advised Mr A to take the policy. This puts 
more responsibility on Santander  it means as well as giving Mr A enough information 
about the policy, it also had to check it was suitable for him. So, Ive considered the case on 
the basis that advice was given and having done so, the policy appears to have been right 
for him. I say this because, from the information Ive seen, Mr A was eligible for the policy 
and he doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the terms which might have made it 
harder for him to make a claim, such as having a pre-existing medical condition or unusual 
employment circumstances. 
Mr A says he was entitled to six months full pay, followed by six months half pay if he was 
off sick from work. But he didnt have any other way to make his repayments if he fell on 
hard times. The policy would have paid out in addition to Mr As sick pay and he could have 
made repeat claims subject to a requalification period. So, I think Mr A could have found the 
policy useful if he lost his job or was too unwell to work, particularly if he was off sick for 
longer than six months, when his pay would have reduced by half.
Mr A says that he wanted to keep costs down, but I havent seen anything to suggest the 
policy was unaffordable for Mr A at the time it was taken. And it could have been cancelled 
at any time without penalty if his circumstances changed.
Its possible Santander didnt give Mr A all of the other information he needed  I dont know 
if the PPI cost and benefits were made clear before Mr A agreed to take the policy. But Mr A 
chose to take out the cover when he didnt have to, so he seems to have wanted it. And for 
the same reasons as I think the policy was suitable for Mr A, I dont think better information 
would have changed his decision to take the policy.
The mortgage was a big and long-term commitment, secured against Mr As home. And the 
repercussions of not keeping up with repayments could have been serious. So, considering 
everything, I think the policy could have been useful to Mr A and I dont think he lost out 
because of anything Santander did wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman