DRN-3373573
The complaint
Mr D isnt happy that his loan application was declined by Lloyds Bank PLC and they 
couldnt tell him why. 
What happened
In October 2020 Mr D applied for a loan with Lloyds in his local branch. He was told that hed 
receive a call about his application, but he didnt. Mr D called Lloyds on 23 October 2020 
and was told that he wasnt eligible for a loan. But because the application hed made was 
informal, Lloyds couldnt tell him why it had been declined. Mr D has said that Lloyds told 
him this may have been because he usually transferred any surplus cash into his savings 
account.
Mr D wasnt happy with this. He said that he was told when he opened his savings account 
and received an overdraft on his bank account, this would help him manage his finances. 
And he felt hed managed his accounts well. So he didnt understand why his application had 
been declined. 
Mr D complained to Lloyds and they replied on 18 February 2021 upholding his complaint. 
They apologised that Mr D may not have been given the correct information when he took 
out his savings account and overdraft. They agreed that he shouldnt have been told these 
products would help him to manage his finances. Due to the time that had passed, Lloyds 
didnt have any information about either application. But they accepted that Mr D may have 
been told this. So to make up for this and some poor service while his complaint was being 
investigated, Lloyds paid Mr D £300 compensation.
Mr D wasnt happy with this response and complained to our service. Our investigator 
considered the case and felt Lloyds had taken reasonable steps to resolve his complaint. So 
they didnt think Lloyds needed to do anything.
Mr D didnt accept our investigators opinion. He said:
Hed completed the steps that Lloyds asked him to. But they still refused his 
application. 
He hadnt applied for borrowing before and when he did, he didn't get through to the 
next stage. 
He wasnt told whether hed made a formal or informal application. 
Hes been with Lloyds for over 20 years and thinks their advice stopped him getting 
credit. 
Lloyds didnt complete a credit check as part of the application process.
The case has now come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds have told us that Mr D opened his savings account in 2003 and received his overdraft 
facility in 2006. Because of the time thats passed they dont have any record of what was 
discussed at the time. But they accept that its possible Mr D was told that either having a 
savings account or an overdraft facility would have helped him to manage his finances 
better. Lloyds agree that Mr D shouldnt have been told this and paid him £300 
compensation.
Lloyds have said their decision not to lend to Mr D would have been based on his individual 
circumstances. When deciding theyd look at how he managed his accounts, but a credit 
check would only be done if a formal application was made.  
Lloyds have also said that they cant see that an actual application was made by Mr D. So 
they think Mr D may have been enquiring informally about a loan. The staff in the branch can 
see a shadow decision which would advise them whether to proceed with a formal 
application or not. The shadow decision is for staff guidance only and isnt linked to the 
central system. If the shadow system highlights any concerns, it will advise that is unlikely an 
application will be accepted. As Lloyds have no record of an application for Mr D, they cant 
say for certain what happened.
If Mr D had made a formal application for borrowing, he would have been entitled to know 
the reason why this was declined. Or he wouldnt know what action he could take to address 
this. But it appears that he only made an informal enquiry which didnt go through Lloyds 
lending criteria. 
So I think Lloyds reasons for not being able to provide a reason for the informal application 
being declined is reasonable. Had the application gone further, its likely Lloyds would have 
completed a credit check. I wouldnt expect them to do this for an informal enquiry. 
I appreciate that its frustrating for Mr D that Lloyds cant provide a specific reason for their 
decision. But I cant ask Lloyds to provide a reason when they dont have one, as his 
application didnt go through their formal lending criteria. 
I can see that Lloyds have paid Mr D £300 to make up for him possibly being given the 
wrong information in 2003 and 2006. And to make up for the poor service he received while 
they were looking into his complaint. Im satisfied that this amount is reasonable 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr D has been caused. So I wont be 
asking Lloyds to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about 
Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman