DRN-3172684
The complaint
Mr F complains that Ageas Insurance Limited part-settled a claim on his home insurance 
policy following a burglary, despite providing evidence of ownership as requested by his 
insurer.  
What happened
Mr F contacted Ageas after his property was broken into. A number of items belonging to 
Mr F and his partner were taken. So he sent a list of the stolen possessions to his insurer. 
After a specialist reviewed the details of the stolen jewellery, the items were replaced without 
any problem by Ageas.
Mr F said he was then visited by a loss adjuster to discuss the other stolen possessions. His 
partners father provided written confirmation that hed purchased the stolen items as gifts for 
his daughter, together with the approximate purchase dates and costs. But many weeks later 
Mr F was told the loss adjuster had only recommended a settlement of around £11000 
against a valuation of over £21000 for his partners designer handbags. 
Mr F was told it was because there were no receipts for four of the items. But hed provided 
the signed declaration from his partners father. And hed sent Ageas numerous photos of 
his partner with the items in her possession. 
Mr F said hed been told time-stamped photos would be enough if he wasnt able to provide 
receipts for everything. And Ageas had settled the claim for the stolen jewellery even though 
he only had photographs for some of the pieces. So Mr F wants a fair settlement from 
Ageas.
Ageas said itd appointed a loss adjuster to meet with Mr F due to the estimated value of the 
other stolen items. But itd been unable to agree a settlement figure with Mr F. Ageas said 
itd received some dust covers and authenticity cards for some of the stolen handbags. But 
Mr F couldnt be sure which bag they belonged to. And Ageas didnt feel itd receive enough 
evidence to support the ownership of all of the items claimed for. So it was unable to 
consider them unless Mr F could provide further evidence. 
Mr F wasnt satisfied with Ageas response. So he contacted our service and our investigator 
looked into the matter. Our investigator didnt think Ageas had acted fairly. He could 
understand Mr Fs distress that the claim had taken so long after such an upsetting incident. 
And he noted Ageas had settled the jewellery element of the claim fairly quickly.
Our investigator said it was a requirement for the policyholder to show they had a valid 
claim. So he considered whether Mr F had done enough to show he and his partner owned 
the items claimed for. And he felt Mr F had provided sufficient evidence, especially as Ageas 
had accepted similar evidence when settling the jewellery aspect of the claim.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded that Ageas decision to decline this part of the claim was 
fair and reasonable. And he said Ageas should settle Mr Fs claim in full and add 8% simple 
interest from the date of the claim until settlement. 
Our investigator said Ageas should also pay Mr F £250 compensation for his trouble and 
upset during the claim.
Ageas didnt agree with our investigator. It said the jewellery aspect was validated differently. 
But the insurer didnt feel it had adequate evidence in relation to all of the designer 
handbags. And it wasnt unreasonable to ask for receipts and bank statements to support 
ownership, especially considering their value and brands. So its asked for an ombudsmans 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It mustve been a very upsetting experience for Mr F and his partner when their property was 
burgled. A number of valuable and sentimental items were stolen. And although their insurer 
settled part of their claim, Ageas doesnt feel its received sufficient evidence of the 
authenticity and ownership of some of the stolen designer handbags. 
When an insured event takes place, in this case the theft of items belonging to Mr F and his 
partner, the onus is on the policyholder to contact the insurer as soon as possible after the 
event takes place. And the policy document asks the policyholder to provide honest, 
accurate and complete information to help Ageas assess the claim. 
Theres no dispute the burglary took place. And Ageas has settled Mr Fs claim in relation to 
some stolen jewellery. But Ageas doesnt feel it has received enough evidence to confirm 
the authenticity of all of the designer bags stolen. 
Ageas said Mr F wasnt able to confirm which of the certificates and dust bags belonged to 
which item. And it wont consider Mr Fs claim for four handbags unless he can provide more 
evidence.
I understand Ageas general concerns in relation to claims for goods such as designer 
handbags. There are a lot of fake items on the market and customers dont always realise 
that their item isnt genuine. Its even possible to purchase authenticity certificates online to 
falsely validate a fake item. 
So Id expect the insurer to request as much information as possible to help it validate a 
claim. But Mr F feels hes done everything he was asked. And he says he was told photos of 
the handbags would be sufficient where he wasnt able to provide purchase receipts. 
Ageas says that designer handbags are more easily faked than jewellery. And thats why it 
was willing to settle the jewellery element of the claim based on both receipts and photos. 
But I think Mr F has also provided sufficient evidence to show on the balance of probabilities 
that all of the items claimed for were genuine and in the possession of his partner when 
stolen.
Mr F provided a signed declaration from his partners father detailing the approximate dates 
and value of all of the gifted handbags to his daughter. As the gifts were for birthdays and 
Christmas presents over many years I wouldnt expect him to be able to provide receipts for 
every purchase, especially as some were nearly ten years ago. 
But Mr F has also provided timestamped photos from previous years showing his partner 
with the disputed items in her possession. And Ageas has accepted Mr Fs claim for many of 
the items where if felt the evidence was more substantial.Based on what Ive seen I think it would be reasonable to believe all of the items stolen were 
of a similar authenticity to the ones Ageas has already accepted. His partner has clearly 
received a number of similar gifts from Mr F and from her family over a period of years. And 
Mr F has been able to provide acceptable proof of purchase for many of the bags. 
His partners father has provided receipts for nearly £4000 of handbags and other items. And 
Ive no reason to doubt the details provided for the other items. As Ive noted above I 
wouldnt expect him to retain receipts for gifts bought nearly ten years ago. But he has been 
able to substantiate the more recent purchases. 
I accept the photographs, certificates, boxes and dust-bags do not in themselves prove the 
authenticity of the remaining four items. And Ive considered the supporting information 
provided by Mr F and his partners family as well as Ageas acceptance for other items listed 
by Mr F where more evidence was available.
Overall I think the information provided by Mr F to Ageas shows its more likely than not that 
Mr F and his partner owned all of the items claimed for, and that they were of the value 
provided to Ageas. 
Taking everything into account I dont think Ageas acted fairly in declining the claim for the 
four handbags. It should settle Mr Fs claim for the remaining items in full, less any policy 
excess deduction. 
Putting things right
To put things right Ageas should settle Mr Fs claim for the remaining four items. And it 
should add 8% simple interest from the date of the claim until the claim is settled. Mr F has 
also been put through unnecessary distress and inconvenience while this matter is being 
settled. Ageas should pay Mr F £250 compensation for his upset. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Ageas Insurance Limited should:
settle the claim for the remaining four items in line with the policy terms and 
conditions, and add 8% simple interest from the date of claim until the date of 
settlement
Pay Mr F £250 for his distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman