DRN-2848056
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC wrongly recorded arrears on their credit 
files and took too long to correct its error. They ask for compensation or a new mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C asked Barclays for a payment deferral during the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Barclays made an error which resulted in it recording arrears on Mr and Mrs Cs credit files. 
Mr and Mrs C say this stopped them re-mortgaging in late 2020. They say they cant now re-
mortgage as they cant provide income evidence required by lenders. 
Our investigator said while Barclays made an error the compensation it paid (£390) was fair 
and reasonable. There was no guarantee that Mr and Mrs C would have been offered a 
mortgage in late 2020. Or that they wont be able to source a re-mortgage in the near future.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree, saying this caused them wasted time and anxiety and their credit 
ratings havent recovered. They said theyd be in a better position if theyd re-mortgaged. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C contacted Barclays in March 2020. Mr C works in an industry badly affected 
by the Covid-19 pandemic and his income reduced. Barclays granted Mr and Mrs C a 
payment deferral for April to June 2020, and a second payment deferral for July to 
September 2020. The regulators guidance said this shouldnt have any impact on their 
credit files. Barclays made an error which meant arrears were recorded on Mr and Mrs Cs 
credit files for September 2020. They found out about this in October 2020 and contacted 
Barclays.
Barclays said it would remove the adverse data, but this didnt happen until December 2020. 
Mr and Mrs C say they were unable to re-mortgage or get a credit card balance transfer in 
late 2020 due to the adverse data. And they say they were unable to do so after their credit 
files were corrected as lenders required three months accounts which they couldnt provide 
due to the circumstances.
Barclays made an error and paid compensation. When considering if this compensation is 
fair and reasonable, Ive taken the following into account.
I cant know for certain that Mr and Mrs C would have been able to re-mortgage in late 2020 
if Barclays hadnt recorded the adverse data. Theyd have had to meet lending criteria for 
the lender they applied to, and rules on mortgage regulation require all lenders to carry out 
stringent affordability checks before offering a mortgage. I dont think I can fairly find that Mr 
and Mrs C would certainly have re-mortgaged and would now be in a better financial position 
had Barclays not made the error.
Mr Cs business was affected by the pandemic and Government restrictions. I appreciate 
this made it difficult to provide suitable up to date evidence of his income to lenders. Mr and 
Mrs C need to re-mortgage by mid-2022. Hopefully Mr Cs business has or will recover 
enough to allow him to provide suitable evidence of his income to lenders before then. 
I dont know if Mr and Mrs C would have been able to transfer and get a better rate for their 
credit card balances in late 2020. Its not clear to me how Barclays error (which has been 
corrected) has prevented them doing so since.
Barclays says it has corrected Mr and Mrs Cs credit files. If so, there should now be no 
record of the arrears that were wrongly recorded. While Mr and Mrs C say this continues to 
affect their credit rating they havent explained how or provided evidence of this.
For the reasons Ive given, I dont think I can fairly find that Barclays error caused Mr and 
Mrs C financial loss. I dont think I can fairly require Barclays to pay compensation on the 
basis Mr and Mrs C would have re-mortgaged in late 2020 and would now be in a better 
financial position, or that they wont be able to re-mortgage by mid-2020 due to Barclays 
error.
This matter did cause Mr and Mrs C trouble and anxiety. No doubt Mr and Mrs C were 
worried about the effect the pandemic had on their business and income. Theyd contacted a 
broker about re-mortgaging, which they need to do by mid-2022. Finding out they had 
arrears on their credit file would have added to their worry. The incorrect data wasnt 
removed until December 2020 and Mr and Mrs C contacted Barclays several times about 
this. I think though that Barclays considered this matter fairly. It said it would correct their 
credit files. And it paid compensation of £390 for the stress and inconvenience caused by its 
error and the time taken to correct it. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs C asked that I require Barclays to offer them a new mortgage. I dont think this 
would be fair and reasonable. As Ive said, lenders are entitled to apply their lending criteria 
when considering applications and (with some exceptions) have to make affordability checks 
before offering or varying mortgages. If Mr and Mrs C do make an application to Barclays Id 
expect it to consider it fairly.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I think the compensation 
paid by Barclays Bank UK PLC is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman