DRN-3122790
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about the vehicle valuation and settlement figure that Tesco 
Underwriting Limited (Tesco) offered under Mrs Bs motor insurance policy after her car 
was written off.
What happened
Mrs B insured her car with Tesco in April 2020. Her car was unfortunately involved in an 
accident in December 2020. Tesco declared the car a total loss (or a write off) and they 
offered Mrs B £4,010 in settlement of her claim, less an excess amount of £500.
Mrs B was unhappy with the amount Tesco offered. She was particularly unhappy that 
Tesco deducted an amount of £710 from the valuation because they said the vehicle had 
higher than average mileage which she didnt think was the case. Tesco initially told Mrs B 
that £111 was being deducted. It apologised for its mistake and confirmed that the deduction 
was £710, although it said that this didnt alter the valuation figure. 
Mrs B believed that Tesco should refund her £710, as she considered that her car hadnt 
done mileage which was higher than the average vehicle of its age. 
Following a complaint made by Mrs B, Tesco provided its final response and said that it still 
considered its valuation was an accurate reflection of the market value. As Mrs B remained 
unhappy, she decided to bring her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt think Tesco had provided Mrs B with an unreasonable valuation. The 
investigator said that the approach our service takes when looking at a vehicle valuation is to 
look at three motor trade guides. As Tesco provided Mrs B with the highest trade guide 
valuation from three, where some insurers would have taken an average of the amounts, the 
investigator considered that Tesco hadnt acted unfairly. 
Mrs B remained unhappy with the outcome of her complaint. The matter has therefore been 
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive concluded that I cant say that Tesco acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
reaching its valuation in accordance with Mrs Bs motor policy terms and conditions. Ill 
explain why.
Ive looked at Mrs Bs policy to see what she agreed to when she took out her policy. The 
policy says that in the event of a write-off, Tesco will pay the Market Value of the car 
immediately before the loss. I can see that Market Value is defined in the policy terms and 
conditions as; The cost of replacing the car with one of similar age, type, specification, 
mileage and condition, immediately before the loss or damage happened.
Firstly, Mrs B felt that Tesco hadnt taken into account the fact that her car was in excellent 
condition. It had a full service-history and was maintained to a high standard. She said that it 
was also a limited-edition model with an enhanced specification as compared with the 
standard model. Mrs B had also taken an automatic transmission option on the vehicle which 
meant she paid £1,700 in addition to the standard retail price. Mrs B thought that the Tesco 
engineers report didnt take this into account, and it had also been compiled using 
photographs instead of a physical inspection of the car.
Secondly, Mrs B considered that Tesco unfairly treated her car as having higher than 
average yearly mileage in reaching its valuation. She has carried out a considerable amount 
of research and states that for the age, model, type and use of the vehicle, her car didnt 
have higher than average yearly mileage. She referred to independent reports and sources 
to support her point. Mrs B also says that the estimated annual mileage she provided to 
Tesco when she took out her policy supports this point. She considered that it was 
significant to note that she insured her vehicle for business use as well as social, domestic 
and pleasure use. She therefore stated that the mileage she covered annually would be 
higher than for the normal user.
In conclusion, Mrs B believed the car to be worth between £5,500 and £6,000 and she 
supplied examples of adverts for similar cars for sale. She referred in particular to a car, 
which she considered was in the same condition and had the same specification as her own 
and advertised for sale for £5,450. 
Finally, Mrs B also complained about the service provided by Tesco in giving inconsistent 
information regarding the amount of the deduction.
Tesco have said that it instructed a motor engineer to compile a report of the damage, 
condition and value. It said that the engineer was able to complete the report using 
photographic evidence and that the car was valued based on it being in top condition. Tesco 
also said there were no deductions for condition and that the specifications and automatic 
transmission were considered in the valuation.
Tesco said that the engineer had taken into account the fact that the mileage was 134,225. It 
said that the average for the year of make was 96,000 based on the trade guide information 
and the engineers report.
Tesco said that it used an average of the figures provided by three recognised industry 
guides to reach its valuation of £4,010. The figures of £4,010 and £3,550 were both 
produced, based on 134,000 miles and a third produced £3,900, although this was based on 
mileage of 120,000. Tesco said that although the average of all three figures was £3,831, it 
had offered the highest figure of £4,100. It confirmed that their engineer advised that no 
further increase was warranted. 
As to the examples produced by Mrs B of cars for sale in an auto trade publication, Tesco 
indicated that these were not necessarily directly comparable and certain vehicles had lower 
mileage than Mrs Bs car. 
Tesco apologised for giving inconsistent information regarding the amount of the deduction.
Ive now considered all the evidence and the respective positions summarised above. I will 
firstly explain our services approach. Its standard practice for the industry to use trade 
valuation guides to work out the estimated market value of a car and this is the approach 
which Tesco took. Although our service doesnt consider this to be an exact science, we 
generally find valuations given in the main motor trade guides do provide the most persuasive, reliable and consistent evidence. These guides are based on extensive 
nationwide research of likely, but not actual, selling prices. 
Ive carefully considered the evidence produced by Mrs B in relation to average annual 
mileage. I recognise that this evidence has been produced from reputable and independent 
sources. I also note that it doesnt necessarily match the evidence produced by Tesco. Its 
my role however to decide whether Tesco acted unfairly or unreasonably in using standard 
trade guides only to reach their valuation and not to determine an exact valuation. 
I fully appreciate that Mrs B is frustrated and unhappy that any deduction was made from the 
value of her car. The independent trade guide recommended a £710 deduction however due 
to the car having higher than average annual mileage. The standard trade guide calculations 
allow the input of exact mileage and precise information to reach a valuation and I consider 
this to be persuasive. On balance therefore, Im not satisfied that Tescos chosen approach 
in relying on the trade guides was unfair or unreasonable. This is particularly as it used the 
highest figure of £4,010, rather than averaging out the valuation figures which were 
produced. In addition, Mrs B accepted that the mileage she covered annually; would be 
higher than the normal user.
As to the adverts which Mrs B provided which indicated that a higher price might be 
achievable, these dont in themselves provide the most persuasive evidence of value. We 
find that advertised prices are generally less reliable than the trade guides. They vary widely 
(even more widely than trade guides) and tend to have a margin built in for negotiating the 
price down. From everything Ive seen therefore, Im satisfied that the trade guides have 
provided a realistic guide as to the value of the car immediately before the accident.
Finally, I note that Tesco originally explained that a £111 deduction had been made in 
obtaining the guide figures. It later accepted that this figure should have been £710. Tesco 
apologised for providing the wrong information. Whilst I appreciate that this would have 
caused disappointment, I think its apology for this error is a fair and reasonable response in 
the circumstances. 
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mrs B. Having considered the 
circumstances as a whole however, I dont think Tesco has acted unfairly or provided an 
unreasonable valuation for Mrs Bs car and I dont expect it to do anything else in response 
to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint against that Tesco 
Underwriting Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman