DRN-2563163
The complaint
Mrs S complains that repairs carried out by Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) to her home 
following a claim made under her home insurance policy have left her home in an unsafe 
condition and that some of her possessions have been damaged.
What happened
Mrs S made a claim in 2014 for a leak at her home, which had caused some damage. Ageas 
arranged for its contractors to carry out repairs, but in doing so, further damage was caused. 
Mrs S complained to this service and a final decision was issued by one of our ombudsmen 
in 2017. This resulted in a cash settlement being paid out to Mrs S so she could arrange for 
her own contractors to undertake repairs.
Since then, Mrs S has contacted us to say she cant get the electrical works at her home 
completed because Ageass contractors had already started the work. She says her home 
has been left in an unsafe condition. Mrs S has also told us about damage to some clocks 
and other items while theyve been in storage and has said she was never paid for the 
contents which were damaged as a result of the leak. Mrs S also said shes had to pay a 
further excess which she doesnt think is fair.
Our investigator considered all the issues. She didnt think Ageas had acted fairly in its 
handling of Mrs Ss claim and said it would need to refund the additional excess Mrs S paid 
as well as pay Mrs S for some, but not all, of the damaged items.
Mrs S didnt agree with the majority of the investigators view. She said items had been 
poorly packed by Ageass contractors, and that this had caused damage which Ageas 
needed to pay for. She also said Ageas hadnt arranged for an assessor to visit her and look 
at all the damaged items as agreed.
Ageas accepted certain parts of the investigators view. It said it would refund the additional 
excess but that it couldnt validate the part of the claim which related to items that are no 
longer available for it to inspect.
As an agreement cannot be reached between the parties, the complaint has come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mrs Ss complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Mrs S has experienced many difficulties throughout the process of making the claim and in 
bringing a complaint to this service. Shes been in and out of hospital and has been in 
considerable pain due to her health and due to an accident. This has made it hard for her to 
do certain things, such as provide us with some of the evidence weve asked for. Ive taken 
this into account in reaching my decision. 
I dont think deduction of the additional excess was in line with the policy terms, because the 
terms say only £50 would be deducted at the time Mrs S made her claim. Ageas took £250 
in total after the policy excess amount increased. Ageas has now refunded the additional 
excess payment of £200 that it took from Mrs S, so it doesnt need to do anything further in 
relation to this part of the complaint. 
Mrs S said she had to pay a horologist to put her clocks back together after they were 
damaged. Shes provided us with some information on the correct method of storing and 
transporting pendulum wall clocks, but Im afraid I dont have enough evidence that the 
clocks were in good working order at the time of transportation. 
Ageas has paid out for one of the damaged clocks. But some photos indicate that the time 
on the other clocks was the same when they were collected as the time shown when they 
were returned. This suggests they were not in proper working order when collected and not 
necessarily damaged solely as a result of removal and transportation.
So, although Ive reviewed the photos of the damage, its difficult to tell what damage was 
pre-existing and what damage occurred when the clocks were transported. I dont think it 
would be fair for Ageas to pay out for items which were likely already damaged before its 
involvement and not as a result of the leak or transportation, and so I wont be asking Ageas 
to do anything further in relation to this aspect of the complaint.
Mrs S has sent us photos of some units with their drawers missing. It seems likely, from 
what Ive seen, that the drawers went missing at some point during the transportation and 
storage process. I say this because Ive seen photos of the units complete with drawers at 
the time the claim was made, and photos of the units with missing drawers later on. The 
inventory from the first storage facility also mentions that the drawers were missing. I dont 
think its fair for Mrs S to have lost out as a result of this. The units are still in storage and 
available for inspection. So Ageas should either source replacement drawers for the units if 
these can be found, or if suitable matching drawers cannot be found, Ageas will need to 
replace the units altogether or arrange a cash settlement to reimburse Mrs S for those units.
Mrs S has mentioned some other items which are no longer available for inspection, such as 
bedspreads she did not receive back. It would be difficult for Ageas to validate a claim in 
respect of those items if it cannot inspect them. I dont think it would be fair for me to 
determine whether Ageas is liable for the damage to those items if they cannot be inspected, 
unless I had sufficient evidence of the damage, which I dont. But Ageas has agreed to 
arrange a visit to the storage facility upon receipt of a list of items Mrs S thinks have been 
damaged as a result of the escape of water. Mrs S should provide a list to Ageas and Ageas 
must then consider a claim for water damaged contents in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy.
A friend of Mrs Ss has sent us photos of an antique rug which he says was damaged during 
the flood but also damaged when moved. If this rug is available for inspection at the storage 
facility then Ageas should also consider this as part of the claim for damaged contents.
In relation to the electrics at her home, Mrs S says Ageas failed to leave her home in a 
reasonable state, and this is why shes had trouble employing another contractor to 
complete the work. But this matter was the subject of a previous final decision, in which one 
of our ombudsmen decided that a suitably qualified expert would visit Mrs S and decide what 
repairs needed to be done and calculate the cost of these. The decision then specified that 
both parties would be bound by the experts findings and that Ageas would need to pay a 
cash settlement in line with the experts report.
Mrs S has said no contractor is willing to continue with the work thats been started, and that the wiring will all need to be pulled out so that another contractor can start the job again from 
scratch. But Ive not been provided with the quotes from any contractors, so I cant say 
whether the amount Ageas paid out for this work to be done, in line with the previous final 
decision, is insufficient. 
I appreciate that Mrs S has had advice from the CAB suggesting she should contact Ageas 
to complete the electrical work, but as it was already decided by the previous ombudsman 
that Ageas would make a cash settlement instead, and Mrs S would employ her own 
contractors to complete the work, this isnt something I can comment on, as I cannot deviate 
from another ombudsmans determination. It follows therefore, that I wont be asking Ageas 
to do anything further in relation to the electrical work.
Putting things right
Ageas has already refunded Mrs Ss additional £200 excess. So it now needs to:
Upon receipt of a list of water damaged contents from Mrs S, arrange a visit to 
Mrs Ss storage container to assess and validate the damage caused by the leak.
Settle the claim for the two wooden units with missing drawers.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Ageas Insurance Limited 
to put things right as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman