DRN-2849277
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company (LV) has offered to 
settle a subsidence claim made on a buildings insurance policy which covers his flat.
What happened
Mr S noticed cracking to his stonework bay window and took advice from a building 
engineer. They identified downward movement of the foundation and noted nearby drainage 
could be the cause of the problem. They thought localised repairs wouldnt be successful 
and the bay should be re-built on a suitable subsoil and foundation. 
LV appointed a loss adjuster who inspected the damage and arranged for some 
investigations to be carried out. This included surveying the drains and the level of 
movement of the bay.
The loss adjuster accepted there was damage caused by subsidence and covered by the 
policy. It thought some of the movement was historic and pre-dated the policy  and some of 
the damage was general deterioration  none of which is covered by the policy. I understand 
the property management company found a leaking pipe nearby and repaired it. The loss 
adjuster later said the bay had stabilised and that meant repairs to the cracking would be an 
appropriate solution.
Mr S complained. He didnt think the loss adjusters recommended repair went far enough. 
He got in touch with a contractor who didnt think the repair would work. And he wasnt 
persuaded the drainage survey had been thorough. LV maintained there was longstanding 
distortion and deterioration to the bay that was unrelated to the recent subsidence problem 
and not covered by the policy. It offered a cash settlement for the cost of the work it had 
recommended.
An investigator considered Mr S complaint and was satisfied LV had acted fairly. An 
agreement couldnt be reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LV has accepted the bay has been damaged by subsidence and the cost of putting this 
damage right is covered by the policy. After deducting the policy excess, its agreed to pay 
around £3,500 for some repairs and potentially more if the work carried out incurs VAT.
This complaint is essentially about whether LVs repair should go further than that.
When LV deals with a subsidence claim, it should ensure a lasting and effective repair of the 
subsidence damage. That means stabilising the building before repairs are carried out. And 
making sure those repairs resolve the subsidence related problems for a reasonable period 
of time. Ive considered the information provided to decide whether LV has done this.
The loss adjuster appointed a drainage specialist to survey all drainage within three metres 
of the bay. It did so and its report shows no defects or leaks. I know Mr S is concerned about 
how reliable this is as a leaking pipe was later found in the basement. It doesnt appear that 
pipe was surveyed, but is nearby, so its possible it was overlooked. I havent seen any other 
drainage reports or inspections that suggest the findings of the pipework that was surveyed 
were wrong  or that suggests other problems exist nearby that ought to be considered.
Around a year later the loss adjuster carried out level monitoring of the bay. It said the 
readings showed stability. Ive seen the results and Im satisfied that conclusion was 
reasonable. If a drain was leaking nearby and having an impact on the bay, I think its likely 
the monitoring would reflect this by showing movement. As it hasnt, I think the evidence 
shows the drainage problem has been resolved.
I understand the property management company dealt with the leaking pipe. If they incurred 
a cost, they can share the invoice with LV. Id expect LV to consider paying this cost as part 
of the overall claim.
The engineers report suggested re-building the bay on a suitable subsoil and foundation. 
Where a structure has been stabilised, I wouldnt usually expect an insurer to take steps to 
improve the subsoil or foundation. Its responsibility is to repair the damage caused by 
subsidence. And with the building stable, appropriate repairs can be carried out to the 
structure above ground.
The loss adjuster has proposed to repair the cracking, repair the lintel, replace the window 
facings, and install ties to strengthen the connection between the bay and the main building.
The engineers recommendation was to go beyond localised repairs and re-build the bay. 
They said the cracking had caused a weakness in the structure that was unlikely to stop 
moving. Mr S approached a contractor who didnt think the loss adjusters approach would 
work as the bay wasnt aligned and the stonework was in poor condition and not fit to reuse.
LV considers the bay has stopped moving and the contractors comments support its view 
that some of the damage isnt subsidence related and is more general deterioration. It says 
its prepared to carry out the work its recommended but only after the maintenance problems 
are put right first. The loss adjusters inspection also noted misalignment in the bay and 
described the stonework as generally deteriorated with some previous patch repairs.
Overall I think the loss adjusters and the contractors comments about the stonework in the 
bay are broadly similar. And whilst the engineer didnt refer specifically to the condition of the 
stonework  positively or negatively  they did say it was likely new stones would need to be 
ordered if the bay was rebuilt, indicating their condition wasnt good enough to reuse. So Im 
satisfied that some of the damage is general deterioration rather than subsidence. LV isnt 
responsible for putting this damage right.
LV is prepared to carry out the work its recommended. For that reason, Im satisfied its offer 
is reasonable. Its required to carry out a lasting and effective repair. If during or after its 
carried out the repair, its work is shown not to have fulfilled that requirement, it will be 
responsible for putting that right.
Its up to Mr S whether he would like to arrange for the maintenance work to be carried out 
and then have LV carry out the subsidence repair. Or if he would prefer to accept the cash 
settlement and carry out the repairs he considers most suitable. If its the former, LV should 
set out clearly to Mr S what work it considers is maintenance. And if LV have already paid the cash settlement, itll be entitled to ask for it back if Mr S would like it to carry out the 
work.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman