DRN-3532558
The complaint
Mr Ks complaint is about the poor service he received from ReAssure Limited when he was 
requesting information from it about his pension plan.
What happened
Mr Ks complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He sent his assessment of it to 
both parties on 13 August 2021. The background to the complaint and the reasons why the 
investigator thought it should be upheld were set out in that assessment. But in brief, he said 
that Mr K wrote to ReAssure in August 2020 enquiring about his pension policies. He wanted 
details about how his pensions could be paid into his bank account  he lived in another 
country. 
ReAssure sent retirement packs for two of the pension policies. However Mr K had asked 
about three policies. And ReAssure didnt provide answers to the questions hed asked. Mr K 
made several requests for information, but wasnt sent the information or any details about 
the third policy.
Mr K complained to the business about this and was offered £100 in compensation. But he 
still wasnt provided with the information that hed requested.
ReAssure subsequently agreed to send Mr K the information that hed requested. And after 
Mr K had referred his complaint to us, ReAssure agreed to increase the compensation to 
£300 on the investigators recommendation.
The investigator said that although ReAssure couldnt give advice to Mr K, he thought it 
could have done a better job of answering the questions hed asked. He said the retirement 
packs it sent to Mr K outlined the option for him to call them if he had any queries. It also 
informed him to get financial advice before making any decisions. 
The investigator also said that the evidence suggested that ReAssure hadnt received Mr Ks 
first request. But when it received the second request it had only sent the retirement packs 
on two policies. And it wasnt until Mr K had referred the matter to us that ReAssure said it 
would locate the third policy and answer Mr Ks queries. 
The investigator thought that the service Mr K received could have been better. But he had 
to take into account that Mr K had other options open to him if we wanted information about 
his pension. Based on what hed seen, he thought the offer of £300 was fair. 
ReAssure agreed with the investigators assessment.
In a letter dated 24 August 2021 Mr K said he disagreed with some of what the investigator 
had said. Mr K said, in summary, that he had never requested any financial advice from 
ReAssure  only information. And he queried what alternative source he could have 
requested that information from. He thought any third party would have directed him back to 
ReAssure.
However Mr K said that he would be willing to accept the £300 if ReAssure provided all the 
information that he had requested and about all three policies by 30 September 2021. And 
that the £300 be paid in a certain way.
Mr K wrote to us again on 1 October 2021. He said, in brief, that he had been trying to get 
some basic information from ReAssure since August 2020 but, despite writing to it on 
numerous occasions, it still hadnt provided it. He said he was no longer prepared to accept 
the £300 offered.
ReAssure subsequently sent us copies of letters/retirement packs it said were sent to Mr K 
about his pensions dated 9 12 and 31 August 2021 My understanding is that Mr K didnt 
receive them until mid-October 2021. Mr K made a further complaint about one of the three 
plans which is being considered separately.
As agreement wasnt reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, like the investigator, I think the complaint should be upheld, and largely for 
the same reasons. 
Mr K was in his mid-sixties when he was requesting the information about his pensions. Hed 
told ReAssure in the initial letters that he wanted to withdraw funds, and listed three policy 
numbers. Mr K sent several letters to ReAssure but still wasnt provided with the information 
hed requested, and over a prolonged period of time. I agree with Mr K that he didnt ask for 
advice. And that ReAssure was best placed to answer his queries. I dont think ReAssure 
provided an efficient service, or in a timely manner. 
I do think some delays were likely caused by the postal service. There is evidence of 
ReAssure sending letters to Mr K that he wasnt receiving until a few weeks later  for 
example the information that was eventually sent through August 2021 that I understand Mr 
K didnt receive until mid-October.
But that only explains some of the delay  not the failures to provide the information 
requested on several occasions. So like the investigator, I dont think ReAssure provided a 
reasonable level of service. 
Putting things right
ReAssure made an initial offer to Mr K of £100. The investigator recommend that it pay Mr K 
£300, which it subsequently agreed to. Having carefully considered the matter, whilst I agree 
with the points Mr K made, I think the £300 is still fair for the distress and inconveniences the 
matter caused Mr K in all the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint. I order ReAssure Limited to pay Mr K 
£300.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman