DRN-1530497
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Halifax Share Dealing Limited ('Halifax') didn't include a copy of 
a Key Investor Information Document ('KIID') and a summary of the main changes, in 
an email it sent notifying them of an update. 
What happened
In early July 2019, Mr and Mrs W received an email from Halifax relating to one of their 
investments. In the email, Halifax informed Mr and Mrs W that some changes had been 
made to the KIID and provided information on how to access this information via their online 
account. 
Mr and Mrs W contacted Halifax asking for a copy of the KIID to be sent by email as they 
thought that having to go via their online account was a more complicated process. They 
also wanted Halifax to provide a summary of any changes to the KIID, so they could more 
easily decide if any of these changes were relevant to them. 
At first, Halifax denied sending the email. A number of emails ensued. And on 29 July 2019, 
Halifax wrote to Mr and Mrs W apologising saying that the email about the changes to the 
KIID had, in fact, been sent by Halifax. It offered £75 for any inconvenience this may have 
caused. But Halifax confirmed that providing the KIID in an email and a summary of the 
relevant changes, was not usually part of the service it provides. Halifax did, however, agree 
to send a paper copy of the KIID to Mr and Mrs W.
Unhappy with Halifax's response, Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicator's looked at this complaint. She agreed the £75 offered by Halifax for 
incorrectly saying it hadn't sent the email, was fair. But our adjudicator was satisfied that 
Halifax had acted within its terms and conditions in the way it communicated the changes to 
the KIID to Mr and Mrs W. So she didn't uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs W didn't agree - they felt that as they could not go directly to the investment fund 
for the information, Halifax should provide the information to them in the way that they would 
like. So the matter has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Firstly, I can see that there was clearly some confusing information sent by Halifax when it 
initially denied that it had sent the email informing Mr and Mrs W of the updated KIID. Halifax 
offered £75 by way of apology for this error, which Mr and Mrs W have indicated to our 
service, they are willing to accept. And as this error was put right by Halifax within a 
relatively short period, I'm satisfied the offer of £75, is fair. So the only issue remaining to decide is whether Halifax has acted unfairly in relation to the 
way it communicated the changes about the KIID.
Under the terms and conditions of the account with Halifax, it notes that if the client is 
registered to use its online service, it will ordinarily send communications to the client by 
email. I can see that as Mr and Mrs W signed up for online services on 18 July 2018, this is 
why, by email, Halifax told them about the relevant changes. I also note that Mr and Mrs W 
were still registered for this service as of February 2020. So I'm satisfied that Halifax have 
communicated to Mr and Mrs W in line with the terms of the account.
Mr and Mrs W, however, want Halifax to extract the changes from the KIID and set these out 
in an email. But as an execution only service, I don't think there's any onus on Halifax to 
summarise the relevant changes to Mr and Mrs W. And I consider that by placing the KIID 
on Mr and Mrs W's online account, alerting them to these changes by email and providing 
instructions on exactly where on their online account the document could be found, I'm 
satisfied Halifax have acted fairly and in line with what I'd expect for this type of service. 
I also note that Halifax have confirmed a paper copy of the KIID was sent to Mr and Mrs W 
on 29 July 2019 following their complaint. Halifax has provided internal records showing it 
was sent. But Mr and Mrs W has told this service that they haven't received the KIID through 
the post. But I can see they do still have access to their online account which is also where a 
copy of the KIID was provided by Halifax. And for the reasons I've set out above, I think this 
was a reasonable and fair way to communicate the relevant changes.
I understand that Mr and Mrs W have been in touch with the investment fund to which the 
KIID relates, to try to obtain a copy directly from the fund. But was told by the fund that 
this would need to come from Halifax. And as noted above, I'm satisfied that Halifax has 
provided this information to Mr and Mrs W, so I won't be asking it to do anything further.
Whilst I acknowledge this will be a disappointing outcome for Mr and Mrs W, for the reasons 
I've set out above, I'm not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I'm not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman