DRN-3347923
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Mrs C is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around September 2017, Mrs C was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mrs C decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In November 2019, the CMC made a claim on Mrs Cs behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mrs C to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would be self-funding by virtue of the FIT payments and electricity 
savings; and
the system would pay for itself within 12 years; and
P would arrange for Mrs C FIT account to be opened; and
Mrs C was told shed save £16,650 on her electricity bill over 25 years; and
the Voltage Doctor would save her £10,114 on her electricity bill over 25 years; and
Mrs C would receive a profit of £20,000 once the loan was repaid; and
Mrs Cs council tax bill would be reduced; and
Mrs C would use 75% of electricity the panels would generate; and
the system would work all year round and there wouldnt be much difference in the 
winter months from the generation during the summer.
Shawbrook didnt issue a final response within eight weeks of the complaint. When it did 
respond, it explained that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mrs C or 
that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. But it acknowledged there had 
been delays with their investigations and offered Mrs C £200 to reflect this.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mrs C and found no other reason to uphold the complaint. But our investigator 
did endorse Shawbrooks offer of £200 to reflect the delays with their investigation.
The CMC didnt respond to our investigators view. So, as an agreement couldnt be 
reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mrs C paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs C could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way she could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs C and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mrs Cs recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.FIT payments
Mrs C has alleged that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and electricity savings. She also said P would arrange for her 
FIT account to be opened. But Mrs Cs FIT account wasnt registered until May 2019. Ive 
considered the quote that was provided by P and considered whether this supports what Mrs 
C has said.
Pages 16 and 17 of the quote provide details of the FIT scheme, how it operates and how to 
apply for it. It confirms that P will issue you with a Completion Pack, in this is yourFIT 
form. All you have to do is fill out the form with the relevant information including the MCS 
number and the system is ready to be registered to start claiming your FIT. If you have any 
issues with this documentation we will be more than happy to help you complete it. It is the 
customers responsibility to provide their personal details and bank details to the energy 
company. 
P has provided evidence and confirmed a completion pack and FIT registration form was 
sent to Mrs C by email and by post within a reasonable time of the system being installed 
and commissioned. And I havent seen anything else to suggest that P was directly 
responsible for the late registration of Mrs Cs FIT account. So, I cant reasonably conclude 
that P did anything wrong here.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mrs C could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system, once registered. This is split out into the 
expected FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. 
The FIT scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mrs C could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £150.74.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs C could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £267.32 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chose by Mrs C the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £571.66. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months this is the 
length of the loan that Mrs C entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £98.45. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £98.45, to give an average difference between 
the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mrs C could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, I think it clearly sets out that the overall income she could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover 
the monthly loan repayments. 
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mrs C that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. I 
think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mrs C was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 25 years. This shows that by year 18 the overall benefits that Mrs C could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mrs C that the system would pay for itself by 
year 18, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im 
satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the contract, and she subsequently 
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mrs C. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 2,289.14 kWh a year.
As I mentioned above, Mrs Cs FIT account wasnt registered until May 2019. So, she didnt 
receive any FIT income before then. Our investigator asked the CMC to provide copies of 
any FIT statements Mrs C had received following completion of her registration. 
Unfortunately, these havent been provided. So, Ive not seen anything that might lead me to 
conclude that the system isnt performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale. This and 
the failure to promptly register for FIT payments does, I think, explain why she hasnt been 
receiving the financial returns she may have been expecting from the solar panels. Since 
actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the savings achieved 
through the energy generated by the system has been correspondingly lower, coupled with a 
lack of FIT income.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 to 2015. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mrs C 
couldve expected to receive from the system. So, while I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mrs C entered into the 
contract.
Other energy savings assumptions
The CMC makes detailed reference to the validity of the assumptions used by P in relation to 
the extras that Mrs H chose to be installed at her home. In doing so, they have referenced 
reports and information from various sources. 
This service has established that Ps sales and quotation processes have been subjected to 
expert scrutiny. The question of the appropriateness of assumptions underpinning an 
individual quotation is a complex sector-specific matter. This service has been comforted 
that Ps assumptions are appropriately regulated by specialist trade bodies and Alternative 
Dispute Resolution (ADR) entities, specific to the sector. Based upon this, Ive not been 
provided with anything that leads me to doubt the validity of Ps assumptions in Mrs Cs 
case.
The sales presentation
Much of Mrs Cs claim relates to information she believes was verbally provided during the 
initial sales meeting. Im satisfied that the quote formed a central part of the sales process. It 
wouldve been discussed with Mrs C, which the original complaint supports. So, Ive not 
been persuaded that the salesperson wouldve said something that would then have been 
contradicted by the quote. To support this, Im satisfied that Mrs C was sent the quote, had 
time to consider it and to raise any issues prior to installation.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs C to enter 
into the contract for the system. So, Ive found no other reason to uphold this aspect of the complaint. But I do acknowledge that Mrs H experienced delays when awaiting Shawbrooks 
response to her complaint and claim. Their offer of £200 to reflect this feels fair here and I 
shall support that in my final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
I require Shawbrook Bank Limited to pay compensation to Mrs C of £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman