DRN-1098512
 
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank) said she was 
unlikely to be approved for a mortgage she was interested in applying for. She says her 
credit commitment arrears should be considered in the context of why they occurred, and 
her overall circumstances show she's a low risk. 
What happened
Mrs F's personal circumstances were such that some of her credit commitments were in 
arrears in early 2019. I won't go into the details of that here to protect her privacy but I've 
listened to the calls, and read and understood everything.
Mrs F spoke to Clydesdale about potentially obtaining a mortgage. The adviser said they 
didnt know if it would be approved due to Mrs Fs recent poor credit issues, but offered the 
opportunity for an application to be credit scored and referred to an underwriter. The adviser 
said they couldnt refer it through without it being credit scored first. Mrs F decided not to as 
she didn't want the credit search impacting on her already problematic credit score.
Mrs F complained to Clydesdale, and it rejected her complaint. Our investigator said 
Clydesdale hadn't done anything wrong as it had its lending policy, and it had explained she 
was unlikely to be successful before a credit search was recorded on her credit file. Mrs F 
didn't agree and so it's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I trust Mrs F wont take it as a discourtesy 
that Ive condensed her complaint in the way that I have. Although Ive read and considered 
the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any 
specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
It's not my role to tell a lender whether (or not) to lend to a particular consumer. Each lender 
has its own risk appetite. Mainstream lenders like Clydesdale generally don't like to see 
recent adverse credit when considering mortgage applications. Other (non-mainstream) 
lenders are willing to overlook that, but balanced against that is they then normally charge a 
higher interest rate to reflect the perceived higher risk (even if Mrs F doesnt see herself that 
way).
I appreciate Mrs F feels Clydesdale is being unfair. But lenders are able to use their 
commercial judgement to decide how much, if anything, to lend to consumers. My role is to 
ensure such judgement is applied fairly and reasonably; it isnt to substitute my judgement 
for the banks. Clydesdale doesn't have to offer a bespoke service to Mrs F to consider her 
application more holistically, it simply has to apply its lending policy fairly.In this case, Clydesdale applied its lending criteria to Mrs Fs proposal. These criteria are 
commercially sensitive, so were unable to disclose them to Mrs F, but Im satisfied 
Clydesdale fairly applied them to the proposal. It follows that Im satisfied Clydesdale didnt 
act unreasonably in warning Mrs F that any mortgage application at that time may be 
unsuccessful.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion on 
the merits of it.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman