DRN-3518110
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with AWP P&C SAs handling and lack of settlement of his claim under his 
bicycle insurance policy.
What happened
After his bike was stolen Mr O made a claim. AWP requested certain information such as 
proof of purchase receipts and other details. Mr O sent in the details of the bike purchase 
and AWP noticed that the bike was sold with a dongle. AWP pointed out to Mr O that with 
the dongle fitted the bike wouldnt have been suitable for this policy. Mr O felt AWP kept 
moving the goalposts and asking for more information rather than dealing with the settlement 
of his claim. The debate dragged on and later Mr O did provide photos and a video of the 
bikes involved and the dongle. Mr O accepted that the dongle came with the bike, but he 
said he removed the dongle and fitted it to another of his bikes as he owned several.
AWP asked for further evidence and receipts. Relations between AWP and Mr O were 
strained and eventually AWP decided it didnt have enough evidence and declined the claim. 
Unhappy with this Mr O brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She accepted Mr Os explanation that he was able to 
remove the dongle and fit it to another of his bikes. Mr O had sent in a video showing the 
dongle was still in his possession and that it was attached to another bike. He also provided 
photos. Our investigator said at that point AWP should have paid the claim as Mr O had 
provided enough evidence. Our investigator felt Mr O had been treated unfairly and 
unreasonably. She noted that hed had to spend a lot of time trying to resolve the claim, had 
produced evidence, and had still found his claim declined. She said in view of this AWP 
should pay Mr O £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
AWP didnt accept this and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that AWP didnt accept Mr Os initial explanation. He said he had to get the dongle 
with the new bike. But he also said he knew how to remove and attach the dongle. He said 
in this case he had removed it and attached it to a new bike. AWP asked for proof of this. I 
can see that Mr O said he felt intimidated and undermined by the requests for further 
evidence made continually throughout the claim.
I dont think the early requests for more evidence were unfair. However, I do think that later 
Mr O provided suitable evidence. To this service AWP then questioned the time it had taken 
to get this evidence. But its clear from the emails that Mr O was fed up and felt that for every 
bit of evidence hed provided AWP then just appeared to ask for more.
I think asking for an original purchase receipt and then proof that the dongle was still in Mr 
Os possession was fair. However, Mr O did provide such evidence. He sent in photos and 
he sent in a video, in both there were clear images of the dongle and clear images of it 
attached to a bike. So, I think Mr O produced the evidence that AWP asked him too. I can 
understand that AWP were naturally wary and didnt understand why the dongle would be 
removed and put on another bike, but I think Mr O was clear about what he was did and 
why.
If Mr Os evidence hadnt materialised, I think AWP would have been perfectly within their 
rights to decline the claim, as the bike wouldnt have been covered in line with the policy 
wording. But Mr O did provide the evidence. And AWP continued to decline the claim and 
request further information. In this case that feels unfair and unreasonable.
I can understand AWPs point, that with the dongle fitted this bike would no longer be within 
the definition of a bicycle. It would have been considered a motorised vehicle and would 
need to be covered in a completely different way in line with the Road Traffic Act. But once 
Mr O had produced the evidence that he still had the dongle its clear that it wasnt fitted to 
the stolen bike. Mr O also clearly explained how to remove and attach a dongle to a bike. His 
video evidence showed the dongle fitted to another bike.
Based on this I dont think AWP acted reasonably and fairly when it declined to deal with 
Mr Os claim. I think AWP should pay the bike and the accessory claim.
I can see throughout the emails between the parties that Mr O gets more and more fraught 
and upset. I think initially AWP rightly and understandably were looking to validate the claim 
in unusual circumstances. But its clear that when Mr O did produce evidence that should 
have been considered suitable AWP tried to continually widen the scope of the claim 
investigation. It seems to me that it was understandable for Mr O to get frustrated and upset 
with AWP from this point. Based on that I think AWP should pay £100 compensation for his 
distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right
Pay the claim for the bike and accessories.
Pay Mr O £100 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require AWP P&C SA to:
Pay the claim for the bike and accessories.
Pay Mr O £100 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman