DRN-4128231
The complaint
Mrs R is complaining that the vehicle she was supplied by RCI Financial Services Limited 
(RCI) was not of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
Mrs R acquired a brand new car through a hire purchase agreement from RCI in April 2022. 
Mrs R has told us that the car is a self-charging hybrid and she test drove the same model of 
car at the dealership before deciding to order her new vehicle. 
She began to have concerns fairly soon after acquiring the car, in June 2022. She felt the 
car was over-revving and not finding gears correctly but put this down to it being new and 
her getting used to it. She raised her concerns with the dealership who she says told her that 
they were expecting a fix from the manufacturer in September 2022 and would contact her 
then. 
When she called the dealership back in September to discuss further, she felt the car 
sounded like it was going to explode, especially when going up a hill. The car went into the 
manufacturer dealership shortly after this for the previously discussed fix, which weve been 
told was a software update. 
After this, Mrs R told us that it got a bit better, but still over revved at times and seemed to 
struggle to find gears at lower speeds. She has told us that she was told this is a 
characteristic of the car, and if she drove the car in a different driving mode it would be 
better. However, she doesnt feel that she should have to do this, as the car has more than 
one driving mode, and she should be able to drive in the mode she chooses. 
She complained to RCI, who didnt uphold the complaint, saying the sound was a 
characteristic of the car and was how it runs, and was not a fault. They explained that the 
software update carried out was to reduce the noise, not eliminate it, and there was nothing 
further they could do. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs R bought her complaint to our service. The investigator who 
investigated it did not uphold the complaint. They said they werent persuaded there was a 
fault with the car. They explained that their view was that this noise was a characteristic of 
the car, and that it might sound different depending on what mode the car was being driven 
in. They also pointed out that when Mrs R test drove the same model of vehicle, it was not 
known what mode it was being driven in. 
Mrs R didnt agree with this and asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision on her 
complaint. She also confirmed that she had sold the vehicle in April 2023, so could not 
provide any more evidence of the fault. She highlighted the distress and inconvenience she 
had suffered which she felt the investigator hadnt addressed, and that it had been ongoing 
for a long time without an apology even from RCI. She felt the fact she had sold the car 
created an easy way for the investigator to answer the complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mrs R was supplied with goods under a hire purchase 
agreement, which means were able to look into complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, RCI 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances.
Mrs R has told us that she acquired the car in April 2022 and started to notice problems with 
the car over-revving and not finding gears around June 2022. She contacted the dealership 
who said they were waiting for a fix from the manufacturer which they expected in 
September 2022. The CRA says that a consumer has 30 days to reject a car that is 
unsatisfactory quality, and if they are outside of the 30 days, they have to give the business 
one chance to repair or replace a faulty car. 
So, in these circumstances, the CRA would allow the business an opportunity to repair an 
issue or fault reported by Mrs R. I think its fair that they were able to perform the software 
update to try to alleviate Mrs Rs concerns. 
When that time came and Mrs R contacted them, they performed the software update. Mrs R 
has said that this did improve things to an extent, but she felt that the car still over-revved on 
occasion and struggled to find gears at lower speeds. 
For me to assess whether the vehicle was of unsatisfactory quality, Id need to see evidence 
that the car was performing incorrectly, or something wasnt working. Alternatively, Id need 
to be persuaded, as described in the CRA, that a reasonable person wouldnt consider the 
car to be of satisfactory quality. 
Mrs R has described how the noise of the over-revving was causing her stress and anxiety, 
but the video/audio she supplied of the car didnt provide any clear evidence of a problem. 
Alongside this, there is no evidence from any expert or garage to confirm there was an 
ongoing problem or fault with the car. 
The sound of the engine in different scenarios on the road would be influenced by things like 
Mrs Rs driving style. Additionally, as a hybrid, it might be influenced by whether the car was 
driving in petrol or electric or a hybrid mode. And finally, the car had multiple driving modes, 
and the driving mode being used would potentially influence the revving/sound of the car and 
the gear changes. 
Mrs R has told us that her car was performing differently from the one she took on a test 
drive, but she cant confirm what driving mode was being used when she carried out the test 
drive. The car dealership suggested she could use one particular driving mode to reduce the 
revving noise if it was causing her anxiety, but Mrs R said she wasnt happy to do this, as 
she should be able to drive the car in whichever mode she chooses. 
Whilst I agree that she has the right to drive the car in whichever mode she chooses, this 
suggests that potentially she may have driven the test drive car in one driving mode, and 
then expected it to behave and sound the same in another driving mode when she has taken 
delivery of her own car. That wouldnt be realistic, different driving modes would likely sound 
and behave differently. Alongside this, a test drive cant be expected to replicate all the road 
conditions she would come across when owning a car.   
RCI have confirmed that this issue was a characteristic of the car, and the dealership 
suggested that the revving sounded louder in this particular driving mode, and she could 
improve it by changing the mode. The software update provided was not intended to 
completely remove the noise, just to reduce it. Mrs R did confirm that it seemed to improve 
things to an extent, but not to her satisfaction.  
Theres no argument here from either party that the car revving could be louder than might 
be considered normal when it was in this particular driving mode and in certain road 
conditions. RCI have said that this is a characteristic of the car, but its clear that Mrs R found 
this uncomfortable, and it was causing her stress. 
However, there is no supporting evidence to suggest there was a fault, or any risk to Mrs R. 
She has said she felt at times that the car was going to explode, but again, theres no 
evidence to back this up. And if the noise in this driving mode was causing her stress, Im 
unclear why she wouldnt choose to change to the recommended driving mode to help 
reduce her concerns. 
Ultimately, for me to decide the car was not of satisfactory quality, I need to consider the 
CRA. Specifically, I need to be satisfied that a reasonable person wouldnt have considered 
the car of satisfactory quality. Im afraid Ive seen no evidence of this. RCI have confirmed 
that in the driving situations described by Mrs R, in the driving mode she chose to use, the 
car could sound like it was over-revving. No evidence has been provided about the car 
struggling to find gears and any impact this had, and no evidence has been provided to 
show that the revving was excessive or dangerous in any way.  
When we approached Mrs R during our investigation to ask her to supply more evidence of 
these things, she confirmed she had sold the car during our investigation. So unfortunately, 
she was no longer in a position to be able to obtain further evidence. 
When she asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision, Mrs R told us that we hadnt 
considered her frustration, upset or distress caused by the situation, or the financial impact 
shes had to incur. She was also upset that the business hadnt apologised despite all her 
concerns. 
I empathise with Mrs R and the stress the situation has caused her, but Im afraid I cant 
consider that as part of my decision on this case. Because I dont agree that the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality, I cant consider the distress and upset to her that the situation caused 
her. 
These are customer service issues for RCI, in the same way that its down to RCI to decide if 
or when it wishes to apologise to Mrs R. Our service doesnt have a remit to investigate 
customer service issues alone. I could only consider the impact of any distress caused to 
Mrs R if I was upholding a complaint about the quality of the car supplied, and the distress 
this issue caused her. But as I dont agree the car was of unsatisfactory quality, I cant consider these things further.  
Alongside this, Mrs R has talked about financial impact on her. Im not clear what financial 
impact she refers to, possibly her decision to sell the car. But as above, without evidence of 
the car being of unsatisfactory quality, there is nothing further I can do here. 
I empathise with Mrs R. Its clear that she didnt like the way the car drove in certain 
situations. But in my role, I can only consider whether the car was of satisfactory quality 
when supplied, as described in the CRA. 
As both parties have confirmed it, I accept that its likely the car sounded like it was over-
revving in certain driving conditions in the driving mode Mrs R was using, but I cant agree 
that this made the car of unsatisfactory quality. Weve got no evidence of the detail of this 
revving, and a software update was carried out to improve it, which seems to have made 
some improvements. No two cars sound and behave exactly the same, and unfortunately, it 
seems that this model didnt suit either Mrs Rs driving style, or her preferences for how a car 
should sound. 
Alongside this, there is no corroborating evidence of the car struggling to find gears in 
certain situations, or of the extent of the over-revving. As the car was sold during our 
investigation, theres no further evidence which can be obtained about this.
Im sorry that Mrs R didnt like the car and how it performed, but I cant agree that it was of 
unsatisfactory quality. As such, I wont be asking RCI to do anything further here. 
My final decision
I ma not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman