DRN-3128953
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) didnt reimburse him after he was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr K arranged to buy a glass bowl from a seller based outside of the UK hed 
bought similar items from many times in the past. He made two transfers to the sellers 
overseas account at the end of June and early July 2019 for £900 and £855. Both transfers 
were made in branch.
In the following weeks it became clear to Mr K hed been scammed by the seller and theyd 
sent him a different item, worth far less than the one hed paid for. The seller gave him a 
convoluted story about the true items whereabouts, claiming it had been sent to the wrong 
place and then lost. He claimed he was trying to get it back to Mr K but wouldnt provide Mr 
K with a refund when asked.
According to Santanders records Mr K raised the scam with it on 21 October 2019. The 
same day it contacted the sellers bank to recall the funds but it didnt respond until February 
2020. It confirmed no funds remained in the sellers account so couldnt be returned.
Mr K was unhappy with this response and raised a complaint but Santander felt it had done 
everything it could to help him. Mr K brought the complaint to our service and our 
investigator didnt uphold it. As Mr K didnt accept their findings the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has questioned whether or not Mr K has truly been the victim of a scam in this 
case. Its suggested what hes described is more a civil dispute around the value of the item, 
but I dont agree. Based on the evidence Mr K has provided, including correspondence 
between him and the seller, Im satisfied, on balance, the situation was more likely than not a 
scam and the seller never intended to send him what hed paid for. That said, although I am 
satisfied Mr K has been the victim of a scam, I dont think Santander is liable for reimbursing 
him for his loss in this case.
Mr K has referred throughout his complaint to the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM code) and feels the bank needs to refund his money as its 
signed up to this code. But the CRM code doesnt apply to international payments, so it 
doesnt apply in his case. I understand Mr K has commented he doesnt see why this should 
be the case, but Im afraid this doesnt change how the code applies. And because it doesnt 
apply, its not something Ive taken into account.
Although the CRM code doesnt apply to the payments Mr K has raised as part of his 
complaint, this doesnt mean Santander had no obligation to him after he was the victim of a 
scam. Theres no dispute the transfers Mr K made were authorised payments even though 
he was the victim of a sophisticated scam. He made the payments himself and under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr K is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such I think 
Halifax should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking Protocol 
where appropriate
Ive considered whether I think the transactions themselves wouldve appeared significantly 
unusual enough that I think Santander ought reasonably to have intervened, but I dont think 
so in this case. 
Santander has to strike a balance when looking out for unusual activity so it doesnt unduly 
hinder its customers use of their accounts. The payments in this case were both for under 
£1,000. And I think its reasonable to accept that every now and again someone might make 
slightly larger than normal payments in the course of every day life. For example for home 
improvements, or to buy a car, or pay for a holiday. And, these payments were being made 
to someone Mr K had paid before. So, overall, Im satisfied the payments wouldnt have 
appeared significantly unusual enough that I wouldve expected Santander to intervene.
But, even if Santander had intervened in this case, I dont think its likely this wouldve made 
a difference. Mr K didnt know the situation was a scam at the time he made the payments 
because this only became apparent after the goods werent delivered some time later. Had 
Santander asked him about what he was doing, I think it was likely Mr K wouldve explained 
what hes told our service. He was paying a seller hed dealt with many times successfully 
for an item he wanted to purchase. And its clear this isnt the first item of this nature Mr K 
has bought. I think it wouldve appeared to Santander Mr K was making a legitimate 
purchase and not that he was the victim of a scam. So I dont think, even if it ought to have 
intervened, Santander wouldve missed an opportunity to prevent the payments being made 
and therefore wouldnt be liable for the loss.
Mr K has said he think Santander had a responsibility to reimburse him for his loss. And I 
think much of what hes said is driven by his understanding of the CRM code, which Ive 
explained doesnt apply here. For the reasons Ive already given, I wont be asking 
Santander to reimburse him.
Did Santander do enough to try and recall the funds?I can see Santander contacted the receiving bank the day the scam was reported to it and 
the receiving bank responded nearly four months later to state no funds remained. 
Mr K has said Santander shouldve done more and it failed in its obligations to him. Again I 
think his comments are largely driven by his understanding the CRM code applied in this 
case, which for the reasons Ive given, it doesnt. But to explain further, an overseas bank 
isnt under an obligation to return funds that are involved in an alleged scam or to respond to 
recall requests from a UK bank.
Ive seen in this case however, the overseas bank did respond and it explained Mr Ks 
money had already been moved on. So there was nothing to return to him. Theres nothing 
more I would have expected Santander to have done in this case. So I dont agree that its 
failed in its obligations to him.
Mr K has also said Santander didnt deal with the matter promptly and this delay was a factor 
in not receiving a refund of the money he lost. I havent seen that Santander did delay things 
in this case. As Ive said, it contacted the receiving bank the same day Mr K reported the 
scam to it. There was a delay in the receiving bank responding to Santanders request  it 
didnt reply until February 2020, so perhaps this is the delay hes referring to. Unfortunately, 
Santander had no control over how long the receiving bank took to reply.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman