DRN-3684859
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) unfairly 
reduced his credit card limit from £8,200 to £250.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for these reasons: 
Barclaycard is entitled to reduce account balances for various reasons. One of them 
is data from Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). The terms of Mr Ps account state: 
We set your credit limit according to your circumstances, your account usage and 
history, information from other parts of the Barclays group, information we receive 
from credit references agencies, and any other information we think is relevant.
I understand Mr P feels the reduction is an overreaction and hes referenced other 
information Barclaycard would have held on file about his history as a customer. But 
this data doesnt negate the information received from the CRA, and as a responsible 
lender Barclaycard are entitled to take this into account when deciding Mr Ps limit.
I also understand that Mr P is planning to contend the negative data on his credit file 
at court  its worth noting that if Mr P does have success in removing said data he 
could always ask Barclaycard to review his limit again. But Im satisfied Barclaycards 
decision to reduce his limit based on the current information available is reasonable.
Mr P feels that the current legislation shouldnt allow Barclaycard to do this and that it 
should be changed  but the Financial Ombudsmans role isnt that of the regulator. 
Instead my role is to determine what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr Ps case. I determine this whilst considering the relevant law, 
rules, guidance and good industry practice.
Barclaycard reduced Mr Ps limit due to adverse data received from a CRA and 
notified him of the change. It provided Mr P with the option of further support if the 
reduction was going to put him into any financial difficulty and signposted Mr P to 
sources of free, impartial debt advice. This is what Id expect Barclaycard to do in this 
circumstance, so I cant conclude it has acted unfairly.
As Im satisfied Baclaycard acted fairly and reasonably, I wont be asking it to do any 
more to resolve Mr Ps complaint.
For these reasons, my decision is to not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should not be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman