DRN-3161114
The complaint
Mr M complains that Buffa Loans Ltd (trading as Buffa) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
This complaint is about loans Buffa provided to Mr M as follows: 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments AmountHighest 
Repayment
1 4/01/2020 9/03/2020 3 £200.00 £95.25
2 8/05/2020 28/05/2020 3 £100.00 £46.49
3 29/05/2020 29/05/2020 3 £200.00 £98.84
4 31/05/2020 28/08/2020 3 £200.00 £97.63
5 30/08/2020 27/11/2020 3 £200.00 £97.63
6 1/02/2021 27/05/2021 3 £200.00 £95.72
Mr M mainly said that Buffa failed to carry out sufficient checks before lending to him  in 
particular, it looked only at bank statements for one of his accounts and Mr M said if it had 
checked properly it would have seen evidence of significant gambling on another account.
When Mr M complained to Buffa it said all the loans had been provided only after full 
affordability assessments had been done and didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint in part. He felt he hadnt seen enough to say it was 
unfair for Buffa to have provided loans 1, 2, 3 and 4 to Mr M. But our adjudicator explained 
why he thought that Buffa shouldve realised that loans 5 and 6 shouldnt have been lent and 
he set out the steps Buffa needed to take to put things right. 
Buffa didnt accept our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. In brief summary, Buffa mainly said it had done proportionate checking each time 
before lending and this included looking at bank statements. It told us that by looking at 
these statements, which covered the three months prior to the loans being requested, it saw 
Mr Ms income and regular transactions being made out of the account for day to day 
expenses. 
Buffa said that whilst it could see money being moved between accounts in Mr Ms name it 
wasnt considered proportionate given the amount and duration of the loans to pry further 
still. Based on the evidence supplied, which it feels was proportionate at the time of the 
assessment, Buffa said it was apparent Mr M was in control of his finances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive carefully 
considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and what 
this all means for Mr Ms complaint. Id like to reassure both Mr M and Buffa that Ive looked 
at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as our 
adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons in more detail.
Buffa needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Buffa should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Buffa was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Of 
course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further. Ive come to the same view as our adjudicator about loans 1-4. Ive looked at the information 
Buffa recorded for Mr M, including income and expenditure details from the time and the 
checks it carried out. I agree that there isnt enough to say Buffa shouldnt have provided 
these loans. Given the repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ms circumstances 
and his borrowing history at that time with Buffa, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate 
for Buffa to ask Mr M for the amount of information that would be needed to show the 
lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first four loans. In other words, I wouldnt 
reasonably expect Buffa to have asked to see the bank statements that Mr M has sent us 
showing his gambling activity. So if that wasnt information that Mr M told Buffa about (and 
I cant see that he did) then the lender wouldnt have known about it and I cant fairly say that 
Buffa shouldve known about it. So this is why Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about 
loans 1-4. 
By loan 5, I think its fair to say that Mr M was showing signs that he might be struggling 
financially. By now, he had been repeatedly borrowing and repaying Buffa loans over the 
previous 8 months or so. I dont think that the gap between paying loan 1 and taking out 
loan 2 was long enough for Buffa reasonably to think that Mr M mightve put his finances in 
order during this period. And Buffa could see that save for his second loan, Mr M had been 
continuously borrowing and repaying £200 loans each time. This suggested that he wasnt 
making any real inroads into his money problems. 
Buffa has acknowledged that it was aware at the time that the bank statements it saw 
revealed an incomplete picture of Mr Ms finances. And given that the purpose of short-term 
lending is to provide a temporary cash boost to cover one off or emergency spending, I think 
that by this point Buffa should have taken more steps to verify what Mr M was saying to 
ensure it had a proper understanding of his financial situation before lending to him further. 
Mr M has provided further bank statements which Ive looked through to see what Buffa was 
likely to have found out if it had carried out more robust checking of Mr Ms circumstances. 
To be clear, Im not suggesting the lender should necessarily have looked at bank 
statements  the rules arent prescriptive. But in the absence of other evidence, I think these 
give a reasonable guide as to Mr Ms finances at the time and Buffa could have asked Mr M 
to produce these at the time. 
And had Buffa looked in more depth at Mr Ms finances, as I think a proportionate check in 
these particular circumstances wouldve required it to do, it would likely have seen that he 
was facing serious problems managing his money.
I think it would have seen that Mr M was regularly spending significant amounts on what 
appear to be gambling transactions. All the indications are that Mr M wasnt managing his 
money responsibly at the time. I think if Buffa had seen this information it shouldve realised 
that there was a significant risk that loan 5 was unsustainable. And so Buffa shouldnt have 
provided loan 5  or any further borrowing. 
This means, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 5 and 6.
In coming to my decision Ive carefully taken into account everything Buffa has said, 
including comments made in response to our adjudicators view. I havent commented on 
everything Buffa has mentioned where theres nothing more I can usefully add to what our 
adjudicator has said in response already. I have dealt in my decision with all the main points 
that have an impact on the outcome of this complaint. 
I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my 
decision.Putting things right
In deciding what redress Buffa should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr M, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly 
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr M may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to) have treated an application which may or may not have been the same is now 
impossible to reconstruct accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can 
fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been 
able to lend to Mr M in a compliant way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. This means it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Buffas liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
So, Buffa should do the following: 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 5 and 6, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr M which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay to Mr M the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
D. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Ms credit file for loans 5 and 6. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Buffa to take off tax from this interest. Buffa must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For these reasons, I partly uphold Mr Ms complaint and Buffa Loans Ltd should take the 
steps Ive set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman