DRN-3568697
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Advanced Asset Consultants Ltd (AAC) failed to treat her fairly when 
she requested some advice on the potential transfer of pension benefits from an 
occupational pension scheme (OPS).
What happened
I have issued two provisional decisions on this complaint. Both parties have received copies 
of the provisional decisions but, for completeness and so those findings form part of this 
decision, I include some extracts from them below. In my first provisional decision I said;
Mrs C held pension benefits within an OPS. Those pension savings were in the form 
of defined benefits. But the pension benefits were somewhat fixed in nature  they 
included a dependents pension, payable on Mrs Cs death, and would also be 
reduced when Mrs C reached state retirement age and so became eligible for her 
state pension. Mrs C was single so thought it unlikely that a dependents pension 
would be of any benefit.
Mrs C agreed with her employer that she would retire in February 2020 at the age 
of 57. The OPS at that time also offered a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) in 
lieu of Mrs Cs pension benefits. That would allow her to transfer her pension savings 
to another provider, and potentially increase her pension income by only taking 
features relevant to her circumstances rather than the generic benefits provided by 
the OPS.
Mrs C thought that option might be attractive in her circumstances. So, in September 
2019, she engaged AAC to provide her with advice, or a recommendation, about 
whether she should transfer her pension benefits away from the OPS. She agreed to 
pay AAC £1,750 for its services. Mrs C was aware that she was required by the 
relevant legislation to be provided with advice before undertaking this transfer, and 
that the process could be quite lengthy. So she says she got in touch with AAC in 
plenty of time before her intended retirement.
 
Mrs C says that she didnt initially hear anything back from AAC about the progress 
of its investigations. Towards the end of 2019 she started chasing the business for an 
update, but was reassured that the analysis was being performed and would be 
completed to allow a decision to be made in good time for her intended retirement.
But on 29 January 2020 Mrs C was informed that AAC had actually overlooked her 
instructions and no work had yet commenced. It told her that it would need to gather 
further information before it could start the analysis.
Given that Mrs C was now only four weeks away from retirement she concluded that 
there was insufficient time for any transfer analysis to be completed. So she 
reluctantly took the decision to accept the pension from the OPS. After some delays 
due to banking issues, AAC refunded the £1,750 fee that Mrs C had paid. Unhappy 
that no advice had been provided, Mrs C brought her complaint to this Service.
There seems to be little doubt that, between September 2019 and January 2020, 
AAC failed to undertake the necessary analysis to support the advice it had agreed to 
give to Mrs C. And I have noted that Mrs C had already paid a fee to AAC for that 
advice. Mrs C has said AAC told her that its advisor had failed to undertake the work 
based on an assumption that it wouldnt be in her best interests to transfer. That 
statement in itself, gives me grave concerns  it seems AAC was charging Mrs C a 
substantial fee to provide advice when it had already pre-determined the likely 
outcome.
I think it is right at this time to consider the relevant guidance from the regulator about 
transfers of this nature. The regulator has said that a firm should start by assuming 
that a transfer will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer to be 
suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer is 
in the clients best interests. So I think it is right that AAC should have reflected 
caution in the advice that Mrs C was asking it to provide. But it is also clear from the 
regulators guidance that there will be occasions when a transfer is in the best 
interest of a consumer, and should be recommended.
The situation that Mrs C found herself in, and hence the advice she was seeking from 
AAC, was rather different to many consumers asking for advice on a transfer of 
defined benefits from an OPS. Mrs C had already decided to retire, and to take her 
pension benefits in the form of an annuity. So the analysis she was asking AAC to 
perform was simply whether the CETV being offered by the OPS would allow her to 
purchase a higher annuity on the open market, than the pension she was entitled to 
take from the OPS.
I accept that Mrs C ultimately chose, in late January 2020, to end her relationship 
with AAC. But I am persuaded by the reasons she gave for that decision. I think by 
then any trust that existed between the parties would have been destroyed by AACs 
failure to perform any meaningful work for a period of almost five months. Mrs C was 
less than four weeks away from retirement and needed to ensure that she had 
financial security for her future. As the advice she was seeking was whether it would 
be beneficial to give up the guaranteed benefits from the OPS, I dont think it 
unreasonable, at that late stage, that she took a safety-first approach and left her 
pension benefits with the OPS. There simply wasnt enough time, before her agreed 
retirement date, for AAC to perform the analysis it needed to undertake and for Mrs C 
to carefully consider the resulting advice.
 
I cannot be sure at this stage what annuity could have been purchased by Mrs C had 
she decided to transfer her pension benefits. And I think the value of that annuity 
would have driven any decision that Mrs C would have made. But I dont think it 
unreasonable to conclude that had any annuity quotation been higher than the 
pension being offered by the OPS, that Mrs C would have transferred her benefits. 
I think that AACs actions, in failing to carry out the necessary analysis, deprived 
Mrs C of making that choice.
So I am intending to direct AAC to perform some analysis of the annuity that might 
have been available to Mrs C in February 2020 had she accepted the CETV. I think it 
fair that any annuity should be on a similar basis to that offered by the OPS, save for 
any obvious benefits that would not be applicable to Mrs Cs circumstances such as 
a dependents pension. So I would expect AAC to use similar guarantee periods and 
annual escalations when completing that analysis. And, to help manage Mrs Cs 
expectations, from the limited analysis I have carried out, it is far from clear that she 
could have purchased a better annuity based on the terms I have set out above.AAC has told us it doesnt hold information about the CETV that the OPS would have 
provided to Mrs C. But that seems to be at odds with the information it gave Mrs C in 
2019 when it said it had gathered all the necessary information and passed it over to 
its analysis team. And Mrs C has provided us with her record of the CETV that she 
says AAC passed onto her. So Id encourage AAC to look carefully at its records to 
establish if it holds information about the CETV. Im sure that I dont need to remind 
AAC of its regulatory responsibility to cooperate fully with the Ombudsman in the 
handling of complaints against it. Mrs C has told us that the CETV she recorded at 
the time was £230,980.48 so if AAC is unable to find any further information I think 
that is the CETV value that it is reasonable to use in these calculations.
I accept that AACs advice might have gone further than the relatively simplistic 
calculation I am proposing above. It might for example have recommended that 
Mrs C defer using her pension savings and instead draw on any capital savings that 
she held. Or it might have recommended that she take her pension savings in a 
different form such as drawdown. But Mrs C has been clear to us that she was simply 
asking for a comparison between the benefits she would receive from the OPS and 
those available on the open market. So I am content that the redress I am proposing 
is reasonable here. By failing to undertake the agreed analysis I think AAC lost any 
reasonable opportunity to argue that other approaches might have been more 
beneficial for Mrs C.
AAC treated Mrs C very poorly in failing to even start the analysis it had agreed to 
undertake, whilst at the same time reassuring her that matters were in hand. That not 
only lost her the opportunity to compare the annuity she could purchase on the open 
market, but also to engage an alternative firm had AAC not wanted to undertake the 
work. I accept that AAC has refunded the fee it took from Mrs C  but I give little 
credit for that action. AAC had failed to undertake the work, so I can see no reason 
why it should expect to be paid for it. But, regardless of the results of the annuity 
analysis I have directed AAC to perform, this situation has undoubtedly caused great 
trouble and upset to Mrs C. So I intend to direct that AAC pay an additional sum of 
£300 in compensation to her.
Following that decision I considered the responses that I received from both parties. Given 
that those responses are equally relevant to the findings of my second provisional decision, 
and a further email I sent to AAC later, I will provide details of them later in this final decision. 
But those responses caused me to conduct further enquiries with the administrator of the 
OPS, and in particular in relation to the guaranteed transfer value information it provided at 
the time. So in my second provisional decision I said;
Having thought carefully about what AAC has said, I dont find myself deviating from 
many of the conclusions that I reached in my provisional decision. I still think that 
AAC treated Mrs C very poorly in failing to even start the analysis it had agreed to 
undertake, whilst at the same time reassuring her that matters were in hand. And 
I dont think that my conclusion that Mrs C might have simply expected a comparison 
between the OPS pension available to her, and an annuity that could be purchased 
on the open market, is out of line with the regulators expectations in the specific 
circumstances that Mrs C found herself in.
But, some of the information that AAC has now provided has led me to conduct 
further enquiries with the administrator of the OPS, and in particular in relation to the 
guaranteed transfer value information it provided at the time.
It seems that Mrs C has mis-remembered some of the details from that time. I dont 
make any suggestion that she has been deliberately dishonest in her testimony  at that time she would have had a significant number of activities underway in 
preparation for her retirement so it wouldnt be at all surprising that some of the 
timings might have become confused in her memory. But the additional information 
from the OPS administrator does lead me to reach a different conclusion about what 
AAC needs to do to put things right.
The OPS administrator has confirmed that its records indicate Mrs C herself 
requested a guaranteed transfer value from the scheme on 30 July 2019. The 
quotation was sent to her on 19 August 2019 and was guaranteed for three months 
(until 15 November 2019). So it is clear from the administrators records that it was 
Mrs C, and not AAC, that requested the guaranteed transfer value  and that the 
request was made some time before Mrs C first engaged AAC to provide her with 
advice.
Mrs C completed a fact find with AAC on 18 September 2019. The document 
suggests that meeting was for Mrs C to begin to explore whether she wanted to take 
regulated advice about her pension benefits. But the information recorded at that 
meeting doesnt make any reference to a guaranteed transfer value having already 
been provided by the OPS administrator. I dont think that is entirely surprising  it 
wouldnt be unusual for a consumer to be unaware of the importance of the time 
limits imposed by the scheme on the guaranteed value.
AAC has said that it wouldnt request a guaranteed transfer value until the very end 
of its process. It says that is because it is well aware of the time limits those 
quotations introduce and the need to act quickly once they have been provided. So it 
does seem that AAC would have been aware of the importance of a quotation 
already having been issued  and on balance I think that important information of that 
nature would be likely to have been recorded had it been provided.
AAC says it received from Mrs C a copy of a non-guaranteed quotation on 
15 October shortly before its first meeting with her. I understand that these sorts of 
quotations could be requested, without limits, by members from the OPS website. So 
it seems it was around that time that Mrs C decided to formally engage the firm to 
provide her with the regulated advice. But unbeknown to AAC, by that time there was 
only one month remaining on the guaranteed transfer value that Mrs C had 
previously received.
I dont think it would be reasonable for me to expect AAC to have been able to 
conclude its analysis and provide Mrs C with its recommendation before the 
guaranteed transfer quotation expired. My experience suggests that this process is 
likely to take far longer. And it seems that Mrs C would agree with those conclusions 
given her testimony that in January 2020 she thought that four weeks would be 
insufficient time to engage another firm to provide the regulated advice she had 
sought from AAC.
I have discussed with the OPS administrator what options would have been open to 
Mrs C when the guarantee expired  as I think would have been likely even if AAC 
had been aware of its existence. The administrator has confirmed that, except in truly 
exceptional circumstances, only one guaranteed transfer value can be issued in any 
twelve-month period. And without there being an active guaranteed transfer value in 
place the OPS administrator would not consent to the transfer of pension benefits 
from the scheme.
So what this means is that, unless Mrs C had agreed to the transfer of her pension 
benefits before 15 November 2019, no transfer would have been permitted until August 2020 at the earliest. So, since I think it would be unreasonable to have 
expected AAC to have provided its advice by that time, its failure to undertake the 
work it had agreed for Mrs C didnt mean that she was prevented from taking a 
pension annuity on the open market.
I still think AAC let Mrs C down by the way it handled her request. And so I remain of 
this opinion that it would be appropriate for AAC to pay her £300 for the trouble and 
upset she was caused. But now I dont think that AAC needs to do anything more in 
terms of assessing what annuity Mrs C might have received on the open market  or 
paying her any further compensation for its failure to provide the advice.
I again invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response 
to my provisional decision.
Mrs C provided us with copies of an extensive email exchange between her and the OPS 
administrator that took place before, and at the very start of, her engagement with AAC. I will 
discuss that email exchange in more detail later in this decision, but it led me to conclude 
that Mrs C was still entitled to receive a guaranteed transfer quotation during the time she 
was dealing with AAC. So that led me to conclude that I should disregard the altered findings 
I set out in my second provisional decision. I explained that reasoning in an email to AAC 
and asked it for any additional comments. So here, I will now summarise the comments from 
AAC in relation to both my first, and second, provisional decision. Those comments are 
lengthy, and at times repetitive, so I am only providing a brief overview here of what AAC 
has said. But I want to reassure AAC that I have read, and carefully considered, its entire 
responses to both my first, and second, provisional decisions.
AAC doesnt agree with my provisional findings. In its initial response it noted that it had not 
requested, or received, a guaranteed transfer value for Mrs Cs benefits from the OPS 
administrator. It said that asking for that information would be at the very end of its process. 
But it confirmed that it received a copy of a transfer out statement (showing a non-
guaranteed transfer value) directly from Mrs C on 15 October in advance of the initial client 
meeting.
AAC noted that whilst Mrs C had agreed with her employer that she would retire in 
February 2020 that didnt place any requirement on her to access her pension benefits 
immediately. It said its fact find had shown that she had other financial resources she could 
use to support her expenditure in the short term. And it said that any consideration about 
whether Mrs C might have received a higher annuity was hypothetical given that she had 
disengaged from the advice process before any recommendation was made, and that she 
had accepted the annuity from the OPS without taking regulated advice from elsewhere.
But AAC then considered, hypothetically, what steps it might have needed to take had it 
provided Mrs C with the advice she was seeking. It considered, at some length, the 
requirements placed on the firm by its regulator when providing advice of this nature. And it 
thought it would be unreasonable for me to conclude that its advice would have been for 
Mrs C to take her pension benefits immediately. It thought a simple comparison of the 
scheme pension to the annuity that could be purchased on the open market would fall well 
short of the regulators expectations for this type of advice. So it doesnt think it could have 
provided Mrs C with the necessary statutory advice on that basis, and so she would have 
been prevented from making any transfer.
Ultimately AAC says that at no stage during its process was Mrs C in possession of a 
guaranteed transfer value. It says she would have needed to obtain that valuation in order 
for it to provide her with any assessment on the best way to manage her retirement savings. So ultimately it says it was the absence of that guaranteed transfer value, rather than AACs 
failure to act, that prevented Mrs C from proceeding.
As it has mentioned above, AAC then reiterated that its fact find had shown that Mrs C had 
sufficient other assets in order to support her retirement for at least a year. So it says that, 
even after she became aware of AACs failure to act on her request, Mrs C still had time 
available to seek new advice from another firm. It says she wasnt required to immediately 
take her occupational pension benefits simply because she had decided to retire from her 
employment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As in my provisional decisions Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules 
and good industry practice at the time when considering this complaint. I have also again 
carefully considered all of the submissions that have been made by Mrs C and by AAC. 
Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened.
I again think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended to 
regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I will first deal here with the new information Mrs C has provided about her interactions with 
the OPS scheme administrator. 
Mrs C has provided us with a copy of an email exchange she had with the OPS 
administrator between July and October 2019. From that it is clear that Mrs C requested the 
OPS administrator to provide her with indicative (non-guaranteed) quotations of her pension 
benefits across both tranches of her benefits. And it is equally clear that the OPS 
administrator failed to handle her request correctly. She was sent a guaranteed quotation for 
part of her benefits, and nothing for the other tranche. It was only after making a formal 
complaint that the administrator provided the indicative quotations that Mrs C had requested. 
And in that email the administrator confirmed that the previous issues would not affect 
Mrs Cs one guaranteed quote per year.
I have been unable to get independent validation of those emails from the OPS 
administrator. But I have absolutely no reason to doubt the veracity of what Mrs C has 
provided to us. On balance I must reasonably conclude that there was no impediment to 
Mrs C (or AAC on her behalf) requesting a guaranteed quotation of Mrs Cs retirement 
benefits as part of the analysis she had asked the firm to conduct. And I am satisfied that the 
information I referenced in my first provisional decision  the CETV Mrs C recorded at the 
time of £230,980.48 is most likely the final quotation the OPS provided in October 2019, and 
a good indication of the likely transfer value Mrs C would have received.
So that now takes me back to the conclusions I reached in my first provisional decision. And 
although the representations AAC has made against those findings havent caused me to change my mind, I would like to provide some further explanations in relation to the 
additional points that AAC has raised.
As I said in my second provisional decision I dont think that my conclusion that
Mrs C might have simply expected a comparison between the OPS pension available to her,  
and an annuity that could be purchased on the open market, is out of line with the regulators 
expectations in the specific circumstances that Mrs C found herself in.
When considering the transfer of defined and guaranteed benefits, the regulator has quite 
rightly placed a great deal of importance on advising firms fully and carefully analysing all 
aspects of a consumers finances, and how the transferred pension benefits might be 
invested and used in the future. And it is that depth of analysis that AAC says I should take 
into account when reaching my decision on this complaint.
But Mrs Cs circumstances were very different to those that apply to the majority of transfers 
of guaranteed benefits from an OPS. Mrs C wasnt looking to invest her pension savings to 
provide for an income in many years time. In fact Mrs C wasnt expecting to invest her 
pension savings at all  she was simply looking to swap one form of guaranteed income (a 
pension from the OPS) for another (an annuity purchased on the open market). So I think 
many of the perfectly valid concerns the regulator might have on a transfer from an OPS 
would have been negated by that approach.
I accept that, had AAC undertaken much of the analysis it says would have been necessary, 
it might have presented Mrs C with other options to consider on how she might use her 
retirement savings. It might, for example, have suggested that she only used part of those 
savings to purchase an annuity, leaving the remainder available to be accessed flexibly 
during her retirement. Or it might have suggested not taking any retirement benefits until she 
reached the normal retirement age of the OPS, and instead used her other savings to 
support her living costs. And I agree with AAC that any analysis of that nature would have 
been far more involved than the simplistic suggestion I have made here.
But I think AACs failure to act at all on Mrs C instructions, for such a lengthy period of time 
and whilst reassuring Mrs C that matters were in hand, removes any reasonable reliance on 
a defence of that nature. Mrs C has told us that her only expectation was that she would use 
her entire retirement savings to purchase an annuity. And without AAC having considered, 
and presented to Mrs C, any alternative options I have no reason to doubt that is the 
approach she would have taken.
In its response to my second provisional decision AAC appears to have placed great 
reliance on the fact that Mrs C didnt hold a guaranteed CETV for her pension savings. And it 
says that means it couldnt proceed with its analysis. But I find that line of defence to be 
entirely without merit.
Earlier AAC has told us that it wouldnt request a guaranteed transfer value until the very end 
of its process. So it seems to me that AAC accepts that it was responsible, as part of the 
analysis it agreed to undertake for Mrs C, for gathering that information. And from what 
I have said above, it now seems clear that it would have been possible for AAC to obtain that 
guaranteed CETV from the OPS administrator. Its failure to hold that information is not the 
responsibility of Mrs C  it is a further indication of the failings of AACs processes.
From the information I have seen I cannot disagree that Mrs C had alternative means that 
she could have chosen to use to support her retirement whilst seeking alternative advice on 
her pension benefits. But I have seen nothing that makes me think Mrs C should have been 
compelled to take that approach. Her alternative means appear to have been intended as a 
buffer against unexpected expense  not as a means of supporting her normal living costs. If she had used them for a period of time I see little likelihood that they could have been easily 
replaced. Mrs C approached AAC in good time before her retirement  she allowed a period 
of almost six months for AAC to complete its analysis and provide her with advice.
So overall I remain of the same opinion that I reached in my first provisional decision.
AAC treated Mrs C very poorly in failing to even start the analysis it had agreed to 
undertake, whilst at the same time reassuring her that matters were in hand. That not only 
lost her the opportunity to compare the annuity she could purchase on the open market, but 
also to engage an alternative firm had AAC not wanted to undertake the work. I accept that 
AAC has refunded the fee it took from Mrs C  but I give little credit for that action. AAC had 
failed to undertake the work, so I can see no reason why it should expect to be paid for it.
And, regardless of the results of the annuity analysis I am directing AAC to perform, this 
situation has undoubtedly caused great trouble and upset to Mrs C. So I also direct that AAC 
pay an additional sum of £300 in compensation to her.
Putting things right
AAC needs to do the following;
AAC should pay to Mrs C the sum of £300 in respect of the trouble and upset shes 
been caused.
AAC should perform some analysis, and share the results with Mrs C, to identify what 
annuity could have been bought on the open market in February 2020 based on the 
estimated CETV that Mrs C provided in October 2019 (£230,980.48).
I think it fair that any annuity should be on a similar basis to that offered by the OPS, 
save for any obvious benefits that would not be applicable to Mrs Cs circumstances 
such as a dependents pension. So I would expect AAC to use similar guarantee 
periods and annual escalations when completing that analysis. I accept that the 
different tranches of Mrs Cs OPS benefits had different features. AAC should 
attempt to replicate (by the use of multiple annuities if needed) the structure of those 
benefits.
If that analysis shows that Mrs C could have purchased a higher annuity on the open 
market, that is what I think she would have done but for AACs failings. So AAC 
should put Mrs C back into the position she would have been by either purchasing on 
her behalf an additional annuity, or paying her compensation to allow her to purchase 
the annuity for herself. AAC should also pay Mrs C compensation to reflect the 
annuity payments that she would have received up to the date of settlement. 
But I accept those payments would have been subject to income tax, so they can be 
reduced by 20%. AAC should add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each 
of these amounts from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and direct Advanced Asset 
Consultants Ltd to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Paul ReillyOmbudsman