DRN-2630703
The complaint
Ms D complains that Zurich Insurance PLC has turned down a curtailment claim she made 
on her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Ms D took out an annual travel insurance policy in February 2020. She flew to Australia on 1 
March 2020 and was due to return home on 23 March 2020. Ms D had booked a short break 
to New Zealand between 14 and 16 March 2020. She travelled to Australia and on to New 
Zealand as planned.
However, on 15 March 2020, the Australian government announced that due to the Covid-19 
pandemic, any international traveller landing in Australia after midnight that night would need 
to quarantine for 14 days. This meant that if Ms D remained in New Zealand until 16 March 
as planned, shed have needed to quarantine in Australia for 14 days and would have 
missed her return flight to the UK. So Ms D cut short her trip to New Zealand. She bought 
new flights to Australia and flew back on 15 March 2020, stopping overnight in a hotel. She 
then travelled onto the city her return flight was booked from. Ms D was able to fly home as 
planned on 23 March 2020. She made a claim for the costs associated with cutting short her 
New Zealand trip and the additional expenses shed incurred as a result.
Zurich turned down the claim. It said the cancellation and curtailment section of Ms Ds 
policy simply didnt cover her situation. And that she hadnt taken out optional cover which 
mightve provided some cover for her costs when she took out the policy.
Ms D was unhappy with Zurichs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Ms Ds complaint should be upheld. She didnt think Ms Ds 
circumstances fell within the scope of cancellation and curtailment cover. And she didnt 
think Ms D had bought the optional add-on cover which mightve paid out in her 
circumstances. So she thought it was fair for Zurich to turn down Ms Ds claim.
Ms D disagreed. She said shed lost out on a large sum of money, through following the law 
and acting ethically. She felt shed been penalised for acting responsibly. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I sympathise with Ms Ds position, I think it was fair for Zurich to turn 
down her claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought carefully about, amongst other 
things, the terms of Ms Ds contract with Zurich and the circumstances of her claim to decide 
whether Zurich handled her claim fairly.
Theres no dispute that Ms D cut short her trip to New Zealand as a result of the Australian 
government imposing a requirement on international travellers to quarantine for 14 days if 
they arrived after 15 March 2020. Given this wouldve impacted Ms Ds ability to return to the 
UK as planned, I can entirely understand why she decided to cut her trip short and incur 
additional expenses. I can also understand how worrying it mustve been when she learned 
about the requirements that were being imposed and that she had to take action at short 
notice. 
But in making my decision, I need to consider the terms of Ms Ds policy, as these form the 
basis of her contract with Zurich. Ive looked at Ms Ds policy schedule too, which sets out 
the cover she chose when she took out the insurance contract. I can see that Ms D chose an 
Enhanced Policy. But it doesnt look like she paid to add on the optional Catastrophe, 
natural disaster and airspace closure cover, which mightve covered her particular 
circumstances. In the absence of this cover, I think it was fair for Zurich to consider Ms Ds 
claim under the Cancellation and cutting short a trip section of the policy. This says:
We will pay up to the limits specified in your statement of insurance if you have to
necessarily and unavoidably either:
 cancel your trip before it starts; or
 cut short your trip before it is due to end.
We will pay for unused travel fare, accommodation expenses and/or other associated
pre-paid charges including excursions, which have been paid or are contracted to be 
paid (including deposits you have already paid), if you cannot get them back from any other
source. As a result of any of the following:
1. Accidental death, injury, illness of you, a close relative, travel companion, or
someone with whom you have arranged to reside with during your trip.
2. Witness summons, jury service or compulsory quarantine (on the orders of the
treating medical practitioner) of you or your travel companion.
3. Redundancy (qualifying for payment under UK redundancy payment legislation) or
having a contract ended early if self-employed, of you or your travel companion.
4. Your or your travel companions home suffering serious damage by fire, burglary,
storm or flood in the seven days prior to the start date of your trip or during your
trip.
5. The police requiring your presence because your or your travel companions
home or place of work has been burgled.
6. If you are a member of the Armed Forces, Territorial Army, police, ambulance, fire or
nursing service, in the UK, and you are called for unexpected emergency duty or
posted outside the UK at the time of your intended pre-booked trip.
Ive looked carefully at the claim form Ms Ds submitted. It seems the majority of the costs 
shes claimed for are additional expenses associated with rearranging her onward travel 
from New Zealand back to Australia and onto the city she was flying back to the UK from. 
These werent unused travel or accommodation costs, or other pre-paid expenses, which Ms 
D had paid out for her original trip. So I dont think it was unfair for Zurich to conclude that 
Ms Ds new flights, taxis and her hotel werent covered by the policy terms.
Ms D did include the one nights unused accommodation she didnt use in New Zealand. 
And it isnt clear whether she was able to recover her original pre-booked return flight from 
her original airline.  So Ive considered whether it was fair for Zurich to conclude that these costs arent covered by the policy terms. I dont think the circumstances of Ms Ds claim fall 
within the listed insured events set out in the cancellation and curtailment section of the 
policy. Thats because government regulations arent included in the things which are 
covered (and are in fact, specifically excluded within this section of the policy). I appreciate 
the policy does cover compulsory quarantine  but that seems to apply only if a medical 
practitioner treating a policyholder or their companion considers its necessary. Ive seen 
nothing to show me that applied here. 
So on this basis and taking into account the above, I think it was fair for Zurich to conclude 
that Ms Ds claim simply wasnt covered by the policy terms. Ive also noted that Ms Ds 
policy has an applicable excess of £95 per person. Ms Ds lost accommodation costs in New 
Zealand seem to have been less than this amount. And it isnt clear whether her original 
return flight from New Zealand to Australia wouldve been less than the total excess which 
wouldve applied to her claim, even if I had considered Zurich should pay it.
Overall, while I sympathise strongly with Ms Ds position, because I understand shes been 
left out of pocket through circumstances entirely beyond her control, I think it was fair and 
reasonable for Zurich to turn down her claim. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman