DRN-2618666
The complaint
X is a sole trader of a take-away food business. X is unhappy with their commercial business 
insurer China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd (CTI) because it declined Xs claim made 
following a fire at their premises, and took too long in considering the claim. 
What happened
The manager of Xs business was in the shop on 3 May 2019 preparing for the lunchtime 
trade. She reports having placed a block of fat in the fryer to warm and having gone to the 
adjoining food preparation area to complete some chores. When she returned she found 
flames emanating from the fryer and left the premises whereby the fire brigade was called. 
Extensive damage was caused.
 
When the fire brigade, and later CTIs forensic expert, entered the building, debris thought to 
contain asbestos was found. Whilst X owns the business, the premises belong to a landlord, 
and it was his responsibility to deal with the asbestos. The fire brigade and the forensic 
expert both noted that the presence of the debris  which couldnt be disturbed due to the 
risk of asbestos  somewhat hampered their investigations into the cause of the fire. 
However, the forensic expert concluded it was more likely than not that there had been too 
little fat in the fryer when the fire began. It was also concluded that unless the manager had 
been stood in the doorway of the preparation area, she couldnt have seen the fryer  but, 
the expert said, if shed been able to, she would have seen smoke before the fire ignited.
CTI noted various policy conditions which it felt had been breached and the breaches had 
likely been material to the loss. But, given it had limited information and obtaining further 
information was dependant on the asbestos risk being dealt with, it was February 2020 
before it decided to decline the claim and told X. X challenged CTI about some of the points 
it had relied upon. Regarding two of the breaches CTI viewed as material, it wasnt minded 
to change its view. In a letter of September 2020, CTI explained that it believed the fryer had 
been left unattended, with too little oil in it, and, as a result, it wasnt minded to reverse the 
claim decline. X complained to this service.   
Our investigator felt the conditions had been breached. And that the breaches had been 
material to the loss. He felt that whilst the claim had been delayed, this wasnt due to any 
failure by CTI. So he wasnt minded to uphold the complaint.
X, via a representative objected. The representative said that his experience tells him that 
the forensic experts findings were likely wrong. He also said that he believed that the policy 
documents required only for someone to be in the vicinity of the fryer, which the manager 
was. The complaint was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this is a significant loss for X, and that this must be a very difficult time for 
them. Unfortunately for X, I dont think CTI has done anything wrong on this occasion. Which 
means I wont be asking it to do anything more.
Xs policy requires them to comply with certain conditions. A breach of those conditions, 
where the breach is most likely material to the loss which occurred, will allow the insurer to 
decline the claim.
Whether a breach has occurred and whether that was material to the loss is often a matter of 
opinion. In respect of matters of opinion, expert considerations are given most weight. 
Particularly those which are persuasive, setting out reasoning for the conclusions reached. 
I find CTIs forensic experts opinion persuasive. Whilst I understand Xs representative 
disagrees with the report and believes its flawed, I havent seen anything which makes me 
think that is likely the case.
The first condition in question here is that:
when in use, the oil or fat in each frying pan must be maintained..at a sufficient level to 
ensure that both the thermostat and high temperature limit thermostat are both immersed in 
the cooking medium.
The forensic expert has explained that, in his view, its most likely this condition wasnt met. 
Hes also explained why, if this condition had been met, he thinks the fire would have been 
unlikely to occur. I find his explanation persuasive and Ive seen nothing compelling to give 
me cause to think the conclusions are likely wrong or flawed. Im satisfied that CTI has 
shown there was likely a breach of a policy condition and that the breach was likely material 
to the loss which occurred. 
The second condition in question required that whenever the fryer is switched on, the 
kitchen and preparation area(s) are not left unattended.
X argued that the manager was in attendance, or at least in the vicinity of the fryer at the 
time of the fire. However, it is clear from the detail available that the manage was in a nearby 
room, without line of sight of the fryer, and engaged in duties in that room, meaning she 
wasnt paying attention to the fryer. I think that means its fair to say the fryer was left 
unattended. X says that when she found the fire, it was too well established to use a fire 
extinguisher to put it out. However, the forensic expert says that there would likely have 
been plenty of visible smoke generated prior to the fuel being ignited, which would have 
alerted anyone in view of the fryer that there was a problem, giving them chance to cut off 
the heat supply, which in turn would have prevented the fire from developing and taking 
hold. Im satisfied that CTI has shown there was likely a breach of a policy condition and that 
the breach was likely material to the loss which occurred. 
As such, I think CTIs decline of Xs claim was fair and reasonable. I cant, therefore, require 
it to change its position.
I appreciate it was frustrating for X to have to keep waiting for an answer on their claim. 
However, I accept that the claim was complicated by the presence of the debris containing 
asbestos and that CTI wasnt responsible for removing or dealing with that. I can see that 
CTI did move things on as much as it could and its deliberations of the claim werent just 
entirely set aside. I think it handled things reasonably in the circumstances.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against China Taiping Insurance (UK) 
Co Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman