DRN-3545861
The complaint
Mr E complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans (Everyday) lent 
him money on a high cost loan which he was unable to afford to repay. 
What happened
Everyday provided Mr E with a loan for £7,500 on 10 August 2018 for a period of 48 months 
with a monthly instalment of around £389. The loan was repaid by 1 March 2021.
Mr E says he was already on a debt management plan when he took out the loan and had 
other loans and credit card debts. He had to borrow from family members to keep going. He 
ahs provided copies of his bank statements from around the time of and after the loan was 
issued.
Everyday said it assessed Mr Es income and expenditure, verifying his payslips, and 
carrying out a credit check. It used ONS (Office for National Statistics) data to calculate his 
living expenses. And it obtained and considered two recent bank statements from Mr Es 
main bank account. It assessed that the loan was affordable and that after paying the new 
loan instalments he would have had around £207 a month disposable income.
Our adjudicator said that when the loan was provided Mr E had shown signs that he was 
struggling to repay some of his existing debt. For example, the evidence in his bank 
statements and credit report showed Mr E had overdraft fees on a bank account and was in 
an active debt management plan. Further, the results of the checks also showed Mr Es total 
credit repayments represented a significant proportion of his income. So, there was a 
significant risk that he wouldnt have been able to meet his existing commitments without 
having to borrow again. So, she thought it was unlikely Mr E wouldve been able to 
sustainably meet his repayments for this loan.
Everyday disagreed, pointing out that there was no evidence that Mr E was in a debt 
management plan. It would have declined the loan if he had been on such a plan. There was 
some evidence of historic defaults but he was actively paying these. The statements also 
show Mr E was paying £45.50 weekly into an ISA, which doesnt indicate someone who was 
struggling to repay their debts.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr E 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr E would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Es ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that it had to ensure that 
making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr E undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr E. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income). 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
The loan was for a large sum, payable over a long period, and would have represented a 
substantial commitment for Mr E. So Everyday should have carried out a thorough 
assessment of Mr Es financial circumstances.
The purpose of the loan was partly for consolidation of a loan for which Mr E had been 
paying £311 a month. Everyday released the whole of its loan advance to Mr E, but I note 
from his bank statements that he did pay a substantial payment to the loan provider so I 
assume he did pay off the old loan. Further while he may have later gone onto a debt 
management plan he wasnt actively on one at the time of the application.
Ive calculated, from his credit check report that Mr E was paying (excluding the loan that 
was paid off) around £486 towards his credit commitments each month. This takes into account, which I think it fair to do, monthly payments of 5% of the respective balances of his 
credit cards and his overdraft. This doesnt include his mortgage payment. Adding in the 
payment for the new loan, of £389, his total credit commitments amount to around 45% of 
his assessed income of £1,940. This is very high and an indication that the payments for the 
loan may not have been sustainable.
Ive considered Mr Es disposable income taking into account his credit commitments, his 
mortgage, and his assessed monthly expenditure. That gives a negative monthly figure of 
around £39. In note as Everyday has pointed out that Mr E was paying £45.50 a week 
(about £197 a month) into an ISA. Whilst it would appear that he couldnt afford to do that, 
even if I assume he could have used those funds to service his debts, it still meant he didnt 
have sufficient disposable income to pay Everydays loan.
My conclusion is that from the point of view of his disposable income and his credit 
commitments, the loan was likely to be unaffordable to Mr E. So I dont think Everyday made 
a fair lending decision.
Putting things right
Mr E has had the capital payment in respect of the loan, so its fair that he should repay 
this. So far as the loan is concerned, I think Everyday should refund all interest and 
charges as follows:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan.
Treat any payments made by Mr E as payments towards the capital amount.
If Mr E has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to him with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information where appropriate about the loan from Mr Es credit 
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman