DRN-2974908
The complaint
Miss H complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss H applied for an Aqua credit card from NewDay in April 2016. This was agreed with a 
limit of £250. The debt was passed to a debt collection agency in February 2019 and repaid 
in March 2021. Miss H is represented by a claims management company, but I will refer to 
Miss H in this decision.
Miss H complains that she shouldnt have been given the card. She was struggling with 
other debt and payday loans. NewDay didnt check her income and expenditure  they 
accepted her word for it. She went onto miss payments and get into a spiral of debt. She 
wants a refund of interest and charges and interest of 8% added to it.
NewDay said shed passed their checks when the card was agreed. She said she earnt 
£15000 a year, plus other household income of £2500. She had other debts of £200. She did 
have a defaulted loan, but this was 46 months before. She had £142 on payday loans and 
no accounts in arrears. So, the card was issued. There were no increases in limits given on 
her account.
Miss H brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said NewDay had acted fairly and 
responsibly. She had passed NewDays credit checks, which were proportionate to the limit 
agreed.
Miss H asked that her complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We must check whether NewDay 
acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness assessment as 
set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must undertake a 
reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the customer 
not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to make 
repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit i a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
othe lower a customers income, and the higher amount to be repaid. 
othe greater the number of loans and frequency of loans.
othe longer the term of the loans
Its important to note that the checks must be proportionate to the amount being lent  so the 
higher the amount, the greater the checks must be, and the lower the amount, then fewer 
checks can be made.
In the case of Miss Hs complaint, I consider the limit of £250 to be very modest  and so, 
NewDays checks could reflect that.
There were no increases in Miss Hs limit for the life of the card, and so Ive looked only at 
the issue of the card in April 2016, and the information that NewDay had before them to look 
at and assess. Ive seen in NewDays records that Miss H said she said she had an income 
of £15000 a year, and other income of £2500. She only had other debts of £200  NewDay 
could see she had payday loans of £142. She did have a defaulted loan, but this was 46 
months before  almost four years. No accounts were showing as in arrears. So, based on 
that, NewDay gave her the card. Miss H has said that NewDay shouldve asked for proof of 
income and expenditure to validate their decision. But  given the low limit of £250, I dont 
think it would have been proportionate to expect them to do that.
Looking at what happened after the card was issued, I can see that Miss H went over the 
limit a lot and was late paying. And  NewDays searches show that later, she did take a lot 
of payday loans  in May 2016 (one month after taking the Aqua card)  she had 23. But - 
the amount lent was only £1661, with only two loans being active. So  it looks like many 
were low balances, or zero balances. It does look as though Miss Hs problems got worse 
later  in September 2017, she had debts of £5210, and by February 2019, she had debts of 
£12506. But  I cant say that NewDay were responsible for this or couldve anticipated that. 
Based on the information they had at the time, NewDay were OK to issue Miss H with the 
card with the limit of £250.
And so  my decision is that NewDay acted responsibly in giving Miss H the card, and I 
wont be asking them to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman