DRN-2185583
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey National) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2001. Mr and Mrs W paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered them in case either 
one or both of them was off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case. 
Ive decided that this particular PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage application offered them the choice to take out PPI or turn it down. 
The option to apply for PPI was chosen, the option to turn it down was left blank, and Mr and 
Mrs W signed the application to confirm their choices. They also filled out a separate section 
for PPI, where they chose what cover theyd like and signed specifically for the policy.
Mr and Mrs W say the section for PPI describes it as compulsory. Im afraid theyve 
misinterpreted it. It says that when working out how much PPI cover theyd like to apply for, 
its compulsory to include the mortgage payments, PPI premiums, and life insurance 
premiums in that calculation. Mr and Mrs W also pointed out that building insurance was 
compulsory. But that was a completely different product to PPI. The PPI was not 
compulsory, and I think the documentation made this sufficiently clear.
Mr and Mrs W also said they bought the PPI over the phone and were given the impression 
they had to have it to get approved. But I can see that they took out the PPI using a paper 
application rather than a telephone application, and I cant see that there was a phone call 
involved. Further, Ive not seen any wider problems with Santanders sales process from the 
time  indeed, from what Ive seen, the normal process made it clear that the PPI was a 
separate, optional product. Ive not seen anything to make me think that this sale differed 
significantly from the normal process, and Ive not seen any evidence which shows that 
Mr and Mrs W were misled or unfairly pressured into buying PPI here. So based on all the 
evidence, I think its most likely that Mr and Mrs W were given a clear choice about whether 
theyd like PPI or not, and chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if they no 
longer recall doing so after so many years.
Its not clear whether Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Santander if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr and 
Mrs W, Ive assumed it did. That means Santander had to check the policy was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For 
example, it looks like Mr and Mrs W were eligible for the cover and werent affected by any 
of its main exclusions or limitations. And to confirm, the policy did offer them cover for 
involuntary redundancies. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of their work benefits and 
covered them for far longer. And while they had other insurances, those policies covered 
different things to the PPI and were not alternatives to PPI, so Im afraid they werent 
relevant here.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ws friends or family may have been happy to help, but there was 
always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And this mortgage was Mr and 
Mrs Ws responsibility, not anyone elses, so I dont think it wouldve been suitable if 
Santander had recommended they rely on other individuals to pay it. I also understand 
Mr and Mrs W had savings, though those wouldve only lasted for so long if needed to cover 
all their living costs once their work benefits ran out. And the PPI meant they could 
effectively protect their savings and use them for other things, instead of having to potentially 
sacrifice one asset to save another. Further, this mortgage was a very significant, long-term 
commitment, so there was no guarantee that Mr and Mrs W would have the same benefits or 
savings available in the many years to come. And ultimately, if theyd fallen behind on their 
mortgage payments they couldve lost their home. So it looks like the PPI couldve really 
been useful for them in protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs W about PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs W chose to take out PPI, which indicates 
they wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, Mr and Mrs W werent affected by any 
of the main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for them in case 
something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out 
in a claim, and it looks like it wouldve been affordable. And the PPI was paid on a rolling 
monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs W could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont 
think that better information was likely to have put them off taking out the cover.
Mr and Mrs W explained that there was a point where they could have claimed, but didnt. In 
this decision Im only considering the sale of the policy rather than what came after. But if 
there was a point where Mr and Mrs W were eligible to claim, but didnt, then they may still 
be able to make a back-dated claim now. If theyd like to do that, they should get back in 
touch with Santander in the first instance. And if they have trouble with the back-dated claim, 
they may be able to ask our service for help as a separate case.Lastly, Mr and Mrs W asked whether the rules surrounding commission and profit share on 
PPI policies were relevant, as their policy was in force until 2017. I understand why they 
asked this. But the relevant dates for those rules are the dates of the original credit 
agreement, rather than the insurance policy. And here, Mr and Mrs Ws 2001 mortgage 
ended too early for the commission and profit share rules to now be relevant.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman