DRN-3015080
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) unfairly
declined their claim and cancelled their home insurance policy, following a fire. LV says
Mr and Mrs D were involved in fraud.
  
What happened
Mr and Mrs D suffered a fire at their home, and they made a claim on their home insurance 
policy. They appointed a loss assessor, who in turn appointed a surveyor; and those two 
appointed parties oversaw the tender process for the building reinstatement works. 
LV raised concerns about the tender returns and how the tender process was run. LV went 
on to invoke the policys fraud condition, and it declined the claim and cancelled the policy.
My ombudsman colleague has previously issued a provisional decision on this complaint. He 
set out in detail his thoughts on the points both parties had made. He explained he intended 
to uphold the complaint. His provisional decision followed a detailed assessment by one of 
our investigators, who also thought the complaint should be upheld.
Due to unforeseen circumstances, my ombudsman colleague is currently unable to consider 
the responses to his provisional decision. So, to avoid further delay, the case has been 
passed to me to decide.
Im not bound by the provisional decision that was issued. However, Ive carefully considered 
all the submissions before the provisional decision, and those in response, and Im also 
upholding this complaint. This is for the reasons Ive set out below and those in the 
provisional decision. 
Given the detailed assessment and provisional decision previously issued, its not necessary 
for me to set out, or revisit, all the previous points made. Instead, Ill focus on the responses 
to the provisional decision, and on what LV should do to put matters right and move the 
claim forward.
First, Ill summarise my ombudsman colleagues provisional decision and the responses we 
received.
My ombudsman colleague provisionally decided the following:
- LV had requested we dismiss the complaint on the basis its better suited to court, 
where Mr and Mrs D could be cross-examined. The ombudsman didnt consider 
dismissing the complaint would be appropriate.
- The ombudsman accepted it was likely, based on the evidence available, that the 
contractors nominated by Mr and Mrs D had colluded to manipulate the tender 
returns.
- However, the ombudsman wasnt persuaded LV had shown that, on the balance of 
probabilities, Mr and Mrs D were aware of, or part of, the tender manipulation.
- The ombudsman also wasnt persuaded the contractors could reasonably be 
considered to have been representing Mr and Mrs D. 
- Whilst he accepted Mr and Mrs Ds loss assessor and its surveyor were representing 
them, and they controlled the tender process, the ombudsman wasnt persuaded LV 
had shown that those two parties were involved or knew of the manipulation.
- So, the ombudsman concluded that LV hadnt acted fairly or reasonably when 
invoking the fraud condition, to terminate the policy and decline the claim.
- LVs fraud investigations started in July 2018. LVs decision to decline the claim and 
cancel the policy was made about nine months later, in April 2019. The ombudsman 
acknowledged the investigations and correspondence between this period, but he 
concluded there was a couple of months of unnecessary delay.
- The ombudsman provisionally decided LV should reinstate the policy and continue 
considering the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions; and remove 
any references to the fraud from any internal and external databases.
- The ombudsman acknowledged the impact LVs decision had on Mr and Mrs D. He 
noted the distress caused by the allegation and them having to return home to their 
property which was fire damaged. He explained he intended to award £2,000 
compensation.
- The ombudsman explained that the most he could award, based on when the act or 
omission being complained about occurred, was £350,000, plus any interest and 
costs (and interest on costs) he considers appropriate  so, LV would only be 
required to pay a maximum of £350,000 when settling the complaint.
In response, LV made the following points:
- If no answer can be given to the question of how all three contractors were in contact 
with each other, the only sensible conclusion is that Mr and Mrs D were involved in 
the fraud.
- Mr and Mrs D have only produced documents that are helpful to them. If this service 
dismissed the complaint, and Mr and Mrs D initiated court proceedings against LV, 
they would be required to provide certain documents in their possession or control 
showing who they had been in contact with over the relevant period; and financial 
records. This would also extend to their agents. As part of the court process, LV 
could also apply for disclosure orders against third parties; to fill in gaps in the 
evidence.  
- LV said, during court proceedings, Mr D would have to justify his assertion that he 
didnt know how tenders worked, despite working in the building trade as a sub-
contractor, for contractors who would have been regularly submitting tenders.- The ombudsman accepted that Mr and Mrs Ds recollections, about how the three 
contractors were selected, had been inconsistent. LV said there was no basis for 
assuming those inconsistencies were slight, or that Mr and Mrs D were simply 
confused. LV noted Mr and Mrs D had been represented throughout, by an 
experienced loss assessor, and they couldnt have been in doubt about the 
importance of providing accurate information.
- LV said the source of the contractor recommendations and Mr and Mrs Ds contact 
with them, and Mr Ds knowledge of the building trade, are precisely the sort of 
issues which should be explored in cross-examination.
Mr and Mrs D responded to the provisional decision via their solicitor, who set out the 
following:
- The alternative accommodation arrangements before the claim was declined, and the 
communication of the wrong policy limit for this, was a cause of unnecessary stress. 
LV also misrepresented its intentions, reassuring Mr and Mrs D that there was no 
cause for concern.
- Mr and Mrs D were forced to carry out works at their home. They relied on the scope 
of works and obtained multiple quotes from reputable builders. The repairs are 
almost complete, but Mr and Mrs D cant afford to finish them.
- Mr and Mrs D have already paid £179,928 to eight different contractors; they have 
two invoices for £10,200 to pay; and three quotes for £13,950 for the outstanding 
works. So, in total, their buildings claim so far is £204,078 (inclusive of VAT).
- Due to the passage of time, the kitchen worktops and units can no longer be cleaned. 
Therefore, due to LVs delays, the kitchen now requires replacing. Mr and Mrs D 
estimate this will cost a further £25,000 to £30,000.
- Mr and Mrs Ds contents claim is still outstanding. As per the loss list presented to LV 
by Mr and Mrs Ds loss assessor, the contents claim is for £110,000.
- Mr and Mrs D had to pay for alternative accommodation themselves, which cost 
£10,000. They also had to pay council tax on their rental accommodation for 17 
months, which cost £3,727.
- In order to fund the repairs, Mr and Mrs D re-mortgaged. They incurred a £10,000 
early repayment charge and their new mortgage payments are higher.
- Mr and Mrs D have incurred over £100,000 in legal costs (plus VAT) in corresponding 
with LV; without prejudice negotiations; raising a complaint to this service; and 
liaising with this service and third parties.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is inconclusive or incomplete, I have reached my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  this means Ive determined what I consider is more likely to have happened, 
based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.Ill set out my findings under the following headings: grounds for dismissal; fraud decision; 
award limit; buildings and contents; alternative accommodation and council tax; early 
repayment charge and new mortgage repayments; legal costs; and compensation.
Grounds for dismissal
LV has again asked this service to dismiss the complaint. As LV will be aware, we routinely 
consider insurance claim complaints involving allegations of fraud. However, I accept this 
case is relatively complex, given it involves a potential multi-party fraud, rather than the 
usual situation of alleged fraud by the consumer acting alone. In addition, theres good 
evidence the contractors were involved in fraud by way of manipulating the tender. 
LV says it cant prove Mr and Mrs Ds involvement in the fraud, without being able to obtain 
documents from third parties; and without exploring, through cross-examination, how the 
contractors were sourced and Mr Ds awareness of the tender process. Ive given LVs 
concerns careful consideration.
Whilst theres evidence of fraud by the contractors, the evidence that Mr and Mrs D or their 
agents were involved is much more speculative, in my view. Likewise, its speculative what 
may emerge through the disclosure of documentation and cross-examination, particularly 
given the passage of time.
In the fraud decision part of my findings, I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Ds recollections, about 
how the contractors were sourced, were inconsistent. But I also explain that I consider some 
confusion, in the circumstances, to be reasonable. I accept cross-examination on this issue 
might turn something up. However, I also consider it likely that Mr and Mrs Ds confusion 
would simply be inconclusive.
Also, even if it was shown through court proceedings that Mr D did have more awareness of 
the tender process than what he says, as Ill go on to explain in the fraud decision part of 
my findings, Im not persuaded such knowledge would point towards Mr and Mrs D being 
fraudulent.
Overall, Im satisfied I can make fair and reasonable on balance findings, about such 
issues, based on the evidence and arguments presented. So, in conclusion, Im not 
persuaded its inappropriate for me to consider Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Fraud decision
The policy terms allow LV to decline a claim and cancel the policy if the policyholder, or 
anyone representing them, makes a claim that is fraudulent, false or exaggerated.
Theres been no suggestion the fire wasnt legitimate. But rather, LV argues the building 
repair costs were exaggerated and the tender process manipulated, to secure the 
exaggerated amount.
In terms of our approach to such complaints, my role here is to decide whether LV is entitled 
to invoke the fraud condition, decline the claim and cancel the policy. This means looking at 
whether, on the balance of probabilities, its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs D, or their 
agents or representatives, were part of a fraud. I then need to consider whats fair and 
reasonable, in all the circumstances of the case.For the reasons explained by my ombudsman colleague in their provisional decision, Im not 
persuaded the contractors can reasonably be considered representatives of Mr and Mrs D.  
As a result, Mr and Mrs D are not responsible for the contractors actions in relation to the 
tender.
I accept the loss assessor and its appointed surveyor were representing Mr and Mrs D, and 
those parties were responsible for the tender process. However, Im not persuaded LV has 
shown the loss assessor or surveyor, were, on balance, party to the collusion or 
manipulation.
LV argues that if no answer can be given to the question of how all three contractors were in 
contact with each other, the only sensible conclusion is that Mr and Mrs D were involved in 
the fraud. Ive given this point, and the submissions, careful consideration.
All the submissions have consistently explained that the first contractor was found through a 
dog walking acquaintance of Mr and Mrs D. I will set out the inconsistencies regarding the 
other two contractors. For context, the tender process was in March 2018.
- Mrs D was interviewed by LV in October 2018. She said the second contractor was 
someone Mr D knew through his work, and the third contractor was someone who 
had been recommended to Mr D by a friend. 
- In November 2018, Mr and Mrs Ds loss assessor said he was given the second and 
third contractors by Mr D. He also clarified that whilst Mrs D had understood the two 
contractors had been recommended to Mr D by family or acquaintances, he had 
established the contractors were recommended to Mr D by the first contractor.
- In March 2019, Mrs D complained to LV. In her complaint letter, she again said the 
second contractor was someone Mr D knew through his work. She said the third 
contractor was given to her by the first contractor.
- In September 2019, Mr D provided a witness statement. This said Mr and Mrs D may 
have asked the first contractor for recommendations, and they think this is where the 
second contractor probably came from, but they arent 100% sure. His statement 
didnt mention the third contractor.
Its evident Mr and Mrs Ds submissions about the second and third contractor havent been 
consistent. However, Im mindful the submissions were provided over a period of time, and 
some were provided some time after the events being recalled. They also say they were 
inundated with contractor recommendations, but yet had difficulty finding willing tender 
participants. In such circumstances, I consider some confusion reasonable. Im not 
persuaded their inconsistent recollections show involvement in fraud.
Having considered the various submissions, on balance, I consider its likely the second and 
third contractors came from the first contractor. Im persuaded Mr D would have known if the 
second contractor was someone he knew through his work, but his witness statement said 
he thought the second contractor came from the first contractor. Mr Ds statement and the 
loss assessors clarification are consistent in this regard. The loss assessor and Mrs Ds 
complaint letter also consistently said the third contractor came from the first contractor.LV has found a link between the second and third contractor via Companies House records, 
and it also points towards the first and second contractors having almost identical websites. 
In my view, the identical websites do point towards a connection, albeit not conclusively. In 
view of the connections that LV identified, on balance, Im persuaded the three contractors 
could have known each other already and colluded without Mr and Mrs Ds involvement. 
Overall, I dont consider it implausible they did so.
I accept its not unreasonable for LV to question why Mr and Mrs D asked the first contractor 
for other recommendations when they knew that contractor was bidding for the job itself. 
Mr and Mrs D had also instructed a loss assessor and surveyor, who knew finding other 
contractors in this way wasnt appropriate. 
However, as set out in my ombudsman colleagues provisional decision, Mr D explained in 
his witness statement, that whilst he runs a glazing business, he didnt have any previous 
experience or knowledge of the tender process, or of the appropriate procedures. Ive not 
seen or been told anything that leads me to doubt what he says about this.
Furthermore, even if Mr and Mrs D ought reasonably to have known it wasnt good practice 
for a contractor already taking part in a tender process to recommend another, that in itself, 
isnt enough for me to reasonably conclude they had awareness those companies were 
linked, or they were involved in fraud. 
Mr and Mrs D say they were inundated with recommendations. As such, I consider there to 
be a reasonable question here about why they needed to ask the first contractor if it could 
recommend others for the tender. However, Mr D explained in his witness statement they 
had tried a number of contractors (and he provided some names), but these werent 
available or interested in insurance work. 
Mr and Mrs D have also explained they were overwhelmed, which is why they asked the first 
contractor for recommendations. Theres another reasonable question here, about why they 
didnt revert back to their loss assessor or surveyor if struggling to find further contractors. 
Both have said that whilst they dont have a panel of contractors, and its generally for the 
client in the first instance to identify their chosen tender contractors, they can if needed, 
make recommendations. This would have been the logical step in my view, rather than 
approaching the first contractor. 
However, having said all that, overall, I dont consider it unreasonable for someone to ask a 
contractor they trust, whether they can recommend other contractors. In the circumstances 
of a tender process, I accept Mr and Mrs D were somewhat nave. But in my view, this isnt 
sufficient to demonstrate they were, on balance, involved in fraud. Mr D also noted in his 
witness statement that he was relying on the professionals representing both parties to 
conduct the necessary checks. I dont consider this explanation to be unreasonable.
I accept there were legitimate concerns with what happened during the tender process, and 
it was appropriate for LV to investigate. But based on everything Ive seen, and considering 
all the evidence in the round, Im not persuaded the claim was, on balance, exaggerated by 
Mr and Mrs D or someone representing them. As such, I dont consider LV acted fairly and 
reasonably when relying on the policy fraud condition, to decline the claim and cancel the 
policy.
Therefore, like my ombudsman colleague, Im persuaded LV should reinstate the policy and 
continue considering the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and limits. LV should 
also remove any references to the fraud from internal and external databases.Award limit 
My ombudsman colleague set out in detail why a £350,000 award limit applies to this 
complaint. I wont repeat that same information here.
However, for context, the maximum compensation I can direct LV to pay Mr and Mrs D is 
£350,000. When I refer to compensation this includes:
- Any settlement paid under the policy as part of the claim. Because the whole claim is 
the subject of Mr and Mrs Ds complaint, this includes any interim payments that LV 
made before it declined the claim. So, for example, if LV had already paid £10,000 
for alternative accommodation, I could only direct LV to pay £340,000 more 
compensation.
- Awards for delays and distress (such as the £2,000 award my ombudsman colleague 
intended to make).
- Awards for financial loss (such as the early repayment charge being claimed).
However, compensation doesnt include any interest I award, or any award I make for costs 
reasonably incurred in respect of the complaint. Therefore, if Mr and Mrs D accept my final 
decision and LV goes on to settle their claim, the maximum compensation it will be bound 
to pay will be £350,000, plus any interest and costs I award.
Buildings and contents
I cant reasonably decide what amounts the buildings and contents should be settled for, at 
this stage.
In respect of the buildings, Mr and Mrs Ds repair costs are similar to the value of the tender 
LV says was exaggerated. Ive not seen the invoices or quotes; and nor is it clear whether a 
scope of repair was previously agreed between the parties, from which I could compare the 
invoices and quotes to. In any event, its not our role to provide claim handling or loss 
adjusting services.
In the circumstances, I cant reasonably direct LV to simply settle Mr and Mrs Ds claimed 
costs. LV will need to give Mr and Mrs Ds quotes and invoices fair consideration; and 
compare them against any scopes generated when the claim was previously being 
assessed, to determine what remedial work was required due to the fire.
When assessing the claim, LV will need to keep in mind that Mr and Mrs D were left with no 
other option than to press ahead with the works. Equally, Mr and Mrs D will need to support 
the repair decisions they took. This will likely include providing a breakdown of all the work 
through quotes and invoices; and proving the amounts they paid by way of bank account 
statements. LV may also wish to visit the property to inspect the works and assess any 
works not yet undertaken.
If LV agrees to settle any building repair invoices (or part of), it will need to pay Mr and Mrs D 
8% simple interest per year on the amounts settled, from the date Mr and Mrs D paid the 
invoices, to the date of settlement.
In respect of the contents, Mr and Mrs D have submitted a significant claim. Again, LV will 
need to give their loss list fair consideration, keeping in mind the damaged items will have 
now likely been disposed of. Equally, Mr and Mrs D may need to show that items were 
owned by them and damaged beyond economic repair.LV will need to pay Mr and Mrs D 8% simple interest per year on the contents settlement, 
from the date it declined the claim in April 2019, to the date the settlement is paid.
If the parties cant agree on the claim settlement once LV has assessed the loss and given 
Mr and Mrs Ds evidence consideration, a further complaint can be referred to our service 
about that matter, and well consider the arguments and evidence presented. A further 
complaint would still be subject to the current £350,000 award limit.
Alternative accommodation and council tax
It follows that LV will need to cover Mr and Mrs Ds alternative accommodation costs, not yet 
settled through previous interim payments. 
In respect of the council tax, Mr and Mrs D will need to show they were still paying council 
tax for their home whilst it was unoccupied. If they were, LV will need to reimburse the full 
amount they paid at their rental property. 
If Mr and Mrs D werent still paying council tax at their home, LV only needs to reimburse the 
amount above what they would have been charged for their home, had they been living 
there.  
Both the alternative accommodation and council tax settlement Im awarding here, is subject 
to evidence being provided to LV of the amounts paid.
LV will need to pay 8% simple interest per year on this part of the award, from the dates 
Mr and Mrs D paid for the alternative accommodation and council tax, to the date of 
settlement. 
Early repayment charge and new mortgage repayments
In my view, it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs D to raise the necessary funds to return their 
home to a habitable state. So, subject to Mr and Mrs D providing evidence to LV that they 
incurred an early repayment charge in order to release equity (by way of mortgage 
statements and/or correspondence), it follows LV needs to reimburse this charge.
Mr and Mrs D say their mortgage repayments are now higher than they were before, due to 
having re-mortgaged. However, Im satisfied that the 8% interest to be applied to various 
elements of the claim settlement, and the refunded early payment charge, will fairly 
compensate them for the costs they have incurred to borrow money.
Legal costs
This service is free to use and doesnt require legal representation. As such, its uncommon 
for us to make awards for professional representation.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs D obtained legal advice during their discussions with LV. 
However, they have put forward significant legal costs, and Ive not seen a breakdown or 
anything that would reasonably explain such sums. 
The amount quoted is well beyond an amount I could reasonably award, given Mr and Mrs D 
could have referred to our service without incurring such costs. So, in the circumstances, 
I make no award for the legal costs Mr and Mrs D say they have incurred.Compensation
I accept concerns remained for LV after its investigation was complete. However, in my view, 
and particularly given the implications for Mr and Mrs D, its concerns were insufficient for its 
eventual decision. I consider a fair and reasonable outcome at that stage, would have been 
LV taking control of the tender process and continuing the claim. Its decision to not do so 
has caused significant distress. I also acknowledge Mr and Mrs Ds further submissions 
about the unnecessary stress they suffered due to various issues (which I noted when 
setting out their response to the provisional decision).
My ombudsman colleague intended to award Mr and Mrs D £2,000 compensation. Ive given 
this figure careful consideration, whilst considering all the submissions in the round. Overall, 
Im satisfied £2,000 is fair acknowledgement LV could have avoided some of the distress 
suffered by Mr and Mrs D, whilst also reflecting it was placed in a difficult position by the 
tender manipulation. I accept its concerns were, and remain, genuinely held. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, and those given by my ombudsman colleague in their 
provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
I can award fair compensation to be paid by Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
of up to £350,000, plus interest and costs (and interest on costs), that I consider to be 
appropriate. If I consider fair compensation is more than £350,000, I can recommend 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited pays the balance.
Award
My final decision is Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited should:
Part 1:
A. Reinstate the policy and remove any references to the fraud from internal and 
external databases;
B. Pay Mr and Mrs D £2,000 for the distress caused;
C. Reimburse Mr and Mrs D any alternative accommodation costs not yet settled, and 
any additional council tax they had to pay (subject to them providing evidence); 
D. Reimburse the early repayment charge Mr and Mrs D incurred on their mortgage, to 
fund the repairs (subject to them providing evidence);
Part 2:
E. Continue considering the building part of the claim (i.e. Mr and Mrs Ds quotes and 
invoices) in line with the remaining terms and conditions, in order to calculate this 
part of the claim settlement;
F. Continue considering the contents part of the claim in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions, in order to calculate this part of the claim settlement;
G. Pay Mr and Mrs D fair compensation, up to a maximum of £350,000, to be calculated 
using the following formula: previous interim claim payments + B + C + D + E + F;Part 3:
H. Pay Mr and Mrs D 8% simple interest per year on C, from the dates Mr and Mrs D 
paid these costs, to the date of settlement;
I. Once it has been established what fair compensation is for E, pay Mr and Mrs D 8% 
simple interest per year on E, from the dates Mr and Mrs D paid the invoices, to the 
date of settlement;
J. Once it has been established what fair compensation is for F, pay Mr and Mrs D 8% 
simple interest per year on F, from the date the claim was declined in April 2019, to 
the date of settlement;
K. Income tax: if Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited consider its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from any interest paid, it should tell 
Mr and Mrs D how much its taken off. If requested, it should also provide them a 
certificate showing the amount deducted, so they can reclaim it from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Recommendation
If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation, in G, is more than £350,000, 
I recommend that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited pays Mr and Mrs D the 
balance. This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its 
unlikely that Mr and Mrs D can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. 
So, Mr and Mrs D may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
accept this decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman