DRN-3214494
The complaint
Mr O complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined a claim for theft 
under his contents insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr O purchased a contents insurance policy with RSA in August 2019. In August 2020, after 
returning from a period abroad Mr O found his property had been burgled and a number of 
items were stolen. RSA eventually proceeded with the claim and appointed loss adjusters to 
review the claim. 
The loss adjusters visited the property to validate Mr Os claim. They noted it was a shared 
property rather than a flat as detailed on the policy. So the claim was referred to the 
underwriters to consider. The underwriters confirmed that the claim wouldnt be covered as 
the door lock to enter Mr Os property didnt meet the minimum standards requirement under 
the policy. There was a delay of three month by RSA in relaying this information to Mr O. 
Mr O wasnt happy with the response so complained to RSA about the declining of the claim 
and the delay caused by RSA. RSA considered the complaint and accepted they provided 
Mr O poor service so offered him £500 in compensation. RSA also maintained the claim had 
been declined in line with the terms of Mr Os policy. 
Mr O remained unhappy so referred the complaint to our service. He said that he was 
unaware of the type of lock required under the policy and provided a letter from his landlord 
to confirm the door lock locked from both inside and outside of the property. Our investigator 
considered the complaint but didnt think RSA had acted unreasonably in declining the claim 
and said the compensation offered for the delay was fair. 
Mr O disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
RSA has an obligation not to unreasonably decline a claim. So I need to be satisfied its 
acted fairly when declining Mr Os claim. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Os policy with RSA has a minimum standards of security 
endorsement which says:
Security devices must be fitted in the following places:
1. The main final exit door (if your home is a flat or part of a house converted 
into flats, the main final exit door means the door to your self-contained flat 
and not any communal exit door):
a lock which can be locked by a key from both the inside and the 
outside.
Looking at the policy documents, I find that the terms relating to the minimum standards of 
security are clear. But I need to be satisfied RSA has applied them fairly to Mr Os claim. 
When Mr O reported the claim, RSA sent a loss adjuster to validate the claim. The loss 
adjuster provided evidence to show the lock used on the door to access Mr Os property only 
had a key lock from the outside and not on the inside. The terms set out the lock to the main 
entrance into Mr Os property needed to have a key lock on both inside and outside. 
It is for RSA to decide what risk it wishes to insure and in this case, they set out the 
minimum standard of security required for it to provide cover for theft in Mr Os home. As the 
lock on Mr Os door which accessed his property didnt meet this requirement, Im satisfied 
that RSA didnt act unreasonably or unfairly when it declined Mr Os claim.    
I note Mr O provided a letter from his landlord that the door lock met the requirements of a 
House in Multiple Occupation (HMO) property. But those standards are likely to apply in 
relation to Mr Os landlord being able to let out the property and RSA isnt bound by them. 
So I dont think it was unreasonable of RSA to rely on its own terms in relation to the 
security requirement.
Ive also looked at the service provided by RSA. RSA have acknowledged there were 
avoidable delays caused to Mr O during the claim process. RSA were told by the 
underwriters in January 2021 that the claim wouldnt be covered but RSA didnt tell Mr O 
until April 2021. RSA have offered Mr O £500 in compensation for the poor service and I 
think that is fair considering the circumstances. 
I understand my decision will be disappointing to Mr O. And I sympathise with the situation it 
leaves him in. But while he had a contents insurance policy, this doesnt mean that RSA will 
be liable for claims that its policy doesnt provide cover for. So I wont be asking RSA to do 
anything further.  
In Mr Os recent submissions he mentioned that he wasnt told about the policy terms, so I 
must make it clear here Ive only looked at how the claim was handled. If Mr O has concerns 
about the sale of the policy, he will need to complain to the seller directly in the first instance.  
  
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman