DRN-4395521
The complaint
Mr B complains about the performance of his pension with Scottish Widows Limited (SWL). 
He also complains that he received poor service from SWL.
What happened
Mr B has a personal pension plan with SWL. On 2 December 2021, he took 25% of his 
pension pot as tax-free cash (TFC). The remaining funds were invested in a drawdown 
pension.
Mr B said that he had planned to retire on his 67th birthday. And that hed considered 
purchasing an annuity at that time. So, guided by SWLs literature, he chose to invest the 
remaining approximately £140,000 in its Pension Protector Fund. He also continued to 
contribute £200 each month into his pension plan. 
Mr B said he received his annual pension statement in December 2022. He said he was 
shocked to see that the value of his pension pot had fallen to £93,696.48 as at 5 December 
2022. He called SWL for clarification, as he thought thered been a mistake. 
Mr B said SWL told him that pension values can fall as well as rise, but didnt offer him any 
advice or assistance. So he said he wanted to make an official complaint that his pension 
fund had been allowed to fall in value so alarmingly without him being notified. Mr B said that 
SWL told him that its Complaints Department would call him. But it never did. 
Mr B said he also arranged to talk to SWL about possibly buying an annuity with the 
remaining funds. SWL discussed this with him on 5 January 2023. And provided Mr B with 
annuity quotes. Mr B said he again told SWL he wanted to speak with its Complaints 
Department. 
Mr B said that as his pension pot had further fallen in value by the time of the discussion, the 
annuity he couldve got wouldve been insufficient. So he reluctantly concluded that hed 
have to work for at least another year and defer his retirement to no earlier than age 68. 
SWL said it wrote to Mr B on 5 May 2023 to tell him he was approaching his retirement date.
Mr B also said that hed tried to unsuccessfully call SWL about his concerns on 12 May 
2023. And that hed ended up using the online chat facility, which had provided him with an 
email address. Hed then written to SWL about the following: 
He wanted to defer his retirement date by a year, while continuing to contribute at the 
same rate. 
He wanted SWL to confirm the current value of his pension pot.
He wanted to know if his pension pot should be transferred to another investment  
one which hadnt fallen in the way his fund had. 
Mr B said he only received an acknowledgement to his questions. So he emailed SWL again 
on 22 May 2023 to chase it for a reply. He said his pension pot had continued to fall since 
January 2023. He wanted SWL to resolve his complaint as soon as possible given the size 
of his losses.
Mr B said he wrote to SWL again the next day to tell it that he wanted to transfer his pension 
to another provider. And that the day after that, hed received a text message from SWL 
telling him that it would be in touch soon about his complaint. It had also given him referral 
rights to this service. 
On 25 May 2023 Mr B brought his complaint to this service. He wanted SWL to reimburse 
the £50,000-plus he felt itd lost. On the same date, Mr Bs chosen new pension provider 
wrote to him to tell him that it couldnt accept the transfer of funds that had already been 
crystallised.
Mr B said that SWL sent him a message on 26 May 2023 to tell him that the total value of his 
pension pot was now £86,903. But it didnt confirm that itd actioned his request to defer his 
retirement, or give any information about how to move his funds. He said it also told him that 
it couldnt transfer his pension pot to his chosen provider as the funds had crystallised.
SWL said it wrote to Mr B on 1 June 2023 confirming Mr Bs transfer value and enclosing an 
application form. 
Mr B wrote to SWL to progress his complaint on 3 June 2023. He said the value of his 
pension had continued to fall, despite his continued contributions. And while he understood 
that some pension fund managers had been finding things difficult, he felt SWL had behaved 
unprofessionally. He felt it shouldve notified him of any problems with his account, such as 
the recent fall in its value. He also felt hed been given poor service as SWLs Complaints 
Department still hadnt contacted him. 
Mr B felt that SWL should allow his pension pot to transfer to his chosen provider 
immediately. He also felt it should reimburse him for the £53,000 he felt it had lost him. And 
that it should compensate him for the distress itd caused him, especially considering how 
close to his original planned retirement hed been. 
On 24 July 2023, SWL wrote to Mr B to tell him that his chosen new provider hadnt been 
able to accept his transfer because his pension had become crystallised as soon as hed 
withdrawn his TFC. 
SWL issued its final response to the complaint on 25 July 2023. It didnt think it was 
responsible for how Mr Bs funds had been performing. But acknowledged that the service 
Mr B had received hadnt met its usual standards. It offered him £100 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused. 
Mr B was unhappy with SWLs response. He didnt accept its offer of compensation. He felt 
that although SWL might have no legal requirement to notify its customers that their pension 
pots had fallen so drastically, it must have a duty of care at the very least to issue a warning 
- particularly to customers close to retirement. 
Mr B acknowledged that the problems hed had transferring his pension werent caused by 
SWL. But said that hed invested his life savings in a "Pension Protector Fund" that had 
suggested a value of at least £128,000 at the end of 2022. He felt hed actually received a 
completely unprotected fund that was now worth only £91,000.
Our investigator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that SWLs offer of £100 was broadly in the region of what hed expect for the poor service. But he didnt hold it 
responsible for the poor performance of Mr Bs investment. He said this was because SWL 
was the pension provider, and it hadnt recommended or advised Mr B on how to invest.
Our investigator also said that SWL wasnt required to alert Mr B to movements in his fund 
value other than sending annual statements. And said that in any event, online access to Mr 
Bs pension pot was available, so he couldve tracked his pension pots value online.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigator. He made the following points: 
He felt that SWL had offered a Pension Protector Plan that had offered no protection 
whatsoever. And that this was mis-selling.
He didnt agree that £100 compensation was reasonable under the circumstances. 
He felt SWL had lost more than £50,000 of his pension fund and then failed to tell 
him of the falling value. And that it had completely ignored several emails. And taken 
seven months to reply to his initial complaint. 
Our investigator considered the points Mr B had made. But still felt that SWL wasnt 
responsible for the performance of the fund Mr B had chosen to invest in. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be very disappointing to Mr B. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision. 
I first considered if SWL is responsible for the poor performance of the Pension Protector 
fund.
Is SWL responsible for the poor performance of the Pension Protector fund?
Mr B initially complained to SWL about the performance of his pension pot, which was 
predominantly invested in the Pension Protector fund. 
Mr B said that hed chosen his investment guided by SWLs literature. And that it had 
suggested that he could expect between £128K and £145K by the end of 2022. So I can 
understand why it was such a shock to see that his fund was only worth around £90,000 at 
that time, after Mr B had paid a further £4,000 into his pension.
But the literature Mr B referred to was simply a projection of the benefits he might expect if 
his investment performed at certain rates. The projections werent guaranteed. SWL noted 
the following alongside the projections:
These figures are only examples and arent guaranteed - theyre not minimum or maximum 
amounts and could be less than the amount(s) paid into Retirement Income. What you will 
get back depends on a number of factors
From what Ive seen, SWL wasnt responsible for the sale of Mr Bs pension plan, or for 
giving him any personal advice on what was suitable for him. SWL was the administrator and 
plan provider, not the adviser. Ive also seen no evidence that SWL ever guaranteed the performance of the Pension Protector fund. 
Based on the evidence, I cant fairly say that SWL is responsible for the poor performance of 
Mr Bs funds. I say this because it isnt SWLs role to actively manage the funds. Instead, as 
the pension provider and administrator, SWLs role is to provide information about fund 
choices to its customers, so that they can make an informed decision about where to invest, 
and then to invest its customers funds in line with their instructions. SWL doesnt give advice 
on the best way to invest funds, it simply acts on its customers investment instructions. 
Ive seen no evidence that SWL failed to carry out its role. And in any event, this service 
doesnt hold businesses accountable for investment performance. This is because 
investment performance is outside of a businesss control. So I cant uphold this part of the 
complaint.
I next considered whether the name of the Pension Protector fund was fair. 
Name of the Pension Protector fund
Mr B thinks the name of this fund is inappropriate, as he doesnt feel his investment in it has 
protected his pension. 
I can understand Mr Bs point, as I think the title of the fund does imply that it is intended to 
provide protection in some form. But I dont think it implies there is any guarantee. And I 
dont think that the name alone is enough to understand what that protection might be and 
how it would work. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Bs 2022 annual statement. This stated: The value of investments 
can fall as well as rise. 
The annual statement also said that Mr B should consider if the funds he was invested in 
were still right for him. It said it was important to review whether his current investment 
choices met his needs. And recommended that he got advice or guidance to understand his 
retirement options. It said it had a variety of other investment options available. And said that 
Mr B could change to another one of its products, or check what other providers had to offer.
Ive also carefully reviewed the Pension Protector fund factsheet. This says the fund aims:
To provide a return consistent with the variations in market annuity rates with the aim of 
reducing annuity conversion risk. 
Under the Information Statement section of the factsheet, it states:
The Fund does not provide any guarantee of the level of pension in retirement or the cost of 
buying that pension. It may not be effective for those who intend to buy an inflation-linked 
pension and does not provide protection against changes in the cost of buying a pension 
that arise from changes in life expectancy.
I consider that the underlying nature of the investments within the Pension Protector fund is 
clearly explained. The factsheet also makes it clear that the fund doesnt guarantee the level 
of pension in retirement. And the annual statement also stated that the value of Mr Bs 
investments could go up or down. Overall, Ive not seen any evidence indicating that the 
Pension Protector fund said it would provide any level of guarantee, or that it would protect 
investors from a fall in value. 
However, the fund factsheet does explain that the fund aims to move in line with market annuity rates, which means it should move in value broadly in line with the cost of buying a 
pension. I can see that this could be seen as protection to some investors. But Ive seen no 
evidence that the fund aims to avoid any fall in value. 
Overall, I dont consider that the fund title was inappropriate. So I cant fairly uphold this part 
of the complaint. 
I also considered Mr Bs point that SWL shouldve notified him about the fall in value. 
Was SWL required to notify Mr B of the fall in value?
Mr B considers that SWL shouldve notified him about the fall in value of his pension once it 
had started to fall sharply. He felt thered been a lack of customer care. 
I acknowledge that Mr B has been distressed and disappointed by the fall in value of his 
pension fund. Im sorry this has happened to him. And I appreciate hes had to substantially 
change his retirement plans because of the fall in pension value. But I cant fairly hold SWL 
responsible for this, as Ive explained above.
From what Ive seen, theres no requirement on SWL to notify its customers of a fall in value. 
And I also consider that it wouldnt be practical, or helpful, to notify its customers of falls in 
fund values every time that happened. I also note that fund values were always available to 
Mr B as he could call SWL any time to request them, as he did on a number of occasions.
As SWL wasnt required to notify its customers of falls in value, and as this service cant tell 
a business how to operate, I cant fairly uphold this part of Mr Bs complaint. 
I finally considered the amount of £100 compensation SWL offered Mr B, but which he 
rejected. 
Distress and inconvenience 
Mr B said that SWL told him that its Complaints Department would call him. But it never did, 
even when he asked it again. He also said that hed struggled to get through to it. And it had 
failed to respond to his queries in a timely manner. 
SWL acknowledged that the service Mr B had received hadnt met its usual standards. And 
offered him £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
As our investigator noted, Im unable to award compensation in respect of complaint 
handling issues. What I can do is look at the distress and inconvenience caused by the poor 
service Mr B received in respect of his difficulty getting thought to SWL. And by its failure to 
answer his questions in a timely manner. 
I know Mr B doesnt agree, but I cant fairly ask SWL to increase its compensation offer. I 
say this because Im satisfied that the £100 it offered was fair for the impact its poor service 
had on him. I say this because, as Ive explained above, Im satisfied that SWL wasnt 
responsible for Mr Bs fund falling in value. 
Im sorry that Mr Bs pension fund has gone down in value. I appreciate that this has caused 
him shock and severe disappointment. But I cant fairly hold SWL responsible for that fall. 
And Ive seen no evidence that it did anything wrong other than the poor service issues 
covered by its compensation offer. So I cant uphold the complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman