DRN-4311869
The complaint
K, a business, complains about a claim it made on its Markel International Insurance 
Company Limited (Markel) business insurance policy.
K says Markel unfairly declined its claim. 
What happened
In 2020 Ks business premises was flooded so it relocated to temporary premises. 
The business required a license to operate. K obtained a temporary license to allow it to do 
so at the temporary premises. The license eventually expired but was not renewed. 
K says it had no option but to close its business at that point. As such it claimed on its 
business insurance policy to cover its losses incurred in doing so, such as making 
redundancy payments to its staff. 
Markel declined the claim. It said the policy didnt offer cover for the claim K was making and 
that the decision to close the business was Ks so the policy wasnt operative in any event.
K feels Markels stance is unfair. It says the decision to close was out of its hands because it 
couldnt operate without a license. It also says it couldnt return to its original premises 
because refurbishment works hadnt yet completed and the changes needed to ensure the 
premises was complaint with current legislation werent viable. 
Our investigator considered Ks complaint. He concluded that the circumstances surrounding 
the closure of K as a business didnt trigger policy coverage and that the claim K was making 
wasnt covered by the terms in any event. K doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to 
me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Ks complaint for broadly the same reasons set out by the 
investigator. Ive explained why below.
The starting point is the policy terms. The loss of registration section of the policy that K is 
seeking to claim on engages if:
during the period of insurance and from any cause outside Your direct control the
registration of the Insured or other persons which enables You to carry on the Business
as stated and at the Premises as specified in the Schedule is cancelled under the
provisions of any legislation governing such registration We will pay or make good to You
all loss that You may sustain in respect of the depreciation in value of Your interest in the
Business covered by the cancellation of the registration.
The claim K is making here is not for depreciation in value of its interest in the business. Its 
for the costs associated with making its staff redundant. Thats not the same thing thats 
covered by this section of the policy. So, I dont think the claim K is looking for cover for is 
available.
But even if K wanted to make a claim for depreciation in value of its interest in the business, 
it would have to show that the closure of K came about due to the registration being 
cancelled as a result of circumstances beyond its direct control. Markel say that K chose to 
close its business rather than carry out the works required to its original premises to allow it 
to carry on trading from there. 
Ive thought about what both parties have said in this complaint and in particular Ks 
submissions about how the licenses to its temporary premises ended. From what Ive seen 
the work to its original premises hadnt completed by the time the licenses to its temporary 
premises expired. And by the time that happened there was a requirement for significant 
structural changes to be made to things like the window height to the original premises in 
order to allow it to be complaint with a Government scheme. I know that might have meant it 
wasnt viable to make these changes at all and that the timing of the temporary license 
expiring meant it wasnt possible to do so in time even if those changes were possible. I also 
understand that Ks preference was to continue to operate at its temporary premises, that it 
feels it was given some earlier indications it might be able to do so and that it had relied on 
this in the hope it could continue to operate there. But I dont think any of these 
circumstances amount Ks license being cancelled as a result of causes outside its direct 
control.
The licenses to operate at temporary premises were always temporary in nature. Whilst K 
might have been given verbal indications they might be extended beyond expiry, I havent 
seen anything persuasive to suggest that they were assured this would be the case. And 
their expiry doesnt to my mind amount to cancellation, which is a requirement for the policy 
term Ive quoted above to engage. 
Its unfortunate that the work to Ks original premises werent complete by the time the 
temporary licenses expired and that new stipulations applicable to its business meant it was 
no longer compliant with current legislation. But I dont think this means the policy is capable 
of providing cover in this case. In order for the term to engage it would have been necessary 
for the licenses applicable to Ks premises to be cancelled due to circumstances beyond its 
control. For the reasons Ive set out, I dont think I can say that was the case. If Ks license to 
its original premises had been cancelled and K could have shown this was due to 
circumstances it couldnt control, I might have taken a different view. But in this case, K took 
what was no doubt a practical decision to close its business in the circumstances. That 
doesnt however mean that Markel were obliged to provide it with cover or that the policy 
engages in those circumstances.
  My final decision
I dont uphold Ks complaint against Markel International Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman