DRN-3114050
The complaint
Mr T complains that Pinnacle Insurance Plc (Pinnacle) has sent him incorrect information 
after he took out a pet insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties and has been detailed 
previously by our investigator. So, Ive summarised events.
Mr T took out a pet insurance policy with Pinnacle in 2020. It sent him a welcome 
pack which included an information sheet about data protection. This sheet made 
reference to a new data privacy law coming into force on 25 May 2018.
Mr T queried this new law with Pinnacle in October 2020 in light of the dates 
quoted. It responded shortly after, saying the law had been in effect since May 2018.
In November 2021, Mr T further queried this with Pinnacle. He questioned the 
wording it had used and expressed his unhappiness with what itd said. Mr T didnt 
hear back, so he complained on 30 November 2020. Following some back and forth 
he received a final response letter from Pinnacle on 5 February 2021.
Pinnacle upheld Mr Ts complaint. It apologised for the error it made regarding the 
new data privacy law. It confirmed again the relevant law had been updated in 2018 
and hadnt changed since. It also apologised for not responding to him quicker, and 
said it had given feedback to the relevant team to improve its service going forward.
Mr T brought his complaint to this service, saying he was unhappy with how long itd 
taken Pinnacle to answer his complaint, and its lack of clarity about delays. He said 
Pinnacle should financially compensate him for its mistakes.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. He felt Pinnacles apology was 
sufficient, taking into account the impact of the mistakes made. 
Mr T disagreed. He highlighted Pinnacles varying response times and said this 
suggested there was no backlog or reasonable explanation for any delays. And he 
described the mental burden of having to regularly check his emails, phone, and 
post, for Pinnacles responses. 
The investigator looked again but didnt change his mind. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Accuracy of the data privacy information sheet
Pinnacle has acknowledged that the information sheet it sent Mr T was an error. And it 
hasnt disputed that the reference to an existing law being described as new was 
confusing. Having reviewed this myself, I agree that this was an error.
Where we consider an error has been made, this Service will go on to consider the impact of 
the mistake. This is because we are not here to punish or penalise businesses. Were here 
to put things right when somethings gone wrong.
Ive thought about the impact of Pinnacles mistake in this case. From what Ive seen, the 
contents of the information sheet, with the exception of the reference to it being new, were 
otherwise an accurate description of how Pinnacle handles data. As a result, it seems the 
impact of this error was minimal.
Mr T contacted Pinnacle at the end of October 2021. And it confirmed within a few days that 
the law had already come into force. In Mr Ts response, he acknowledged this, saying I 
note you confirm the law came into effect on 25 May 2018. So, Im satisfied any confusion 
this information sheet did cause, was resolved shortly after. 
Complaint handling
Mr Ts follow up correspondence with Pinnacle from 10 November 2020 onwards questioned 
how the mistake happened. And included suggestions for Pinnacles wording. This led to his 
complaint and back and forth around its complaint handling.
Pinnacle has said it failed Mr T by not responding as quickly as it shouldve and offered a 
further apology. I see no reason to repeat the details of this correspondence or make further 
findings on these events as Pinnacle doesnt dispute it couldve handled this better. 
Mr T has asked for specific detail around what caused this delay. But given Pinnacle has 
already agreed it made a mistake, Im not persuaded this is necessary in the circumstances.
Overall 
Taking into account the scale of the mistakes, and the timeframe within which these were 
resolved, Im not persuaded these events caused Mr T a level of distress or inconvenience 
that would warrant a payment of compensation. So, Im satisfied Pinnacles apology is a fair 
and reasonable resolution in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman