DRN-2785161
The complaint
Mr S complains that Arch Insurance (UK) Limited hasnt settled a claim under his travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S held an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy which also covered his family. The 
policy period was between 30 June 2019 and 29 June 2020. The insurer was Arch.
Mr S had booked a holiday abroad starting in June 2020. He paid for the flights and 
accommodation separately.
On 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly 
the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel. Mr S 
cancelled the holiday, and he got a refund for the flights. 
When Mr S approached the accommodation provider for a refund, it said Mr S should claim 
this from his travel insurer. But if a claim was unsuccessful, the provider would issue Mr S a 
voucher which could be used against a future villa only holiday with the provider, for the 
same amount. The voucher would be valid for three years from date of issue. Mr S didnt 
want to accept the voucher, so he made a claim to Arch for the cost of the villa.
Arch declined the claim. It says the policy only provides cover for irrecoverable losses. As 
Mr S had been offer a voucher by the accommodation provider, Arch didnt think Mr S 
losses were irrecoverable. 
Mr S didnt agree with Arch. He referred to regulatory guidance issued to all travel providers 
which says that vouchers cannot be a replacement for refunds. So, Mr S doesnt think Arch 
should consider it to be reasonable for him to accept the voucher. He says Arch should 
provide him indemnity under his policy, and act in line with the regulatory guidance, by 
paying his claim.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She said that whilst the policy did provide 
cover if the FCDO advised against all but essential travel, it only covered irrecoverable 
losses. She didnt think the terms of the voucher the accommodation provider had offered 
were so restrictive, or that there were exceptional circumstances, that it would be 
unreasonable for Mr S to accept it.
Mr S didnt agree with what our investigator said. He said the crux of his complaint was that 
Arch used the availability of any voucher as a reason to decline the claim. Mr S says he 
never received or accepted a voucher. He says hes not looking for any financial payment. 
Rather, he wants our service to rule that vouchers are not acceptable indemnity if refused by 
a customer.
While the complaint was waiting to be passed to an ombudsman, our investigator sent Mr S 
information which suggested the accommodation provider may not have been handling 
requests for refunds due to Covid-19 correctly. She asked Mr S to approach the 
accommodation provider again for a refund. But Mr S wanted an ombudsman to make a 
decision on his complaint instead. 
Mr S also explained that his circumstances meant that the timing of using the voucher 
wouldnt work for him, his familys circumstances had changed, and he wouldnt trust to book 
through the villa company anymore.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, it might be helpful if I explained that its not within my power to tell an insurer how it 
should conduct its business or handle claims. My role is to decide whats the fair and 
reasonable outcome in the circumstances of an individual complaint. That means that in this 
decision, Ive only considered the circumstances of Mr S complaint about Arch.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Ms S complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr S policy say Arch will, in certain circumstances, pay for the 
irrecoverable loss of deposits, instalments and balances paid or contracted to be paid by 
You in the event of the necessary and unavoidable cancellation of a holiday.
So, in common with most (if not all) travel insurance policies on the market, Mr S policy 
doesnt cover costs that can be recovered from elsewhere. This is what Arch has said 
happened here, as Mr S was offered a voucher.
Generally, unless the terms of a voucher are unreasonably restrictive and/or the policyholder 
has exceptional circumstances, Id consider a voucher to mean the policyholder has 
recovered their costs from elsewhere.
Having considered everything  including the location of the accommodation, the validity of 
the voucher and what Mr S has said about his and his familys circumstances  I dont think 
the terms of the voucher are so restrictive, or that there are exceptional circumstances, that 
it would be unfair or unreasonable for Mr S to accept it. That means that I dont think its 
unreasonable for Arch to consider that the offer of a voucher means his costs are 
recoverable elsewhere, and therefore not something covered by the policy.
It is still open to Mr S to pursue the accommodation provider for a refund, if he doesnt think 
the provider has followed the regulatory guidance in not offering this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr S complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman