DRN-3632434
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard have irresponsibly lent to 
him.
Mr S is represented by a solicitors firm in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to any submission and comments they have made as being made by Mr S himself.
What happened
Mr S was accepted for a Barclaycard credit card in February 2019 with a £800 credit limit. 
This was later decreased to £700 in May 2019. Mr S made a complaint to Barclaycard. He 
says that Barclaycard mis-sold the card to him as he was in arrears with his essential living 
costs at the time of the application. Mr S also said he was suffering from health issues and 
failed to understand the information in his credit agreement. He also said that he was 
unemployed and on benefits at the time he applied for the card. Mr S said that he received a 
credit limit increase during the time of the lending and Barclaycard did not make appropriate 
checks about this. 
Barclaycard did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. They said that they had considered the 
information he included on his application, such as being self-employed with a gross annual 
salary of £22,000 and they had also considered information from credit reference agencies. 
They said that their search of the credit reference agencies showed no negative information 
for Mr S.
Barclaycard said that Mr S had not been advised on taking out the account and that it 
wouldnt have been difficult for Mr S to understand the nature of the credit card. They said 
that they had not increased Mr Ss credit limit. Barclaycard said Mr S had been managing his 
account reasonably well until around September 2020, when he missed several consecutive 
payments and he didnt resolve them quickly. They said despite trying to contact Mr S 
several times, he didnt respond, therefore they were left with no option but to default his 
account. Barclaycard provided a telephone number so Mr S could contact them to discuss 
his circumstances and to consider whether further forbearance is appropriate.
Mr S brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold his complaint. She 
said there was no adverse payment history at the time of the application. She said the £800 
initial credit limit never increased. Our investigator said that if Mr S hadnt been truthful at the 
time of the application regarding his income or employment status, then she couldnt fairly 
hold Barclaycard at fault for this. She said that Barclaycard werent made aware of any 
learning difficulties, so they couldnt reasonably be expected to have made adjustments for 
this. She said Barclaycard had acted in line with their terms and conditions when applying 
interest fees and charges. Our investigator said Barclaycard sent Mr S multiple letters about 
missed payments and defaults, each time giving him the opportunity to contact them to 
discuss his options, such as setting up a payment plan. 
Mr S asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said he told Barclaycard about 
his vulnerability years ago and he was on medication for his health issues. He said they did 
not explain things to him and he doesnt understand things that well.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr S has said about him informing Barclaycard that he is a vulnerable 
adult. Barclaycard have said they were not aware of Mr Ss difficulties. So Ive looked at their 
system notes to see if there are any records that Mr S had let them know about this.
Barclaycards systems do not show that Mr S has contacted them about this issue or any 
other issue until he made the complaint to them about irresponsible lending. Barclaycards 
system was updated on the day they issued their final response to Mr S  13 January 2022, 
to now indicate that Mr S is vulnerable. So I cant say that Barclaycard were aware of this or 
should have been aware of this at the time Mr S applied for his account. Ive looked at the 
application form that Mr S completed and this also has no indication that Mr S told them that 
he was vulnerable or he had difficulties. So I cant say Barclaycard would have reasonably 
been aware of this here.
Before agreeing to approve the credit limit for Mr S, Barclaycard needed to make 
proportionate checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable for him. 
Theres no prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I expect 
lenders to consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the 
borrower's income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as 
the consumer's personal circumstances.
Ive looked at what checks Barclaycard said they did prior to accepting Mr Ss application. 
They said at the time of applying for the credit card, they considered the information that Mr 
S had given them, such as him being self-employed, gross earnings of £22,000 a year and 
they looked at external data available to them. Barclaycard said that the data showed he had 
no adverse credit and seemed to be managing his external accounts well at the time of the 
application. So Ive considered if the checks that Barclaycard carried out were proportionate 
to the level of credit that Mr S was given. And Im satisfied that they were and Ill explain why 
below. 
Barclaycards data showed that Mr S was self-employed and had income of £22,000. 
Barclaycard have told us that they were able to validate Mr Ss income through a credit 
reference agency they used. So if Mr S hadnt been employed and his income was solely 
made up of state benefits at the time of his application, Barclaycard would have no way of 
knowing this based on the validation of the income through a credit reference agency and Mr 
S telling them he was self-employed earning £22,000.
Ive also considered that Mr S had unsecured borrowings at the time of his application. But 
Barclaycard had told us that there was no adverse credit information recorded on his credit 
file. So it would appear that Mr S was managing his borrowings well. The total amount of 
borrowings at the time Mr S applied for his Barclaycard account is shown as £87 for credit 
card balances and £4,839 for non-credit card balances. As a total, this would represent a 
debt to declared gross earnings ratio of around 22%. So Im not persuaded that Barclaycard 
should have made further checks as the proportionate checks they made validated Mr Ss 
income, showed he managed his existing borrowings well as he had no adverse credit and 
would appear that Mr S could manage a £800 credit limit. 
Im satisfied this is shown with how Mr S used his account initially. I say this as for the first 
six months Mr S used less than 50% of his credit limit, even when the limit was reduced to 
£700. While Mr Ss minimum payment requested was often £5, he sometimes paid more 
than this. On one occasion he paid £100. So all of these factors dont suggest that Mr S was in financial difficulties in and around the time he applied for the account and was approved 
for credit by Barclaycard.
It would appear that Mr Ss financial difficulty started around September 2020, which was 
more than 18 months after his account was approved. Looking at the data which Barclaycard 
have collected from the credit reference agency they used, while Mr S had £87 worth of 
credit card balances when he applied for the Barclaycard, this increased to around £2,500 in 
September 2020 and later grew to over £3,600, while his non credit card debt had increased 
to £5,230 prior to Barclaycard defaulting his account. So based on the Barclaycard credit 
limit of £700 at the time, the evidence would suggest that Mr Ss financial difficulty occurred 
due to external borrowings he had taken out after the Barclaycard application had been 
approved, which Barclaycard would have no control over. 
I can see that Barclaycard had sent Mr S several letters explaining the account position, 
including a default notice. These also contain contact numbers where Mr S could have 
talked to Barclaycard to see if they would be able to help him. But their notes show that Mr S 
didnt do this. Im sorry to hear about Mr Ss financial difficulty. I would urge him to contact 
Barclaycard on the contact number they have provided him to see how they can help him to 
provide him the peace of mind he is looking for. But Im not persuaded that Barclaycard 
irresponsibly lent to him and that their application checks were proportionate, for the reasons 
Ive already given, so it follows, I wont be asking Barclaycard to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman