DRN-3247976
The complaint
Mr N complains that Retail Money Market Ltd trading as RateSetter provided him with an 
incorrect settlement figure on his loan. He said this caused him financial hardship.
What happened
Mr N acquired a loan in 2009 using RateSetters electronic platform. The loan was for £8,000 
and was repayable over 36 months, with a monthly repayment of £263.19. 
On 27 August 2021 Mr N called RateSetter to get a settlement figure to pay off his loan, and 
was quoted £3,243.82. He called again four days later for an updated figure, and received 
an email the following morning quoting a new figure of £2,984.67 if paid that day. But when 
he called that morning to pay, he was told that a final direct debit for £263.19 would still be 
due in around five days. Mr N said the email didnt explain this, so he complained.
RateSetter responded and explained that when a customers settling their account, they dont 
include the current direct debit payment within the quoted settlement figure if the direct debit 
process has already started. Theyve explained this is to avoid duplicate payments being 
made. They said they shouldve explained this in the email they sent Mr N, so they paid him  
£25 as an apology. But theyve confirmed the payment would remain due. They did say 
however, that should the required payment be made late, they would mark it as discretionary. 
Theyve since clarified this to mean it wouldnt be reported negatively on Mr Ns credit file. 
Mr N remained unhappy with the service received, and said he was told the payment would 
be waived if late  so he brought his complaint to our service. Mr N subsequently made the 
payment of £263.19 on 18 September 2021 while his complaint was being considered.
An investigator considered Mr Ns complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
accepted that RateSetters email didnt make it clear a further payment would be due. But   
she was satisfied RateSetter clarified this when Mr N called to make payment the same day. 
She noted Mr N had interpreted RateSetters final response to mean that the final repayment 
instalment wouldnt be due if missed, but she was satisfied with RateSetters explanation 
that marking it as discretionary meant they wouldnt report it negatively against Mr Ns credit 
file should it be made late. Based on what shed seen, she was satisfied that both the 
settlement figure quoted and the direct debit due on 6 September 2021 both needed to be 
paid in order to settle the loan. And she felt the £25 compensation paid was sufficient. 
But Mr N remained unhappy and said he wanted around £1,000 to compensate him for the 
time hed taken off work to deal with the matter. So as the parties are still in disagreement, 
the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first looked at the email that was sent to Mr N on the morning of 1 September 2021. I 
can see that it sets out the required amount to settle his loan was £2984.67 if paid that day. 
And theres no mention of Mr N still being required to make any further payments beyond 
this. So I can understand why he wouldve thought this figure would have cleared his loan in 
full. 
However, five days prior to this, Mr N was provided with a settlement figure of £3243.82, 
around £260 higher than the new figure hed been quoted  the difference, being around the 
same amount as his monthly repayment. So I think at this point, Mr N couldve potentially 
realised (having not made any further payments since the previous figure was quoted), that 
a further instalment might be required. 
But if I accept Mr N hadnt noticed the reduction in the figure and was led to believe this new 
amount was required to clear his loan, I need to also think about how long he was misled for, 
and the potential impact of this, when thinking about the distress this may have caused.
Mr N said he was extremely worried any missed payments could put his job in jeopardy and 
be detrimental to his livelihood. But RateSetters records show that the email sent to Mr N 
containing the misleading information was sent on the morning of 1 September 2021. And 
Mr N called RateSetter within a couple of hours of receiving that email to settle the loan - at 
which point he was told the further amount would be due. So even if Mr N was to have read 
the email straight away, he wouldve only been under the impression the additional payment 
wasnt due for a couple of hours. So, I think the distress caused in this case was minimal. 
Ive also listened to the call between Mr N and RateSetter on 1 September 2021 when Mr N 
called to pay. And prior to making the payment, Rate Setter explained to Mr N that as well as 
the settlement figure quoted, a payment will be due on 6 September 2021. Mr N then 
questioned if it includes the direct debit taken the other day (referring to Augusts payment), 
and RateSetter confirmed it includes that payment but not the next payment due, which Mr N 
again acknowledged. RateSetter then processed the payment and confirmed again that the 
account will be settled after the final repayment clears on 6 September 2021. So, I think 
RateSetter made things clear.  
I also understand why Mr N may have initially thought that RateSetter agreeing to mark any 
missed payment as discretionary, meant that the payment may not need to be made. But 
Im satisfied with RateSetters explanation that this related to not adversely affecting his 
credit score, rather than writing the amount off. And I dont think the lack of clarity in the 
wording means in any way that Mr N should not be required to pay what is owed. 
In summary, I agree the email sent by RateSetter mis-managed Mr Ns expectations initially, 
but Im satisfied this was for a very short period of time. Im also satisfied having looked at 
the amount owing just five days prior, that there was no reason the settlement figure 
wouldve reduced as no further repayments had been made; and that the most recent 
settlement figure quoted and Mr Ns monthly direct debit add up to around the same figure 
initially quoted. So Im satisfied with RateSetters explanation that both the settlement figure 
quoted and the direct debit due, were required to be paid in order to settle Mr Ns loan. And I 
think the £25 paid for the misleading information is adequate compensation. So Im not 
asking RateSetter to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman