DRN-3784309
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy about the information held on his credit file regarding a mortgage he had 
with Pepper (UK) Limited trading as Engage Credit. He believes that when the mortgage 
was transferred to a different lender, Engage Credit should have, but didnt, record the 
account as either settled or closed, and an outstanding amount is still showing against it on 
his credit file.
What happened
In 2020 Mr P had a mortgage with Engage Credit, which it transferred to a different lender. 
The lender was not regulated and appointed a third party to administer the mortgage. That 
administrator has confirmed that the new lender does not report to credit reference agencies. 
In 2022 when Mr P wanted to re-mortgage his home, he became aware that the Engage 
Credit mortgage was still present on his credit report with a particular credit reference 
agency (Agency 1). 
He contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service with his concerns. We forwarded the 
complaint to Engage Credit, but due to some confusion caused because the mortgage had 
been sold to the new lender, the complaint was not responded to.
Mr P confirmed to this service that he still wanted his complaint considered by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, so we looked into it. During this process Engage Credit confirmed that 
when a mortgage was transferred to a new lender it would not report the account as settled, 
as this would be wrong because it would indicate that it had been paid off. However, the 
account had a flag attached when it was reported to credit reference agencies  that the 
mortgage had been transferred to a lender that didnt report - which ensured that the fact 
that it was not settled and no longer reported on, would not be detrimental to the borrower.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. She set out the explanation Engage Credit had provided about the reporting when a 
mortgage was transferred to another lender. She wasnt persuaded that Mr P had suffered 
any detriment due to how the mortgage had been recorded on his credit file and if he was 
concerned, he could add a notification on the file.
Mr P didnt agree with the investigator and asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman. He stated that when the previous mortgage lender had transferred the 
mortgage to Engage Credit it had documented it as settled on his credit report, and he 
believed the same should have happened in 2020. He also confirmed that hed had three 
mortgage applications declined between March and May 2022, and hed also had a number 
of credit card applications turned down. Mr P suggested that he could have obtained a better 
interest rate on a new mortgage but for the fact that Engage Credit hadnt recorded the 
mortgage as settled. Mr P also provided an excerpt of his credit report from a different credit 
reference agency (Agency 2) which showed a mortgage with Engage Credit that had been 
settled in 2015. 
Subsequently our investigator asked Mr P if the mortgage applications hed made had been 
declined specifically because of the Engage Credit mortgage details on his credit file. He 
said no, they had not. The investigator explained again that unless the mortgage had been 
repaid, Engage Credit didnt need to register it as being settled. 
Mr P then provided an updated copy of his credit report from Agency 1. This showed that he 
had taken out four new credit cards between March and July 2022. He had also 
re-mortgaged in July 2022. In addition, Mr P provided a mortgage illustration from Lender H 
dated March 2022, following which Mr P told us a full mortgage application was declined. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a lender reports details of a mortgage to credit reference agencies it is required to 
report factually accurate information. As has been explained to Mr P, the term settled in 
relation to a credit report has a specific meaning. In the case of a mortgage it would indicate 
that the mortgage had been paid off. However, in his case, the mortgage was not paid off, 
but rather it was transferred to another lender. So I dont think Engage Credit can be 
criticised for not reporting the account as settled. 
Engage has confirmed that when it reports on a mortgage account that has been transferred 
to a new lender, it reports that fact and whether the new lender reports to credit reference 
agencies. This seems an entirely reasonable approach and would fulfil Engage Credits 
requirement to report accurately. How the credit reference agency then expresses that 
information is a matter for it to decide and not something that Engage Credit would have 
control over. 
Mr P has evidenced that when the mortgage was transferred to Engage Credit in 2015 
Agency 2 recorded it as settled. Whether this was due to the former lender reporting the 
mortgage as settled, or how Agency 2 chose to record the transfer is not clear. However, 
even if the former lender did report the mortgage as settled, that doesnt mean that Engage 
Credit should have done the same and that it was wrong not to. 
Mr P has said that he has lost out financially because of the way Engage Credit reported the 
mortgage. However, as I havent concluded that Engage Credit did anything wrong in 
reporting the mortgage as it did, I cant conclude that it was responsible for any losses Mr P 
suffered by being unable to obtain credit or a new mortgage.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 
7 April 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman