DRN-3392363
The complaint
Mr A has complained about his property insurer, Zurich Insurance PLC because when he 
made a claim for theft following a burglary it cancelled his policy to a date before the burglary 
occurred, and declined his claim.
What happened
Mr A suffered a burglary at his home in November 2018. He had taken out a policy with 
Zurich in May 2018, telling it he had £30,000 of valuables. Mr A had then bought more 
valuable items in July 2018. When Zurich assessed his claim it determined about £57,000 of 
valuable items had been stolen, which included the £17,000 worth of items purchased in 
July 2018. In March 2020, Zurich said Mr A should have at least told it when more items 
were purchased, and if he had it wouldnt have continued with his cover. So it said it was 
cancelling his policy as of July 2018. Mr A complained to us.
Our investigator ultimately upheld Mr As complaint. But Zurich didnt agree with what shed 
said about the valuable items. Zurich also detailed a number of other concerns it said it had 
about information Mr A had given it when arranging the cover, as well as some issues it had 
with the claim. Mr As complaint was passed for an ombudsmans consideration.
I also felt the complaint should be upheld. But my reasoning differed from that set out by our 
investigator. In short I felt Zurich had unfairly and unreasonably acted to cancel the policy 
mid-term. I felt the policy should be reinstated, with any extra premium costs for Mr A, the 
claim and compensation, paid. My provisional findings were:
avoidance
Despite the values in question, Zurich didnt choose to avoid Mr As policy from the date it 
began (and in so doing treat it as though it had never existed) on the grounds he had 
misrepresented the worth of the valuables he was looking to cover. Whilst Zurich could have 
chosen to do that (and Im not saying whether or not it would have been fair and reasonable 
for it do so), it actually chose to rely on the policy terms to effect a mid-term cancellation. So 
Zurich has acknowledged that the policy was in place. And I note it did that despite being 
aware of other issues of concern which it identified to our investigator in response to their 
view. If Zurich felt Mr A had misrepresented on any other issues, it had the chance to argue 
that and avoid the policy on those grounds. But, similar to the amount of valuables, it chose 
not to. Nor, when cancelling the policy on terms, did it seek to reserve any right to go back 
later and look at avoidance in respect of other issues. So, fairly and reasonably, Zurich, in 
my view, has lost the opportunity to do that now because its affirmed the cover in place by 
seeking to rely on its terms to effect a cancellation. The only issue for me to consider is 
whether Zurich acted fairly and reasonably when it enacted a mid-term cancellation.  
mid-term cancellation
I appreciate that if Mr A had called Zurich in July 2018 and told it about the valuable items he 
had just bought, it would have looked to cancel the cover. Zurich has explained that the 
amount of valuables Mr A owned in July 2018 had exceeded what it would have wanted to 
offer cover for. An insurer can choose what it wants to offer cover for, and this service wont 
usually interfere with that. But, during the course of a policy, it isnt unusual for a policyholder 
to buy, or come into possession of, new items. And this service wouldnt necessarily expect 
a policyholder to ring an insurer every time they bought something new. That is despite what 
the policy sets out a policyholder should do. Thats because we find it fair and reasonable to 
say that an insurer only needs to be told of anything that materially changes the risk they are 
covering. Adding more jewellery, even a fair amount of expensive jewellery, doesnt 
materially change the risk Zurich was covering, it merely increases it.
So Mr A didnt fail Zurich by not telling it about the new jewellery. And even if he had told it, 
Zurich couldnt have fairly and reasonably cancelled the policy because the risk presented 
by Mr A hadnt materially changed (although it had increased). Zurich fairly and reasonably 
needs to reinstate the cover and settle the claim.
reinstating cover
I understand that although Zurich didnt act to cancel the cover until 2020, the policy had 
actually lapsed at renewal in 2019. Seemingly the policy was offered under agreement with a 
broker and the scheme had come to an end. That can happen and I dont think the policy not 
renewing was caused by any failure of Zurich. Rather it is something that Mr A would always 
have faced in 2019, regardless of the claim or the loss. So Zurich will only have to reinstate 
the cancelled policy until it expired at renewal in 2019. And I understand that whilst Zurich 
has offered Mr A a policy refund he had refused it. So Mr A wont have to pay it anything 
more for the reinstated cover. As Zurich is reinstating the cover it must remove the record of 
the cancellation from its own and any industry database.
Mr As cover in 2020
Zurich cancelled Mr As policy from 2018 in spring 2020, before the policy he had in place at 
that point was due to renew. If Mr A declared the cancellation when he renewed his cover 
this may have affected the premium his new insurer charged. If Mr A can show Zurich he 
declared the cancellation and that his premium increased then Zurich should reimburse him 
the increased sum, plus interest* from the date he paid it until settlement is made.
the claim
In replying to our investigator, Zurich raised a number of concerns it has with the claim. All of 
which it was aware of when it chose to cancel the policy. So Zurich could have looked into 
those, or at least reserved its right to consider them if its cancellation was found to be unfair 
and unreasonable. But it didnt. So, in my view, it doesnt get to reinvestigate those concerns 
now. Rather it must settle Mr As claim in line with the policy terms. 
In saying that I note that Zurichs policy contains, what I consider to be, a significant and 
unusual term which applies in the event a sum insured on the policy doesnt equate to what 
it will cost to replace all the items as new. That is the case here as Mr A has £30,000 of 
cover for valuable items, but lost items with a replacement value of around £57,000. So Ive 
considered whether I should allow Zurich to rely on that term in settling the claim.
wear and tear and sum insured term
When considering if an insurer can fairly and reasonably rely on any term like this, this 
service first considers whether the insurer was clear with the policyholder about what the 
sum insured was meant to represent. And well also want to see that the insurer was clear 
with the policyholder that information given should be accurate, as well as stating what might 
happen if incorrect information is given. I think Zurich was clear in respect of all of this. The schedule said the sum insured must be the replacement value, and the statement of fact 
said the detail must be accurate and that the claim may not be paid in full if it isnt. So, on the 
face of it, I think Zurich could reasonably rely on the policy term to limit its claim outlay.
But, as I noted above, this term, in my view, is significant and unusual. If applied by Zurich it 
might significantly reduce any settlement the policyholder might be entitled to receive in 
response to a claim. Most policies, when/if dealing with what will happen if a sum insured 
doesnt equate to the replacement value, give an insurer the option to settle a claim 
proportionately. Proportionately usually means any settlement will be based on the 
percentage of how much the policyholder is underinsured by. So, for example, if the sum 
insured is 75% of the total replacement value, then the insurer will only have to settle 75% of 
the claim, and the policyholder will not be entitled to the other 25%. Whereas Zurichs term 
says that if the sum insured is less that the full replacement value, it will deduct an amount 
for wear and tear. So, as I said, its a significant and unusual term. However, just because a 
term is significant and unusual, doesnt necessarily mean an insurer cant rely on it when 
settling claims. Or, where underinsurance is concerned, that the insurer will have to pay the 
claim in full.
When a term is significant and unusual, this service first considers if it was highlighted to the 
policyholder when cover was arranged. Having seen the policy paperwork, I dont think it 
was. So I have to think about what would have happened if it had been.
I dont think that if Mr A had known about the term it would have put him off taking out the 
policy with Zurich. I say that because I note Mr A has said he thought hed given a 
reasonably accurate value for his jewellery when cover was arranged. I know from what 
Zurich has said, that it thinks he was wrong in that respect. But Im not really considering the 
accuracy of his value at this time. Rather, I accept what he says; that he thought hed given 
accurate detail  and, that being the case, a term about what might happen, if inaccurate 
detail was given, wouldnt have made him think the policy wasnt for him. So I think Mr A 
would always have continued with this cover provided by Zurich, even if his attention had 
been drawn to the significant and unusual term. Therefore, whilst I dont know how Zurich 
will assess what wear and tear had occurred to jewellery items that were stolen, or what the 
net result of applying this term might be on Mr As claim, Zurich can, reasonably in my view, 
rely on this term when setting Mr As theft claim. 
compensation
Mr A was clearly upset by Zurichs unfair and unreasonable decision to cancel his policy 
and, by association, decline his claim. I think Zurich should pay him £250 compensation.
Mr A accepted my findings. Zurich did not.
Zurich said it didnt think all of its concerns had been taken into consideration. It said its 
current reply should be reviewed in conjunction with its response to our investigators view. 
In short that response to our investigators view detailed a number of Zurichs concerns. The 
key points (which arent replicated by Zurich in its actual response to my provisional findings) 
of it being:
There were concerns with the details Mr A had given at inception of the policy about a 
number of things, not just the amount of jewellery owned.
Mr As reason given for not knowing the worth of all the jewellery owned was 
unreasonable. 
Its very possible Mr A owned more items at the start of the policy than he had 
declared/taken cover for. And, therefore, he had likely acted recklessly in breach of the 
reasonable car duty under CIDRA.It had cancelled the policy to 18 July 2018 because Mr A had misrepresented the 
amount of jewellery owned.
But he had also had a duty to tell it in in July 2018 when he had purchased further 
jewellery items, which he must have known took him beyond the policy limit.
That the circumstances of the theft were of concern to it.
Responses made to its enquiries during the course of the claim had been inconsistent.
Any evidence presented by Mr A must be treated with caution as it believes he has a 
propensity to misrepresent things.
Moving onto its response to my provisional findings, Zurich said it feels that the purchase of 
jewellery in July was material to the risk it was offering cover for, because that took the worth 
of items owned beyond the valuables limit, and several items individually beyond the single 
article limit. And that Mr A must have known he was exceeding the key values on the policy. 
Also that as I accept the policy was clear  he should have known to tell it this. So Mr A, in 
its view, should have notified it and it would have been unable to maintain the policy, 
because that level of jewellery was (and is) just unacceptable to it. Zurich said that as 
jewellery is worn outside, a lot more jewellery makes for a much greater risk for insurers. So 
it isnt fair to say, says Zurich, that the risk just increases. It cannot reinstate the cover 
because the risk Mr A presents is simply unacceptable to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can assure Zurich that I did take its response to our investigators view into account when 
I made my provisional decision. But as can be seen from my bullets above, the majority of 
that reply focused on what Mr A did or didnt know or should and shouldnt have done at 
inception of the policy, as well as that other concerns for Zurich existed about the claim and/ 
or evidence Mr A had presented. And I explained provisionally why Zurichs act of dealing 
with all this by cancelling the policy mid-term, without reserving any rights, meant the 
situation had moved beyond the point where those issues could fairly be considered. So I did 
not overlook or disregard Zurichs response to our investigator. Rather I considered it and 
explained why the points Zurich had raised didnt cause me to think Mr As complaint should 
not be upheld.
I fully appreciate that the amount of jewellery Mr A owned, certainly as of July 2018, made 
for an unacceptable risk for Zurich. But it being an unacceptable risk does not make it 
material information Mr A reasonably needed to disclose to it during the course of the policy 
year. Arguably owning any jewellery makes one a target for thieves  if one owns more than 
they did before, that merely increases the risk. The risk itself hasnt changed. And Zurichs 
policy is written with the foresight to protect it in situations where policyholders belongings 
exceed the sum insured. As I noted provisionally, Zurich can adjust the claim settlement to 
account for wear and tear where the policy sum insured is exceeded. So, assuming Mr As 
sum insured was exceeded  which seems very likely given the amount of jewellery alone 
that was owned  it will be fair for Zurich to rely on that term, if it wants to, when settling 
Mr As claim. 
But I remain of the view that Zurich cannot fairly and reasonably cancel this policy mid-term. 
Mr A did not have to tell it about the further jewellery he bought in July 2018 as that did not 
represent a material change in risk. And Zurich could not fairly and reasonably cancel the 
policy on the basis that Mr A had failed to tell it of a change that had materially altered the 
risk it was offering cover for, because the change wasnt material. So Zurich must reinstate 
the policy. In doing that Im not asking Zurich to give Mr A cover for all his belongings. Rather the policy as it was will be reinstated and will lapse at renewal in 2019  as it did 
anyway before Zurich made its decision in March 2020 to cancel that already lapsed policy 
back to July 2018.  
In summary, Zurichs reply to my provisional findings has not caused me to change my view 
on this complaint. My provisional findings, along with my responses to the points Zurich has 
raised in reply, now form the findings of this, my final decision.
Putting things right
I require Zurich to:
Reinstate Mr As policy to the date of renewal in 2019, removing the record of 
cancellation from its own and any industry database.
If Mr A had an increased cost for cover in 2020, and can show that he declared the 
cancellation at that time, pay Mr A the increased amount of cover, plus interest* from the 
date the increase was paid until settlement is made.
Settle Mr As claim for theft in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. In doing so 
it cant use any terms to decline the claim, partially settle it or reduce its outlay, except in 
respect of the wear and tear term  which it can apply when calculating the settlement.
Pay Mr A £250 compensation.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Zurich considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Mr A, it should tell him how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr A a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Zurich Insurance PLC to provide the redress set out above 
at putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman