DRN-4169725
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Topaz Finance Limited trading as Morag Finance (Topaz) has 
treated them unfairly in response to requests made about their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage was originally taken out with another lender (lender A). This was 
transferred by lender A in 2007 to another lender, (lender B) in 2010 and in 2017, the 
mortgage was transferred to Topaz.
Mr and Mrs D are concerned that the mortgage transfer was executed as it should have 
been and have asked Topaz to provide the transfer documents which detail the process. 
Topaz has said the details of the transfer are not something it can share but it did provide 
welcome letters to Mr and Mrs D when the mortgage was moved to it in October 2017.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and didnt think Topaz had acted unfairly when it 
said it couldnt provide the transfer documents that confirmed how the transfer was agreed 
between Topaz and lender B. He was satisfied the terms of Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage made 
it clear that the mortgage could be transferred and he hadnt seen anything to suggest that 
Topaz had treated Mr and Mrs D unfairly in relation to this.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the outcome. They continue to ask to see copies of the transfer 
documents and believe this is something that should be provided to them. 
Our investigators opinion has remained unchanged and because of this, the complaint has 
been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs D will be unhappy with this, but Ill explain why Ive reached this 
decision.
It is important to clarify that Mr and Mrs D have another complaint with this Service against 
Topaz and this is being considered separately. The focus of this complaint is about Topazs 
actions and response to Mr and Mrs Ds request to see the mortgage transfer documents 
only.
Mr and Mrs D have been provided with the relevant section of their mortgage terms 
previously which sets out that the Whole debt, the mortgage, any related security and all 
legal and equitable rights can be transferred without the consent of Mr and Mrs D. This is 
silent on the information that will be provided as part of the transfer, but Im satisfied the 
mortgage could be transferred without Mr and Mrs Ds consent.   
Topaz has said it cannot share the transfer documents with Mr and Mrs D. I know Mr and 
Mrs D have concerns about whether this transfer was conducted as they believe it should 
have been, but I dont think Topaz has acted unfairly when it said it cannot share the transfer 
agreement with Mr and Mrs D.
It is unlikely that Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage was the only one transferred from lender B to 
Topaz. It is more likely that their mortgage was one of many transferred as part of a book of 
lending and the agreement for how this would have been arranged will be commercially 
sensitive between lender B and Topaz. And it follows that it would not be fair to expect 
Topaz to share this detail with Mr and Mrs D.
Overall, Im satisfied that Topaz hasnt acted unfairly when not providing Mr and Mrs D with 
the transfer agreement documents. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman