DRN-1512276
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited unfairly turned down his 
income protection claim when he was no longer able to work.
What happened
Mr B took out an income protection policy with Prudential in 1998, through a financial 
adviser. In the five years prior to this, he had fractured a bone in his back, and disclosed this 
as part of his application for the policy. Prudential added an exclusion to Mr Bs policy in 
relation to his medical history. The exclusion is as follows. 
No Income Benefit shall be payable under this policy from any disability arising 
directly or
indirectly from;
(i) any disorder of, or any injury to the spine, its intervertebral discs, nerve roots or
supporting musculature and ligaments
In 2017, Mr B began seeking medical advice for pain in his neck. He was later diagnosed 
with cervical spondylosis with associated compromise of right C4 nerve root. And 
contacted Prudential about making a claim against his policy.
As a result of his condition, Mr B was no longer able to work in his role as a train driver, and 
took early retirement. 
Prudential turned down Mr Bs claim. It said this was because the cause of Mr Bs claim fell 
within the exclusion on his policy in relation to conditions of the spine. It said the exclusion 
covered the whole spine and components including the neck. 
Mr B complained to Prudential. He said his claim didnt relate to a spinal injury and said he 
thought his claim either had not been investigated properly, or Prudential just didnt want to 
pay it. 
Prudential said it would review Mr Bs claim again and requested his medical records and 
information from his employer. However after doing so, Prudential told Mr B it hadnt 
changed its position on his claim. 
Unhappy with Prudentials response, Mr B brought his complaint to this service. 
An investigator here looked into what had happened and said he thought Prudential hadnt 
unfairly declined the claim. He thought the policy exclusion was clear, and was satisfied that 
Mr Bs condition fell within the exclusion. He said Mr B had later raised that he thought the 
exclusion was too broad and unfair. However the investigator thought the exclusion had 
been made clear to Mr B, and noted that he had not raised concerns about the fairness of it 
when he took the policy or at any annual renewal. 
Mr B rejected the investigators view. He said his policy had an extensive exclusion and he 
didnt remember seeing any policy wording at the time of the sale. 
Prudential didnt respond to the investigators view with any comments. 
As Mr B disagreed with the investigators view, the case has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, and for broadly 
the same reasons. 
Insurers have a responsibility to deal with claims promptly and fairly, and should not reject 
a claim unreasonably. And in this case, I dont think Prudential has done anything wrong. Ill 
explain why. 
Ive seen evidence of the policy application form completed in 1998 and signed by Mr B. 
Within this form Mr B declared that in the five years prior to taking the policy, he had 
damaged a bone in his back. 
Prudential requested more information about Mr Bs medical history from his GP. And 
subsequently applied an exclusion to his policy relating to the spine, its intervertebral discs, 
nerve roots and supporting musculature and ligaments. 
I understand that Mr B no longer disputes that his condition in relation to his neck is caught 
by the exclusion on his policy covering the spine and its connected parts. And Im satisfied 
that Prudential has shown, through medical evidence, that the exclusion has been applied 
fairly. 
However, Mr B has said he still doesnt think the exclusion that was applied to his policy was 
fair, as its so broad. So Ive considered this remaining point. 
Prudential had the right to apply an exclusion as it saw fit when offering a policy to Mr B. But, 
Mr B didnt have to agree to the exclusion  if he was unhappy with it, he didnt have to take 
out the policy. And Ive seen no evidence that Mr B had previously raised that he thought the 
exclusion was unfair.
Mr B has also said that he doesnt recall being provided with the details and terms of his 
policy when he took it out with a financial adviser. And he said hes not seen anything signed 
by him which proves he received the information. If Mr B has a separate complaint about the 
actions of his financial adviser then that would need to be directed to that party. 
This is a complaint about Prudential and not Mr Bs financial adviser. So I havent looked into 
the actions of the financial adviser any further than to ascertain that Prudential has acted 
fairly. Ive seen evidence that Prudential provided Mr Bs financial adviser with details of the 
exclusion it added to the policy. This is in the form of a letter Mr Bs financial adviser sent 
him confirming the setup of his policy and advising of the exclusion which has been applied. 
This letter provided the full wording of the exclusion which was added to the policy. And the 
financial adviser later confirmed to Prudential that Mr B wanted to go ahead with the policy. 
In providing details of the exclusion to Mr Bs chosen adviser, Im satisfied that Prudential 
has acted fairly. Whilst I appreciate that my decision will come as a great disappointment to Mr B, Im 
satisfied that Prudential has not turned down his income protection claim unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint and 
I make no award against The Prudential Assurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman