DRN-3519467
The complaint
Mr M complains about Revolut Ltds actions when blocking and reviewing his account. Mr M 
is also unhappy about the fees charged to his Revolut account when making currency 
exchange transactions.
What happened
Mr M held a Revolut account. In October 2021, Revolut partially blocked Mr Ms account 
while they reviewed it. Mr M said this was during a critical stage of purchasing a property. 
Between August 2021  October 2021 Mr M made a number of currency exchange 
transactions totalling around £677,000. The transactions resulted in currency exchange fees 
totalling around £3,100. Mr M is unhappy as he said the currency fees werent made clear to 
him before making the transactions. And hes since learned he could have paid for a 
premium service of around €10 to avoid paying any transaction fees.
Mr M complained to Revolut. He received some incorrect information on who he needed to 
refer his complaint to  and eventually escalated the complaint to our service. In the 
meantime, Revolut offered £100 compensation for the service Mr M received while trying to 
escalate his complaint.
Our investigator reviewed things and thought Revolut were entitled to block Mr Ms account 
while they carried out their review and didnt think theyd caused any unnecessary delays. 
She also confirmed the currency exchange details were clear on the website and terms and 
conditions so thought Mr M ought to have realised what fees he would be charged. She did 
recognise the inconvenience of the misinformation Mr M received when escalating his 
complaint but thought £100 was fair.  
Mr M disagreed. He said at the time he made the transactions; the app didnt make it clear 
what he would be charged. And while it was stated in the terms and conditions, it wasnt 
reasonable to assume all customers read them. Mr M wanted more compensation.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The account review and block
Revolut are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. Having looked at whats happened, 
Im satisfied Revolut was complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they 
reviewed, and partially blocked, Mr Ms account for around 16 calendar days. So, I cant 
fairly say theyve done anything wrong. 
Ive also noted Revolut only prevented Mr M from making external transactions while they 
carried out the review. I recognise how frustrating it must have been for Mr M to be unable to 
use his account. And I appreciate this would have put him in a financially challenging 
position, especially during a property purchase. But a bank cant always guarantee that 
funds in an account will be readily available as they have broader regulatory obligations with 
which they have to comply. I also havent seen any evidence of Revolut causing 
unnecessary delays so I cant fairly uphold the complaint on this part. 
The currency exchanges
Mr M was charged a significant amount of money in currency exchange fees, and says he 
wasnt appropriately notified of them. Ive thought about this point carefully. I havent seen 
any evidence of what Revoluts app displayed at the time Mr M made the transactions  but I 
am satisfied the fees were clearly displayed in the terms and conditions. I recognise Mr M 
says its not reasonable to assume every customer would read them; but I cant fairly hold 
Revolut responsible for that. 
What is important is Revolut made Mr M aware of the fees. I agree it would have been 
beneficial if the fees were clearly presented to Mr M before making a transaction, but as I 
have no evidence to support what information would have been presented, Ive had to weigh 
up whether I think Mr M would have known through other means. And I think he should 
have. I say that because the fees were presented in the terms and conditions which Mr M 
accepted when opening the account  and he would have noticed the fees being charged 
each time he made a currency exchange  yet he continued to exchange more. 
Customer service
Revolut didnt provide the best service when Mr M complained  and tried to escalate his 
complaint. As Mr Ms account had migrated over to a different territory, Revolut gave Mr M 
the wrong information about what dispute resolution service he should contact. No doubt this 
caused added stress and unnecessary time working out who he could contact. I think 
Revoluts offer of £100 fairly reflects this inconvenience and I wont be asking them to pay 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman