DRN-3771453
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, lent to him irresponsibly 
and provided credit that was unaffordable for him.
What happened
In October 2009 Mr R took out a credit card with Barclaycard. He had an initial account limit 
of £300. Between July 2014 and September 2018 Mr Rs credit limit was increased on nine 
occasions until it was £9,800.
 
Mr R says that Barclaycard shouldnt have lent to him. He also says his credit limit shouldnt 
have been increased because he was in debt at the time and was finding it difficult to meet 
his repayments. Mr R wanted what he had paid in interest and charges to be paid back, 
along with compensation.
Our investigator thought that Barclaycard hadnt irresponsibly supplied Mr R with the initial 
credit or the further credit limit increases up to the point of the last credit limit increase from 
£9,000 to £9,800. Our investigator said Barclaycard shouldnt have provided this last 
increase. Our investigator said Barclaycard should pay back any interest and charges Mr R 
paid on any balance above £9,000 and that it should rework Mr Rs account. Our investigator 
said that Barclaycard should remove any adverse information recorded after 7 September 
2018 on Mr Rs credit account once he had cleared the outstanding balance.
Barclaycard accepted this view but informed us that as Mr R had never used more than 
£9,000 of credit, there was no compensation due.
While Mr R initially agreed with the outcome, he changed his view when Barclaycard said 
that he hadnt lost out financially as a result of the last credit limit increase. As Mr R didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mr Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. The investigators 
written view was comprehensive and I have little new to add to what they said. However, Mr 
R did raise questions after that view was provided and I will cover these in my decision.
Barclaycard needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts, Mr Rs borrowing history and his income and expenditure. 
 
Barclaycard has provided the results of the checks it did when Mr R opened the account. 
I can see from this that Mr R told Barclaycard he had a salary of £26,000 and he was living 
with his parents. Barclaycard completed a credit check which showed no recent adverse 
information. He had one loan which he was repaying at a cost of about £250 a month and 
two other active credit cards which had small balances. 
Based on this an initial credit limit of £300 appeared affordable and Mr R didnt appear to be 
overindebted. So, Im satisfied that the checks Barclaycard completed were reasonable and 
proportionate in the circumstances and it didnt make an unfair lending decision.
 
Mr Rs credit limit was increased several times between opening and September 2015. 
Barclaycard doesnt have a record of the checks it did each time, and this isnt surprising 
given the amount of time thats passed since then. Mr R has told us that he was earning 
about £30,000 by then and, in November 2015 when Barclaycards data is available, Mr R 
had credit cards with a balance of around £1,300. There is no information to suggest that Mr 
R was overindebted or that he had any negative credit information such as defaults or 
County Court Judgements (CCJs). So I havent seen anything which makes me think 
Barclaycard acted unfairly or irresponsibly in providing the credit limit increases up to 
September 2015. 
In December 2015 Mr Rs credit limit was increased to £5,000. He was earning around 
£31,000 and he had credit card balances around £3,000. He had taken on a mortgage and 
was paying about £580 a month for this. His overall credit commitments not including his 
mortgage were relatively modest and I dont think either that they were unaffordable or that 
the increase in credit limit made them so. 
 
In March 2016 Barclaycard increased Mr Rs credit limit by £2,000 to £7,000. At this point I 
think it would have been advisable for Barclaycard to have verified Mr Rs income and 
expenditure. But even if it had, I dont think it would have made a difference to the decision 
to increase his credit limit. By then, Mr R had had a substantial increase in salary to £43,000 
 more than a 30% increase. His external credit commitments minus his mortgage had risen 
to over £4,000. But I still dont think this meant Mr R couldnt afford a further increase in his 
credit limit.
A further £2,000 increase followed in August 2016. By now Mr Rs credit card balances had 
increased to £10,000 but given his income it does not seem that there was any reason to 
consider the increase was not affordable. 
Mr Rs credit limit remained the same for two years. In September 2018 his credit limit was 
increased by £800 to £9,800. Although it was only a relatively small increase I think it was 
clear that his financial circumstances had changed by then to mean that any increase in his 
credit line was likely to be unaffordable. By now he had credit card balances of over 
£30,000. He now had an unsecured loan costing £518 a month. His net monthly pay was 
around £2,800. To sustainably repay his existing credit and his balance with Barclaycard if 
he used it all, as well as maintain payments for his joint mortgage, would have amounted to 
close to all Mr Rs net monthly pay. So, I dont think Barclaycard should have increased Mr 
Rs credit limit at this point.
However, I dont think Mr R lost out as a result of Barclaycards decision to increase his 
credit limit in September 2018. As explained, Mr R didnt use any of the increased credit limit 
above £9,000, so he couldnt have lost out as a result of being allowed credit above this 
level. Putting things right
As I dont think Mr R lost out as a result of anything Barclaycard did wrong in relation to its 
lending decisions I do not think Barclaycard needs to compensate Mr R. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint about the initial lending and most of the credit limit 
increases. I do uphold Mr Rs complaint about the final credit limit increase in September 
2018 but as Mr R did not lose out as a result of that credit limit increase I do not direct 
Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard to pay any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman