DRN-2944115
The complaint
H complains that Allianz Insurance Plc rejected two claims on Hs business protection 
insurance policy and refused to renew the policy.
What happened
In 2017 H took out insurance in respect of some plant and machinery that had been installed 
in 2015. In 2019 the machinery had to be turned off due to excessive vibration which in turn
caused a loss of earnings.
H made two claims to Allianz who arranged for loss adjusters to carry out an inspection. 
After considering the loss adjusters report Allianz said it wouldnt pay the claims in full but 
would consider paying one proportionately. Allianz said H had failed to make a fair
presentation of the risk when taking out the policy.
H disputed this, saying said the report produced by loss adjusters, which detailed events 
since the commissioning of the plant, was inaccurate. H said it hadnt made any 
modifications to the machinery as alleged, the initial problems with the equipment soon after 
installation had been remedied, and this wasnt an ongoing known problem that was 
misrepresented to Allianz.
H asked our service to look into things.
Our investigator said H had a duty under the  Insurance Act 2015 to make a fair presentation 
to Allianz of the risk to be insured and hadnt done so, because it had failed to tell Allianz 
about the past problems with the equipment or the fact it had been modified. She thought 
these were things it should have told Allianz about, and was satisfied that if Allianz had 
known about them it would not have offered the insurance. This meant Allianz would have 
been entitled to void the policy (in other words, treat it as if it had never existed) but instead 
had agreed to pay one claim (though not the full amount claimed) and decided not to renew 
the policy going forward. She thought this was reasonable.
H doesnt agree and has requested an ombudsmans decision. H has raised a number of 
points which include:
Some of the facts set out in the view are not accurate  it only refers to one of the 
claims; they never expected the claim to be paid in full; and no offer of partial 
settlement or continued cover was ever received.
The Insurance Act says an insured is not required to disclose something in some 
circumstances, including where it diminishes the risk or where the insurer knows 
about it (and the insurer is presumed to know something which is common 
knowledge or which an insurer offering that type of insurance would reasonably be 
expected to know).
When they took out the policy they werent the experts in hydro power that they have 
since become. 
They assumed that as an insurer dealing in that area, Allianz would have the 
experience and its own professional advice to assess the risk.
Its reasonable to think that what was finally delivered to them after fine tuning and 
trials was properly built and sound. They didnt make any changes or alterations once 
it was handed over to them.
In any event, the equipment was never altered or modified  something was added to 
it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reply to our investigators view H asked for a discussion with an ombudsman before a final 
decision is made. Having reviewed all the information provided by both sides Im satisfied I 
have everything I need to make a decision. 
This was a commercial policy. Under the relevant law (the Insurance Act 2015) H had a legal 
duty to make a fair presentation of the risk. This means H had to disclose either: 
everything they knew, or ought to have known, that would influence the insurers 
judgment in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms; or 
enough information to put the insurer on notice that it needed to make further 
enquiries about potentially material circumstances. 
The Insurance Act says the policyholder ought to know what should reasonably have been 
revealed by a reasonable search of information available to them. So the policyholder should 
take reasonable steps to check any available information and consider if theres anything 
they ought to disclose. 
It's for an insurer to decide whether to take on a risk. And to do that they need to have all the 
relevant information from the insured so they can make an informed decision about whether 
to accept the risk and offer insurance.
Allianz says there had been issues with vibration in the machinery, which had been modified 
to address this. H have disputed that the adaptations could classify as a modification, saying 
nothing was adapted or changed  something was added to it. They also say this was dealt 
with in the period after installation when the machinery was still under warranty, and once it 
was signed off and handed over to them, they didnt make any changes themselves.
Ive considered the usual definition of modification, which refers to an act or process of 
changing parts of something and may also be referred to as altering or changing something. 
I dont find Hs argument that there wasnt a modification because parts were added to the 
machinery persuasive. Metal plates were added and this did change the machinery. Im 
satisfied the machinery was modified. Ive also taken into account this was done to provide 
additional support to reduce the vibrations occurring. So Im satisfied there was an issue with 
the machinery and that H knew about this. 
I think this is relevant information that H should have provided to Allianz to allow it to assess 
the risk and decide whether it wanted to take it on. Any insurer is likely to be concerned with 
whether there have been issues with the machinery and whether any action has been 
needed to address those issues, since a history of problems or a modification is likely to 
affect the risk of further problems in the future. And there was a question on the proposal 
form about modifications, so this was something Allianz wanted to know about. The 
machinery had been changed from the original design. Even if changes were made during 
the initial warranty period, that doesnt alter the fact there had been changes. And there had 
been running problems which H didnt tell Allianz about. Taking all of this into account I dont 
think H made a fair presentation of the risk. Allianz has provided confirmation that if it had been aware of the past problems, its 
underwriters would not have agreed to take on the risk. It says the issues were material to 
the loss as alignment/movement are key factors in influencing wear and vibration. 
Where an insurer can show it would have done something different, had there been a fair 
presentation of risk, this is known as a qualifying breach. And where it can show it would 
not have provided the cover, the remedies available to the insurer include voiding the policy 
 on the basis that it would never have been offered in the first place  and refusing any 
claims, with (depending on the circumstances) a refund of premiums. 
Allianz has said that rather than doing this, it decided not to renew the policy again and 
agreed to pay one of the claims proportionately instead. This would normally happen where, 
although the insurer would still have offered the policy, it would have charged a higher 
premium. The other claim was declined for wear and tear. Theres an exclusion for this in the 
policy and so no settlement was made. That appears to be in line with the policy terms.  
Taking all of the above into account I think Allianz has acted reasonably when taking the 
approach that it did. 
H says it never received any offer from Allianz. Its open to H to follow this up with Allianz. 
But in any event, for the reasons Ive given above, Allianz could have chosen to void the 
policy. And so I think the way it has dealt with the matter was fair in the circumstances.
H refers to the fact the Insurance Act says an insured is not required to disclose something 
in some circumstances, including where it diminishes the risk or the insurer knows about it 
(and the insurer is presumed to know something which is common knowledge or which an 
insurer offering that type of insurance would reasonably be expected to know). Ive 
considered this but I cant see that applies here. Allianz could not have known about the 
issues with the machinery unless H told it about this. And this information wouldnt have 
reduced the risk. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman