DRN-3052959
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) declined his claim for 
storm damage under his buildings insurance policy. 
Any reference to Admiral in my decision includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
Mr E has a buildings insurance policy which is underwritten by Admiral. 
For reference any reference to Admiral in my decision includes the actions of its 
agents.
In January 2021, Mr E made a claim to Admiral for damage caused to his outbuilding. 
Mr E believed this was caused by heavy rainfall in recent months. 
Admiral surveyed the damaged via video phone. The surveyor said the claim should 
be repudiated as there were insufficient winds and rainfall around the time of the 
damage to satisfy the storm conditions under the policy. He added the damage was 
attributable to natural weathering and that the weather had likely exposed a                    
pre-existing defect. 
Mr E complained to Admiral  he feels his policy is not fit for purpose as all buildings 
are subject to gradual wear and tear and including such an exclusion means he could 
never successfully claim. He said the survey carried out when he purchased nor the 
builder who looked at his property in 2017, identified that the outbuilding needed 
maintenance work to its structure. 
Mr E also complained about how Admiral handled his claim  specifically that it didnt 
update him as requested and failed to send him the surveyors report. 
Admiral acknowledged that it didnt update Mr E when it should have and offered £25 
compensation to recognise this. But it said the claim had been fairly declined as there 
wasnt an insured peril  namely, a storm. 
Mr E accepted Admirals compensation but remained unhappy about its decision to 
decline his claim.
Our investigator considered the complaint. She said as the definition of a storm, as 
defined in the policy, hadnt been met, there wasnt an insured peril. She explained 
that there was a general exception for gradual causes  which excluded cover for 
claims where damage occurred as a result of natural weathering. So, she thought 
Admiral had acted fairly by declining the claim.  
Mr E disagreed. He said the gradual causes exclusion could make all building 
insurance policies null and void, which isnt fair. He said he hadnt seen the 
surveyors report and that he was unhappy about the lack of transparency. 
Our investigator considered Mr Es points. She provided Mr E with the surveyors 
report and said it was reasonable for Admiral to rely on the experts findings. She 
reiterated that as storm conditions werent present at the date of loss, there wasnt an 
insured peril.
Mr E disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken account of the requirements set by the Regulators which includes that 
insurers must deal with claims promptly and fairly and must not unreasonably decline a 
claim. I have considered whether Admiral dealt with Mr Es claim fairly and in line with the 
policy terms, and whether it unreasonably rejected the claim. 
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
Mr E says his outbuilding was damaged following heavy rainfall in December 2020 and 
January 2021. 
The starting point is the policy document  which provides cover in the event of damage 
caused as a result of storm or flood. 
Under the policy a storm is defined as:
Wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55mph), or heavy rainfall at a rate of at 
least 25mm per hour, or snow to a depth of at least 30cm in 24 hours, or hail of such 
severity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
So, I need to decide whether storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened. Mr E said the outbuilding collapsed on 28 January 2021, so Ive 
looked at weather reports for his location from around this time. 
Having done so, I cant see that rainfall was at least 25mm or that wind speeds exceeded 
55mph  and so there werent storm conditions when the loss occurred, meaning the policy 
term hasnt been met. And so, Im satisfied that Admiral hasnt acted unfairly by declining             
Mr Es claim.
Gradual causes
Because there isnt an insured peril, and Mr E doesnt have accidental damage cover in 
respect of his buildings policy  whether the damage happened gradually or not is irrelevant. 
It would only be relevant if there were storm conditions, and Admiral said it was limiting its 
liability under the claim because the main cause of damage was for example, wear and tear. 
But because Mr E has raised concerns about the surveyors findings, I will address this issue 
for completeness.
The surveyor said the weather conditions likely exposed a pre-existing defect and that the 
outbuilding had deteriorated over time. The surveyor is an expert in their area of work, and 
so Admiral is entitled to rely on their findings. I appreciate Mr E has concerns that the survey 
was completed via video phone, but Ive not seen anything to persuade me that this meant 
the surveyor wasnt able to reach a finding as to the likely cause of damage.
In respect of gradual causes the policy says:
Any loss or damage by anything that happens gradually including wear and tea, wet 
and dry rot, damage due to exposure to sunlight or atmospheric conditions [] isnt 
covered.Because the policy excludes damage which happened gradually, Mr E isnt entitled to cover 
in respect of this. So, Im satisfied Admiral acted fairly in declining his claim. 
I know Mr E Mr E feels his policy  and for that matter buildings insurance policies in general 
- are of no use if a gradual exclusion clause applies, but I dont agree.  
Its important to explain that insurance policies are not designed to cover every eventuality. 
Its standard industry practice for insurers to limit their responsibility in respect of damage 
caused by, for example, gradual wear and tear. As prudent property owners, consumers 
have a responsibility to maintain their property so it wouldnt be reasonable to expect an 
insurer to cover a claim where the main cause of damage was for example, a lack of 
maintenance on the consumers part.  
But as explained above, what this complaint comes down to is whether there were storm 
conditions at the time the loss occurred  and as Im satisfied there wasnt, Mr E doesnt 
have a valid claim.
Admirals handling of the claim
In its final response letter, Admiral accepted it didnt provide good customer service as it 
didnt let Mr E know it had received the surveyors report  which hed asked it to do. As a 
result, Mr E had to chase the matter up. Admiral offered £25 compensation, which Mr E 
accepted. 
Ive looked at Admirals handling of his claim. While Mr E is frustrated with the outcome, 
ultimately, there wasnt a storm and the surveyors report was never going to change that. 
While I recognise Admiral has made mistakes, this isnt to the extent that would lead me to 
increase the compensation offered in this case. 
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman