DRN-4354128
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (LBG) 
handled their claim following a burglary, and they complain that the settlement offered for the 
stolen jewellery was too low. 
Mr and Mrs L had buildings and contents insurance underwritten by LBG. The policy was in 
joint names but, for ease of reading and because he brought the complaint, Ill refer to Mr L 
throughout. Any reference to LBG also includes actions taken by its agents.
What happened
In summary, a large quantity of jewellery was stolen from Mr Ls home. He claimed under his 
policy for the stolen jewellery and the damage caused during the burglary. LBG accepted his 
claim and made a settlement offer. But Mr L was unhappy with the offer because he didnt 
agree it reflected the full value of the jewellery. 
Mr L asked LBG to:
settle his claim at the maximum allowed under his policy
pay for all the hours Mrs L, his daughter and his cleaner spent cleaning up after the 
burglary, and
pay him and Mrs L compensation of £5,000 each for the distress caused. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. He said LBG had made a reasonable 
settlement offer based on the expert jewellers valuation, and Mr L hadnt provided anything 
to show that a greater settlement was warranted.
Mr L didnt agree, and he repeated his complaint, including issues he didnt think had been 
considered.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2023 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Jewellery settlement
The main issue of complaint is that Mr L thinks LBGs settlement offer is too low. 
Mr L has given more than one figure for the value of the stolen jewellery, ranging from 
£20,000 to £57,000. He said hell compromise at £36,000. LBG offered a little over £11,000 
which is the value the appointed jeweller placed on the collection based on some receipts 
and photographs, less the discount LBG wouldve received for replacing some of the items.
Ive looked at the policy and I see it allows LBG to make an offer based on its own cost to 
replace where a cash settlement is preferred, and Mr L would need to provide evidence of 
ownership and of the value of the stolen items. So, for me to uphold Mr Ls complaint, Id 
need to see that LBG failed to make an offer in line with the policy.
I can see that it would be difficult to provide evidence of ownership and value of a jewellery 
collection built up over many years. While Mr L has provided some evidence, its 
understandable that he hasnt got receipts for every piece of jewellery. But that doesnt mean 
LBG should simply accept his estimate of the value. In the absence of any clear evidence, 
LBG sought an expert opinion on the value of the jewellery. I think thats reasonable.
LBGs appointed jeweller estimated the replacement value at just over £11,000. However, 
after speaking with Mr L, the same jeweller provided him with a significantly higher valuation 
of £57,000. In the evidence Mr L provided to us, he said the valuation was overstated. More 
recently he asked for that sum to be considered as the reasoning for him offering to 
compromise at £36,000.
In consideration of this point, we asked LBG for an explanation of the different figures. The 
appointed jeweller provided a response to say that the greater sum was based on Mr Ls 
declaration of the value of each piece, rather than its own valuation. The jeweller confirmed 
that its original valuation of £11,000 was the correct amount.
Looking at the evidence available, I see that Mr L provided a list of items with a value next to 
them. In his diary, hed written various amounts, with no single item on his list exceeding 
£2,500. I note that the policys upper limit for an unspecified single item is £2,500. In other 
evidence, hes said that one item alone was worth the equivalent of £5,000. And the list of 
items, which together amount to £57,000, includes ten pieces of jewellery valued at more 
than £2,500 each. Therefore, Mr Ls evidence indicates that he cant be sure about the 
replacement value of the jewellery.
So, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant reasonably say that LBG has unfairly offered to 
settle the claim based on the expert jewellers confirmed opinion. 
Policy cover
This brings me to the issue of the cover available to Mr L under the policy. When he first 
made his claim, LBG said he had cover up to £10,000. It also said cover was up to £12,000. 
Mr L wants LBG to explain why it made this mistake. 
Ive looked at the account notes and I see that when the confusion arose, LBG emailed Mr 
Ls daughter to ask for a copy of the policy schedule so that it could confirm the correct level 
of cover. That was because its own system and the policy administrators system differed. 
As it turns out, Mr Ls schedule confirmed cover was up to £20,000 for valuables.While I appreciate this wouldve been an inconvenient and upsetting experience, ultimately 
LBG did assess the claim against the correct level of cover. In its response to Mr Ls 
complaint about this issue, I see LBG offered him £200 by way of apology for the mistake. 
Mr L rejected the offer. However, I think its a fair sum in recognition of what appeared to be 
a genuine mistake, and which didnt affect the outcome of the claim. I dont plan to ask LBG 
to do any more in respect of this issue.
Upper limit of cover
As Ive said, Mr L suggested compromising at a settlement of £36,000. He based this on the 
policy cover for Valuables at £20,000, plus Personal Belongings at £10,000, plus a 20% 
uplift (£6,000) in cover for certain special occasions.
Ive considered the policy documents carefully to determine what the upper limit for Mr Ls 
claim is. The schedule confirms that Mr Ls cover is limited to £20,000 for valuables. The 
policy definition of valuables is:
Jewellery, watches...articles made of gold, silver and other precious metals, precious 
stones...which you own or are in your possession.
Cover for personal belongings is limited to £10,000. The definition of personal belongings is:
Clothing...and personal items including sports equipment...designed to be worn or carried 
and camping equipment...This does not include:
valuables or personal money;
bicycles.
On the face of it, this suggests that Mr L cant expect cover under both limits for the 
jewellery.
However, under the heading of Personal Belongings Cover, the policy states:
We cover the following
Valuables, personal belongings and bicycles, which belong to you...
This suggests that valuables are included within the overall cover for personal belongings. In 
the absence of clarity, I think its fair to interpret the policy in Mr Ls favour.
A similar situation arises with the 20% uplift for named occasions. For clarity, Mr L was 
celebrating one of the named occasions specified in the policy. Ive seen in LBGs evidence 
that the uplift would be on the total contents cover of £75,000 and it wouldnt affect the 
individual limits set out in the policy schedule. While I think that is likely to be the intention of 
the policy, it lacks clarity. So, for the same reason as above, I think its fair to interpret the 
policy in Mr Ls favour.
This means the upper limit of cover available to Mr L for the theft of valuables is £36,000.
However, just because I agree that Mr L would be entitled to make a claim up to that 
amount, the conditions apply as Ive already discussed. He must provide reasonable 
evidence to demonstrate the value of his loss. As the evidence available doesnt support Mr 
Ls claim for theft of jewellery up to £36,000, Im minded to agree that LBG has made a fair 
offer in the circumstances.Cleaning costs
I understand Mr L wants LBG to pay cleaning costs based on his specified hourly rate. LBG 
said it would consider costs if he provided an invoice from a cleaning company. 
Ive noted that LBG paid for some named items to be cleaned, and it offered a sum of 
around £300-£400 for cleaning non-specific, not evidenced, areas. Mr L initially asked for 
£900 but now wants £1,700. It would be reasonable to expect LBG to pay for evidenced 
costs which arose directly from the burglary, but I cant reasonably ask LBG to pay for 90 
hours of cleaning for which Mr L is now claiming without any evidence.
I wont be asking LBG to increase its offer in respect of cleaning costs.
Other issues
Ill touch briefly on some other points Mr L complained about or which Ive noted during my 
consideration of the evidence.
Mr L said LBG lost a receipt for one piece of jewellery valued at about £5,000. However, Ive 
noted details of a conversation where Mr L raised the issue with the claims consultant. It 
seems the consultant photographed the evidence Mr L provided but didnt take it away. 
While I dont doubt that Mr L no longer has the receipt, I cant see any reason for LBGs 
agent to take away a single receipt out of a bundle of evidence. In the absence of any 
evidence, I cant hold LBG responsible for the missing receipt.
Mr L didnt have any individual items specified in his policy schedule. Therefore, the 
maximum he could expect to receive for any single item was £2,500. As Ive already said, in 
his £57,000 valuation there were ten items which exceeded the single item limit. Those ten 
items totalled over £42,000, so the policy limit wouldve capped cover at £25,000. That 
immediately brings Mr Ls claim value down by £17,000. I havent seen anything to suggest 
that this single item limit is disputed.
The policy provided Mr L with cover up to £75,000 for his contents. The valuables and 
personal belongings are included within that overall amount. If Mr L had jewellery valued at 
£57,000, that would leave him with £18,000 of cover for every other possession in his home. 
In its email to Mr Ls daughter early on in the claim process, I see LBG raised the possibility 
that Mr L was underinsured. If that were the case, the policy states LBG would be entitled to 
pay any claim in line with the proportion of cover. That is, if Mr Ls contents were valued at 
£100,000, yet his cover was 75% of that, then LBG could pay just 75% of the claim. I note 
LBG hasnt reduced the claim proportionately.
Similarly, I note that LBG paid Mr L £1,000 for stolen cash. His policy provides cover up to a 
limit of £500, so Mr L appears to have benefitted from LBGs mistake. 
I understand Mr L is unhappy with how the policy was sold to him because he thinks there 
were other beneficial terms which arent, now, apparent. LBG is the underwriter of the policy 
but confirmed it wasnt involved in the sale. Therefore, if Mr L remains unhappy about this 
point, he would need to raise it directly with the business from which he bought the policy.
Finally, Ive noted Mr Ls speculations about why LBG didnt agree to the full claim. Ive 
considered his complaint on an individual basis, and I havent seen anything in the evidence 
which causes me concern. Its not within my remit to make comment on the suspicions Mr L 
has on a broader scale, but if LBG hadnt handled his claim fairly, I would be asking it to put 
matters right. As it stands, theres nothing in the evidence to suggest theres anything for 
LBG to put right.I understand this will come as a disappointment to both Mr and Mrs L, and Im sorry to hear 
of the burglary that took place while they were away celebrating a special occasion. But, 
based on the evidence available, Im not persuaded that LBG should pay any more than it 
has already offered. 
Overall, I think LBG has made a fair and reasonable settlement offer and I dont plan to ask it 
to do any more.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Both Mr L and LBG accepted my provisional decision. However, Mr Ls acceptance seemed 
reluctant, and he asked me to reconsider my decision about the level of compensation LBG 
previously offered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that theres nothing more for LBG to put right. 
Therefore, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint for the same 
reasons I set out in my provisional decision.
However, because Mr L appeared dissatisfied with my provisional decision, despite 
accepting it, I looked again at the evidence. In particular, I considered his comments about 
the amount of compensation LBG offered in respect of its mistake about the level of cover.
Mr L asked me to reconsider the amount of compensation LBG awarded for what he 
described as its massive Valuations Limit Error at the start of the claim. Looking at the 
evidence, its clear that LBG made a mistake. But, as I noted in my provisional decision, LBG 
recognised there was some contradiction across the various systems, and it asked Mr Ls 
daughter for the policy schedule so it could clear up the matter. 
I accept that it wouldve been an additional upset for Mr and Mrs L, but LBG did assess the 
claim against the correct policy cover. So the mistake didnt continue to cause problems. 
LBG offered £200 by way of apology for the mistake. Because there wasnt an ongoing 
inconvenience or financial detriment in respect of this, I see no reason to ask LBG to 
increase its offer. 
   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is 
that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2023. 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman