DRN-3794648
The complaint
Mr R, represented by a family member, complains that West Bay Insurance Plc trading as 
Zenith Insurance (Zenith) refused to pay a claim on his home insurance following a leak from 
his shower. References to Zenith include other individuals and organisations acting on its 
behalf.
What happened
Mr R had buildings and contents insurance underwritten by Zenith. He noticed water dripping 
down his kitchen wall. It seemed as though the cause was likely to be a leak from the 
shower above. Zenith says that it was roughly six months before it was notified of the leak. 
According to its contact notes, Zenith asked Mr R to get a plumber to find out the cause of 
the leak and stop it, and then it could send a surveyor to assess the damage. The plumber 
thought the cause was a crack in the shower tray and probably also poorly fitted shower 
panels. The plumber spoke to Zenith and advised that removing the cracked shower tray 
may cause further damage. The plumber also told Zenith that Mr R had another shower in 
the house he could use. Zenith told the plumber to go ahead and expose the full extent of 
the damage, and then contact it again to arrange for the surveyors visit.
Mr R says there were difficulties in getting parts to replace the shower, so the plumber didnt 
remove it right away. The plumber applied sealant to the crack, but this didnt stop the leak. 
Mr R continued to use the shower. 
Zenith closed the claim as it had no contact from Mr R for several months. However Mr R 
then contacted Zenith again to continue with the claim and Zenith sent a surveyor to inspect 
the damage. By this time the plumber had removed the shower tray, the wall panels, and the 
shower door. The surveyor noted the crack in the shower tray which had been previously 
repaired with silicon. He also noted that the floor was rotten and decayed in a small area due 
to the continuing use of the shower with the cracked tray. He said the leak in the kitchen was 
consistent with the seal between the tray and the wall panels failing. 
The surveyor concluded that there were three areas of damage  the shower tray, the rotten 
floor and the kitchen wall. He said that as Mr R wasnt aware of any one-off event causing 
the crack to the shower tray, it couldnt be considered accidental damage. He said the 
damage to the floor and the kitchen wall were both consistent with gradual ongoing damage 
that was evident to Mr R and no mitigation had taken place, as Mr R continued to use the 
shower. 
Zenith declined to pay the claim, saying the leak had been ongoing for many months and Mr 
R failed to mitigate the damage. Zenith also said that as the crack wasnt caused by a one-
off event, a claim for accidental damage was ruled out.
Mr R wasnt happy with this decision and complained to Zenith. Zenith didnt uphold his 
complaint, saying it was unable to accept the claim as Mr R had failed to mitigate his loss 
and had allowed damage to his home to worsen.
Mr R wasnt happy with this response and complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint. He said Mr R hadnt acted in accordance with the terms and conditions 
of his insurance policy, so it was reasonable for Zenith to refuse to pay the claim. The 
investigator also noted there was no evidence of accidental damage to the shower tray so 
Zenith couldnt have looked at the claim under the accidental damage part of the policy.
Mr R wasnt happy with the investigators response, so his complaint has been passed to 
me. Mr R wants Zenith to pay the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
When this service looks at complaints like Mr Rs, we need to decide if an exclusion clause 
did apply according to the policy terms and conditions, whether the clause was fair and 
reasonable, and whether it was appropriately brought to the policyholders attention.  
Mr Rs Home Insurance Policy said:
Please note that your policy provides cover against unforeseen events but does not cover 
your property against general wear and tear or damage which happens gradually (please 
see general exclusion 8 on page 32). Proper and regular maintenance of your property is 
your responsibility.
The general exclusion clause referred to here said:
General exclusions
8. Gradual causes
This policy does not cover loss or damage caused by loss in value, wear and tear, 
atmospheric or climatic conditions, or anything that happens gradually.
The Policy also said:
What is not covered
We will not cover loss or damage arising from anything that happens gradually.
Accidental damage, which was largely covered by the policy, was defined as:
Physical damage that is caused suddenly by an external event and that is unexpected and 
not deliberate.
Im satisfied that the terms and conditions of the policy exclude claims where the damage 
was caused gradually and not by an accident. Mr R wasnt able to identify an incident that 
damaged the shower tray that would have met the definition of accidental damage. Because 
of this, and what the surveyor said, Im satisfied that the clause applied here. This is a very 
common exclusion clause in home insurance policies, and Im satisfied it was fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances Mr Rs case.
Finally we also consider whether an exclusion clause which we think is a significant 
exclusion was brought to the consumers attention when the policy was sold or renewed. For 
example, we think its good practice for an insurer to produce some sort of policy summary or key facts document which includes this clause as a significant exclusion or limitation.
The clause excluding wear and tear was set out in the Home Insurance Policy which Ive 
quoted from above. In addition, the Insurance Product Information Document said on the first 
page:
Are there any restrictions on cover?
Wear and Tear
- We will not cover loss or damage caused by depreciation, wear and tear, 
atmospheric or climatic conditions, or anything that happens gradually.
The introduction to Mr Rs Home Insurance Policy said: 
To understand the level of cover you have bought and who the insurer(s)are, you should 
read this booklet together with your policy schedule. Your policy schedule summarises the 
cover you have chosen and this booklet gives full details
As you may expect, exclusions and conditions apply to the cover provided under your policy.
Please see pages 32 to 34 for details of the general exclusions and conditions that apply to 
all the cover options you have chosen to include in your policy. The conditions that describe 
how any claim will be settled are listed under the relevant Claims settlement provisions for 
each cover option. Specific exclusions may also apply to individual parts of your policy. If this 
is the case, these exclusions will be listed under the heading 'What is not covered'. Please 
also read your policy carefully for details of any limits that apply under individual parts of 
your policy.
Mr R had held the policy for a number of years before he made the claim. The renewal 
letters advised him to read the policy documents and check the cover was still right for him. 
So Im satisfied that the exclusion clause was properly brought to Mr Rs attention. 
Zenith also said Mr R failed to notify it of the leak as soon as reasonably possible, and failed 
to prevent further loss or damage by continuing to use the shower. Zenith pointed out the 
following clauses from Mr Rs Home Insurance Policy to our investigator:
Conditions
3. Precautions
You must take all reasonable precautions to reduce or remove the risk of a claim arising and 
to keep and maintain all the property covered under your policy in good condition and in 
good repair. If loss or damage does happen, you must take all reasonable precautions to 
prevent further loss or damage.
4. Notification
You must report any circumstances which may result in a claim as soon as reasonably 
possible...
Mr R says the leak was reported to Zenith as soon as it was noticed. Mr R also says he only 
used the shower once a week for about two minutes at a time so it didnt make anything any 
worse, and the shower would have needed replacing anyway. Mr R also says he didnt want 
to claim for the damage to the bathroom floor or the kitchen wall so its irrelevant that this damage worsened due to the delay in making the claim. 
However, I think its important to note that even if the problem had been reported 
immediately and Mr R had stopped using the shower, Zenith would likely have still declined 
the claim, as the surveyors report clearly identified the crack in the shower tray as non-
accidental and so not covered by the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. So I wont be asking West Bay 
Insurance Plc trading as Zenith Insurance to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman