DRN-3707917
The complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC didnt do enough to assist him in 
recovering money he paid for items using his Tesco MasterCard.
What happened
Mr S used his Tesco MasterCard credit card to make online purchases for Covid testing kits 
from a third party supplier E. He says he ordered five Day 2 PCR kits, but that E instead 
sent him antigen tests. It charged him three amounts of £70 and two amounts of £28. Mr S 
says he was overcharged for three of the tests. They should have been £28 each, but he 
was charged for three Day 2 and Day 8 test kits. And he describes that the kits that E did 
supply were delivered late. After unsuccessful attempts to raise matters with E, Mr S turned 
to Tesco to see if it could help him recover his losses.
Tesco said that in order to assist, it needed Mr S to provide it with evidence to show that 
what hed received (and what hed been charged) was different from the order hed placed. 
Without this it said it was unable to progress the dispute. Mr S pointed out that hed returned 
the incorrect tests hed been sent, which he wouldnt have if hed got the right kits. He 
referred the bank to media reports about Covid testing firms overcharging customers. But 
Tesco wasnt prepared to change its position. Mr S was unhappy with the banks stance and 
brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator noted that while Mr S had used a credit card to make the purchases, the 
transaction arrangements fell outside the financial limits for him to be able to claim directly 
against Tesco under the connected lender liability provisions of section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (section 75). She acknowledged the card payments were capable of being 
challenged under the chargeback rules that applied to the MasterCard scheme. The 
investigator found Tesco had asked Mr S to provide evidence as required by those rules, 
and what he was able to provide to it didnt meet the necessary standard. Based on this, she 
felt Tesco hadnt acted unfairly by declining to progress a claim in the absence of the 
required documentation.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He felt he was at a disadvantage as he 
could only supply the invoices hed received from E. He pointed out problems with Es 
website when hed been trying to order the items, saying it was mostly frozen and didnt 
clearly state what was in the shopping basket. Mr S felt his honesty was being questioned, 
and that the investigator had reached an unfair conclusion, basing her findings on the 
argument that he had no proof to support his claim.
Mr S suggested the time taken by Tesco to reach a decision on his complaint might have 
had a bearing on the outcome it reached. And he highlighted that the Competition and 
Markets Authority (CMA) had found against E in relation to a number of its business 
practices  including some of the problems hed experienced. He asked for this review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr S has strong feelings about his dealings with E, and that the CMA 
report  of which I have had sight  supports his claims of wrongdoing on Es part. Be that as 
it may, that isnt the complaint that I have to deal with. Rather, the complaint here is about 
Tescos actions in terms of its response to Mr S seeking reimbursement of his payments to 
E. The mere fact that Mr E used his Tesco card to make those payments isnt sufficient to 
make Tesco liable to reimburse him. There has to be either an appropriate mechanism to do 
so  such as section 75  or the banks actions have caused or contributed towards his loss 
such that it would be fair for it to compensate him to that value.
I dont consider the time Tesco took to reach the dispute outcome has a bearing on its 
liability to Mr S. It has acknowledged that it could have handled matters better than it did, 
and in recognition of that credited his account with £50 compensation. I consider that a fair 
sum to reflect the inconvenience the banks handling of matters caused Mr S.
As the investigator noted, section 75 doesnt apply to the transaction arrangements, because 
they dont involve goods to which E attached in individual cash price greater than £100. The 
fact the cumulative total was more than £100 doesnt change the individual item cost. The 
other way in which Tesco might have enabled Mr S to recover his payments is via 
chargeback, in accordance with the MasterCard card scheme rules.
Those card scheme rules set out the basis on which a card issuer might make a claim. The 
relevant grounds here look to be either that Mr S was billed an incorrect amount, that the 
goods he received didnt conform to their description, or that the delivery was delayed. The 
latter ground of these was unlikely to be helpful to Mr S given that the kits did arrive before 
he contacted Tesco for assistance, though I appreciate this was only one issue of concern.
In a chargeback for an incorrect billing amount, the card scheme rules require that the card 
issuer submits documentation detailing the correct transaction amount, such as a receipt or 
invoice showing the correct amount, or an email from the supplier confirming the price of the 
goods. The absence of this prevents the card issuer from submitting the chargeback. It 
follows that I dont find it was improper of Tesco to make the request it did of Mr S. It is of 
course unfortunate that the circumstances at play here meant that he couldnt supply such 
documentation. And I can see why he felt that his explanation  and the reports he 
referenced  ought to be sufficient. But in light of the wording of that rule, I accept that Tesco 
did not have any flexibility to submit such a chargeback claim.
That leaves the matter of whether Tesco properly considered whether what Mr S received 
was in line with the order he placed. The chargeback rule in this scenario requires a 
supporting statement from the cardholder describing the claim in sufficient detail to enable 
understanding of the dispute. Documentation to support the claim, such as receipts or 
invoices is optional under this rule.
I can see how it would have been helpful for a successful claim if Mr S had been able to 
submit further documents. His description of what he believed he was ordering via the 
website is clear, though by his own evidence he experienced a good deal of difficulty in 
placing his orders and could not establish precisely what was in the basket. Its possible, 
then, that E could have provided evidence to counter the chargeback, on the basis that it 
supplied what Mr S ordered, and not what he believed he was ordering. That might speak 
more to the way E operated its website rather than any fault on the part of Mr S, of course.
However, the circumstances dont suggest to me that it was appropriate for Tesco to decline 
to raise the chargeback on the sole basis that Mr S had no further documentary evidence. 
He had provided enough information in his account of events to meet the requirements of this specific chargeback condition. So I dont think it was fair of the bank to refuse to 
progress matters for the reasons it gave.
As Ive noted, however, the fact a chargeback claim could have been raised doesnt mean 
such a claim would have been successful, or that the banks decision not to proceed has 
caused Mr S loss for which it should be liable to compensate him. He still has grounds for 
recourse against E, which is the party with whom he contracted. The CMA report was 
incomplete at the point at which Mr S sought the assistance of Tesco, and it therefore would 
not have been something I could expect the bank to have taken into account when 
considering whether to raise a claim. The fact concerns were being reported in the media at 
the time (a matter Mr S brought to Tescos attention) might have had a bearing, but would 
not have been definitive in terms of whether the claim would be successful.
It is, I think, worth noting that on conclusion of the CMAs investigations, E gave an 
undertaking to review and refund customers found to have been misled or deprived of their 
rights as a consumer  whether statutory or contractual. Its not clear to me whether Mr S 
has submitted a direct claim via the portal (which can be accessed via the CMAs website). 
But if he has not yet done so, it seems to me that this would be the appropriate way in which 
to have his claim against E properly assessed.
My final decision
Overall, I consider there were some shortcomings in the way in which Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC dealt with Mr Ss request for assistance. The bank should bear in mind that 
there are situations in which a cardholders own account of events is sufficient for it to be 
able to instigate a claim.
However, Im not persuaded that these shortcomings caused Mr S material loss or other 
difficulty such that the bank needs to offer him additional compensation beyond the £50 it 
has already paid to him, or to take any other action to resolve this complaint. I appreciate 
this might come as a further disappointment to Mr S. But I trust the explanation Ive given 
enables him to understand why in this case its necessary to draw a distinction between the 
actions of the card issuer and those of the supplier.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman