DRN-3004649
The complaint
Mr N has complained about Acromas Insurance Company Limited regarding a settlement 
offer it made to him after his car was damaged beyond economic repair (BER) in an 
accident.
What happened
Mr N had an accident and Acromas said his car was BER. It said it would offer a settlement 
based on the cars market value of £2,000, less Mr Ns £400 policy excess. Mr N said hed 
only bought the car a month before at a value of £2,600 and it would likely cost him this to 
replace it. He said the way the market value for the car had been determined was unfair. 
When Acromas wouldnt change its offer, Mr N complained to us.
Our investigator explained that its normal practice for the market value for a vehicle to be 
determined by reference to trade guides. She noted the value Acromas had determined and 
checked the guides herself. She said her values were slightly different to Acromas but not 
so much as to make her think Acromas were unfair. 
Mr N felt Acromas hadnt complied with the policy terms because he maintained he couldnt 
replace his car for the figure offered. Our investigator replied to Mr N and, when he remained 
unhappy, passed his complaint to an ombudsman for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate its upsetting for Mr N to have had his car damaged beyond repair so soon after 
he had purchased it. And I can understand why hes disappointed with the settlement figure 
offered to him. But I do think the settlement offered by Acromas was fair and reasonable, 
because it was in line with the market value for the car and the policy terms. 
As our investigator explained, she checked the trade guides and in doing so she used a 
mileage figure of 95,380 which is how many miles Mr N said the car had done at the time of 
the incident. This was less than the figure Acromas had used and its unclear to me why it 
used a higher figure. Nevertheless the different figure didnt seem to have much impact on 
the values returned for the two guides Acromas had used. But our investigator used a further 
trade guide as well, and this gave a slightly higher value than the first two. But the average 
of all three was still in line with the £2,000 market value which Acromas had applied. And 
Ive checked the details of the car  engine size etc, and all the correct details are there. So 
I think the value Acromas offered is in-line with the trade guides.
The trade guides gather information from across the car sales industry about likely selling 
prices for cars. This service finds them a more reliable guide to selling prices than a search 
of the internet, for example, for current adverts for car sales. I know Mr N feels this method 
isnt in line with his policy. Thats because he doesnt feel the value generated then allows 
him to purchase a car and Acromas defines market value as being the like-for-like 
replacement cost for Mr Ns car. But Acromas has used the method which we consider to be 
the most reliable way to determine what the likely market value  how much cars with the 
same features and mileage as Mr Ns car are being sold for  is for Mr Ns car. I cant 
reasonably ask it to do more than that. 
I understand Mr N feels that the settlement leaves him about £1,000 out of pocket, as 
Acromas will be paying him £1,600 after deducting the policy excess and he paid £2,600 for 
the car just a month before the accident. But the policy requires a £400 excess to be paid, 
and doesnt suggest Acromas will honour the price Mr N paid for the car when settling a total 
loss claim. So Acromas was never going to be liable to Mr N for the whole purchase price of 
his car. And a cars value does depreciate over time, even when that is only a short time 
since purchase. Further, Ive no way to know if Mr N paid a fair price for the car when he 
bought it a month before the accident. I know Mr N believes his car is rare  but where cars 
are rare, there is often not enough sales information available for the trade guides to return 
market values. All the guides returned values here, all taking into account the specifics of 
Mr Ns car. So Im not persuaded the car is as rare as Mr N believes.
Im satisfied that Acromas acted fairly and reasonably in determining the market value for 
Mr Ns car. Im not going to require it to do anything more.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Acromas Insurance Company 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman