DRN-2709943
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly applied an early repayment charge (ERC) 
when he moved house. Hed like it refunded.
What happened
Mr M was moving house in 2020 and wanted to port his mortgage. He made an online 
porting application. Mr M says he called and confirmed what hed done was correct and no 
ERC would apply. However, after his sale and purchase completed, he found out HSBC had 
applied an ERC of about £4,000.
Our investigator said Mr M made the porting application online and on a non-advised basis. 
The offer he received was for a different interest rate product, a shorter term and didnt refer 
to porting. HSBC sent a redemption quote to Mr M which said that his new mortgage would 
have to be at the same interest rate and for the same term to avoid paying an ERC. The 
investigator said he listened to recordings of Mr Ms phone calls with HSBC and there was 
no mention of the ERC.
Mr M didnt agree. He said HSBC didnt provide recordings for all of the calls, and was hiding 
some. He said HSBC was aware he wanted to port his mortgage as hed discussed this 
months earlier.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M had taken out a mortgage product in 2018 which included an ERC if the mortgage was 
repaid before 2028. Mr M doesnt dispute that he was aware of this. He says he wanted to 
port his mortgage product to avoid paying an ERC. Im sorry this didnt work out as hed 
hoped.
If HSBC made an error or treated Mr M unfairly, Id expect it to put matters right. But I dont 
think thats the case here.
When Mr M first contacted HSBC it told him there was a longer than usual wait for an 
appointment with a mortgage adviser. It said Mr M could make an online porting application.
HSBC sent a redemption quotation to Mr M in August 2020. This set out the ERC that would 
be due if the mortgage was repaid on 1 October 2020. The letter said the ERC wouldnt 
apply if Mr M transferred his fixed interest rate to a new HSBC mortgage for at least the 
same amount and repayable over the same term as his existing mortgage.
Mr M made an online application for a new mortgage in September 2020. HSBC wrote to 
him saying hed chosen to apply without speaking to a mortgage adviser or receiving advice.
When Mr M made his application, he chose a different interest rate product (2.19% as 
compared to his previous rate of 2.59%). HSBC sent a mortgage offer to Mr M in October 
2020 which set out the terms, including the interest rate.
HSBC sent a redemption statement to Mr Ms solicitor which included the ERC.
Ive listened to the call recordings provided by HSBC. In the first call, Mr M asked about 
providing evidence of his income  theres no mention during this call of the ERC or porting. 
The second call was made by Mr M after hed made the application, when he called to check 
on his application. Having listened to this call, I dont think HSBC misled Mr M. It confirmed 
the valuation had been done and the mortgage offer would be sent to Mr Ms solicitor. HSBC 
said Mr M had done what he needed to do and the next steps were for his solicitor. Mr M 
didnt ask about porting or whether the ERC would be applied, and there was no discussion 
about this.
Mr M made a third call to HSBC after his sale and purchase completed, when he found out 
HSBC had applied an ERC. In this call, he said hed called HSBC before making the 
application. He said he called again after making the application to check what hed done 
was right and was told no ERC was payable. Having listened to the call recordings, I dont 
think Mr M was told by HSBC his product would be ported or that no ERC would apply. 
While Mr M says there were other calls, he hasnt provided evidence to support this. And this 
wouldnt be consistent with what he told HSBC in the third call, when he said hed made one 
call after making the application to check hed done what he needed to do.
I dont think its reasonable to say that HSBC should have queried Mr Ms application on the 
basis hed previously discussed porting. Mr M chose to make the application without advice.
I can understand Mr Ms frustration that he had to pay an ERC which hed hoped to avoid. 
And I understand why he asked that HSBC apply his previous product to his new mortgage, 
as if it had been ported. However, HSBC didnt agree to do this, and I dont think I can fairly 
require it to do so. Based on the available evidence I dont think HSBC made an error or 
treated Mr M unfairly. It processed the application made by Mr M. While Mr M says HSBC 
misled him about the ERC being waived the available evidence doesnt support this.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman