DRN-4023553
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about UK Insurance Limiteds (UKI) poor service, following a claim 
under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ls boiler developed a leak, they contacted UKI to make a claim. UKI sent 
several engineers, who Mr and Mrs L explained made their boilers issue progressively 
worse (the leak eventually flooded their property and caused further damage). 
After the final engineer attended, Mr and Mrs L instructed an independent engineer to 
assess the damage to the boiler. That engineer deemed the boiler so damaged as a result of 
UKIs engineers carrying out poor repairs on it, that he concluded that the boiler was 
damaged beyond economical repair (BER). 
Mr and Mrs L said that due to the damage to their boiler, caused by UKI, they had to 
purchase a new boiler. Accordingly, they complained to UKI. 
In its final response, UKI accepted that there had been some poor service issues and for 
those, it offered and paid a total of £850, which was made up of £350 compensation, as well 
as a refund of Mr and Mrs Ls excess charge. UKI did not accept that it should reimburse the 
cost of Mr and Mrs Ls boiler. 
As Mr and Mrs L were given their referral rights, they referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She said 
that it was more likely than not that the repairs undertaken by UKIs engineers caused 
flooding to Mr and Mrs Ls property, as well as damage to their boiler. She relied upon Mr 
and Mrs Ls expert report. And she recommended that UKI reimburse Mr and Mrs Ls costs 
they incurred, to install the new boiler. 
Mr and Mrs L accepted the view, UKI did not. UKI said that that the boiler had been at an 
age that meant it would need to be changed anyway. The boiler was leaking before its 
attendance, so damage was already caused to it. Finally, it questioned whether Mr and Mrs 
Ls engineer had attempted a repair, rather than just replace the boiler. It made an offer to 
provide the BER contribution, in line with the policy. And it asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator. 
And I hope my findings explain why I think this is fair. 
I have considered all the evidence and comments made by both parties. And I think that the 
main issue of this complaint, is whether its reasonable for UKI to reimburse Mr and Mrs Ls, 
costs of their replacement boiler. 
There is no dispute that Mr and Mrs L made a claim following a leak from their previous 
boiler and that UKI sent several engineers to repair it. What is in issue is whether the actions 
of UKIs engineers caused further damage to their boiler  and I think it was, so Ill explain 
why.
Mr and Mrs L discovered that their boiler had a minor leak that was causing electricity 
outages. UKI sent the first engineer who didnt rectify the leak. Mr and Mrs L have provided 
evidence from their expert to say that during the attempted repair, while trying to put the 
boiler back together (the engineer had taken parts of it off) the engineer caused further 
damage to the boiler. Mr and Mrs L describe hearing banging and their expert indicated that 
the engineer tried to force the boiler back together causing it to become mis-shaped. 
A second engineer was sent, and he too wasnt successful. At this stage Mr and Mrs L said 
(and have provided video evidence in support) that this engineer caused even more damage 
to their boiler. Instead of having a minor leak (that was the initial report to UKI) the boiler 
flooded their home. Further, two more engineers were sent and increasingly more damage 
was caused to their boiler. 
From the evidence, Im satisfied that rather than fix what I think was a minor leak (the 
original fault was a small drip coming from the boiler) the UKI engineers made it much 
worse. Consequently, Im persuaded by the evidence, including that of Mr and Mrs Ls 
independent engineers report (which I consider to be expert evidence) that concluded that 
further damage was caused to Mr and Mrs Ls boiler, as a result of UKIs engineers actions. 
I understand that UKI has offered to contribute £250 towards Mr and Mrs Ls costs of the 
new boiler. This was made on the basis of the policy limit and the age of the boiler. But I 
think had UKI repaired the original minor leak correctly the first time and something had 
subsequently gone wrong, then the offer would be considered fair. 
However, it didnt do this and sent several engineers, who I think progressively made 
matters much worse and even caused flooding to Mr and Mrs Ls home, resulting in further 
damage. Ultimately, as a result of UKIs actions, the boiler was deemed BER. 
UKI has indicated that the boiler was old. But except the minor leak, Mr and Mrs L said that 
the boiler was working well. And Ive not seen any evidence from UKI that could refute this. 
Nor that the boiler was in such a state that it was nearing the end of its functional life. 
Accordingly, Im satisfied that the actions of the UKI engineers caused further damage to the 
boiler, and I think its fair that UKI reimburse Mr and Mrs Ls full costs of the replacement 
boiler. 
Putting things right
To put matters right, I direct UKI as indicated below. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. To put matters right, UK Insurance Limited to:
Reimburse the full costs of Mr and Mrs Ls boiler, on production of the invoice. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman