DRN-1926501
 
The complaint
Miss H complains that a car she has been financing through an agreement with BMW
Financial Services (GB) Limited ("BMWFS") has not been of satisfactory quality.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision in May 2020. I explained why I was planning to uphold 
Miss Hs complaint. An extract of that provisional decision is set out below:
Miss H took receipt of a new car in March 2018. She financed the deal through a hire
purchase agreement with BMWFS but in April 2018 she had to return the car to the
dealership because of a door alignment problem.
A new door trim was ordered but when it arrived it was wrong and the dealership
were unable to provide another. So, with the problem still unresolved, Miss P complained to
BMWFS and, still dissatisfied, she referred her complaint to this service and our investigator
provided his opinion.
The investigator thought there was evidence that the car had failed in the first few weeks of
ownership and that a repair hadn't been successful. He considered whether Miss H should
be allowed to reject the car, but he didn't think the fault rendered the vehicle entirely faulty
and instead he suggested BMWFS should have a further opportunity to repair the car;
provide £250 in respect of the distress and inconvenience that had been caused and pay
Miss H £100 because she hadn't had full use of the vehicle.
BMWFS accepted this resolution but Miss H didn't. She said she should be allowed to reject
the car and get her deposit back. She asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
I dont currently agree with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint BMWFS so
please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss H acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is
a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into
complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Miss H. This was a
brand new car and I would not expect anything to be wrong with it.
Miss H had a short term right to reject the car in the first 30 days. Both sides agree that she
reported the issue within that time period. So, she could have rejected the car then, but I 
dont think theres sufficient evidence that she wanted to at that point.
Im satisfied that Miss H probably wanted the car to be repaired and as a result the relevant
legislation would allow the business one opportunity to repair the car. But that repair should
take place within a reasonable timescale and thats clearly not been the case. In those 
circumstances I think BMWFS have exhausted their opportunity to repair the car
and they should now allow Miss H to reject it.
I dont think thats a disproportionate action as this was a brand new luxury car and I think a
reasonable person would expect there to be no faults and for the door and its trim not to
rattle and to fit correctly.
I think Miss H has been inconvenienced by these matters. Shes clearly had to take the car
back to the dealership and it must have been frustrating to have been promised a repair only
to find the replacement part didn't fit. Shes had to progress a complaint through this service
when I think it's fair to say it should have been resolved earlier, and I think, in recognition of
the distress and inconvenience these matters have caused her, the business should pay her
£250 in compensation.
The door problem doesnt appear to have impacted on the use Miss H has had of the car as
it hasnt prevented the car from working. So, Im not suggesting BMWFS refund any of the
finance instalments shes made in respect of lack of use.
However, Miss Hs enjoyment of this brand new luxury car will have been marred a little by
the problem shes had with the door and, in those circumstances, I think the business should
pay her £100 in respect of the loss of enjoyment shes experienced.
When a rejection is authorised, it is usual to ask the business to refund any deposit the
consumer has made. I can see that Miss H has asserted she paid a deposit but the business
dont think that was the case and I can see no reference to any advance payment on the hire
purchase agreement. So, Im not currently expecting to order any refund of a deposit.
My provisional decision
Im expecting to tell BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited to:
1. allow Miss H to reject the car and terminate her finance agreement;
2. collect the car at no cost to Miss H;
3. pay Miss H £250 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced;
4. pay Miss H £100 in respect of the loss of enjoyment shes experienced;
5. remove any adverse reports they may have made to Miss Hs credit file in relation to
these issues.
Miss H agreed with my provisional decision but said shes paid £1,000 deposit. She provided 
a screen shot of a phone transaction to show two £500 payments made to the dealership on 
22 March 2018 when she agreed to the finance. She wanted that deposit to be refunded.BMWFS didnt provide any further information for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not been provided with any information that would lead me to change my decision that 
Miss H should be allowed to reject her car.
I asked BMWFS about Miss Hs suggestion she had paid a deposit. They provided me with a 
copy of the invoice for the car. That showed that there was negative equity on the vehicle 
that Miss H had part exchanged of £2,500. It documented a £500 upfront payment and a 
further £2,000 due on delivery.
It would not be reasonable to ask BMWFS to refund money paid by Miss H to exit a previous 
agreement that hasnt been the subject of this complaint. So, Im not asking BMWFS to 
refund any deposit.
Putting things right
My provisional decision remains unchanged.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
6. allow Miss H to reject the car and terminate her finance agreement;
7. collect the car at no cost to Miss H;
8. pay Miss H £250 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced;
9. pay Miss H £100 in respect of the loss of enjoyment shes experienced;
10. remove any adverse reports they may have made to Miss Hs credit file in relation to
these issues.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman