DRN-3112389
The complaint
Mr H, and others, trade as a business Ill refer to as T. They complain that Liberty Mutual 
Insurance Europe SE declined their claim for business interruption. The complaint is brought 
by Mr H. 
What happened
In March 2020, the Government announced restrictions to combat the spread of Covid-19. 
These restrictions had a significant impact on T, as they were forced to close for on-site 
consumption. 
T held a business insurance policy with Liberty Mutual. This included business interruption 
cover, so they made a claim. But Liberty Mutual declined it. It noted that the most relevant 
section of the policy covered T for:
Interruption of or interference with the Business in consequence of compulsory 
closure by a public body authorised to prevent or restrict access to the Premises 
arising from:
a) discovery of a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at the 
Premises..
Liberty Mutual said Ts losses arose from them being directed to close by the Government, 
not because of a discovery of a notifiable disease at their premises. T disagreed. They said:
The wording of the clause is unfair. Many notifiable diseases are airborne, and its 
impossible to demonstrate a discovery of an airborne disease in a specific place. 
Liberty Mutual ought to have excluded airborne diseases if they didnt intend to 
provide cover for them;  
On the contrary, Covid-19 was everywhere. And businesses like T were asked to 
close because they were considered to be particular hotspots; 
Furthermore, Mr H displayed symptoms of Covid-19 from around 16 March 2021, 
and hes signed a statement of truth to this effect. This demonstrates, on balance, 
that there was a discovery of a notifiable disease at the premises;
Theyve provided a letter from Mr Hs doctor which confirms that these symptoms 
were evident from 23 March 2021 at the latest, which was around the same time that 
non-essential businesses were directed to close;
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He noted that the doctors letter 
said it was believed that Mr H contracted Covid-19 on 23 March 2020, three days after T 
were directed to close by the Government. T disagreed, so I need to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident the government restrictions imposed on T had a considerable financial impact. 
With that in mind, Ive carefully reviewed the terms of their policy to decide whether Liberty 
Mutual should have met their claim. The burden of proof initially rests with T to demonstrate, 
on balance, theyve suffered a loss their policy covers. Where theres conflicting evidence, I 
need to reach my decision on the basis of whats more likely to have happened. 
When did the compulsory closure of Ts business take place? 
T have alluded to the fact that some non-essential businesses werent directed to close until 
23 March 2020. But businesses like T had already been directed to close three days earlier, 
on 20 March 2020. In his speech of that date, the Prime Minister said; 
And so following agreement between all the formations of the United Kingdom, all 
the devolved administrations, we are collectively telling, telling cases, pubs, bars, 
restaurants to close tonight as soon as they reasonably can, and not to open 
tomorrow we will review the situation each month, to see if we can relax any of 
these measures
During the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) business interruption insurance test case 
the Supreme Court considered how the phrase restriction imposed should be interpreted. 
The Supreme Court found that:
When the Prime Minister in his statement of 20 March 2020 instructed businesses 
to close tonight, that was a clear, mandatory instruction given on behalf of the UK 
Government. It was an instruction which both the named businesses and the public 
would reasonably understand had to be complied with without inquiring into the legal 
basis or anticipated legal basis for the instruction. We consider that such an 
instruction is capable of being a restriction imposed, regardless of whether it was 
legally capable of being enforced
Whilst I recognise the language in Ts policy differs slightly, in that it talks of a compulsory 
closure by a public body authorised to prevent or restrict access to the premises, I think the 
same reasoning applies. The requirement to close on 20 March 2020 was a compulsory 
instruction from a public body authorised to prevent or restrict access to the premises. 
This instruction gained the force of law (via the Health Protection (Coronavirus, Business 
Closure) (England) Regulations 2020) on 21 March 2020. However, as per the above, Im 
satisfied 20 March 2020 is the date of the compulsory closure. 
Was the compulsory closure caused by a discovery of a notifiable disease at Ts premises?
I dont think it would be impossible to prove the discovery of Covid-19 at a specific location. 
I accept it would be difficult to identify the presence of the virus in the air or on surfaces, but I 
think the disease would need to have manifested itself at the premises for a discovery of it 
to have taken place anyway. So, someone at the premises would need to have sustained 
the disease, and either displayed symptoms or received a diagnosis. Widespread testing 
wasnt available at the time, so Ive considered what other evidence exists to support this. T have sought to persuade me that Mr H was displaying symptoms of Covid-19 from the 
week commencing 16 March 2020. But theres no contemporaneous evidence which shows 
Mr H was displaying symptoms as early as this, or that he (or anyone else on the premises) 
acted on that basis. 
The doctors letter shows Mr H didnt seek medical attention until 31 March 2020, and says 
we believed he contracted Covid-19 on 23 March 2020. This mirrors the record of Mr Hs 
first contact with the surgery, which said hed been self-isolating since 23 March. 
Whilst I note the statement of truth signed by Mr H, this was written some time after the 
event. When weighing up the evidence, Ive been mindful that contemporaneous evidence is 
generally more persuasive. Taking this, and the contemporaneous evidence thats available, 
into account, Im not satisfied, on balance, Mr Hs symptoms began before 23 March 2020. 
T were required to close from 20 March 2020. So, even if I accepted Mr H was more likely 
than not to have had Covid-19, Im not persuaded this caused the compulsory closure, which 
pre-dated the apparent onset of his symptoms. I havent been presented with evidence that 
anyone else at Ts premises displayed symptoms of, or had been diagnosed with, Covid-19 
prior to the compulsory closure.  
Even where policyholders were insured against occurrences of a notifiable disease within 
much larger areas (25 miles of the insured premises, for example), the Supreme Court still 
held that the burden of proof was on policyholders to demonstrate the presence of cases of 
Covid-19 within the policy area at the relevant time. On that basis, I dont think Covid-19 can 
be considered as having been everywhere, including Ts premises, before 20 March 2020. 
Furthermore, businesses like Ts werent closed because Covid-19 was thought to exist at 
the premises of each and every business of that nature. They were closed in order to slow 
the spread of Covid-19 by limiting the extent that people came into contact with each other. 
So, again, I dont think this in itself demonstrates a discovery of a notifiable human infectious 
or contagious disease at Ts premises prior to the compulsory closure. 
Damage
Both the core business interruption cover in Ts policy, and a number of the extensions to 
this cover (including Prevention of access or loss of attraction) are based on an interruption 
to the business which has been caused by damage. Damage is defined in the policy as 
loss, destruction or damage by any perils insured by Section 1  Property Damage. 
I havent seen anything to indicate Covid-19, or the Governments response to it, caused 
loss, destruction or damage to the types of property mentioned in either the core business 
interruption cover or the extensions to this cover requiring damage. So, Im satisfied theres 
no cover under these parts of the policy either.
Having weighed up Ts arguments carefully, Im not persuaded that Liberty Mutual acted 
unfairly in declining their claim. I therefore wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 Mike Walker
Ombudsman