DRN-2142853
The complaint
 Mr Z is unhappy with Assicurazioni Generali SpAs (AGS) decision to decline a claim he 
made on his employers group income protection policy. 
What happened
Mr Z is employed as an associate at a law firm. He became too unwell to work in June 2019 
after collapsing at work, so he made a claim on his policy, which was underwritten by AGS. 
Mr Z needs to meet the definition of incapacity for a period of time longer than the deferred 
period of 13 weeks. Mr Zs first day of absence was 6 June 2019 so to be eligible hed need 
to show he met the definition of incapacity from this time up to and beyond 5 September 
2019
Mr Z reported symptoms of stress, headaches, exhaustion and being burnt out. He also 
referred to a foggy sensation that prevented him from staying focused enough to read 
documents- which was an important aspect of his role. He began seeing a psychologist once 
a week for counselling and various other medical professionals over the next few months. 
AGS declined the claim because Mr Z was suffering from burn out which isnt a medical 
condition, so he didnt meet the definition of incapacity. Mr Z appealed the decision and 
provided additional medical evidence from a psychiatrist that he believed showed a 
diagnosis of depression.
AGS declined the claim a second time because the psychiatrist report was from December 
2019, which was after the deferred period so didnt support Mr Zs claim for incapacity at the 
relevant time. Unhappy with this Mr Z referred the matter to this service. 
Our investigator looked at what had happened. She said the medical evidence provided at 
the start of the claim wasnt enough to show Mr Z was unable to work due to an illness, so it 
was fair for AGS to decline the claim on this basis. She also didnt think AGS had been 
unreasonable to decline the claim a second time, based on the evidence provided at the 
time.  However, she found there was unnecessary and avoidable delay in processing Mr Zs 
claim. So she recommended AGS pay £150 in compensation for the stress and anxiety 
caused, which they did. 
Mr Z went back to his treating doctors and provided us with further medical evidence to 
support his claim for incapacity. But at this stage AGS hadnt had the chance to review the 
new evidence and make a decision on the claim. So our investigator asked AGS to reassess 
Mr Zs claim taking the additional medical evidence into account.
AGS promptly reassessed the claim and informed us their decision to decline the claim 
remained the same after reviewing the new medical evidence. In summary AGS said that 
although the updated medical evidence does say Mr Z had depression, it doesnt show the 
condition was severe enough to meet the definition of incapacity. They highlighted they cant 
make a claims decision on the basis of medical certificates because they dont provide 
sufficient detail. And the psychiatrist reports provided were based on consultations after the 
material time of the claim, so they werent sufficient. And they didnt think the evidence of Mr 
Zs counselling for depression was enough to prove incapacity.  
Mr Z remined unhappy so our investigator looked into what had happened again and upheld 
Mr Zs complaint. In summary, she didnt think that AGS had fairly declined the claim on the 
basis of the available new evidence. She said, when taken as a whole, the evidence 
provided by five separate professionals within Mr Zs treating medical team was more 
persuasive than the independent report from AGS expert. 
AGS didnt agree  they said theyd considered all the medical evidence and that there still 
wasnt sufficient evidence that Mr Z met the policy definition of incapacity. 
The case has now been passed to me for a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 AGS has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a
claim unreasonably.
It is for Mr Z to demonstrate that he meets the definition of incapacity in order to make a
successful claim. That definition is met when Mr Z can show that as a result of illness or 
injury he is unable to perform the material and substantial duties of his role. 
Based on the medical evidence provided, Im satisfied AGS acted fairly in declining the claim 
initially because there wasnt enough information to demonstrate Mr Z was suffering from an 
illness. 
Mr Z appealed this decision and provided a report from a psychiatrist that referred to a 
diagnosis of depression. But the diagnosis appeared to occur after the deferred period, so I 
dont think it was unreasonable for AGS to maintain their decision to decline Mr Zs claim at 
this point as this still wasnt enough evidence to support a claim for incapacity during the 
deferred period.  
 
However, Mr Z has since provided more detailed medical evidence from all of his treating 
medical team. Taken together, Ive found these reports to be persuasive and sufficient to 
show Mr Z does meet the definition of incapacity.  So Im upholding this complaint because I 
dont think it was reasonable for AGS to decline the claim a third time. Ill explain why.
AGS have said that although they agree that the updated medical evidence shows 
Mr Z had depression, it still doesnt show the condition was severe enough to meet 
the definition of incapacity. But I disagree. Mr Z has now provided the opinion of a 
variety of different medical expert sources, that all support the view Mr Z was unfit for 
work due to depression. 
Mr Z worked in a stressful and pressurised role in a law firm.  Given the nature of his 
work, I think it is reasonable to conclude that having depression at this level would 
have an impact on his functional ability to perform the material and substantial duties 
of his role. In particular his reported issues with concentration resulting in an inability 
to read through important documentation properly. 
AGS has raised concerns that the new medical evidence has been provided on 
request from Mr Z, following the decline of his claim. I dont think there is anything wrong with this. The burden of proof is on Mr Z to show he meets the policy definition 
of incapacity. So its not unreasonable for him to have gone and got further evidence. 
Ive noted AGS comments about the medical experts seemingly changing their 
position in the later submissions. In particular they have referenced the reports from 
the GP and the consultant psychiatrist. But I disagree. The later submissions are 
more detailed, which is reasonable as Mr Z had asked them to provide further 
information. AGS has pointed out that there doesnt appear to have been any new 
assessments of Mr Zs health, but I dont think thats unreasonable as Mr Z was 
asking them to report on his condition during a specific timeframe  so a current 
assessment wouldnt have been necessary. 
Im satisfied the medical opinions provided by Mr Z, including his GP, psychologist 
and a consultant psychiatrist are credible sources. And taken altogether their detailed 
submissions are consistent with one another and therefore persuasive. 
Ive also considered the treatment Mr Z has received in relation to his depression. 
And when this treatment took place. During the relevant period Mr Z was attending 
weekly counselling sessions with a psychologist. And I can see more than one 
medical professional recommended anti-depressants to Mr Z during this timeframe. 
He was also making lifestyle changes and exercising to help improve his mental 
health. Which supports why he was then able to recover and return to work by 
January 2020. 
On balance, I find the evidence provided by Mr Zs treating medical team, taken as a 
whole, more persuasive than the independent reports provided by AGS. And Im not 
persuaded that AGS gave adequate weight to the later reports which explored Mr Zs 
condition in more detail. 
The overall medical evidence persuades me its most likely Mr Z met the definition of 
incapacity when he made the claim. So I dont think it was reasonable to reject the 
claim a third time on the basis of the updated medical evidence.
Putting things right
 AGS needs to put things right by paying:
The policy benefit to the policyholder from the date the claim was
rejected a third time, to date. AGS should add 8% simple interest to the settlement 
figure.
Mr Z should note that the benefit will be paid to his employer, who is the policyholder. Not to 
him directly.
 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint against Assicurazioni Generali SpA and direct them to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman