DRN-3386548
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc have reported adverse information on his credit file.
What happened
Mr K had a HSBC credit card. When he reported his credit card as lost/stolen, HSBC placed 
a gone away indicator on his account. This led to his online access to his account being 
blocked and he didnt receive any correspondence from them, including statements.
Mr K says he tried to make a payment to HSBC in September 2018, but he says the call 
handler told him not to worry about the payment as he had made an overpayment the 
previous month. Mr K also tried to ring HSBC in October, but he wasnt able to get the 
situation rectified. He says his overpayment was ultimately used to settle his account. 
Mr K became aware that his credit file was showing adverse information, so he made a 
complaint to HSBC in late 2019. He said he was trying to get a mortgage and that the 
adverse credit information could cost him thousands of pounds if the mortgage wasnt 
approved because of what happened. 
HSBC did not uphold Mr Ks complaint. They emailed him on 20 December 2019 and they 
said that his credit card was closed on 24 April 2019, due to the various missed/late 
payments on the account. They said his credit file reflected the correct information so they 
wouldnt alter his credit file.
Mr K brought his complaint to our service. As Mr K did not bring his complaint to our service 
within six months of the date of HSBCs final response email, HSBC initially did not give us 
consent to look into the complaint. Mr K explained his exceptional circumstances of why he 
was unable to do so and HSBC granted us consent to consider Mr Ks complaint. HSBC also 
revised their stance on the complaint. They said that after reviewing their records, there did 
seem to be an issue with the service Mr K received from them.
HSBC explained that a gone away marker had been transferred to Mr Ks new credit card. 
This may have caused him to be unable to access the online banking facilities and his 
statements not being sent. They were unable to explain why the gone away indicator was 
initially applied. HSBC also said that Mr K was misinformed in April 2019 about his account 
closure. 
HSBC said that as Mr K had missed payments then his credit file should accurately reflect 
the payment history for Mr K and that the default had been applied correctly, so no 
amendments were due. Because of the service issues, HSBC offered Mr K £200 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. Mr K declined this offer. 
Mr K said in 2020-2021 he was planning on buying two houses. A residential property and a 
buy to let. Because of the default on his credit file, Mr K says that an application was 
declined, another company declined to further work on his case and he had to switch to a 
fee paying broker, where he had to pay £549 upfront. 
For the buy to let property, Mr Ks mortgage broker attempted to get a buy to let mortgage 
with one provider, but they declined his application. Mr K says it was due to the default by 
HSBC. Mr K said there was only one lender who could accept his application, but this 
resulted in much higher overall costs and he detailed these costs to our service. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Ks complaint. He said HSBC shouldnt have applied the gone 
away marker to Mr Ks credit card. If HSBC hadnt done this, then Mr K wouldve had access 
to his online account, and he wouldve received the statements in the post. Our investigator 
said that it is more likely than not that Mr K wouldve at least made the minimum payment 
required of him if he received his statements based on his payment history. So HSBC 
wouldnt have recorded any adverse information to the Credit Reference Agencies.
With regards to what Mr K has said about his financial loss as a result of HSBCs information 
on his credit file, our investigator said it would not be fair to hold HSBC responsible for Mr K 
to secure favourable mortgage borrowings, while Mr K was aware there was a problem with
information on his credit file having complained to HSBC in December 2019. He said there 
was no evidence of Mr K adding notes of correction to HSBCs credit file entry. He said 
HSBC gave Mr K the opportunity to refer his complaint to this service in December 2019, so 
it didnt mean that HSBC should be responsible for any higher costs, when Mr K had the 
opportunity to mitigate his situation, before he sought to take out further borrowing. 
Our investigator said that HSBC should pay Mr K an extra £200 to what they had offered 
him, to total £400 based on the distress and inconvenience they caused him. Mr K asked for 
an Ombudsman to review his complaint and he forwarded his schedule of losses to our 
service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the
enforcer for the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts
as an informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. We look
at the circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into
account relevant industry guidance for example, make findings about whether a financial
business has failed its customer in any way.
Where we find it has, we make awards designed to make the business put things right with
the complainant customer. Our awards are not designed to punish a business or to make it
change the way it acts in order to protect other customers in the future. That is the role of the
regulator.
Mr K has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Im persuaded that HSBC has let Mr K down on a number of occasions. They applied a gone 
away indicator to his account which led to a chain of events which I believe would have been 
completely avoidable had they not done so. 
I say this as Mr K appears to have always made his HSBC monthly credit card repayments 
on time. As a result of HSBCs error to apply the gone away indicator, this resulted in Mr K 
not being able to access his account online and this prevented him from receiving 
statements.Im satisfied that if Mr K would have received his next statement, he would have made at 
least the minimum payment (£5), but given his previous months payment of £50, its also 
possible he wouldve paid the remaining outstanding balance of £22.81. And then none of 
the subsequent events wouldve unfolded.
But as no following statements were sent to Mr K, he would be unaware of what he would 
need to pay towards his outstanding balance, especially as he didnt have access to his 
account online. 
I can see that Mr K did try to speak to HSBC in September 2018. But there are no call 
recordings of this call or the following calls hes made, Ive no reason to doubt what Mr K has 
said happened on these calls. So if he was told that the £50 he had made in August 2018 
would be classed as an overpayment and it would be used to take any payments due, then I 
can understand why he was under the impression that an overpayment had been made and 
ultimately was used to close his account in April 2019  even though this wasnt correct. 
While Mr K paid more than the minimum payment on 6 August 2018, he would have still 
been required to pay at least the monthly minimum payment each month that an outstanding 
balance remained, regardless of how much was paid in a previous statement period. HSBC 
wrote off the balance when they didnt receive the payments from Mr K  this wasnt as a 
result of an overpayment from Mr K. 
HSBC have also said they gave Mr K misinformation about the closure of his account in April 
2019. Mr K has also explained other examples of being told incorrect information, such as 
when he visited the branch.
So Ive considered what would be a fair resolution to Mr Ks complaint. I agree with our 
investigator that HSBCs offer of £200 does not cover the impact that the several months of 
inconvenience and distress would have had on Mr K, from when the gone away indicator 
was on his account in July 2018, especially as it appears hes tried to be proactive to pay 
any outstanding balance he had on the credit card. 
Ive also considered Mr Ks schedule of losses. But I cant say it would be fair for HSBC to 
pay any of these costs. I know Mr K will be strongly disappointed with this, so Ill explain how 
Ive reached this conclusion. 
Mr K provided us with an email from a third party mortgage provider dated 6 December 
2019, explaining that Mr K would face difficulties in getting a mortgage with them if the 
adverse credit information remained on his credit file. So Mr K was aware of the importance 
of progressing his complaint in December 2019 and the implications of not doing so. But it 
was in late March 2021 when Mr K brought his complaint to our service.
Ive read all that Mr K has said regarding his exceptional circumstances in why he brought 
his complaint to us when he did. But Mr K has also provided us with a mortgage offer letter 
from the company who provided him with his residential mortgage, dated 9 July 2020. So I 
think it would be reasonable that if Mr K was able to progress a mortgage application during 
this timeframe, then it would have been reasonable to progress his complaint earlier than he 
did, especially as he was aware of the implications the adverse credit data could result in 
affecting his choice of mortgage providers and the resultant additional costs of not being 
accepted by his preferred mortgage provider.
So I cant say it would be reasonable to hold HSBC responsible for any additional charges or 
interest he would incur by not being able to take a mortgage with his preferred lender, when he hadnt took any action to resolve the outstanding issue he was aware of before he 
enquired about taking further borrowing. 
Based on the distress and inconvenience that HSBC caused, Im persuaded that the total 
compensation HSBC should pay Mr K is £400. Im satisfied this recognises the multiple 
times that HSBC let Mr K down. This set off a chain of events which would have been  in 
my opinion  avoidable had the gone away indicator not been placed on the account. Im 
satisfied that Mr K would have met at least his monthly payment, but in all likelihood, he 
would have paid off the outstanding £22.81 balance, especially as he was aiming to get two 
mortgages in 2020-2021. So any adverse credit information recorded by HSBC should also 
be removed regarding his credit card. So it follows Ill be asking HSBC to put things right for 
Mr K.
Putting things right
Our investigator has suggested a total of £400 compensation is fair in the circumstances and 
I agree this is a reasonable amount for the impact HSBCs errors had on Mr K. HSBC should 
also remove any adverse credit information they recorded on Mr Ks credit file about his 
HSBC credit card.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should;
Pay Mr K £400 for distress and inconvenience,
Remove any adverse credit information they recorded on Mr Ks credit file about the HSBC 
credit card.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman