DRN-4270243
The complaint
Ms L complains about advice provided by Attivo Financial Services Limited (Attivo) to
transfer her self-invested personal pension (SIPP) to another provider.
Ms Ls complaint has been brought on her behalf by a professional representative.
What happened
Ms L met with Attivo in 2015 for pension advice. She already held a SIPP with another
provider. Approximately £90,000 of this SIPP was held in a cash fund following a property
sale within the SIPP. Ms L wished to leave the remaining property investments within the
existing SIPP and was looking for advice for on getting potentially better returns on the funds
within the cash fund.
The existing SIPP had an SIPP wrapper charge of 0.75%, an ongoing advice charge of
0.5%, an annual management charge of 0.35% and an administration charge of 0.25%.
These charges totalled 1.85% per year.
Attivo completed a fact find and at the time of the advice, Ms L was recorded as:
59 years old, in good health and single with no dependents.
employed and a director of her own company earning £50,000 and paid basic rate 
tax
having assets of £245,000 and liabilities of £65,000.
having an intended retirement age of 67
Ms Ls objectives were listed as:
reviewing her current retirement planning, to ensure funds are being accumulated in 
the best way for eventual phased retirement
providing funds for improving lifestyle in retirement
achieving a return better than cash
diversifying her retirement investments to spread the risk of overinvestment in any 
one market or economy
receiving ongoing investment advice to ensure her portfolio continues to be managed 
in line with her risk profile and objectives
Attivo also completed a review of Ms Ls attitude to risk (ATR). In summary, this confirmed
that Ms L:
saw her attitude to investment risk as cautious
would not like to expose her investment to a great chance of loss
wanted to spread the risk of her investment so not to be overexposed to one part of 
the market or economy
was comfortable taking risks in order to aim for better returns
wished to invest for a further 5 -10 years
did not intend to take an income from these funds in the next 20 years and would 
intend only to access these funds in the next 10 years in exceptional circumstances
had limited investment knowledge
had never invested in the stock market
did not feel confident with investment matters
Attivo assessed Ms L as having a low medium ATR or two out of five. And Ms L signed to
agree to this.
Following this, Attivo recommended Ms L transfer her investment in her existing SIPPs cash
fund to a new SIPP, and that she should use Attivo Investment Management Limiteds
discretionary Managed Portfolio Investment Service, investing in the Tier 2 Conservative
Portfolio.
Attivo charged 3% of the amount transferred in. The new SIPP had an investment
management charge of 0.5% per year, plus a charge on the portfolio of 1.07%per year, and
an Attivo advisor fee of 0.65% per year. A total annual charge of 2.22% per year.
Attivo noted that the SIPP fees were higher for this than her existing arrangement. But it 
explained the new SIPP offered a wider range of fund choice, and it would provide ongoing 
monitoring, advice and management of her SIPP.
Ms L proceeded with the recommendation and the new SIPP was set up with Ms Ls funds
being transferred in soon after.
In 2022, Ms L complained to Attivo about the advice. Ms Ls complaint was brought on her
behalf by a professional representative. The representative said that the advice was
unsuitable and this had led to Ms L suffering a financial loss. It didnt explain why this was
the case.
Attivo responded to the complaint saying Ms L hadnt suffered a financial loss and that the
advice it provided was suitable. Ms Ls representative didnt accept this and referred the
complaint to our Service.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. In summary, she thought the advice was
suitable and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Ms Ls representatives didnt accept
this and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. So it was passed to
me to consider.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 July 2023 in which I explained I disagreed with our 
Investigator. I explained why I intended to uphold the complaint and how I thought things 
should be put right. In that provisional decision, I said:Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) in the regulators handbook, set out the rules
regulated businesses have to follow. At the relevant time, COBS 9.2.1R required Attivo to
take reasonable steps to ensure a personal recommendation was suitable for Ms L. It had to
obtain information as to Ms Ls knowledge and experience (relevant to the specific type of
designated investment), her financial situation and investment objectives.
COBS 9.2.2R required Attivo to gather sufficient information from Ms L to ensure the
recommendation met her objectives, that she could bear the risks involved and had the
necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
And COBS 2.1.1R required Attivo to act, honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance
with the best interests of its client." In 2009 the then regulator, the Financial Services
Authority (FSA), published a report and checklist for pension switching that is applicable in
this case. That checklist identified four main areas where consumers had lost out. In my
view, the relevant area applicable to Ms Ls case is:
[The consumer] had been switched to a pension that is more expensive than their
existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension (because of exit penalties and/or initial costs
and ongoing costs) without good reason.
At the time of the advice, Ms L was 59 years old and single with no dependents. The fact
find recorded that she intended to retire at age 67. Ms L already held a SIPP which had
some investments in property. This was to remain in place and Ms L was only looking to
invest the money held in the cash fund with the previous SIPP provider. However, Attivo
noted Ms L wanted to switch pensions and her priorities for switching were recorded as
increasing her funds available in retirement, to diversify her SIPP investments, to have
ongoing investment advice and to provide a return greater than that available with cash
investments. Ms L was recorded as planning a phased retirement meaning she wouldnt
access the entire pension in one go upon retirement. She was employed and had no need to
take any funds sooner.
Attivo asked Ms L a number of questions and presented a number of scenarios when
exploring her ATR. I wont repeat them all here. But, based on the answers Ms L provided,
and her situation at the time of the SIPP transfer, I think that a low medium ATR was likely 
in line with the level of risk Ms L was willing to accept with her pension. She already held a
SIPP, with investments in a property syndicate, so it seems she was comfortable investing
with some level of risk. Plus she wanted to increase the potential returns available above
those she might receive by leaving the remaining pension funds in cash, which
understandably shed need to take some risk to achieve.
Furthermore, the fact find indicates that Ms L wasnt dependent on this pension for her
retirement income and wanted to use it to boost her retirement provisions. Given that she
had at least eight years until her planned retirement, I think she had time to take some level
of risk with the SIPP.
Ms Ls representatives havent disputed that Ms L had a low medium ATR. And based on
the evidence Ive seen, I think it was a fair assessment of her ATR. And I dont think the
advice to invest her cash funds on this basis was unsuitable. However, I need to consider
whether Ms L needed to switch her funds to a new SIPP to achieve her objectives and
whether the advice was suitable for Ms L overall.The new SIPP attracted higher annual charges than Ms Ls existing SIPP. The costs are set
out above and totalled 2.22%. However, this didnt include dealing charges on UK assets,
which the suitability report said cost £2 per trade. So, in reality the costs were likely higher
than the 2.22% disclosed because of the discretionary fund management (DFM)
arrangement, where fees were charged on certain types of trades. And in addition to higher
annual charges, Attivo was also charging a 3% initial fee on the amount transferred. So,
there was significant cost to the switch and so Ive considered whether the benefits of the
transfer outweighed these extra charges.
One of the reasons Attivo gave for the transfer to the new SIPP was that Ms Ls existing
SIPP would only allow up to ten separate funds to be held at any one time. I can see that the
portfolio Attivo recommended invested in more than ten funds. But all Ms L wanted to
achieve was some growth rather than leaving her funds in cash. So, I cant see that Ms L
had a need for this. Her ATR was rated at low to medium and she was an inexperienced
investor. So, I dont think she had a need to invest in a higher range of funds to achieve
more growth. This couldve still been achieved by investing in less funds and funds which
had diversification within them.
I also think that the extra charges meant that Ms L would achieve less growth overall. Given
her ATR I think she couldve expected somewhere between the regulators lower and middle
projected growth rates (2  5%). But with charges of over 2.22%, in reality her funds might
not achieve much growth at all once charges were taken into account. So, given this I think it
was important to find a solution that involved the same or lower costs than her existing
arrangement. So, for this reason alone I think the advice was unsuitable.
The investment strategy Attivo recommended utilised a DFM, who would rebalance the
portfolio daily. And this came at a cost.
In 2012, the FCA issued guidance which covered, amongst other things, considerations for
firms recommending the use of a DFM. This guidance said there were three key factors to
take into account when recommending the use of a DFM. These were:
The likely cost
The amount of funds being invested and managed by the DFM
The investors knowledge and experience
The cost of the DFM was set out as a percentage of the fund value. So Im satisfied that Ms
L wouldve understood the cost. However, Im not persuaded that Ms L incurring the
additional cost was in her best interest.
The recommendation letter set out that the existing SIPP would need manual rebalancing
over time which could be costly and time consuming. As such, it recommended Ms L use
Attivos DFM service which would provide daily rebalancing. However, Ms L was paying for
ongoing advice and having regular reviews. So the funds couldve been rebalanced at the
regular review and as such, it seems to me the extra cost of the DFM wasnt worth the extra
cost. Ive seen no reasons as to why Ms L needed daily rebalancing on her portfolio.
The value of the funds was fairly modest, and taking this into consideration alongside the
fact that Ms L wanted to take a low to medium risk with it, I dont think daily rebalancing was
necessary for Ms L to achieve her stated objectives.
Whilst Ms L did have other existing investments and an existing SIPP, Im not persuaded
shed be considered a particularly experienced investor. Had Attivo clearly set out what the
DFM would do and the cost for this, versus a standard managed fund within her existing
SIPP, I think Ms L wouldve opted for the standard managed fund and lower costs.Ultimately, Ms Ls objectives were to obtain a better return than available through a cash 
based investment fund. Whilst returns couldnt be guaranteed, Ms L couldve moved into
another fund (or funds) within her existing SIPP which invested in areas other than cash
which wouldve given her the chance for returns higher than the cash-based fund wouldve
provided, without the additional costs involved in switching to the new SIPP and paying for
discretionary portfolio management. So I dont think the advice to switch to the new SIPP
was suitable. I think Ms L shouldve been advised to retain her existing SIPP and switch to a
fund or funds more in line with her ATR.
I recognise that in 2020 a new recommendation was made for Ms L to invest in a standard
managed fund within a different SIPP provider (Fidelity). To me, the fact that her SIPP was
moved to another provider with significantly lower costs in 2020 re-enforces that the initial
advice set out above wasnt suitable. Based on what Ive seen, this later recommendation
was suitable. This recommendation had lower costs than the initial recommendation and
was a regular diversified fund with no DFM and therefore no additional DFM charges, which
Ms L didnt need. It seems this investment was in line with Ms Ls ATR and her objectives,
so I think Ms Ls pension investments started back on track at this point. This will impact the
recommendation of redress that I will set out and explain below, but in short, Ill be capping
the redress calculation as of the date the SIPP was transferred again in 2020.
I invited both parties to respond to this provisional decision by 27 July 2023. And both parties 
did.
Ms L generally agreed with the decision. But she said she didnt agree with the statement 
within the background of my decision which said she did not intend to take an income from 
these funds in the next 20 years. Ms L said she planned to retire in her mid 60s, and by 67, 
not at 67. She said she was absolutely dependent on this pension, other than her state 
pension. 
Attivo responded and disagree with the provisional decision. It said, in summary:
Ms L wanted a better return on the pension funds that were held in cash, and it was 
this that led to a DFM being recommended. This wasnt available in her existing 
SIPP. 
There was nothing to indicate that Ms L didnt want the use of a DFM. 
Ms L was made aware of the fees for the DFM.
Ms L did have some level of knowledge with regards to SIPPs.
Ms L had never indicated she was unhappy with the fees, service or portfolio she had 
in place. 
The complaint has now been passed back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered the responses to my provisional decision from Ms L and Attivo. 
And, having done so, I find myself coming to the same conclusions that I did within my 
provisional decision. Im satisfied this is a complaint which should be upheld, for the same 
reasons Ive given in my provisional decision, which should be considered as part of my final 
decision. However, Ill briefly address some of the points made by Ms L and Attivo. Ms L said she didnt agree with the statement that she did not intend to take an income from 
these funds in the next 20 years. This was simply part of my setting out of the background 
to what happened and was part of a broader summary of the objectives Attivo recorded at 
the time. I wasnt making any finding here. And this doesnt affect the outcome of my 
decision.
Attivo, in response to the provisional decision, has explained that Ms L wanted better returns 
than available within the cash funds she was invested in, and this is why the use of a DFM 
was recommended. 
As I set out within the provisional decision, I accept that one of Ms Ls objectives was to 
improve the returns on her pension investments. However, I dont agree it follows that, 
simply because Ms L wanted better potential returns, a DFM was required. 
I set out within the provisional decision (copied above) why I didnt think a DFM was suitable 
for Ms L. Ms Ls pension was of a relatively modest value. Whilst she did have an existing 
SIPP, she was still a relatively inexperienced investor with a low to medium ATR. And I dont 
think she required this level of diversification or daily rebalancing at the additional cost this 
came with. Ive seen nothing within Attivos response to change my opinion on this.
Attivo has explained that Ms L was made aware of the DFM fees and there was nothing to 
suggest, either at the time of the sale or at the subsequent annual reviews, she didnt want 
to use a DFM or was unhappy with the use of the DFM. I accept that Ms L was made aware 
of the fees. And she may not have questioned the use of the DFM. However, Ms L had 
approached Attivo for its professional advice on how to invest her funds. Attivo explained to 
her that moving her SIPP and using a DFM was right for her. So, I wouldnt have expected 
her to have questioned the advice at the time. She was, after all, paying for the professional 
expertise of Attivo and I think she was entitled to rely upon it. However, I dont think the 
advice to transfer her SIPP or use a DFM was suitable for her.
Ultimately, Im satisfied Ms L couldve achieved her objectives of a better potential return 
than cash-based funds by remaining with her existing SIPP and switching funds. I accept 
that she may not have been able to diversify as much as she could within the new SIPP, or 
benefit from the use of a DFM. However, for the reasons set out above and within my 
provisional decision, I dont think Ms L required this level of diversification within her SIPP. 
Nor did she need the use of a DFM bearing in mind the additional cost for this service. 
For completeness, I dont think that Attivo wouldve charge the initial advice fee had Ms L 
simply completed an internal fund switch within her existing SIPP. And Attivo hasnt 
challenge this in response to my provisional decision. So, I think this fee should also be 
refunded. 
So, Im upholding this complaint for the reasons above and as outlined in my provisional 
decision. As such, I think Attivo should compensate Ms L for any potential loss shes 
suffered as a result of the unsuitable advice.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Ms L should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.As I explained within my provisional decision, I think Ms L would have most likely remained 
in her existing SIPP but changed the funds she was invested in. I remain of that opinion. Its 
not possible to say precisely what she would have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set 
out below is fair and reasonable given Ms L's circumstances and objectives when she 
invested.
What must Attivo do?
To compensate Ms L fairly, Attivo must:
Compare the performance of Ms L's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
If the calculation shows a loss, then any additional amount that wouldve been 
achieved using this methodology wouldve been available to invest in the Fidelity 
SIPP in 2020. So Attivo should find out what growth Ms L achieved within her 
Fidelity SIPP from inception to the date redress is paid. And any growth this 
additional amount wouldve achieved within the Fidelity SIPP should be added to 
the total redress amount.
If there is a loss, Attivo should pay into Ms L's pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Attivo is unable to pay the compensation into Ms L's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Ms L wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Ms L's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Ms L is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Ms L would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Repay the advisers initial transfer fee together with simple interest at 8% a year, 
from the date the fees were paid to the date of settlement. If the above comparison 
shows that no compensation is payable, the difference between the actual value 
and the fair value can be offset against the fees with interest.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Attivo deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Ms L how much has been taken off. Attivo should give Ms L a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Ms L asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end date")
MYSIPP Transferred 
to Fidelity 
SIPPFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of transfer of funds 
to Fidelity SIPP
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Attivo should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal from the portfolio should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Attivo totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Ms L wanted Capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Ms L's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Ms L into that position. It does not mean 
that Ms L would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Ms L could have obtained from 
investments suited to her objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Attivo Financial Service Limited to put things right as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman