DRN-2932147
The complaint
Mrs R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc sold her shares when she instructed it not to and 
that it wont reinstate them.
What happened
Mrs R opened an ISA with HSBC in 2008 and bought shares in a company which Ill call B. 
In early May 2020, HSBC wrote to Mrs R to tell her that, following a review, it had identified 
that B was a non-qualifying ISA investment. It apologised and gave her options to sell the 
shares or move the holding to another nominee account. It said it needed her instructions by 
25 May, otherwise it would sell the shares and keep the cash proceeds in her ISA.
Mrs R phoned HSBC and authorised it to speak to another family member on her behalf. Her 
representative wanted to understand why the shares were non-qualifying. HSBC said it 
would need to check and would message Mrs R to let her know.
HSBC says it sent Mrs R a secure message on 22 May which provided her with the 
information shed requested and reminded her of the deadline for instructions. As it didnt 
hear back from Mrs R, it sold her shares on 26 May.
Mrs R says she didnt receive a message. She says her representative told HSBC she didnt 
want to sell the shares and it agreed to text her because she had difficulties accessing her 
online account.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She couldnt 
conclude that HSBC had acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Mrs R didnt agree. She said she didnt think HSBC had acted appropriately and that it had a 
duty of care to its customers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator for the 
following reasons:
HSBC made a mistake in allowing Mrs R to buy, and continue to hold, B shares in her ISA. 
But, when it identified the mistake, it apologised. 
As an ISA manager, HSBC is obliged to follow the ISA regulations set by HMRC. It told 
HMRC about the mistake it had made and HMRC agreed the corrective action it needed to 
take. This was reflected in the options it gave Mrs R in its letter dated 4 May 2020. I find it 
set these options out reasonably clearly. Mrs R wasnt expecting the letter and only had 
three weeks to make a decision. But, HSBC was required by HMRC to correct the position in 
a timely manner so, in the circumstances, I dont think the timescale it set was unreasonable.
I think HSBCs letter dated 4 May 2020 gave Mrs R enough information about the reason for 
her not being able to continue to hold B shares in her ISA. But Mrs R, through her 
representative, asked for a more detailed reason during the phone call on 19 May. HSBC 
supplied this additional information on 22 May.
During the phone call, Mrs Rs representative made it clear that she didnt want to sell the 
shares, but it was also clear that she needed to give instructions by 25 May  that is why the 
member of staff said she would mark the request for more information as urgent. I dont find 
that her representatives comment that she didnt want to sell the shares amounted to an 
instruction not to sell them, or an agreement to wait for further instructions after the agreed 
deadline date. If she didnt want to sell, I think it had been made clear that she needed to 
give instructions, by 25 May, to transfer the shares to be held outside of the ISA.
Mrs R says she had difficulties accessing her online account and that during the call on 
19 May, HSBC promised to send her a text message instead. Ive listened to a recording of 
that call. HSBC asked if it should contact Mrs R by phone, or by an online secure message. 
Mrs Rs representative asked that it send a message. HSBC said it might ask for a text to 
be sent as well, and Mrs Rs mobile number was checked. But the call concluded with both 
parties acknowledging that a message would appear in the message section of Mrs Rs 
online share dealing account. Nothing was said during this call to suggest Mrs R might have 
any difficulties accessing that online account.
Mrs R didnt log into her account until after the deadline for giving instructions about her 
shareholding. In the absence of receiving her instructions, I dont find HSBC acted 
unreasonably in selling her shares  it was clear from its communications that this was the 
default option if no instructions were received.
Mrs R has asked HSBC to reinstate her shares and hold them outside of the ISA wrapper. 
But, as Mrs R didnt give instructions to transfer her shares by the 25 May, I dont find theres 
an obligation on HSBC to agree to her request now.
Mrs R asked for her vulnerabilities to be taken into account. I think HSBC was mindful of her 
possible vulnerabilities. I say this because HSBC asked if Mrs R was able to access her 
online account herself to view its secure messages and asked if Mrs R used a mobile phone. 
I dont find it was required to do anything more.
As part of HMRCs agreement with HSBC to allow the ISA to be repaired, Mrs R will not 
have to pay the income tax and capital gains tax that may have arisen had the shares been 
held outside of her ISA. So shes enjoyed the tax advantages of holding the shares in the 
ISA during this period, even though the shares were non-qualifying.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman