DRN-1649662
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage application that Mr and Mrs P made to Santander UK 
Plc. Mr and Mrs P say the application was unduly delayed. Santander has paid 
compensation but Mr and Mrs P dont think its enough; in particular, they say Santander 
should reimburse Mr Ps travel costs for work whilst they were living with family.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment 
on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need 
to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My 
remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
What Ive decided  and why
Before I address the specifics of the complaint, Ill make some general points in response to 
some comments Mr and Mrs P have made about our remit and how we operate.
When we asked Mrs P to sign the complaint form and join the complaint, it wasnt a delaying 
tactic on Santanders part as Mr P alleged. Where a complaint is made about a jointly-held 
financial service, our rules require both parties to join the complaint, and the guidance notes 
on the complaint form reflect that. All Santander did was tell us it was a joint mortgage, so 
that wed know Mrs P needed to join the complaint.
In asking for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, Mr P describes us as a 
regulatory body which is supposed to protect consumers. Mr P has mis-directed himself on 
both counts. We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority; nor are we a consumer protection body. 
Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal alternative to the courts for financial 
businesses and their customer to resolve their differences. Were impartial, and we dont 
take either sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our 
investigations and reach our conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator, and for 
much the same overall reasons.
As a starting point, Mr and Mrs P sold their existing home and moved in with relatives some 
weeks before Santander was in a position to issue a mortgage offer. That was their choice, 
so they have to accept the consequences of the choice they made. The main consequences 
appear to have been disruption to their family, and Mr Ps extra costs of travelling to work. 
Mr and Mrs P might not have foreseen the former, but its hard to conclude they wouldnt 
have known in advance that the latter would apply.
Mortgage underwriting isnt an exact science; nor is it a mechanical process. Lenders 
generally have anticipated timescales for how long an application might take, but 
occasionally things take longer than expected. If Im to order Santander to pay Mr and Mrs P 
the compensation theyre seeking, I have to be satisfied that Santander unduly and 
excessively delayed the application by way of specific errors or omissions. Looking at the 
overall progression of the case, I dont find that this is such a case. Its one where the normal 
flow of the application was extended slightly whilst matter arising were dealt with.
Mr P says that because he and Mrs P had told Santander about the historic subsidence alert 
and the change in price of the property they were buying, the referral back to the surveyor 
was unnecessary. I understand thats his point of view, and of course hes entitled to hold it, 
but Santander was similarly entitled to take a different view. If Santander wanted the 
reassurance of an expert opinion from its own surveyor (rather than relying on what 
Mr and Mrs P said theyd been told) before agreeing to accept the property as security for 
the money it was being asked to lend, that was a perfectly reasonable commercial decision. 
Taking a step back, as I must do, and looking at things impartially, I consider that the total of 
£125 compensation that Santander has offered Mr and Mrs P in its two final responses is a 
fair settlement. If no compensation had been paid, I would not award more.
Mr and Mrs P dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
Santander will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a 
court might impose, Mr and Mrs Ps right to take legal action against Santander over the 
subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or make 
any order or award against Santander UK Plc. My final decision concludes this services 
consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration 
or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman