DRN-3470179
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy The Co-operative Bank Plc declined his payment to an insurer a number of 
times, as well as a second payment to a friend.
What happened
Mr C tried to pay by phone for an insurance policy but three times the transaction failed. 
When Mr C called the bank to ask to ask why he had to wait for over 20 minutes each time. 
He then tried to transfer money to a friend so they could pay his insurer but that declined as 
it was flagged up by fraud prevention. Mr C was given incorrect advice about the timescales 
and status of this payment meaning he had to call back again. He wants the cost of all the 
calls (£60.25) reimbursing, the difference in his insurance premium paying (£275.66) and as 
he lost a contract worth £1,500 profit he wants compensation for that too - in addition to a 
payment to recognise the distress and anxiety this caused.
The Co-op apologised for the service issues but said the payments were handled in line with 
its policy. The attempts to pay the insurer failed due to an information mismatch, the second 
transaction was flagged by fraud prevention. But it paid Mr C £75 to recognise the long call 
wait times and that incorrect advice was given.
Our investigator agreed the payments to the insurer had failed as there was a mismatch in 
the information. He did not find there was a bank error. He said Mr C was told this, but didnt 
accept it. But he agreed that The Co-op had made mistakes on the subsequent calls by not 
spotting the fraud marker on the second transaction and by therefore giving the wrong 
timescales. But the bank had offered to increase its compensation by a further £50 and he 
thought that was a fair settlement. He could see no grounds to hold it liable for any change in 
Mr Cs insurance price or his loss of a contract.
Mr C disagreed with this assessment. He said the settlement doesnt consider all his wasted 
time, his large financial loss or his mental pain. He does not recall being told about the 
mismatch in information. It was the incompetence and lack of staff training that caused his 
losses, not the fraud prevention system. He asked for an ombudsman to review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I find the revised settlement offer to be fair. Ill explain why.
I understand Mr Cs frustration that both his initial attempts and second plan to pay his 
insurer were problematic. But what I need to decide here is whether this was caused by 
bank error, and if so has The Co-op responded fairly to Mr C when considering his 
complaint. 
I am satisfied there was no bank error in the handling of Mr Cs initial attempts to make the 
payment to his insurer by phone. He was told there was a mismatch of information  so that 
would either be in what he read out to the insurer, or how the insurer keyed it. He doesnt 
recall being told this, but I have listened to the relevant call and can confirm he was. 
Similarly, when he decide to instead transfer the money to a friend the payment was flagged 
by fraud prevention, so there was no error. This was in line with bank policy, and it seems    
Mr C accepts this. 
Where the bank has however failed Mr C is in the service it has provided whilst he was trying 
to call and find out what was happening. It has apologised for the call wait times and the 
incorrect advice given by its adviser about the second transaction. It has provided feedback 
to the relevant business areas so training can be given. Finally, it has now offered a total of 
£125 compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience its service caused Mr C 
and I find that is reasonable in the circumstances. I know Mr C has asked for compensation 
as his insurance premium increased and he lost a contract, but I have seen no evidence that 
either of these events were caused by any errors on the banks part.
It follows I am not instructing the bank to do anymore  it should now pay Mr C the remaining 
£50.
My final decision
I find compensation of £125 to be fair and reasonable in full and final settlement of Mr Cs 
complaint. The Co-operative Bank Plc must make the payment owing as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman