DRN-3958137
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the way his motor insurer, Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
(Admiral) dealt with a claim he made on his policy. 
Admiral is the underwriter of this policy i.e., the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of another company who acts as its agent. As Admiral has accepted it is accountable 
for the actions of the agent, in my decision, any reference to Admiral includes the actions of 
the agent.  
What happened
In March 2022 Mr P made a claim on his policy after his windscreen was damaged whist 
driving. He said because it took Admiral two weeks to replace it, the electrics were damaged 
after rainwater went into the car. This affected his rear wiper, the boot and the alarm which 
kept going off. He said he decided to leave the car unlocked to stop the alarm from going off. 
He then found that the ignition barrel had been damaged.
The company that fitted the windscreen apologised for the delay and paid Mr P back his 
£115 windscreen excess. Admiral took the car in for further investigation but ultimately didnt 
think it was responsible for any of the other damage and said it wouldnt cover any further 
repairs. It said Mr P had breached his policy by leaving his car unlocked and unsecured. 
Mr P wasnt happy with the damage caused by the delays and complained. He also said he 
had been left without a car and that Admiral didnt provide him with a courtesy car for all the 
time he couldnt use his car.  
Admiral didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said the company that fitted the windscreen 
already paid him compensation. It added that its engineer said that the issue with the ignition 
barrel was unrelated to the window being exposed. It also said that Mr P breached the terms 
of his policy by leaving his car unlocked and unsecured which meant that no cover would be 
given under the policy. It added that it acted fairly and had provided Mr P with a courtesy car 
while it was investigating the claim. 
Mr P wasnt happy and complained to us. He said the company that fitted the windscreen 
didnt offer a temporary repair whilst waiting for the replacement glass. He added that he left 
the car unlocked so that the alarm would stop going off as his neighbours were complaining. 
He also said that it took Admiral four weeks to give him a hire car and that he had incurred 
travel expenses in the meantime. He added that Admiral kept his car for eight weeks and 
then declined the claim and that it focused on the damaged key barrel which hed said he 
wasnt concerned about and would repair himself. 
Our Investigator upheld the complaint and initially said that Admiral should cover the cost of 
the claim for the electrics damage and all related issues caused by the water ingress. She 
also said Admiral should pay Mr P £320 for the time he was without a courtesy car. She 
added that Admiral should pay Mr P £100 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him. 
Mr P agreed but Admiral didnt. It said that Mr P had been offered a temporary repair by the 
windscreen repairer but declined. It provided a call transcript in support of this. 
Our Investigator provided a further view in which she still upheld the complaint but made a 
different award. She said Admiral should reassess the claim under the remaining policy 
terms. She didnt think the exclusion it had relied on applied in the circumstances as she 
didnt think the car being unlocked led to the issues with the electrics. She said the car being 
unlocked led to the damage to the ignition barrel only which she didnt think should be 
covered. 
Our Investigator also didnt think Mr P had left his car unsecured. She said Mr P told us he 
had experience in dealing with windscreen replacements and did a temporary fix himself 
which held until 13 April. She said he was offered a temporary repair on 9 April. She thought 
it was reasonable that he declined it at that point because he had done one himself and 
believed the car to be secure. She said Mr Ps temporary fix held during rainfall and only 
failed when the rainfall increased. So she felt the car was secure and only failed due to 
weather conditions. 
Finally, our investigator still felt Admiral should pay £320 compensation for loss of use and 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience it caused Mr P. 
Mr P agreed. Admiral didnt respond so the complaint was passed to me for an 
Ombudsmans determination.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided to uphold it.
 
The policy
The starting point is the policy. The policy says that Admiral will cover the repair or 
replacement of broken glass in the cars windscreen but there is no provision for a courtesy 
car under the windscreen damage section. The policy also provides cover for loss or 
damage to the car as a result of an accident, in addition to other causes, and this includes 
damage to audio, visual or electronic equipment as long as it is permanently fitted to the 
vehicle. The policy also says that a courtesy car will be provided if an approved repairer is 
instructed to carry out the repairs but not in the case of an unapproved repairer.
 
Timeline of events
Mr P made his claim on 29 March and a temporary screen was fitted on 16 April and the final 
work was completed on 18 April. From what I can see Mr P reported issues with his electrics 
on 16 April and complained that they were caused by the delay in the windscreen being 
replaced. Admiral tried to arrange for one of its approved repairers to take a look at the car 
but they werent able to, so it was sent to a dealership for diagnostics. An appointment was 
booked for 6 May. The vehicle was recovered and put in storage in the meantime. 
Mr P was chasing for updates once the car went in for repairs and also raised further 
complaints about the lack of updates and the fact that there had been no response to his 
original complaint. He also said that he was left without a car which he uses to get to work. 
Though Admiral initially said it wouldnt provide a courtesy car until Mr Ps was confirmed to 
be repairable, it later authorised a hire car between 18 May and 20 June.
Admirals handling of the claims
Mr Ps initial claim was in relation to his damaged windscreen. Admiral was acting within the 
terms of its policy when it agreed to cover this claim. Nevertheless, the windscreen couldnt be replaced for two weeks as there was a shortage of 
replacement glass. I dont think this was Admirals fault. But Mr P says the fact that there 
was no permanent windscreen fitted led to water getting into the car and damaging the 
electrics. And this then led to his further claim for the damage to his boot, alarm and wiper. 
Mr P initially told us that Admiral didnt offer him a temporary windscreen replacement. 
Admiral has provided a transcript of Mr Ps call with the company that replaced the 
windscreen. I can see that he was offered a temporary replacement but he declined because 
he said he had carried out a temporary repair himself. Mr P told us that he has experience 
with windscreen replacements which is what helped him cover the broken windscreen. And 
he said this temporary repair held for days  until there was heavy rainfall. I have no reason 
to doubt what Mr P has said as I dont think he would intentionally leave his car exposed to 
the elements. And I think this is supported by the fact that Mr P said he wants to keep his car 
if possible and paid for it to have its MOT (a Ministry of Transport check) while his complaint 
has been with us.
I have looked at the engineers report from the inspection on 30 May but I didnt find it 
particularly helpful as the engineer was unable to comment on whether or not water ingress 
affected the electrics. He said at the time of the inspection the car didnt show obvious signs 
of previous water damage, and that he was unable to access the rear luggage compartment 
(the boot). He added that there was damage to the ignition barrel and concluded that he was 
of the opinion that Admiral had no overall liability as the car was not secured as per the 
terms of the policy. So though it was given the opportunity, Admiral didnt properly assess 
the damage to the electrics which, as I said, I dont think was particularly helpful. 
Admiral ultimately declined Mr Ps claim for the damaged electrics because it said he had left 
his car unsecured. In the very specific circumstances of this complaint, I dont think it would 
be fair and reasonable to say that Mr P left his car unsecured. I say that because Mr P 
covered the broken windscreen and secured the car from the elements and other dangers 
for a number of days. And though he declined the offer of a temporary replacement I think 
the only reason he would have done so was because he felt the car would be secure in the 
meantime. So I dont think it would be fair for Admiral to rely on the exclusion it has relied on 
in relation to this aspect of the claim. 
Admiral also said Mr P left his car unlocked which was also in breach of his policy. But as 
our Investigator said the car being unlocked would not have directly or indirectly caused any 
of the damage caused by the rainwater entering the car. She agreed it may have led to the 
damage to the ignition barrel and agreed that this shouldnt be covered. And I note that this 
isnt something Mr P was claiming for in any event.
 
All of which leaves me to conclude that Admiral hasnt acted fairly and reasonably in 
declining the claim for the damaged electrics. As such I think it should reconsider the claim.
Though Admiral ultimately said the claim wasnt covered it agreed to provide Mr P with a 
courtesy car while his was being inspected and even though it wasnt with an approved 
repairer (noting its approved repairers declined the instruction). I thought that was fair and 
reasonable. 
Nevertheless, I note that this wasnt for the entire time Mr P was without a car. Mr Ps car 
was collected and put in storage a number of days before it was moved to the dealership to 
be inspected  on 6 May. And the car wasnt returned to him till June. I note Mr P was in a 
courtesy car between 18 May and 20 June only. During the time he was without his car and 
without a courtesy car, Admiral wouldnt have known that the claim would be ultimately 
declined so I think it would have been fair and reasonable for Mr P to have been provided with a courtesy car earlier  as soon as his was put in storage. Particularly given that the 
assessment and any repair found necessary couldnt progress due Admirals approved 
repairers not being able to carry out the work. Mr P said he incurred travel expenses over 
that period but wasnt able to provide receipts. In the absence of those I agree with our 
Investigator that Admiral should pay him compensation for loss of use at £10 per day which 
would amount to £320. 
I also agree with our Investigator that Admiral should compensate Mr P for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused him. There were delays in Mr Ps claims and complaint being dealt 
with and responded to and Mr P had to do a lot of chasing. In the circumstances I think 
Admiral paying £100, even though Mr P has received a refund of the excess sum from the 
repairer, is fair and reasonable.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited must reconsider his claim under the remaining terms of the policy. It must 
also pay Mr P £320 compensation for the loss of use of his car and £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman