DRN-2993552
The complaint
Mr S and Ms O are unhappy that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. declined a claim made under their travel insurance policies.
What happened
Mr S and Ms O had the benefit of individual, annual, multi-trip travel insurance policies  
both underwritten by Mapfre (the policies). 
Mr S and Ms O were due to travel abroad for a holiday in May 2020 to a country Ill call S. 
And for part of their holiday they were due to stay in a national park of S (for three nights 
starting 5 May 2020).  Theyd booked this part of their trip with a tour operator (the tour 
operator) and had paid around £1,750 to the tour operator to cover  amongst other things - 
their accommodation, national park entrance tickets, guided tours and food and drink. 
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel abroad 
on 17 March 2020  and that included travel to S (the FCO guidance). Subsequently, Mr S 
and Ms Os trip abroad was cancelled because of the global impact of Covid-19. They were 
able to get refunds for the package holiday theyd paid for (including their flights and 
accommodation either side of the three-day tour theyd booked directly with the tour 
operator) from a third party.
The tour operator initially said that theyd refund the amount Mr S and Ms O had paid them. 
However, when the refund wasnt forthcoming, Mr S and Ms O each claimed on the policies 
for 50% of the amount theyd paid to the tour operator. Mapfre declined the claims on the 
basis that the amount wasnt an irrecoverable loss. 
Unhappy with that decision, Mr S and Ms O brought a complaint to our Service. Our 
investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold their complaint. He felt Mapfre had 
fairly and reasonably declined the claim.   
Mr S and Ms O disagree. So, their complaint has been passed to me to consider everything 
afresh and to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mapfre has an obligation to treat customers fairly. It should also handle claims fairly and 
promptly and it mustnt unreasonably decline a claim.
Subject to the remaining terms of the policies, the policies did provide cover if Mr S and Ms 
Os trip was cancelled. That extends to:
Travel and accommodation expenses that you have paid or have agreed to pay 
under a contract and which you cannot get back, including any local prepaid 
excursions, tours or activities, if it is necessary and you cannot avoid cancelling 
your trip
Mapfre has declined the claim on the basis that the amount Mr S and Ms O paid to the tour 
operator isnt an expense which they cannot get back. I know Mr S and Ms O will be very 
disappointed, but I dont think Mapfre has acted unfairly or unreasonably by relying on this 
term contained in both policies to decline their claims. Ill explain why.
In an email exchange between the tour operator and Ms O dated 9 May 2020, the tour 
operator said it would arrange a refund for the booking she and Mr S had made. It said it 
would be able to arrange the refund in July 2020. And after Ms O chased for updates about 
the refund in July 2020, the tour operator said in an email dated 16 July 2020 that it had just 
reopened and provided reasons why it was still unable to issue a refund immediately.
I can, of course, understand why Mr S and Ms O then chose to make a claim on their 
policies for the amount they paid to the tour operator. 
However, the tour operator had also said in an earlier email dated 5 May 2020 that it could 
keep the amount Mr S and Ms O had paid it as credit and they could amend their booking to 
a later date. 
Our investigator contacted the tour operator as part of his investigation and on 3 August 
2021 the tour operator confirmed to our Service that:
 the option of postponing the trip to a later date on availability with no change to 
rates saving the payment already made as credit is still available. 
So, Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable for Mapfre to decline the claim for the amount 
Mr S and Ms O paid the tour operator. Theyre able to rebook the tour at a later date and 
use, as credit, the amount theyd already paid to the tour operator. So, Im satisfied that this 
isnt an irrecoverable loss theyve incurred or one theyve been unable to get back from the 
tour operator  even though it isnt the cash refund that theyd have preferred or was the 
option they were first assured they would receive from the tour operator. 
When making this finding, I note the tour formed part of a longer trip. I appreciate that they 
wouldnt necessarily travel to S just for three nights to do the tour and then return  
particularly given how far it would take to fly to S and back. However, the terms of the tour 
operators offer to rebook arent restrictive, and Mr S and Ms O are able to book a similar trip 
to the one theyd planned in May 2020, at a later date. So, I dont think the terms of the offer 
mean its unreasonable to expect Mr S and Ms O to accept it. 
Mr S and Ms O say that S has been on the UK Governments red list for a long time and 
their financial situation has changed as Mr S has become unemployed as a direct result of 
Covid-19. Im very sorry to hear this. However, the tour operator hasnt said that the credit 
must be used by a certain date so theres nothing preventing Mr S and Ms O booking a 
similar holiday in the future when their financial situation allows them to do so  and using 
the credit offered to them by the tour operator then.
Mr S and Ms O have also said that theyre concerned that the tour operator may be in 
financial difficulties, isnt honourable (as they didnt end up providing a refund) and theres no 
concrete proof that they will honour the rebooking. Thats of course a possibility. However, 
in the circumstances of this particular complaint, I dont think Mapfre has acted unfairly by 
relying on what the tour operator has said to conclude that the amount Mr S and Ms O paid 
to the tour operator isnt an irrecoverable loss and therefore not covered under the policies.My final decision
I dont uphold Mr S and Ms Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Ms O to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman