DRN-4068870
The complaint
Miss E is unhappy with the service shes received from Astrenska Insurance Limited trading 
as Collinson Insurance when she claimed on her travel insurance policy.  
What happened
Miss E was abroad and was involved in a car accident. She was taken to hospital with 
significant injuries and underwent spinal surgery. Following the surgery, shes had ongoing 
physiotherapy to support her recovery. Miss E complained about the service shes received, 
in particular delays in authorising treatment and making payment for it.
Another ombudsman at the Financial Ombudsman Service made a decision about a 
separate claim Miss E had made, relating to a robbery. He awarded £100 compensation for 
delays in paying this claim. Astrenska said that money should be offset against an 
overpayment made in relation to this complaint. The ombudsman said he was only 
considering Great Lakes actions in relation to the robbery complaint.     
Great Lakes issued a final response letter and apologised for delays in responding to a 
request to cover physiotherapy. This meant the total number of sessions Great Lakes had 
authorised was 12 sessions. In relation to the medical expenses claim they said that they 
didnt have an official police report and were carrying out an independent investigation 
through an overseas agent.  
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold Miss Es complaint. She didnt 
think Astrenska needed to do anything to put things right. She explained Astrenska was 
entitled to ask for enough information to validate the claim and that theyd explained they 
were carrying out an investigation. She was also satisfied that Astrenska had paid for 
enough physio sessions to ensure Miss E could be repatriated. 
Miss E didnt agree. She said she was told on a number of occasions that shed provided 
enough information to Astrenska. And she said it took a long time for Astrenska to tell her 
they didnt think they had enough information. Miss E highlighted that Astrenska had 
apologised for the delays. She also said it took nine hours to send a guarantee of payment 
to the hospital.
The investigator explained that she could only look into the issues dealt with in Astrenskas 
final response as anything which took place after that date would need to be considered as a 
separate complaint. She remained satisfied that Astrenska was trying to validate the claim, 
which it was entitled to do. 
Astrenska reiterated that the initial report they received from Miss E predominantly related to 
the loss of items. And they asked that the ombudsman addressed the point theyd made 
about Miss E receiving an overpayment for some of her treatment. This was because theyd 
authorised physiotherapy sessions which werent emergency medical treatment. So, I need 
to make a decision.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Astrenska has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
My decision will focus on Astrenskas handling of the claim up until the point they issued 
their final response letter in December 2022. I cant consider anything thats happened since 
because Miss E would need to make a further complaint to Astrenska. 
This complaint was about the delay in validating the claim and making payment for 
physiotherapy. Im not upholding Miss Es complaint because: 
I think Astrenska dealt with the request for the guarantee of payment 
appropriately when Miss E was hospitalised. I can see from the claims notes that 
they were proactively engaging with the treating hospitals and I think the time 
taken was reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Miss E says shed been told that shed provided enough information by various 
members of staff. Astrenska is entitled to review the claim throughout its lifetime 
and ask for more information to validate the claim. They can do that at any point 
in time. This is high value claim and the initial report Miss E provided gave limited 
information about the circumstances of her accident. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Astrenska to ask for more information from her when it did.  
In any event, at the point Miss E was asked for more information she had been 
discharged from hospital. So, this request for more information hasnt, for 
example, had a significant impact on the emergency treatment she needed. 
Even if I accept there were delays in letting Miss E know about cover for her 
physiotherapy, or making payment for it, Im not going to direct Astrenska to do 
anything more in relation to this. Miss Es policy doesnt cover longer 
rehabilitative treatment  thats not what its designed to do. Travel insurance isnt 
the same as private medical insurance and its not designed to offer longer term 
rehabilitative treatment. The policy covers emergency medical treatment and 
medical repatriation. I note Miss E was given the option to return to the UK, but 
chose not to return. Therefore, I dont think its fair and reasonable to compensate 
Miss E for issues related to treatment Astrenska has covered outside of the policy 
terms.  
Ive taken into account what Astrenska has said about making an overpayment 
on this claim and the compensation its been directed to pay in relation to the 
other complaint. It was Astrenskas decision to make payment on this claim for 
the physiotherapy. So, this hasnt changed my thoughts about the overall 
outcome of this complaint. However, Miss E ought to be aware that if her claim is 
ultimately settled by Astrenska, this amount may be deducted from her overall 
settlement. If shes unhappy with such settlement shed be entitled to bring a new 
complaint about it.         
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman