DRN-3113555
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy with what Great Lakes Insurance SE did after she made a claim on her 
wedding insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss G was due to get married in October 2020. She took out wedding insurance 
underwritten by Great Lakes in August 2019. In June 2020 Miss G was made redundant 
from her job meaning she couldnt go ahead with the wedding. She cancelled the wedding 
and made a claim to Great Lakes. 
Great Lakes turned down the claim. It said for redundancy the policy only provided cover 
where the redundancy qualified for payment under current legislation. As Miss G had only 
been employed for just over a year she wasnt entitled to statutory redundancy pay. And 
although Miss G had provided some evidence to show she had nevertheless received a 
statutory payment it didnt think this met the intention of the policy. So it turned down the 
claim she made. However, it accepted there had been delays and communication issues 
with its handling of the claim and offered to pay Miss G £75 in recognition of the impact of 
these on her. 
Our investigator didnt agree Great Lakes had fairly turned down the claim. She accepted 
that as Miss G had been employed for less than two years she wasnt entitled to redundancy 
pay. So even if her employer had decided to go beyond what the legislation required this 
didnt meet the terms of the policy. 
But the policy didnt say she needed to be in receipt of redundancy pay but that the 
redundancy needed to qualify for payment under current redundancy legislation. Miss G had 
a statutory right to paid notice under current redundancy legislation. So she thought Great 
Lakes should pay Miss Gs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
plus 8% simple interest. She also thought the compensation for the delays should be 
increased to £125.
Great Lakes didnt agree. It said the payment Miss G received from her employer wasnt a 
result of her legal entitlement as redundancy legislation only allowed for payment after a 
period of two years. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mis Gs policy. I can see this does provide 
cover for cancellation (and rearrangement) costs in certain circumstances which include: 
redundancy, where notice is received at least 8 weeks after the issue of the policy and 
qualifying for payment under the current redundancy legislation, of you or any of your 
relatives who would have made proven, significant, financial contributions on which the 
wedding arrangements depend
The policy goes on to exclude cancellation or rearrangement due to unemployment unless it 
comes about as a result of redundancy which meets the above term. 
In this case I dont think its in dispute Miss G was made redundant in June 2020 and the 
cancellation of the wedding and reception resulted from that. Miss Gs insurance policy is 
dated August 2019 and she wasnt given notice of redundancy until June 2020. Thats 
obviously more than eight weeks since the policy was issued and therefore meets the first 
part of the policy term. 
The question is whether what happened meets the definition of redundancy set out in the 
terms. Great Lakes argues it doesnt because Miss G had been working for her employer for 
less than two years at the time and so wasnt entitled to redundancy pay. However, Miss G 
has provided information from her employer which says shes received a redundancy 
payment (which includes the Employees statutory redundancy entitlement). 
It isnt clear exactly what that means or whether any statutory redundancy entitlement 
included redundancy pay. However, I dont think I need to reach a finding on this because 
even if Miss G didnt receive statutory redundancy pay, she doesnt have to in order to meet 
the terms of this policy. What the policy says is that the redundancy must qualify for payment 
under current redundancy legislation. The legislation which applies is the Employment 
Rights Act 1996. That sets out the circumstances in which an employee is entitled to 
redundancy pay. 
But it also says that where an employer terminates the contract of employment of an 
employee who has been employed for between one month and two years they are entitled to 
at least one weeks paid notice. Thats the situation Miss G was in. And that paid notice 
period is a requirement of the relevant legislation. So although Miss G may not have been 
entitled to redundancy pay I think her redundancy did qualify for payment under current 
redundancy legislation. 
Great Lakes suggested when turning down Miss Gs claim and in relation to the arguments 
shed made we do not feel that this is what is intended in the wording of the policy. But it 
hasnt provided any further information on what it means by this. And in response to our 
investigators view it only said the payment Miss G received from her employer wasnt a 
result of her legal entitlement. However, for the reasons Ive explained I agree with our 
investigator that Miss G did qualify for payment under current redundancy legislation. Great 
Lakes hasnt provided anything which would lead me to question that. So I dont think it has 
fairly turned down the claim Miss G made.   
I also agree there were some significant delays in handling the claim Miss G made and I can 
see she had to chase Great Lakes for a response on a number of occasions.  I appreciate 
that will have been frustrating for her at at what was already a difficult time. I agree a 
payment of £125 would be appropriate to recognise the impact on her of what Great Lakes 
got wrong here.Putting things right
Great Lakes will need to pay the claim Miss G made in in line with the remaining policy terms 
and conditions. In addition I think it would be reasonable to say that, allowing an appropriate 
time for Great Lakes to look into the claim, a decision should have been reached by January 
2021 at the latest. I think Great Lakes should also pay interest at 8% simple on any claim 
amount from that date until the date the claim is actually paid. 
If Great Lakes considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Miss G how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she ask for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate
It will also need to pay Miss G £125 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience shes 
been caused. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Great Lakes Insurance SE will need to put things right 
by doing what Ive said in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman