DRN-2397198
The complaint
Mr A has complained about an over 50s life insurance policy that was sold to him by Legal 
and General Assurance Society Limited (Legal and General). He is unhappy that upon 
cancellation of the policy he hasnt received a refund of all the premiums he has paid into it 
and has said this wasnt explained to him when he took the policy out.
What happened
Mr A took this policy out in 2017 via a direct mailing from Legal and General. No advice was 
given to him regarding the suitability of the plan  he was just provided with the policy 
summary and terms and conditions.
The policy was set up to provide a lump sum payment of £6,103 upon Mr As death with a 
fixed premium of £30 per month.
Mr A has said that he can no longer afford the policy due to limited finances and severe ill 
health. He said he wasnt told when he took the policy that it would only pay out upon his 
death and he didnt know he could never receive a refund of all his premiums if he cancelled 
the policy. Hes also said that Legal and General knew that he didnt understand English well 
but never provided him with the policy terms and conditions in Polish and so he didnt 
understand the policy properly. Hes said that if he knew this was the situation with the policy 
he would never have taken it out.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt be upheld. He 
was of the view the policy information that Legal and General provided clearly stated that if 
the policy was cancelled no premiums would be refunded. He also couldnt find any 
information from Mr A to Legal and General explaining that he needed the policy information 
in Polish and that he didnt understand it at the time he took it out.
Mr A didnt agree with the assessment and remained of the view that Legal and General 
knew he didnt understand English well.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the similar conclusion as the investigator.
I am very sorry to hear about Mr As health and financial problems and fully understand why 
he is finding things very difficult at the moment. However, its important to make it clear that 
despite Mr As current situation I must make my decision from an objective view point based 
on the evidence I have been presented by both parties to the complaint.
This policy was sold to Mr A without advice. This isnt unusual for these types of policies and 
what this means is that it was for Mr A to decide whether the policy was one that he needed 
and one that he understood. All Legal and General had to do was provide clear information 
about the workings of the policy and what protection it provided.
Having looked at the terms and conditions of the policy that were provided to Mr A I am 
satisfied Legal and General met its obligations. The terms and conditions set out clearly that 
the policy would only pay out upon Mr As death, or if he passed away during the first year of 
the policy any premiums would then be refunded. Also, at section 10.3 of the terms and 
conditions it states that the policy can be cancelled at any time and if this is within 30 days of 
its inception any premiums paid would be refunded. However, it also goes on to state that if 
the policy is cancelled by the policyholder after 30 days of its inception no premiums will be 
refunded and the policy will end and no further premiums of benefit would be payable.
While Mr A thinks this isnt fair, this is how these policies usually work and in my view this 
was made clear in the documentation sent to Mr A at the time he took the policy out. 
Furthermore, by signing the application form and returning it to Legal and General, Mr A 
confirmed that he had read and understood the policy summary and terms conditions 
thereby indicating he understood that no refund would be received if he cancelled the policy 
after 30 days of taking it.
I know Mr A has said that he didnt understand the policy information because he didnt 
understand English well, but I cant see that he made this clear to Legal and General at the 
time of taking the policy. It was his responsibility to tell Legal and General this so it could 
have provided him with the appropriate translations. But from all the information Legal and 
General has provided I cant see he did this so Legal and General cant be held responsible 
for not providing anything other than what it did.
I can also see that Mr A communicated with Legal and General several times between 2017 
and 2020 about the policy and in English, concerning his date of birth and a problem with his 
direct debit payments. At no point during this did Mr A mention that he needed anything 
translated into polish.
Overall, therefore, while I know this will be disappointing for Mr A and I appreciate he is in a 
very difficult situation, for the reasons have explained I dont think Legal and General has 
done anything wrong in not refunding Mr A his premiums. He has chosen to cancel the 
policy three years after taking it out which is outside the 30 days during which he could have 
received a refund of premiums. I also cant be certain that Mr A made it clear to Legal and 
General at any point before making this complaint that he struggled to understand English 
and needed translations into Polish.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2020
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman