DRN-4084753
The complaint
Mrs and Mr M are unhappy with payment notifications they received from Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
What happened
Mrs and Mr M received a notification from Barclays that a payment was to be taken from 
their account. But the notification didnt state to which company the money was to be paid. 
Mrs and Mr M contacted Barclays about this, but Barclays couldnt provide any additional 
information to them about the payment. However, a short while later, when the payment did 
leave their account, Mrs and Mr M saw that the payment was made to a major airline 
company and recognised it as being a legitimate payment theyd made.
On a separate occasion, Mrs and Mr M received a notification that £120 had been taken 
from their account. Again, the notification included no further information, and again Barclays 
couldnt provide any further information to them about the £transaction. Mrs and Mr M 
werent happy about this, so they raised a complaint.
Barclays responded to Mrs and Mr M and explained that the notification regarding the £120 
theyd received appeared to correspond to a £120 cash withdrawal Mrs and Mr M had made 
from an ATM ten days previously. Barclays couldnt explain why the notifications that Mrs 
and Mr M were unhappy about had been received by them late. But they noted that they Mrs 
and Mr Ms notification settings were all correct with them, and that there could be several 
other reasons outside Barclays control why the notifications had been delayed. Mrs and Mr 
M werent satisfied with Barclays response, so they referred their complaint to this service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that it could fairly be 
said that the late receipt of the notifications by Mrs and Mr M was because of any error or 
mistake by Barclays, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs and Mr M remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt for me to determine exactly why Mrs and Mr M received the notifications late and 
lacking information as they did. Instead, given that this is a complaint Barclays, my task is to 
assess whether I feel Barclays have done anything wrong or acted unfairly here.
Having considered this complaint, I dont feel that it can fairly or reasonably be said that 
Barclays have done anything wrong or acted unfairly, and it follows from this that I wont be 
upholding this complaint.
One reason for this is that I accept that are several reasons why the notifications might have 
been received late by Mrs and Mr M. This is because the notifications are the result of 
interactions between Mrs and Mr M and Barclays, but also the merchant a payment is made 
to or the owner of the ATM that cash is withdrawn from.
Importantly, Barclays have demonstrated to my satisfaction that their notification settings for 
Mrs and Mr Ms account are set up correctly. And this is also apparent from the many correct 
notifications that Mrs and Mr M receive. 
So, I dont feel that it can be said that Barclays are at fault for what happened here, because 
I feel that theres a reasonable possibility that the issues may have occurred at another part 
of the transactional information chain.
I also dont feel that theres been any impact here which would merit any further action from 
Barclays even if I were to consider them at fault  which, to confirm, I do not. 
One reason for this is because both of the payments in question were legitimate payments 
made by Mrs and Mr M. And I feel that Mrs and Mr M should reasonably remember both 
withdrawing £120 from an ATM and making a payment to a major airline company, which I 
note from the account statement provided to this service by Barclays, doesnt appear to be a 
regular occurrence.  
And while the notifications that banks such as Barclays provide to account holders are a 
useful tool for those account holders, the account holders themselves bear an ongoing 
responsibility to monitor and keep track of their own accounts.
All of which means that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take 
any further action here. I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs and Mr M were wanting. But I 
hope that theyll understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that 
I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman