DRN-3096845
The complaint
Miss C says UK Credit Limited lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Miss C took out a guarantor loan from UK Credit in April 2015. It was for £4,500 over 60
months. The monthly repayment was £163.30 and the total repayable was £9,798.
Miss C says the loan was unaffordable and should never have been given to her. She is also 
unhappy that she wasnt told that changing her payment date would increase the term of her 
loan and the interest charged. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She said UK Credit hadnt 
made a fair lending decision based on the information it had. She said the results of Miss Cs 
credit check showed the loan was unlikely to be sustainably affordable for Miss C.
UK Credit disagreed saying Miss C took out the loan to consolidate debts, so it put her in a 
better financial position. It notes that she was unable to settle one of her loans as she 
intended, but it argues Miss C could still have repaid other debts or returned the loan. 
As no agreement was reached the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when UK Credit lent to Miss C. Its
rules and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged UK Credit
to lend responsibly. Amongst other things, UK Credit was required to carry out a reasonable
and proportionate assessment of whether Miss C could afford to repay what she owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So UK Credit had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Miss C. In other words, it wasnt enough for UK Credit to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss C.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (eg. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for. In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether UK Credit did what it needed to before agreeing to
lend to Miss C, and have considered the following questions:
did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Miss Cs loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the 
loan in a sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did UK Credit make a fair lending decision?
did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
UK Credit asked for some information from Miss C before it approved the loan. It asked for
details of her income and her monthly living costs. It checked her credit file to understand
her credit history and existing debts. It also asked about the purpose of the loan which was 
debt consolidation. From these checks combined UK Credit concluded Miss C had sufficient 
monthly disposable income for the loan to be affordable.
I dont think that these checks were proportionate. Miss C was applying to borrow a
significant amount of money from UK Credit. She was entering into a long-term commitment
and would need to make monthly repayments for five years. So I would expect that UK
Credit would want to gather, and independently check, more detailed information about
Miss Cs financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. However I wont comment 
further on this as even based on the information it did gather I dont think UK Credit made a 
fair lending decision. Ill explain why.
From the credit check UK Credit carried out I think it ought to have realised Miss C was most 
likely having problems managing her money. She had just under £20,000 of unsecured debt. 
She had four arrangements to pay in place and had defaulted on a mail order account and 
a credit card account in the prior seven months, both of which had been over limit. Three of 
her other credit card accounts were close to their limit. At the time of her application Miss C 
was spending around £600 a month (assuming minimum repayment on credit cards) on her 
existing credit commitments. This was a very significant percentage of her monthly income. 
UK Credit argues that its loan should have left Miss C in a better financial position. It points 
out she would have been repaying at least £82.70 less on a monthly basis and whilst that 
may be accurate I think its affordability assessment only focuses on the pounds and pence 
affordability. I cant see that it considered whether repaying the credit sustainably would 
cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss C. And given that the loan would be 
increasing her overall indebtedness by around 25% and prolonging her use of high cost 
credit I disagree that in the round it was improving her financial position. Miss C would still 
be spending a high proportion of her income on servicing her debt so UK Credit ought to 
have realised there was a risk she would be unable to sustainably repay this loan.  It follows I think UK Credit was wrong to give Miss C the loan. 
Miss C was also unhappy that she wasnt told that changing her payment date would 
increase the term of the loan and the interest payable. I havent been provided with any 
detail of the conversation she had with the lender, but in any event, the interest and charges 
will be refunded as Ive concluded this loan shouldnt have been given so I dont think it is 
necessary to comment further on this.
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Miss C to have repaid the capital amount that she borrowed as she had 
the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt 
have been given to her. So she has lost out and UK Credit needs to put things right.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments
Miss C made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Miss Cs loan account results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then UK Credit should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Cs credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to deduct tax from this interest. UK Credit should give
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.  
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Cs complaint. UK Credit Limited must put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman