DRN-4026881
The complaint
Ms T complains Evergreen Finance Limited London trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) gave her a loan which she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Ive provided a detailed timeline as to what has happened due to the passage of time since 
the original complaint was made as well as the steps the Financial Ombudsman Service has
taken to date. Ive done this so both parties have this to hand.
Ms T was advanced one loan on 25 February 2020 for £500. Ms T was due to make six
monthly repayments of £161.60 and the loan was repaid on 24 September 2020.
Following Ms Ts complaint on 4 March 2021, MoneyBoat wrote to her in a final response
letter (FRL) on 8 March 2021 to explain why it wasnt going to uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with this response, Ms T referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman on
29 March 2021. On 30 March 2021 the Financial Ombudsman Service acknowledged the
referral and asked Ms T to confirm that she agreed to the privacy declaration.
We didnt hear from Ms T again until 13 January 2022 when Ms T referred her current
complaint here. This was after she had contacted MoneyBoat again who explained it
wouldnt reinvestigate the complaint.
On 21 January 2022, the Financial Ombudsman wrote to Ms T to again asking for her to
complete the privacy notice to allow us to move her complaint forward. Ms T responded to 
the request on 13 September 2022. In response, Ms T also provided reasons as to why she 
was late  I understand these reasons have also been given to MoneyBoat.
The Financial Ombudsman then wrote to MoneyBoat to ask for a copy of its file.
On 13 September 2022, MoneyBoat provided copies of emails between itself and Ms T. It 
also confirmed that it considered we couldnt take the complaint forward because Ms T had
referred the complaint here more than six months after the final response letter was sent.
After the complaint was allocated to an adjudicator, on 6 February 2023 an adjudicator wrote
to both parties to say the case had been referred to the Financial Ombudsman within the
time limits that we must follow. The adjudicator said this because he could see that after
receiving the FRL in March 2021, Ms T did refer it here, albeit the complaint wasnt 
progressed.
MoneyBoat responded to say that the Financial Ombudsman had missed the point of our
objection because it didnt consider it fair that Ms T was in effect given an unlimited
amount of time after referral to progress the complaint by providing consent. MoneyBoat
says it makes a mockery out of having the six-month time limit in the first place.
MoneyBoat says this because if you continue to be of the opinion that the delay is
acceptable, then we would like clarity on how long a customer can be afforded once first
contact with FOS [Financial Ombudsman Service], until they have to give consent as this
means we may have to assume cases are never truly closed
The adjudicator responded to say, that nothing MoneyBoat had provided demonstrated the
case was outside of the jurisdiction rules that we must abide by. However, he did explain the
case would be passed to a different adjudicator to determine whether the case should be
dismissed (or not). This is a different and separate process to whether the case is in
jurisdiction.
A different adjudicator considered the complaint and decided it was one that ought to not be
dismissed. The adjudicator explained that it was a question of us exercising our discretion
whether a complaint is dismissed. He accepted there were two periods of time where Ms T
had made contact with the Financial Ombudsman about this complaint. But given what has
been provided as well as the explanations from Ms T about why there were delays, he was
satisfied the complaint ought not be dismissed and could proceed to be investigated.
MoneyBoat disagreed and asked for the case to be considered by an ombudsman because
it said that it hasnt yet been provided with anything that meets the high bar of exceptional
circumstances.
As no agreement has been reached on progressing Ms Ts complaint, the case was passed 
to me to issue a decision.
I then issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I thought the 
Financial Ombudsman could consider Ms Ts complaint. But my provisional decision also 
covered the merits and I explained that I was also intending to not uphold Ms Ts complaint 
about her loan. A copy of the provisional findings follows this in italics and smaller font and 
forms part of this final decision.
Both Ms T and MoneyBoat were asked to provide anything new for consideration as soon as 
possible, but in any event, no later than 15 March 2023.
 
Neither Ms T nor MoneyBoat responded to the provisional decision. 
As this deadline has now passed, I see no reason to delay the issuing of the final decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision:
Why this complaint is within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman
For completeness, Ive explained below why I consider this complaint was referred to the
Financial Ombudsman within the time limits I must consider.
When looking at a complaint, the time limits I must consider and which I must apply are
those set out in DISP 2 of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook. These rules are
ones the Financial Ombudsman must abide by and follow. The rule thats relevant here is
DISP 2.8.2R. I have set out some of that rule, so MoneyBoat and Ms T have it easy to hand.
DISP 2.8.2R:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the
Financial Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the
complainant its final response, redress determination or summary resolution
communication;So, the DISP rules are clear. If Ms T referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman
more than six months after the FRL than we cant take the complaint forward (subject to any
exceptional circumstances that may apply).
In this case, MoneyBoat issued the FRL on 8 March 2021, and so Ms T had until
8 September 2021 in which to refer the complaint here. I can see, from our records, that
Ms T did refer the complaint here on 29 March 2021. This is well within the six months time
scale afforded to her by the DISP rules.
I accept, that at this point of time, the Financial Ombudsman wasnt able to progress her
complaint as we needed her to confirm the privacy notice and consent but that isnt a
requirement under the DISP rules for the purpose of establishing whether the complaint was
referred on time. As the rules say above, Ms T just had to refer the complaint here within six
months which I am satisfied she has done.
Therefore, I am satisfied that the case is within our jurisdiction, but Ive gone on to consider
whether this complaint ought to be dismissed given the gaps in contact between March 2021
and January 2022 and then from January 2022 and September 2022.
Why I think the Financial Ombudsman can look at this complaint
I have considered all the evidence and arguments made by MoneyBoat and Ms T in order to
decide whether it is right for the Financial Ombudsman to look at this complaint. We can help
with a wide variety of financial services complaints, and we do have discretion to decide that
some cases shouldnt be considered.
Under the Financial Conduct Authority DISP rules which govern the way we handle
complaints, DISP 3.3.4A (for complaints received after 9 July 2015) provides grounds on
which we may dismiss a complaint without looking at the merits first. Ive set out the possible
reasons to dismiss below;
The Ombudsman may dismiss a complaint referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 
or after 9 July 2015 without considering its merits if the Ombudsman considers that:
(1) the complaint is frivolous or vexatious; or
(2) the subject matter of the complaint has been dealt with, or is being dealt with, by
a comparable ADR entity; or
(3) the subject matter of the complaint has been the subject of court proceedings
where there has been a decision on the merits; or
(4) the subject matter of the complaint is the subject of current court proceedings,
unless proceedings are stayed or sisted (by agreement of all parties, or order of the
court) so that the matter may be considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service; or
(5) dealing with such a type of complaint would otherwise seriously impair the
effective operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Having looked at the five possible reasons, Ive concluded subsections 1  4 dont apply in
this case and Ive explained why. Clearly the complaint isnt frivolous  as it concerns
whether MoneyBoat did all it ought to have done before granting a loan.
The matter isnt being considered (as far as Im aware) by an alternative dispute service, this
complaint isnt subject to court proceedings and there is nothing to show that a merits
judgement has been made or the complaint sisted. Therefore, Ive considered, in this case,
whether subsection (5) applies.
DISP 3.3.4B then gives some examples of whether proceeding would impair the effective
operation of the Financial Ombudsman  but this list isnt an exhaustive list and I can
foresee some examples that dont appear in the list that may lead us to dismiss a complaint.
In effect, MoneyBoat is arguing that by not dismissing the complaint the Financial Ombudsman is in 
effect allowing complaints to continue indefinitely and go beyond the six month timeline outlined earlier on in the decision. Ive thought about this, but taking account of the evidence Ive been 
provided, Im not satisfied that progressing the complaint would seriously impair the Financial 
Ombudsmans effective operation.
To be clear, jurisdiction and dismissal are two separate considerations and have different
rules, and guidance to look at. For example, jurisdiction is clear about when a complaint can
be taken forward. Whereas a dismissal, as the adjudicator has explained is down to our
discretion.
The complaint wasnt referred to us late, as Ive explained above, the complaint was referred
on time albeit we werent able to convert and progress the complaint. In summary, there was
in effect an 18-month window (between March 2021 and September 2022) after Ms T
referred the complaint to when we were in a position to take the case forward.
Now, I understand and appreciate the arguments MoneyBoat is making. However, I want to
be clear that this outcome is based on the individual circumstances of this complaint. I
completely understand why MoneyBoat would like some clarity over how big a gap is
acceptable. Unfortunately, this decision can only deal with Ms Ts complaint but some
factors that are considered but not limited to are, the type of complaint, the nature of the
complaint, details of any contact, what a consumer may or may not have been told, the time
gap itself and finally what information / evidence has been provided.
So, I can foresee a set of circumstances whereby so much time has elapsed that it would be
unfair to continue with the investigation because for example a lender may have reasonably
deleted some evidence that we may require, because it assumed  that the case wouldnt be
progressed to the Financial Ombudsman due to the passage of time. Or, I could see, that a
gap of 18 months is sufficient to say that the complaint ought to be dismissed but given
everything Ive seen Im intending to use my discretion and not dismiss the complaint.
MoneyBoat may find that the 18-month delay to be unfair to it, and certainly I agree that
Ms Ts delay is a cause for concern. But MoneyBoat has not demonstrated to me that the
delay has had an impact on its ability to furnish us with details of the case  such as the
types of checks it carried out at the time the loan was granted.
The delay has not prevented it for example in sending us a copy of the FRL or a copy of the
email where the FRL was attached. And, the FRL is fairly detailed about the types of checks
and the information MoneyBoat gathered and saw at the time when the loan was approved.
And so just based on this the Financial Ombudsman would be able to come to some
conclusions about what happened at the time, and so Im reasonably confident that the
Financial Ombudsman can provide an answer to Ms T about the merits of the complaint.
The DISP rule referred to above is one where I can apply my discretion. I must weigh up
how it is that MoneyBoat has been prejudiced by the time delay from Ms Ts initial referral in
March 2021 and when the case was progressed in September 2022. And I have looked at
the explanation Ms T have given I am minded not to dismiss.
I am sorry to hear she has had to deal with several personal issues, and she says that she
wasnt in the right frame of mind to continue with her complaint. Im also sorry to hear about
Ms Ts health problems but I do hope things have improved for her now. I dont feel the need
to say more about them because Im already satisfied that this is a complaint that can be
taken forward.
I have the option to choose to use my discretion to stop a complaint from proceeding despite us 
having enough evidence on file to be able to reach a fair outcome. Having balanced what I do have 
from both sides then I have decided that this complaint is not one which should be prevented from 
proceeding.
So ordinarily, the complaint would be referred back to an adjudicator to investigate the merits
of the complaint. But based on the information that Ive been provided with to date, I have
sufficient evidence to be able to issue an assessment on the merits of complaint. Therefore,to prevent any further delays and to provide Ms T with an outcome, Ive gone on to consider
whether the merits of the complaint.
Having thought about everything, Ive decided that having looked at the merits of the
complaint, this is one that Im proposing to not uphold, and Ive explained why below.
What Ive provisionally decided about the merits  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Ms T could afford to pay back the amount
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks couldve taken into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments,
and Ms Ts income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms T. These factors include:
Ms T having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms T having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms T coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms T. As there was only one loan the
adjudicator didnt think this applied to Ms Ts complaint.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Ms T could sustainably repay the loan  not
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms T was able to repay
her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Ts complaint.
For this loan, as part of her application, Ms T declared a monthly income of £1,600. She
declared monthly outgoings of £300 to cover a number of different items including, food,
other credit commitments, transport and other.
It is worth saying here that Ms T didnt declare any figures for her rent. In some situations that
may be concerning because without explanation it would be unlikely that there wouldnt be
some rent costs. However, MoneyBoat says that as part of the application Ms T informed it
she was living at home with parents. So, in this case, MoneyBoat wouldve been satisfiedwith the explanation provided by Ms T and as it was the first loan, MoneyBoat was entitled to
rely on the information it had been provided about Ms Ts living arrangements. Id consider it
a proportionate approach by MoneyBoat.
However, MoneyBoat increased Ms Ts monthly expenditure by a further £740. It did this
because as it explained:
On your loan application we increased the monthly expenditure that you input, on the
basis that your credit report highlighted different expenditure than you had disclosed,
and/or to bring you in line with the average expenditure listed on the Common
Financial Statement. Having taken this extra measure to ensure the loan was
affordable for you, you still displayed enough disposable monthly income to meet the
monthly repayments in full.
Therefore, as part of the affordability assessment, MoneyBoat concluded that Ms T had
around £560 disposable income in which to afford her loan repayments of around £162. The
loan therefore looked affordable.
MoneyBoat has also said it carried out a credit search but as yet hasnt provided any results
that it may have seen. This could be, that these are no longer available due to the passage
of time, or because it disagreed with whether we could progress the complaint.
So, I dont (at the moment) know whether these credit check results wouldve highlighted
that it needed to have carried out further checks or ought to have led it to conclude.
In response to the provisional decision, if it can, MoneyBoat should try and provide details of its
credit checks. In addition, Ms T also hasnt provided a copy of her credit file either.
But I want to add, that even though MoneyBoat likely carried out a credit search there is no
requirement within the regulations at the time for it to have carried out a search let alone one
to a specific standard. But what MoneyBoat couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then
not react to any concerning information that it may have seen.
Thinking about the income and expenditure information as well as the other checks carried
out, there was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led
MoneyBoat to believe that it needed to go further with its checks it carried out  such as
verifying the information Ms T had provided.
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for MoneyBoat to
have relied on the information Ms T provided about her income and expenditure to show she
had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments.
Its also worth adding that Ive read the content of the email Ms T sent MoneyBoat on
26 September 2022, whereby she asked for the loan to be removed from her credit file. I just
want to make it clear, that even if I had sufficient information to uphold the complaint  which
I dont. I wouldnt have asked MoneyBoat to remove the loan from the credit file, because it
wouldve been too early in the lending chain for MoneyBoat to have reasonably concluded
the lending was harmful for Ms T  without carrying out further checks. At best, I may have
recommended for the adverse credit file information to be removed  if any was recorded.
Overall and based on the evidence that I currently have to hand, Im planning to not uphold
Ms Ts complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything further for consideration, I see no reason to depart 
from the findings that I previously made. Ms T referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman within the times limits that I must 
consider and for the reasons Ive previously explained, I am choosing not to dismiss the 
complaint. 
However, having looked the at the evidence which has been provided I have also come to 
the conclusion that MoneyBoat carried out a proportionate check which showed it Ms T 
would be able to afford her loan repayments. I do not uphold Ms Ts complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Ms Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman