DRN-1623917
The complaint
Miss N complains that HDI Global Specialty SE declined a claim under her pet insurance 
policy because the condition was pre-existing.
What happened
On 14 March 2019, Miss N took out pet insurance for their dog with HDI. The policy covered 
vets fees up to a maximum claim of £8,000, subject to a £75 excess. In October 2019, the 
dog was diagnosed with suspected intervertebral disc disease and Miss N submitted a 
claim to HDI for vets treatment totalling £1,076.26.
HDI noted the dog had been seen by a vet on 11 March 2019 (three days before the policy 
started), when it was described as shaking head and refusing to walk, reluctant to bend 
down and eat food. It asked the vet whether the condition with which the dog had been 
diagnosed October was related to these symptoms, to which the vet responded yes, it may 
well be related. Based on that information, HDI excluded the claim as it said the condition 
was pre-existing.
Miss N provided further evidence from her vet who said her response to AXA had been 
hurried and vague and while she initially said the condition may be related to the symptoms 
the dog had displayed in March, she couldve just as easily responded to say it may not be 
related, meaning it may or may not be related. She explained she wasnt the vet whod 
treated the dog in March and had based her opinion on the clinical notes.
She also said the dog had booster vaccinations on 8 March, and the symptoms it had 
displayed on 11 March couldve been a reaction to the injections (and were similar to 
previous responses to vaccinations), but this would be unusual and rare.  She explained that 
while the symptoms the dog displayed in March were similar to the dogs recent presentation 
for neck pain, they resolved very quickly with no further investigation. 
The vet said it wasnt possible to confirm whether the condition the dog was diagnosed with 
in October was related to the symptoms it had displayed in March. The dog had been seen 
on multiple occasions since March with no signs of chronic or intermittent neck pain, so there 
was nothing to suggest an underlying condition, and it was impossible to tell whether it was 
related.
HDI reviewed the claim but it maintained its position, and so Miss N complained. She said 
there was no way of knowing whether the neck pain was related to the symptoms the dog 
had in March. And she pointed out HDI had quoted the vet as having said yes, this is 
related, which wasnt the same as yes, this may well be related.
In its final response, HDI suggested Miss N had indirectly told the vets what needed to be 
said in order to get the claim accepted and that it felt it should stand by its initial decision 
despite the change in the vets opinion.
Miss N remained dissatisfied and so she complained to this service. Shes explained she 
didnt see the claim form, but she had told the vet that the emergency vet who saw the dog 
on 8th October 2019 had already submitted a claim directly to the insurer for the same 
condition, therefore the claim form would be a continuous claim following that claim. 
Our investigator felt the claim should be upheld as he wasnt satisfied HDI had shown the 
neck pain was linked to a pre-existing condition. He noted that, in the letter she sent after the 
claim had been declined, the vet had said she couldnt be sure the condition was pre-
existing and, consequently, he recommended HDI should settle the claim.
HDI has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, arguing the two 
conditions are likely to be linked. Its argued the vets initial response was to confirm that the 
conditions were linked, and she only changed her mind after Miss N had asked the vet to 
change her story. Its argued the possibility that the symptoms present in March were due to 
a reaction to a vaccination can be ruled out as there are notes indicating the symptoms had 
already begun when she had the booster in March.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy defines a pre-existing condition as an illness that happened or first showed 
clinical signs, has the same diagnosis or clinical signs as an illness, is caused by, relates to, 
or results from, an illness or clinical sign your pet had before the start of the period of 
insurance. Im satisfied this term is reasonable, that it is clearly worded and that it was 
brought to Miss Ns attention within the policy documents.
HDI has argued the condition with which the dog was diagnosed in October 2019 was 
related to the symptoms the dog presented with three days before the policy was taken out 
therefore, it was pre-existing and excluded under the policy. 
In March, the dog was seen by the vet who noted she was slower on walks, today was 
shaking and refused to move on walkhad to coax her to eat today, reluctant to bend her 
head down. The notes show the vets concluded possible a vaccine reaction but they are 
rare and an unusual presentation. Possibly a strained musculature in neck.
In October, the notes from the emergency vet stated unsettled intermittently yelping in her 
bedintermittently hunched [and occasionally] stumbles/trips on one of her limbs as though 
weak. Reluctant to take water from floor but drinking when bowl liftedproblems seem to be 
neuro-muscular. The dog was subsequently diagnosed with neck pain - suspected 
invertebral disc disease.
I accept that on both occasions, the dog presented with symptoms indicating an issue with 
the dogs neck, but there were differences in the presentation and the issue in March 
resolved itself quickly without the need for any treatment. Further, there was a seven-month 
interval between each visit during which dog was seen on multiple occasions with no signs 
of chronic or intermittent neck pain, so the clinical history doesnt point to a chronic or pre-
existing condition.
Based comments made by the vet in response to enquiries it made when Miss N made the 
claim, HDI declined the claim and I dont think that was unreasonable. However, on learning 
the claim had been declined, Miss N asked her vet to contact HDI. The vet said her initial 
comments had been rushed, she hadnt treated the dog in March, and she didnt know 
whether the conditions were related. While its often reasonable to place more weight on a vets initial conclusion, I note this 
wasnt a contemporaneous opinion from the treating vet; it was an opinion based on an 
assessment of the clinical notes made seven months after the event. I think the vets 
explanation about the meaning of her initial comment is plausible, and while I accept she 
was prompted to contact HDI by Miss N, I dont think it has shown she changed her opinion 
because she was told to do so.
HDI has argued the symptoms the dog displayed in March were unlikely to be a result of a 
booster vaccination and I agree thats the case, particularly as the treating vet said this 
would be rare and unusual. Further, the notes show Miss N told the vet on the day of the 
vaccination that the dog felt a bit stiff after getting up in the morning, therefore it seems the 
issue might have already present before she was given the booster.
However, taking into account the fact the vet said it was impossible to say whether the 
conditions were related, the symptoms the dog had in March resolved without any treatment, 
the seven-month gap between the two events and the fact there were no reports of chronic 
or intermittent neck pain during that time, Im not persuaded HDI has shown its most likely 
they were related. Consequently, I don't think the claim should be declined based on there 
having been a pre-existing condition, and I think HDI should settle the claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct HDI Global Specialty SE to settle the claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman