DRN-2320238
The complaint
Mr K complains about three loans that he took out with Harvey & Thompson Limited, trading 
as H & T Pawnbrokers, (H&T), which he said were unaffordable.
What happened
Mr K was given three instalment loans by H&T from January 2016 to March 2017. The loans 
have all been repaid. 
A summary of the loans taken out by Mr K is shown below:
Loan 
number Date of loan Repayment 
dateLoan 
amount Number of monthly 
repayments 
1. 11/1/16 29/10/16 £300 10
2. 2/11/16 6/1/17 £200 5
3. 20/3/17 24/7/17 £150 4
Mr K said that he could not afford these loans. When he paid them off, he had to borrow 
again to get through the next month. He said that H&T should have realised from the number 
of times he borrowed that his debt problems were getting worse and it was not responsible 
for it to continue to lend to him. Mr K said that his credit report would have shown all his 
other debts and problems. He also said that hed been borrowing from around 20 different 
payday loans companies and had now complained about them. Hed received full or nearly 
full refunds from them, but not from H&T.
In its final response letter, H&T said that it considered a variety of information when 
assessing an applicants creditworthiness. A full credit score was performed alongside 
numerous data verification procedures. Both the information Mr K submitted and his credit 
score met H&Ts lending criteria. Mr K had been required to submit his income and 
expenditure details. The figures he submitted supported his attestation that the loans being 
applied for were affordable. H&T was satisfied that it had carried out appropriate checks 
before approving Mr Ks loan applications and saw no evidence that the checks carried out 
beforehand were insufficient.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that the 
lender shouldve taken steps to build a more detailed picture of Mr Ks financial situation. 
Hed looked at the information Mr K had sent this service and considered whether H & T
wouldve done anything differently had it seen this information before lending. But he hadnt 
seen anything which suggested the lender wouldve concluded that Mr K wouldnt have
been able to sustainably make the repayments he needed to for these loans.
Mr K disagreed and said that regardless of what checks H&T completed, it should never 
have loaned out high interest payday loans when he already had others taken out. 
The adjudicator said that his assessment wouldnt change unless Mr K was able to provide 
further information and evidence. 
Mr K asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
I note that Mr K refers to other complaints with other lenders. But we assess each case on 
its own merits and it isnt appropriate to compare the outcomes of complaints as the 
circumstances may be very different.
When H&T lent to Mr K the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The CONC 
contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
H&T needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that H&T should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that H&T was required to establish 
whether Mr K could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties 
and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
H&T has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr K. I note from H&Ts records 
that it had details of Mr Ks income as well as information about his expenses. Mr K had told 
it that he lived with his parents. Mr Ks declared income ranged between £1,330 and £1,680. 
His expenditure ranged between £359 and £850.  I can see that H&T asked Mr K for 
expenses information about his rent, utilities, travel, phone, housekeeping, other expenditure 
and credit outgoings. I note on each occasion that Mr K declared that he had no expenditure 
on credit outgoings. 
I also note that H&T carried out credit checks. Ive seen H&Ts summaries of three credit 
checks. Unfortunately, the checks dont show which loan they each refer to. I can see that 
the adjudicator had asked H&T to clarify this on several occasions, but it didnt do so. I note 
that all the checks showed that Mr K wasnt bankrupt and didnt have any county court 
judgements against him. I shall refer to the credit checks further below.
I note that although the amounts that Mr K needed to repay each month were smaller than if 
hed taken a normal payday loan, he was also committing to making those repayments over 
a longer period. I can see that Loan 1 was repayable by ten monthly instalments, Loan 2 
was repayable by five monthly instalments and Loan 3 was repayable by four monthly 
repayments. Despite the different loan amounts all the monthly repayments were around 
£60. 
Ive thought about whether H&Ts checks were proportionate for Loans 1 to 3. It seems on 
the face of it that the repayments would have looked relatively modest compared to Mr Ks 
declared income. However, as I explain below, I think the information H&T gathered should 
have raised concerns and prompted further checks. 
As Ive explained above, its not clear which loan each of H&Ts credit checks refers to. But 
whatever the loan, I can see that Mr K had at least seven active credit accounts (12 
accounts in one case) at the time of each loan application and had opened at least 12 
accounts (18 accounts in one case) in the previous six months. On two of the checks, it 
showed that Mr K had two delinquent accounts in the previous 12 months. I think that each 
of the credit checks painted a picture of someone who might be struggling with debt. And I 
think H&T might have been especially concerned that Mr K hadnt declared any other credit 
commitments to H&T before any of the loans when it was clear from its credit checks that he 
would have had at least seven other credit accounts to pay. So, I think this should have 
alerted H&T to the need to question Mr K more closely about the extent of his other 
borrowing before each of the loans.
So overall, I dont think the checks H&T carried out before the loans were reasonable and 
proportionate. But that in itself doesn't mean that Mr Ks complaint should succeed. Id also 
need to be persuaded that what I consider to be proportionate checks would have shown 
H&T that Mr K couldn't sustainably afford the loans. So, I asked the adjudicator to ask Mr K 
for copies of his bank statements so we could see what better checks would have shown 
H&T. It doesnt appear that weve received these. So, Im not able to say that better checks 
would have shown H&T that it shouldnt have lent Loans 1 to 3 to Mr K. I appreciate that Mr K says his finances were under pressure at the time he took out the 
loans and I'm sorry that this isnt the outcome Mr K was hoping for. I realise hell be 
disappointed but taking everything together I havent seen enough for me to conclude that I 
should uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman