DRN-4460065
The complaint
Mr D has complained about his car sport (on track) insurer Hiscox Insurance Company 
Limited because it avoided a policy on which he was a named driver, thereby declining a 
claim for an accident he was involved in during a race.
Mr D is represented by solicitors. But for ease of reference, Ill mainly only refer to Mr D.
What happened
Mr D was due to take part, over a weekend, in a car race. He had his own car insured for 
use for that purpose. But on the Friday, during test runs, he crashed his car, meaning it 
wouldnt be able to be used in the racing over the weekend. Mr D came to an arrangement 
for a car to be loaned to him. The team Mr D was racing for/with organised insurance to 
cover Mr D in the loaned car.
A representative of the racing team emailed a car sport insurance broker. The broker was 
given a few important details  such as the make/model of the loaned car. The broker was 
also told that Mr D had no previous accident history. A policy was provided, which Mr D 
later paid the team for and on which he was a named driver.
The next day, during the first race, Mr D was involved in a crash. A claim was made on the 
policy for repair costs  these have since been confirmed as in the region of £80,000. Mr D 
has settled, or has been looking to settle, with the cars owners to avoid further costs 
occurring. Hiscox, particularly noting the accident on the day before the race, said that when 
the policy was arranged, a fair presentation of the risk had not been made to it because it 
had not been told about the very recent accident. It said that if it had known about that, 
bearing in mind the time of year, it wouldnt have offered cover. It said it thought the detail of 
the accident had likely been deliberately withheld. Therefore, as well as avoiding the policy, 
thereby declining the claim, it wouldnt refund any premium. Mr D complained to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our Investigator did not uphold the complaint. She felt Hiscox had acted fairly and 
reasonably. Mr D objected, restating his view that the prior accident cant have been material 
to Hiscox because it regularly provides cover for car racing, of which accident are a common 
feature. He also said Hiscox had not shown any evidence to support its argument that the 
incorrect detail had been deliberately provided. He added there was no reason for the 
policyholder to have acted to deliberately withhold the accident detail. 
The complaint was referred for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I find my view on this complaint is the same as that expressed by our 
Investigator. In short, I think Hiscox acted fairly and reasonably. Ive set out my reasons for 
this below. Whilst I havent referenced every argument made by the parties, Ive taken 
everything which has been said into account. My findings will focus on those points I find are 
material to the outcome.
Mr D did not arrange this insurance. But a representative of the team he was racing for/with 
did so. He was named as a driver on the policy and also covered the cost of the premium. 
The policy was arranged in order that he could race. Seemingly, from the familiarity 
suggested by the email, the team representative was able to quickly and informally contact 
the broker  with the need for cover being somewhat urgent given the race the following day. 
I think its fair to say the policy was taken out for Mr Ds benefit and that the team 
representative, in arranging the cover, was doing so for Mr D. So any error or deliberate act 
by that representative I think reasonably is an error or act of Mr D.  
As Mr D was racing for/with the team, I think the team would have wanted to ensure his 
participation. Considering the content of the email it seems this was the first and only email 
requesting cover for Mr D  there wasnt an initial enquiry from the team asking if it would be 
possible to get a quote and enquiring as to what detail would be required to do so. Rather, 
the team seemed to know without being prompted what was needed to ensure a policy could 
be quickly put in place. Including, importantly, that the broker would want to be told about 
Mr Ds accident history. 
I note Mr D has argued that the accident history likely wasnt material to Hiscox. But the fact 
that detail about the history was volunteered does satisfy me that the team knew this was an 
important factor. Im also not convinced that, just because Hiscox operates in an arena 
where accidents are expected, that means that the accident history of a named driver 
wouldnt be important to it. I think, logically, the converse is actually true  that it would take 
much more notice of accidents and what circumstances might occur which would increase 
its exposure to risk. I bear in mind detail Ive seen from Hiscox  which cant be shared with 
Mr D because its confidential  which shows that Hiscox is not prepared to accept risks 
which involve a previous accident history and cover requested for single events which will 
potentially be subject to bad weather. I think that is exactly the scenario it would have been 
faced with if it had been told about Mr Ds accident earlier that day, with cover needed for a 
race the following day, in late autumn/early winter. 
Im mindful that Hiscox, whilst being of the view that this was likely a deliberate 
misrepresentation to it of the risk, hasnt provided evidence to support that. But, in this case, 
I think the circumstances sufficiently show (as Hiscox has argued) that a deliberate act most 
likely occurred. The team must have known, I think, about the crash that day. I also think, 
they needed/wanted Mr D to race the following day, and likely also knew that an accident 
history would prevent insurance being provided. I, therefore, further think that its most likely 
that cover, and Mr Ds participation in the race, was then assured by not advising the broker 
of that crucial detail. It makes no sense to me to think that the team knew that the accident 
history had to be given (and detail in this respect, as I said, was given unprompted) and that 
they offered that having missed/overlooked/forgotten about the accident which had occurred 
just a few hours before. 
So Hiscox has satisfied me that a fair presentation of the risk was not made to it when the 
policy naming Mr D as a driver was arranged. Its also satisfied me that if fair presentation 
had been made  that the correct accident history had been disclosed  it would not have 
offered cover. Its further satisfied me that the unfair presentation of risk was likely made 
deliberately. Given all of that, it follows that I find Hiscox decision to avoid the policy, thereby 
declining the claim whilst retaining the policy premium, is fair and reasonable.My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. I dont make any award against Hiscox Insurance Company 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman