DRN-3246830
The complaint
Mr W says that he was told by Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans (Dot Dot) that if 
he set up an arrangement to pay his loan then a default would not be added to his credit file. 
But he says that even though he set up a repayment plan his credit file still shows that he 
missed payments. 
Mr W says that he was not told setting up a repayment plan would lead to adverse 
information being recorded on his credit file. He wouldnt have started this arrangement if he 
had known this would be the case. He says it may affect his chances of getting a mortgage 
in the future. 
What happened
Mr W took out a loan with Dot Dot in May 2020. He borrowed £500 and he was due to make 
six monthly repayments of around £161. 
Mr W fell into financial difficulty, partly due to his hours being reduced because of the Covid-
19 pandemic. Due to this, in July 2020, Mr W asked to repay a reduced amount to his loan 
going forward. Dot Dot agreed that Mr W could repay £40 a month. Mr W did repay this 
amount until February 2021 when he started to make his full contractual repayments again. I 
understand the loan is now settled and marked as repaid on his credit file. 
Mr Ws complaint centres on the communication he received when he started the repayment 
plan. The emails I have seen about this show Mr W was informed that the loan would not be 
shown as in default if he adhered to the arrangement to pay. 
Ive also seen evidence that shows that Mr W was informed that when he was in a payment 
arrangement then the arrears would be cleared sooner. 
Mr We essentially feels that he was informed that the payment arrangement meant that no 
adverse, or missing payment markers, would be added to his file, whilst this was in place. 
And he thinks it is unfair  as he is stuck to the revised agreement  that his credit file shows 
adverse information about the loan.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that Dot Dot had acted reasonably 
when Mr W contacted it for assistance. And the information on his credit file adequately 
reflected the actual loan repayment history. 
Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He still didnt think Dot Dot should have 
shown the loan as having missing payments when he stuck to the new repayment plan. And 
he wasnt sure if all the information was correct on his credit file. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ill firstly say that there has been a lot of correspondence, and detail provided, about the 
circumstances surrounding what took place when Mr W had problems making the loan 
repayments. I have looked at all of this information, but I wont reproduce it here as both 
parties to the complaint are aware of this detail and there is no dispute about the facts of 
this. 
Ive looked at the information Mr W was given when he started the repayment arrangement. 
Essentially he was told that starting the arrangement would be a way of avoiding a default. 
This isnt an unreasonable thing to say and I dont think its misleading. Paying what you can 
afford into a loan is one way to avoid, the more serious problems, a default can bring. 
Relevant to this complaint is that Mr W wasnt told that starting the repayment plan would 
avoid any recording of the repayment problems on his credit file. The evidence I have shows 
that Mr W had a conversation with the representative, and received information, that said 
that when he started the arrangement to repay the arrears would still be shown on his credit 
file alongside the arrangement. 
Given all of the above, I dont think that Dot Dot misled Mr W before he started the 
repayment arrangement, or at any other point. 
Mr W has complained that the information on his credit file is incorrect. The crux of the 
issues he has raised here are that, as he has stuck to the terms of the arrangement to pay, 
no negative information should have been recorded about this. 
But the information about whether Mr W is in arrears or not relates to the original loan. 
Essentially the payment arrangement doesnt replace the original loan contract. And the 
arrears showing on Mr Ws credit file were because he wasnt able to fully make his 
repayments in line with the contracted terms. This meant that the loan was still showing in 
arrears in early 2021. As even though he was making full repayments at this time, and he 
had stuck to the arrangement to repay agreement. He was still behind with the scheduled 
repayments to the original loan. As the loan should have been repaid in full when Mr W 
returned to repaying the full amount. 
And its worth saying that the loan is showing as being in default. 
So, having looked at everything thats been provided, I think Dot Dot has correctly recorded 
the events that surrounded the loan on Mr Ws credit file. 
And whilst the entries arent entirely positive they do show that Mr W experienced some 
repayment problems (due to Covid). But he contacted the lender and paid a reduced amount 
for a period and then repaid the loan in full when he was able. This is the right thing to do in 
this situation and is an accurate reflection of how Mr W was able to repay this loan. 
Having considered everything, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. I dont think its 
reasonable to say that Dot Dot has acted incorrectly here. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman