DRN-1101842
The complaint
Miss R complains U K Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) increased her monthly 
motor insurance premiums without telling her and gave her poor customer service when she 
contacted it about this. Miss R is represented in this complaint by her friend, but to keep 
things simple Ill refer only to Miss R.
What happened
In November 2018 Miss R called U K Insurance Limited (UKI) for a motor insurance quote. 
As part of the information she gave, Miss R said she had full no claims bonus (NCB) - UKI 
asked her if it should record this as its maximum of nine years, and Miss R only repeated 
that she had full NCB. The next day, Miss R called UKI to accept the quote and arrange 
monthly direct debit payments. UKI told Miss R she needed to provide proof of her NCB  
Miss R asked how to obtain this, and UKI said she should ask her previous insurer for it. At 
the end of the call, UKI again said Miss R needed to provide her NCB proof.
UKI didnt receive that proof from Miss R. So on 23 November and again on 30 November 
2018 it wrote to her asking her to send in her NCB proof or it would remove the nine year 
NCB it had applied to her premium. On 14 December 2018 it wrote to her again, saying it 
hadnt received proof of NCB so it was going to charge her an additional premium of 
£514.08. And on 28 December 2018 it wrote to her saying it had charged the additional 
premium. This meant Miss Rs monthly direct debit payments to UKI increased significantly. 
Miss R says she didnt receive any of these letters. She says she first became aware her 
premiums had increased when her bank account went overdrawn and she incurred bank 
charges, so she cancelled the direct debit. As a result the last payment Miss R made to UKI 
was on 5 April 2019. 
On 13 June 2019 Miss R called UKI to say shed received letters from it saying shed missed 
payments and that it hadnt told her why her monthly payments had increased. UKI 
explained the payments had increased because Miss R hadnt sent in proof of NCB. UKI 
said it would contact Miss Rs previous insurer to try and get that proof and that it would call 
her back. UKI didnt call Miss R back. 
On 3 July 2019 Miss R called UKI as shed received a letter from UKI saying it was going to 
cancel her car insurance, and she wanted to know what had happened regarding the call 
back. The agent said the agent Miss R had spoken to previously had left a note on UKIs 
system saying the previous insurer wouldnt speak to UKI for data protection reasons. UKI 
explained to Miss R why her premiums had increased and that it had written to her about 
that, and that it had now cancelled her policy because shed stopped paying her premiums. 
UKI said it would refund Miss R the additional premium it had charged if she provided proof 
of NCB. Miss R agreed to get the proof from her previous insurer.
On 11 July 2019 Miss R called UKI to say shed received a letter saying she owed UKI an 
outstanding balance, which Miss R disputed. It transferred her to its payments team, which 
explained why her premiums had increased. And that the policy had been cancelled 
because Miss R stopped paying her premiums  it said it sent Miss R a letter on 19 June 2019 saying there were outstanding payments and she should contact UKI or it would cancel 
her policy on 3 July 2019. And it explained how it had calculated the balance it was asking 
her to pay. 
Miss R told the payment teams she wanted to complain, mostly about the customer service 
UKI had given her, including being transferred to the payments team without a handover. 
UKI logged her complaint and said it would investigate. 
UKI partially upheld Miss Rs complaint. It agreed it hadnt given Miss R the call back it had 
promised and that in the call on 3 July 2019 it had given her incorrect information regarding 
what had happened when it tried to call her previous insurer  its system notes showed UKI 
hadnt actually been able to get through to anyone at the previous insurer. UKI apologised 
and said it would give feedback to the agents in question. And it offered Miss R £100 for the 
inconvenience it had caused her. 
But UKI said its agents werent required to do a handover when transferring callers. And that 
it hadnt done anything wrong by increasing the premiums or cancelling her policy, as it had 
written to her about these things beforehand. It said Miss R had now provided four years 
proof of NCB and it would use this to recalculate the outstanding balance. But that if Miss R 
provided nine years proof of NCB, it could recalculate it again. UKI wrote to Miss R on 23 
July 2019 to say her balance outstanding was now £91.87. 
Miss R complained to our service and explained she didnt have a good grip on her finances. 
She said UKI hadnt told her the premiums would increase, hadnt called back as promised, 
and that it had lied to her in the call on 3 July 2019 when it said her previous insurer wouldnt 
speak to UKI because of data protection issues.
After looking into things, our investigator agreed UKI made errors in not calling Miss R back 
and giving her incorrect information about its calls to her previous insurer. But that this didnt 
make a difference to the increased premiums, as Miss R already had reason to be aware 
UKI had asked her to provide her proof of NCB  it told her this when she bought the policy 
and in the several letters it sent her afterwards, which our investigator was satisfied UKI sent 
correctly. 
Our investigator thought what UKI had already offered Miss R was a fair and reasonable way 
to put things right. She noted UKI had recalculated the outstanding balance based on the 
four years proof of NCB Miss R had provided, and that it had agreed to recalculate it again if 
Miss R provided proof of nine years NCB. And so shed not seen anything to suggest the 
outstanding balance UKI was now asking Miss R for was unfair or incorrect. 
Miss R disagreed. She told us she was suffering from anxiety and stress, and so hadnt been 
able to keep on top of her finances. And that just by itself, the agent lying to her meant £100 
wasnt enough compensation and that UKI should dismiss the agent. As Miss R disagreed, 
her complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not asking UKI to do anything further here. I realise that will be very 
disappointing to Miss R, but Ill explain my reasons.
UKI didnt tell Miss R her premiums would increaseIve listened to the call Miss R had on 3 November 2018 when she accepted UKIs quote and 
bought the policy. In that call the agent tells Miss R twice that she needs to send in her proof 
of NCB and advises her on how she can obtain it.
UKI then wrote to Miss R twice in November 2018, asking her to send in her proof of NCB or 
it would remove the nine years no claims bonus and increase her premiums. And it wrote to 
her twice in December 2018 to say her premiums would be increased by £514.08. I 
appreciate Miss R says she didnt receive these letters, but Ive seen UKIs system records 
and letter templates. And Ive seen that it held the correct address for Miss R. So while its 
unfortunate Miss R didnt receive any of these letters, Im satisfied UKI sent them to her, and 
to her correct address. So it wouldn't be fair for me to hold UKI responsible for Miss R not 
receiving them. 
For these reasons Im satisfied UKI made reasonable efforts to tell Miss R she needed to 
send in her proof of NCB and that it would increase her premiums if she didnt do so. I 
acknowledge what Miss R has told our service about her health and the difficulty it causes 
her regarding her finances, and Im very sorry to hear about this. But Ive not seen anything 
to suggest Miss R made UKI aware of the difficulties she was having while these issues 
were happening  instead it seems she first told UKI about them as part of her complaint in 
July 2019. 
Miss R has said she cancelled her direct debit, and Ive not seen any evidence to suggest 
she repaid the payments she missed. And UKI has recalculated Miss Rs outstanding 
balance based on the four years proof of NCB Miss R provided. So Ive not seen enough 
evidence to be able to say that the outstanding balance UKI is now asking Miss R for is 
unfair or incorrect. But UKI has said it will recalculate it if Miss R provides proof of nine years 
NCB, and I dont think thats an unreasonable thing for it to offer to do.
UKI didnt call Miss R back 
When Miss R called UKI on 13 June 2019, it told her it would call her previous insurer to ask 
for her proof of NCB and that it would call Miss R back. But it didnt call Miss R back. UKI 
accepts this was an error on its part, so thats not in dispute. I think this error caused Miss R 
some minor inconvenience, because when she called it on 3 July 2019 to ask about the 
letter shed received from UKI to say her insurance would be cancelled, she had to also ask 
it what had happened when it called her previous insurer - Ill return to this later. But I dont 
think UKI not calling Miss R back made any difference to Miss Rs premiums being 
increased, because that had already happened about six months earlier and after UKI had 
made reasonable efforts to inform Miss R it would charge her an additional premium. 
calls to previous insurer
UKI accepts its agent gave Miss R incorrect information in the call on 3 July 2019  the 
agent told Miss R her previous insurer had refused to talk to UKI, when UKI later confirmed 
its system notes showed UKI hadnt been able to get through to speak to anyone at the 
previous insurer. So its not in dispute that agent made an error. And I know Miss R feels 
very strongly that the agent lied and should be dismissed. 
But regardless of whether the agent lied or whether they made a genuine error, the role of 
our service is to put consumers back into the position they should have been in if not for a 
financial business making an error. Its not the role of our service to punish businesses or to 
tell them how they should deal with their employees. Nonetheless, I think it would have 
caused Miss R some distress to later find UKI had given her incorrect information, for 
whatever reason. UKI has apologised to Miss R for not calling her back and for giving her incorrect 
information, and Ive seen its given feedback to the agents in question. UKI has also offered 
Miss R £100 compensation. 
As Ive said, I think UKI caused Miss R some minor inconvenience by not calling her back. 
And it caused her some distress by giving her incorrect information, though I think UKI 
addressed this promptly with Miss R. For these reasons I think the £100 compensation UKI 
has already offered, together with its apology and the feedback its given to its agents, is a 
fair and reasonable way to put things right in the circumstances.  
I therefore leave it to Miss R to decide if she wants to accept the £100 compensation UKI 
has offered. I understand it has already sent her a cheque for this amount.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman