DRN-3035853
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Pukka Insurance Limited handled a claim under his motor 
insurance.
Pukka uses a third party to handle its claims and much of Mr Cs correspondence has been 
with this company. For the avoidance of doubt, any reference to Pukka includes its agents, 
including its claims handler.
What happened
Mr C had a Pukka commercial vehicle insurance policy. In February 2020, Mr Cs pick-up 
truck was stolen. Mr C reported the theft to his insurance broker and to Pukka. 
Pukka offered Mr C £14,382 less his policy excess to settle the claim. This valuation was 
based on the make, model, mileage and good condition of Mr Cs pick-up. Mr C believes 
that offer is too low. He says his company paid over £32,000 for the pick-up and that it was 
in immaculate condition with low mileage.
Mr C is also unhappy with the time taken to settle his claim and with the number of different 
companies and people he has had to deal with. He wants Pukka to increase its settlement 
offer and compensate him for the inconvenience hes suffered while trying to get his claim 
settled.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. She found that 
Pukkas offer was in line with Mr Cs policy terms and was fair. She agreed that Mr C had 
suffered some poor service but didnt think Pukka or its claims handler had done anything 
wrong.
Mr C disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs policy schedule gives an estimated value for his pick-up of £18,000. However, section 
3 of Mr Cs policy booklet explains what Pukka will pay if Mr Cs pick-up is stolen: The most 
we will pay is the lower of: the market value of the insured vehicle immediately before the 
loss; [or] the cost of repairing the insured vehicle. 
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID)  which sets out the key features of the 
policy  is also clear that Mr Cs vehicle is covered up to the market value at the time of the 
theft. So Im satisfied that any settlement is based on the market value of the vehicle.
Mr Cs policy booklet defines market value as: The cost of replacing your insured vehicle 
with one of similar type, age, and/or condition at the time of the loss as assessed by us. We 
use guides which refer to vehicle values, engineers and any other relevant sources to 
assess the market value. This definition also states: The valuation will not be more than the 
last estimated value you have declared to us.
Pukka has provided an engineers report showing how it valued Mr Cs pick-up. It used the 
value given by a trade guide.
Ive looked at the trade guides and Im satisfied that the valuation used by Pukka is correct 
for the make, model, mileage and condition of Mr Cs pick-up at the time of the theft. I note 
that this was the highest valuation of the three trade guides used by this service. So Im 
satisfied that this offer was in line with the policy terms and was fair. 
Pukka made its settlement offer to Mr C in March 2020. When Mr C disputed this, it invited 
him to send any evidence he had that the valuation should be higher. Mr C says he sent 
Pukka ads showing similar vehicles for sale at between £16,000-18,000. Unfortunately, 
neither he nor Pukka have any evidence of him sending/receiving these. 
Im sorry Mr C feels this matter has dragged on so long, but I think Pukka offered him a fair 
value for his vehicle less than a month after the theft.
I know Mr C was unhappy with the number of different companies and people he was 
dealing with. Thats unfortunate and appears to have been due to the number of parties 
involved in his policy  the insurance broker, insurer, finance provider, and claims handler  
as well as different departments within the claims handling company. 
However, his policy documents direct him to Pukkas claims handling company in the event 
of his needing to make a claim. Ive looked at his correspondence with this company. Having 
done so, I dont think Pukka did anything wrong.
For the reasons above, I think Pukkas actions were reasonable and its valuation of Mr Cs 
pick-up was fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman