DRN-3090380
The complaint
Mr P complains about Fairstone Financial Management Limiteds decision to stop providing 
services to him in relation to his self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and the way this 
was dealt with; the charges he paid; and the way a data subject access request was 
handled.
What happened
Mr P was a client of Fairstone for some years, receiving financial advice under Fairstones 
ActivePlan Plus level of service. In July 2020, he was sent an updated Services and Client 
Agreement to sign. He didnt sign this and instead asked his adviser at Fairstone about 
changing to ActivePlan - a lower (and less expensive) level of service. 
The adviser explained more about the services offered and said in Mr Ps circumstances the 
ActivePlan Plus would need to continue for them to continue carrying out their service.
In December 2020 Fairstone contacted Mr P as he hadnt signed the services and client 
agreement. Mr P said he hadnt signed it because he felt the document didnt accurately 
reflect the service he was receiving, and again asked about changing to ActivePlan. 
Fairstone then gave Mr P 30 days notice to terminate his agreement, because he was 
unhappy with the service proposed, and hadnt signed the client agreement. Fairstone said it 
couldnt continue providing services for him in those circumstances.
The termination should have been complete by 21 January 2021, but adviser charges were 
deducted from Mr Ps SIPP account until 3 March.
Fairstone refunded £509.24 for two payments that were deducted incorrectly but there 
remained a dispute about other charges. Mr P complained but Fairstone but didnt think it 
had done anything wrong. So he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said: 
Fairstones terms and conditions allowed either party to end the agreement on giving 
a months notice in writing and Fairstones decision to do that was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Fairstone is entitled to decide how to conduct its business. Once a customer is 
drawing benefits from their pension, Fairstone will only provide the ActivePlan Plus 
service. Mr P was paying a reduced fee for that level of service and there was no 
obligation on Fairstone to agree to any other level of service.
There was no requirement for Fairstone to arrange any additional service, unless 
Mr P was moving to another adviser, when it would have been required to transfer 
the relevant files to them. And he was free to manage things himself.
There was some delay completing the termination and removing Fairstone from the 
account. But other than that delay Fairstone had not dealt with the termination 
incorrectly, and wasnt responsible for Mr P not being unable to take his 
uncrystallised fund pension lump sum (UFPLS).
There were some errors with charges being taken after the service should have 
ended. Fairstone agreed to refund overpayments of £254.62, but a further payment 
of £64.03 should also be paid.
The way Fairstone dealt with the subject access request was fair.
Fairstone accepted the investigators view but Mr P did not. Hes raised a number of further 
points. I wont set them all out in full but the key points include:
Theres nothing in the terms and conditions that says clients in retirement must have 
the ActivePlan Plus level of agreement. Its unreasonable that he was forced to have 
a level of service he didnt want, with many activities or services he didnt use, simply 
because he was taking a lump sum once a year.
Fairstone charged him a fee in return for a service that included arranging the UFPLS 
but because he didnt sign that agreement it refused to deal with this, and the delays 
in implementing that termination delayed him from dealing with it himself. His account 
was not under his management for 65 days; this was not just some delays but a 
serious delay that had financial consequences for him.
Hes surprised our service wouldnt agree that its sound practice for clients to have a 
clear understanding of all charges on their account
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fairstone is entitled to decide what services to offer and what to charge for those services. 
Its not for me to say how it should run its business. But I can consider whether, in providing 
services, it has complied with any regulatory requirements including the requirement to treat 
Mr P fairly.
Termination of the agreement 
The arrangement Fairstone has with its clients is set out in two documents:
A client agreement, which is a general document for all customers that cant be 
amended; and 
A services and charges agreement, which is specific to the individual customer.
Mr P was unhappy that a services and charges agreement sent to him in December 2019 
only refers to charges of £3,000, whereas a clarification sent in July 2020, with full details of 
all charges, set out different figures; he says these two documents said different things about 
what the charges would be, and he should have been given clear information about this.
The cancellation rights set out in the terms allow Fairstone to stop providing services at any 
time:
Either party may end our authority to act on your behalf at any time, by giving the other 
party one months notice in writing.
Fairstone provided notice in accordance with this. In doing this, Fairstone was acting in line 
with the terms that had previously been agreed. The main reason for the decision was the 
fact that Mr P hadnt signed and returned the updated paperwork and was asking for a 
different level of service, which Fairstone said it couldnt provide. Id generally say its 
reasonable for a business to decide not to continue offering a service if a client hasnt 
agreed to the level of service being offered or signed the required documents.Mr P says he didnt sign the agreement because he hadnt received up to date paperwork, 
specifically the services and charges agreement. Ive considered this carefully, looking at all 
the correspondence, including the client agreement and the services and charges
agreement. 
The client agreement didnt give any information about the specific charges that would apply 
to Mr P, but outlined the typical charges that would generally apply. 
The What you will pay for our services section of the client agreement says specific charges 
would be outlined in the separate service and charges agreement that would need to be 
signed and returned; 
The exact charges will be confirmed in your Services & Charges Agreement which will be
agreed before we provide any services to you.
The 2019 services and charges agreement, which Mr P signed, shows a flat fee of £3,000 
was agreed for the ongoing advice charge. 
Fairstone provided an updated client agreement in July 2020, but confirmed there was no 
change to the charges agreement previously signed. So, from this, its clear the flat fee of 
£3,000 would still apply for Fairstones ongoing advice.
Mr P requested a full outline of the charges that apply and was sent further information in a 
letter on 27 July 2020. This included a table with a summary of charges. This table included  
investment fund charges and the platform charges, with the overall charges amounting to 
£4,812.70.
Mr P Asked for this to be updated in the services and charges agreement, but Fairstone 
reassured him the previous agreement still applied with the £3,000 flat fee. The key point 
here is that the additional charges were not charges to be paid to Fairstone; these were 
additional charges such as the platform charge for his SIPP. So I wouldnt expect them to be 
set out in Fairstones charges agreement  they were not Fairstones charges.
Fairstones agreement accurately reflected the charges Mr P had to pay for its services. So I 
dont think the paperwork was incorrect or that it wasnt reasonable to ask Mr P to sign it.
The other issue relating to the termination is that Mr P had asked to reduce the service
from ActivePlan Plus to ActivePlan. Mr P says he felt he was forced to pay for a service he 
didnt need and wasnt receiving. Fairstone has explained that once a customer is drawing 
benefits from their pension, it will only provide the ActivePlan Plus service. As Ive explained, 
its not my role to tell a business how to provide its services. Fairstone had agreed a reduced 
fee with Mr P for his service; he was paying less than the usual ActivePlan Plus charges. 
There was no obligation on Fairstone to agree that. If Mr P didnt want to continue with the 
service Fairstone was offering, he could have terminated the agreement himself and gone 
elsewhere. 
I agree theres nothing in the terms and conditions that says clients in retirement must have 
the Active Plan plus level of agreement. And Mr P says he didnt use many activities or 
services included in it, so he shouldnt have been forced into that level simply because he 
was taking a lump sum once a year. But its for Fairstone to decide what level of service to 
offer a customer. I dont think Mr P was treated unfairly compared to other customers, 
particularly since Fairstone agreed to reduce the usual fee in his case. Taking all of this into account, I dont think Fairstone acted unfairly by terminating the 
agreement in line with the terms agreed previously, in circumstances where an up to date 
agreement wasnt in place. 
Mr P is unhappy with the way Fairstone handled the termination, saying this left him without 
any service for 65 days. The process did take longer than it should have. But, while that 
period may have been difficult for him, I dont think there was any obligation on Fairstone to 
have arranged any additional service. If Mr P had given details of another financial adviser 
he was moving to, Fairstone would have had to transfer the relevant files to them. But that 
wasnt the case here. It was for Mr P to decide whether to find another adviser or manage 
things himself. If he didnt have another adviser in place, he could requested a copy of any 
investment records, if he didnt already have access to these. Mr P had the notice period to 
decide what he was going to do next and make the necessary arrangements.
There was some delay with the termination being completed and Fairstone being removed 
from the account. Mr P says this wasnt merely some delays but serious delay that had 
financial consequences for him. As Ive said, Mr P could have made arrangements himself. 
He had the notice period to decide what to do. Even if a business has got something wrong, 
its reasonable to expect a customer to take steps to protect their position. I note also that 
Mr P was corresponding with the SIPP provider and raised concerns about their delays in 
the process. Any complaint about their actions would need to be considered separately.
I dont think Fairstone was responsible for the fact Mr P couldnt take his UFPLS when he 
wanted to. He was concerned about possible tax implications due to the delay dealing with 
this by the end of the tax year, but has confirmed those issues were resolved. So I dont 
think hes suffered a loss in relation to this.
Charges
The charges are set out in the agreement between Fairstone and Mr P. In his case, a 
reduced charge of £3,000 had been agreed. But hes calculated that he was charged 
£3,0754.09. 
The termination should have been completed by 21 January 2021 but this didnt happen. 
Fairstone agreed that two charges of £254.62 taken on 24 January and 24 February 
respectively were overpayments and refunded these. This left a balance of £3,244.85 and 
Mr P says this shows he has overpaid by £244.85. 
This includes a final deduction of £57.50 which theres a dispute about. Fairstone has said 
this fee wasnt paid to them by the SIPP provider so it cant refund this. Our investigator 
contacted the provider about this and it explained how this came about, and confirmed the 
additional charge of £57.50 was paid to Fairstone. As this was after date when the 
termination should have been complete, the investigator didnt think Mr P should have to pay 
this; it was an overpayment caused by the delays which should be refunded to Mr P. 
Fairstone has now accepted this.
That leaves a sum of £187.35. The £3,000 charge was the annual charge. Based on the 30 
days notice period the termination should have been completed by 21 January 2021, which 
is 21 days after the year end. The agreement would have been in place until the termination 
date, so the charges would apply until then. Calculating charges on a daily rate up to then 
would be fair. However, a small refund of £6.53 is due back to Mr P as he paid £187.53 and 
the charge should have been £180.82. Added to the sum of £57.50 mentioned above, the 
total refund due is £64.03.
Subject access requestMr P has complained about this, in particular the way it was sent to him without any indexing 
or organisation. Complaints about how personal data is handled can be referred to the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO). But as this related to the services Fairstone was 
providing, I can consider whether it treated Mr P fairly.
The ICO doesnt require businesses to send data in an indexed format, and Fairstone would 
not be required to create new information when replying to the request. But Id expect it to 
send information in an appropriate way, which was accessible to Mr P. Im satisfied 
Fairstone did that. 
Mr P has also said hes not received any official receipts. The right of access enables 
individuals to obtain their personal data. Information can be provided in the form of a 
transcript of relevant documents or a print-out of the relevant information. As Mr P has 
confirmed he has print-outs of the receipts, I think Fairstone has acted fairly. 
Summary 
Taking into account all the circumstances, I dont think Fairstone acted unfairly in terminating 
the policy other than the fact there was a small overcharge. So (unless it has already done 
so) Fairstone should refund a total of £64.03 to Mr P.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Fairstone Financial Management Limited to pay £64.03 to 
Mr P.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman