DRN-3652363
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt deal with a claim of fraud on 
their account and provided poor service.
What happened
Mrs M explains that she contacted Barclays when she saw five payments of £1,000 made 
with her card details. She disputed these and the money was refunded. She was unhappy to 
find that about five weeks later £5,000 had been debited from her joint account by Barclays 
resulting in an overdraft. And that it wouldnt provide a temporary overdraft. She says she 
then received two credits for £5,000 and this wasnt all resolved.
Barclays said that in error it hadnt issued a form for Mrs M to sign to confirm the fraud when 
she first called. So, a temporary credit was removed. It said that it had been difficult to 
provide financial support as if the case hadnt been accepted as fraud Mrs M could have 
been in more debt. It offered to pay £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator recommended that Barclays pay a total of £250 as it hadnt made Mrs M 
aware that the refund was temporary. When the money was re-debited he appreciated that 
this was distressing. He noted that Mrs M had transferred the first refund to a savings 
account to keep her money safe. 
Mrs M didnt agree and sent in detailed comments for an ombudsmans review as she said 
things werent as simple as summarised by our investigator. She said that it had taken five 
months to resolve things fully and that there had been a pattern of incompetence. Barclays 
staff had been rude and unhelpful and hadnt done what theyd promised to. No form was 
sent, and shed not been told that the money could be taken back. Shed been told to 
transfer the money to her savings so it couldnt be taken by a fraudster again. If shed moved 
this back it would have been wiped out by the payments and she didnt think that their 
money was safe. 
Mrs M thought that £500 would reflect her distress, the errors and the delays. Shed set out 
the full position and said that Barclays had ample time to put things right. It hadnt helped 
and had been inconsistent  one member of staff saying a temporary overdraft could be 
considered and another that this wasnt possible. Shed spent hours on the phone and had 
constant worry and found the approach to be hostile.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mrs M and Mr M have been victims of fraud and had money taken from 
their account. The fraudster is responsible for causing them distress as a result and this 
meant that Mrs M had to contact Barclays.
It isnt in dispute here that Barclays didnt follow its normal process and that its 
communication was poor. Mrs M was able to raise a claim on 11 August 2020 when the 
pending payments had been debited to her account. She was told during a call that day that 
she wouldnt be able to have a temporary credit due to the amount involved. And to expect 
forms to be sent to her to sign. She asked about an overdraft to cover day to day expenses 
but was told she didnt qualify for that either.
The next day a credit of £5,000 was applied to the account. Mrs M believed that this was the 
end of the matter knowing that the payments werent made by her. She moved the money to 
a savings account so it wouldnt be accessible using her bank card.
On 20 September 2020 she received a notification by text that their account was over £4,000 
overdrawn. She spoke to Barclays that day and because it was a Sunday the fraud team 
couldnt help her. But she was told that this was a re-debit of the money.
She spoke to the fraud team on the following days. She was again told she couldnt have a 
pre-credit or any other help even though one member of staff had mentioned a temporary 
overdraft. She received a reminder about the overdraft. On 23 September 2020, two credits 
of £5,000 were made. Barclays later confirmed she could keep one of those and the claim 
had been accepted and she received a letter stating this dated 6 October 2020. The 
duplicate credit wasnt removed as she says until January 2021.
The position Mrs M and Mr M ought to have been in was that having raised one fraud claim, 
this would likely be settled later in August 2020. Instead Mrs M has had to go through the 
process twice. Shes been told she wouldnt get a pre-credit and then she couldnt have an 
overdraft. I dont have evidence to show staff being rude to her, but I can appreciate the way 
she felt. The messages she was given were unwelcome, at times inconsistent and didnt 
deal with her issues. I can see that two direct debits including for their house insurance were 
returned unpaid on 21 September 2020. The account was in overdraft for three days, but I 
note no fees were applied. And then having not processed the first claim it seems that 
Barclays duplicated it and made two refunds. I can see why Mrs M would want that corrected 
as soon as possible and this as she says took several months.
I hope Mrs M can see that I understand what happened and her position even if I havent 
mentioned every point shes made. And I now need to decide on the appropriate level of 
compensation and have taken into account our published guidelines. We dont tend to make 
awards for units of time spent. And Im thinking about the overall impact of Barclays actions 
and as I referred to above not those of the fraudster who clearly caused distress and some 
unavoidable inconvenience for Mrs M and Mr M. Having done so I consider that the amount 
now recommended by our investigator fairly reflects what happened. I fully appreciate that 
this remains less than Mrs M wants and that she will be disappointed by my assessment.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mrs M 
and Mr M £250.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman