DRN-3436768
The complaint
Ms K complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined to pay out for 
her home insurance claim.
What happened
Ms K moved home in August 2020 and engaged a company to help move her household 
goods and other items. Some of her items were damaged during the move, so Ms K made a 
claim to RSA under her home insurance policy. 
RSA declined the claim in February 2021. It said that as Ms K hadnt used a professional 
removal contractor she wasnt entitled to claim for the damage to most of her goods. RSA 
say its policy wording sets out cover as:
23; Contents cover when you are moving home
The insurer will pay for loss or damage to contents when you move home as a result 
of causes under Section C: Contents 1-11.
Cover for loss or damage is provided:
 if caused during household removal by a professional removal contractor moving 
them from your home to another permanent home in United Kingdom; and/or
 while they are being held in temporary storage by the removal firm for up to 72 
hours.
RSA say that Ms K engaged the services of a man with a van and provided evidence of 
how the van was loaded for the journey. It says that the van was open-backed and Ms Ks 
household goods were not even covered up for the journey which indicated that the removal 
contractor wasnt a professional one.
RSA did say that it could consider cover for damage to Ms Ks laptop and phone under her 
cover for personal possessions, as well as a TV that Ms K says was partially damaged in the 
move, and then damaged further when she installed it in her new home. Although RSA said 
Ms K would need to make a new claim for the installation damage to the TV. RSA also 
agreed that it would pay £100 for the delay in communicating with Ms K, and it would waive 
her policy excess of £200 for her claim.
Ms K remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into her complaint and issued a view based on the information he was able to obtain. 
He said that he thought RSA hadnt acted fairly and reasonably in declining Ms Ks claim. He 
said he was able to identify the removal company and it seemed to be set up as a removal 
and storage company. Our investigator said that on that basis, Ms K had done enough to 
find a company she thought was a professional removal contractor and so RSA should pay 
for Ms Ks entire claim. 
He also said that the delay in turning down Ms Ks claim from August 2020 to February 2021 
was poor service and agreed with RSAs £100 payment for Ms Ks inconvenience. He also 
said that Ms K had a separate arrangement covering her policy excess, so waiving the £200 
claim excess was likely to have limited value to Ms K.
Ms K agreed with the view but RSA did not. It said the company Ms K used was listed as a 
handyman service and as such could not be considered as a professional removal 
contractor. It asked that the decision be reviewed by an ombudsman so it has been passed 
to me to make a final decision. 
I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below:
My role is to assess whether I think RSA made a mistake, or treated Ms K unfairly, in how it 
decided to decline the claim. The crux of this claim is the term RSA used to decline the 
claim, which is professional removal contractor. 
In our investigators view, he mentioned a business with the same name as the one engaged 
by Ms K, but I dont think thats the correct business because it is located several hours drive 
away from Ms K and from what I can see it does not operate the same type of vehicle shown 
in Ms Ks photos. RSA also mention a business with the same name as being a handyman 
service but again this business seems to be located elsewhere.
Ms K has provided some information about her contractor in her complaint and her words 
indicate to me that this business is located nearby to her. I have asked for clarity from Ms K 
about who the contractor was and how she engaged it, but Ive not had any confirmation 
from her about who it was. Ive looked carefully through all Ms Ks submissions to this 
service and have found information about a business with the same name saying it is a 
fencing, landscaping, clearance and groundworks company.
In the absence of any confirmed details it falls to me to make a decision based on the 
information I have. 
RSA do not say in the policy wording what professional removal contractor means and 
have clarified later that they would consider a business to be one of this type if they are
a dedicated business equipped for home & business removals and can do so with 
appropriate care and attention.
I think RSAs phrase is reasonable and they have tried to use the common or everyday 
meaning of words in it. There have been discussions between this service and RSA about a 
description of a man in a van and Im not persuaded that a man in a van cannot provide 
the same quality of service mentioned in RSAs phrase above.
Ms K engaged a company that had been recommended to her as being one who did 
removals, but I can see from the photos that her belongings were loaded onto an open 
backed van and covered with her mattress. She had said during the journey that there was a 
short but significant rainfall which damaged her mattress and formed part of her claim, which 
indicates to me that the load probably wasnt properly covered in any way. From the 
evidence I have seen, I dont think the company used by Ms K was a professional removal 
contractor, even if she did believe that it had done similar, satisfactory, work before. 
So I think its fair to say that RSA acted fairly and reasonably in declining most of Ms Ks 
claim. Ms K may be able to take civil action against the contractor who damaged her goods 
and she should seek legal advice if she wishes.RSA have said they are willing to consider Ms Ks laptop and phone claim as being covered 
under her personal possessions cover, as well as the damage to the TV subject to a new 
claim being made for the damage caused when it was being installed. I think this approach is 
fair and I think Ms K should make those claims in due course.
Claims service
I agree with our investigators view that RSA seem to have declined Ms Ks claim some five 
months after the damage happened. This seems very poor service indeed. Ms K makes the 
point that searching online for the removal company is a five minute job and I agree with 
her that RSA should have done more, earlier on in the life of the claim to establish the exact 
nature of it. Ms K has said she was struggling with other issues around this time and I think 
RSAs poor service did not help her during the claims process. I understand RSA have 
already offered Ms K £100 and agreed to waive her policy excess of £200, but I think RSA 
should pay Ms K this amount instead as she already has a separate arrangement to pay for 
the excess.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I intend to partially uphold this 
complaint. I intend to direct Royal & Sun Alliance Limited to:
Pay Ms K a total of £300 for her distress and inconvenience. If £100 has already 
been paid, then Royal & Sun Alliance Limited may deduct this.
Handle Ms Ks claim for the laptop and mobile phone under the personal 
possessions cover, subject to the rest of the terms and conditions of the policy.
Handle Ms Ks claim for the damage to her TV that happened in her home when 
installing it, subject to the rest of the terms and conditions of the policy.
Response to my provisional decision
RSA agreed with my provisional decision and Ms K responded to ask for more time to 
consider it, but then didnt send me any further information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As RSA agreed with my provisional decision and Ms K didnt respond, my final decision and 
reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. I direct Royal & Sun Alliance Limited 
to:
Pay Ms K a total of £300 for her distress and inconvenience. If £100 has already 
been paid, then Royal & Sun Alliance Limited may deduct this.
Handle Ms Ks claim for the laptop and mobile phone under the personal 
possessions cover, subject to the rest of the terms and conditions of the policy.Handle Ms Ks claim for the damage to her TV that happened in her home when 
installing it, subject to the rest of the terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman