DRN-4306184
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the way British Gas Insurance Limited dealt with a claim she made 
under her Home care insurance policy.
What happened
Ill summarise the main points about this dispute:
Mrs B had a policy with British Gas which included drains and plumbing cover. She 
reported a problem with a blocked toilet.
She said British Gas failed to attend some of the appointments it made, and at those 
it did attend, it failed to resolve the problem.
After four weeks, Mrs B paid a plumber £390 to resolve the problem. In the 
meantime, she said she and her family often had no working toilet at home. She also 
said shed lost out on £500 of earnings because of the number of appointments shed 
had to accommodate.
British Gas said a number of appointments didnt go ahead because the engineer 
couldnt park nearby and/or nobody was at home. And at other appointments, it 
restored the drainage flow  which is what the policy covers. It said the work Mrs B 
had carried out involved replacing the pan connector  which isnt covered by the 
policy. It offered £40 for any distress and inconvenience caused.
Mrs B didnt think British Gas had restored the flow as the toilet became blocked 
again soon after each British Gas visit. She also said British Gas had booked to 
replace the pan connector to resolve the problem  but didnt do so.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She thought British Gas 
notes showed it was going to replace the pan connector, so that work was covered 
by the policy. She asked British Gas to reimburse the amount Mrs B had paid, plus 
interest. She thought it had been reasonable for British Gas to initially try to unblock 
the toilet  but when this didnt work, it should have replaced the pan connector. As a 
result, she thought British Gas had caused some avoidable delays and asked it to 
increase compensation to £100. She wasnt satisfied Mrs B had shown a loss of 
earnings as a direct result of the avoidable delays.
British Gas provided further information to support its position. And Mrs B thought 
more compensation was due. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint 
has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Drains section of the policy, it covers unblocking drains to restore flow 
and repairing the drains where we deem the drain to be unserviceable to restore 
flow. And under the Plumbing section, it covers a replacement of parts that we cant 
repair. This section says it doesnt include the toilet bowl and cistern, but it doesnt 
mention the pan connector, so that seems to be covered.
British Gas accepted the problem was covered by the policy and took steps to 
restore flow to the drains. Heres a summary of what it did:
oBritish Gas first visited 16 September 2022. It said the toilet was blocked, so it 
carried out work to restore the flow.
oIt visited again on 24 September, as the toilet had become blocked again. It 
cleared the blockage and recommended the pan connector was replaced. 
oBritish Gas tried to visit three times soon after, but it said the engineer was 
unable to find a parking space nearby on one occasion and nobody was at 
home for the others. 
oOn 4 October, British Gas visited and cleared the blockage to restore the 
flow. It visited again on 7 October. It said water was backing up when flushed 
and didnt carry out any work. It visited again the next day and said it cleared 
the blockage. The same happened again two days later. After this, Mrs B had 
the pan connector replaced by her own plumber.
At the first two visits, Im satisfied it was reasonable for British Gas to restore the flow 
by unblocking the drain. By the second, it had become clear work would be required 
to maintain the flow and a replacement pan connector was recommended. That 
seems reasonable to me.
However, when the third successful visit took place, it seems British Gas once again 
unblocked the toilet and restored the flow  rather than replacing the pan connector. 
British Gas repeated this several more times in quick succession.
Whilst I can understand why the drain needed unblocking to allow the pan connector 
to be replaced, I dont understand why British Gas didnt do this at the third visit  or 
any of the subsequent visits.
When British Gas failed to do this after many visits, Mrs B turned to a plumber to 
carry out the work instead. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances  British 
Gas hadnt done this and the blockages were continuing very frequently.
Im satisfied British Gas was going to cover the replacement pan connector  either 
because it was unserviceable to restore flow to repair a drain or as a replacement 
part that couldnt be repaired. Because it didnt do so, I think it should now reimburse 
the cost Mrs B paid, plus interest.
If British Gas had carried out the work at the third visit, several further visits wouldnt 
have been necessary. That would have saved Mrs B avoidable distress and 
inconvenience accommodating visits and living with a toilet that blocked intermittently 
during early October. In the circumstances, Im satisfied total compensation of £100 
is fair and reasonable. If British Gas has already paid the £40 it offered, it need only 
pay the remaining £60.I havent seen any evidence to show Mrs B lost out on earnings as a result of the 
unnecessary visits, so I dont make any award for financial loss.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Pay £390 for Mrs Bs plumber cost.
Pay interest on that amount at 8% simple per year, from the date the invoice was 
paid to the date of settlement*.
Pay a total of £100 compensation.
*If British Gas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs B a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman