DRN-4086134
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) terminated the conditional sale agreement he had with them and refused to 
accept a payment plan for his arrears.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr M was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with BPF. The agreement was for £13,500 over 60 months; with monthly payments of 
£283.38. 
While Mr M paid the first two payments, he started to miss payments from December 2019 
onwards. In April 2020, Mr M lost his job as a result of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. 
He advised BPF about this, and they agreed to periods of breathing space (where no 
payments were required), and periods where only token payments were needed. BPF also 
asked Mr M for his income and expenditure details, so they could assess how they could 
assist him longer term, but these were never provided.
On 19 May 2022, BPF sent Mr M a default notice explaining he had £5,650.67 arrears and 
asking him to take action to repay these by no later than 21 June 2022. And, if he didnt, 
BPF could terminate the agreement and repossess the car.
Mr M didnt take any action following the default notice and, on 8 July 2022, BPF wrote to 
him to tell him they were terminating the agreement and would be looking to repossess the 
car. On termination, his arrears stood at £6,217.43  equivalent to around 22 months 
payments.
Mr M wasnt happy about the termination, or that BPF were going to repossess the car. He 
said he needed to keep the car and had offered to clear the arrears over a 10-month 
payment plan, but BPF had refused this. So, he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator explained that, under the guidelines laid down by BPFs regulator the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), financial businesses should treat consumers in default 
or arrears with forbearance and due consideration. And this could be by way of waiving 
interest, deferring arrears payments, accepting token payments etc.
He said that BPF had spoken to Mr M about the situation many times and put measures in 
place such as breathing space and token payments. But, because Mr M never completed 
any income and expenditure form, or offers to pay the arrears, nothing more long-term could 
be put in place. 
The investigator appreciated Mr Ms financial difficulties but didnt think it was reasonable to 
expect BPF to allow the situation to continue, as arrears would continue to accrue. And this 
wouldve put Mr M in a worse position financially. As such, he thought BPF had acted 
reasonably by defaulting and terminating the agreement. And he didnt think they needed to 
do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He thought that BPF should reverse the termination, 
and accept his offer to pay the arrears, as he needs the car as transportation for a 
vulnerable family member. Hes also said that the stress of the situation has caused his 
partner to be hospitalised.
Because Mr M didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr M was supplied with a car under a conditional sale 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to 
investigate complaints about it. 
From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr M was in arrears with BPF. And that the 
arrears were increasing on a month-by-month basis. BPFs case notes show that, from the 
first point Mr M started to miss payments in December 2019, they tried to work with him to 
clear the arrears in a sustainable way. Ive seen that he was offered both breathing space 
and allowed to make token payments. He was also asked to provide income and 
expenditure details so a longer-term solution could be put in place. But I havent seen that 
Mr M ever provided this information.
Given this, Im satisfied that BPF followed the FCAs guidelines around forbearance and due 
consideration. However, its also not reasonable to expect BPF to allow a situation such as 
this to go on indefinitely. As doing so would only put Mr M in a worse situation financially as 
the arrears would continue to increase.
The statement of account shows that Mr M only made payments totalling ten monthly 
instalments between January 2020 and February 2022. And, by July 2022, the agreement 
was almost two years in arrears, with just over two years remaining on the original term.
Given the situation, and that no payment arrangement had been put in place, I think it was 
reasonable for BPF to terminate the agreement and start to take steps to repossess the car.
Its my understanding that Mr M made offers to repay the arrears  one at £600 a month, 
and the other at £1,000 a month. But these offers were made after the agreement had been 
terminated. I havent seen anything to show me that Mr M submitted any form of income and 
expenditure assessment to show that either of these offers were sustainably affordable. And, 
if they were, then its reasonable to assume that Mr M most likely had the means and 
opportunity to make these offers before the agreement was terminated. But he didnt do so.Ive seen that, in January 2023, Mr M made a further offer to pay £6,000 towards the arrears 
and then resume monthly payments. But this offer was made seven months after the 
agreement was terminated. However, it wouldnt have cleared all the outstanding arrears at 
the time of the termination and, if the agreement had been reinstated as Mr M wished, it 
wouldve meant that Mr M would also still owe the payments from July 2022 to January 2023 
 a total of £1,983.66. And, as the offer was to just resume monthly payments after the lump 
sum had been paid, it wouldnt have addressed these outstanding arrears.
Given this, I dont think it was unreasonable for BPF to advise Mr M that the offers werent 
acceptable. And I wont be asking them to retrospectively accept these. 
I appreciate the situation Mr M now finds himself in, and that hes reliant on the car for both 
his and his familys transportation. But I dont think its fair to allow him to continue to have 
use of a car hes not paying for and clearly hasnt been able to afford for over three years. 
And to do so would only add to his financial situation, potentially putting him in a worse 
position to the one he now finds himself in. So, for the reasons stated, I wont be asking BPF 
to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman