DRN-2401331
The complaint
Mr C complains that TSB Bank plc didnt remove his name from a joint account and as a 
result his credit file was negatively impacted. He also complains about poor service from 
TSB.
What happened
Mr C and his former wife had a joint account with TSB. The account had been transferred to 
TSB when it split from Lloyds Banking Group.
Mr C says he got divorced in 2013 and all financial ties with his former wife were to be 
closed down. He says he wasnt involved with the joint account after this. He believed his 
former wife had closed it. And, he says he didnt receive any statements or correspondence 
about the account.
In 2018 Mr C applied for a new mortgage but this proved to be difficult. He checked his credit 
file and discovered there were negative markers on the joint account. He contacted TSB 
about this. It said it couldnt remove his name from the joint account because there was a 
balance outstanding. He had to pay this amount off before his name could be removed from 
the joint account.
Mr C says he had to get an alternative, more expensive, mortgage as a result of the markers 
on his credit file. He says these markers arose because his former wife had used an 
overdraft on the account and hadnt kept it in order. He doesnt think its right that his credit 
file shouldve been impacted. He also says TSB didnt have his signature on its records and 
he doesnt think he shouldve had to pay off the debt to get his name removed from the 
account.
Mr C complained to TSB. He says it was almost six months before he got a response to his 
complaint. And, he says he still got text messages about the account for a long time after his 
name had been removed from the account.
TSB investigated his complaint. It said the account was a joint account which meant he was 
jointly and severally liable for the overdraft. The overdraft had to be cleared before Mr Cs 
name could be taken off the account. TSB said it hadnt made an error when it reported the 
account to credit reference agencies. The account had been set up for paperless 
statements. In these circumstances, the terms and conditions stated that TSB only had to 
send statements to one party to the account.
TSB apologised that he was still receiving text messages about the account but said this 
hadnt had any adverse effect. It also apologised for the delay in dealing with his complaint 
and offered to pay him £300 for his costs and the inconvenience hed experienced.
Mr C was dissatisfied with this response and so he complained to our service. Our
investigator looked into his complaint. She said she didnt think TSB had done anything 
wrong. She said hed agreed to be jointly liable for any debt on the joint account and TSB 
didnt have to remove him from the account until the debt was paid off. She also thought that 
£300 was fair and reasonable compensation for the poor service Mr C had received.
Mr C disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision in this case. Although Ive reached the same view 
as our investigator, Ive done so for different reasons. In this provisional decision Ive 
set out what those reasons are in more detail.
Id just point out at the outset that when looking at this complaint, TSB hasnt always 
been able to provide copies of original documentation. It says this is because of the 
passage of time since certain events happened. And, its also because some of the 
records relate to the period before TSB split from Lloyds Banking Group. In these 
circumstances, Ive sometimes had to consider the records and information that are 
available to try to work out whats more likely to have happened. Ill refer to this 
where copies of original documentation havent been made available.
The rules which apply to joint accounts are set out in the terms and conditions for the 
account. These state as follows:
You and each person named on the account are responsible for any money 
you owe us, such as if you have an overdraft.
What can a joint account holder do without telling the other(s)?
Take out any or all of the money
Close the account or end a service.
Ask for statements and other information we send you to be given 
electronically, or by paper.
Apply for an overdraft 
Because of this, it is the case that both Mr C and his former wife were jointly 
responsible for any overdraft on the account. This was the case even if the overdraft 
was created or increased by Mr Cs former wife without his knowledge.
Should TSB have removed Mr Cs name from the joint account?
Mr C says that when he got divorced in 2013 all financial ties were to be closed down 
and he believed that his former wife had closed the joint account with TSB.
He says he relied on his former wife to close the account, but she didnt do that. He 
didnt contact TSB himself to close the account or to have his name removed from 
the account. I think that is an important fact to bear in mind when considering what 
Mr C has said. Because he didnt tell TSB he no longer wanted to be party to the 
account, I have to consider whether TSB could reasonably be expected to have 
known he wanted his name to be removed from the account.
Mr C says he didnt get any statements or correspondence about the account. So, he 
didnt realise it was still open.Mr C has told us that TSB may have had his address on its system. But I cant find 
any evidence to support that. It doesnt appear to have been provided with the 
address he was residing at after he divorced his former wife until he provided that 
address to it in 2018. So, all correspondence up to 2018 continued to be sent to the 
address TSB held on its records. That address appears to be the address where his 
former wife was living.
Ive looked at TSBs obligation to send separate statements and correspondence to 
Mr C.
Statements of account
TSB is obliged to provide statements of account to each party to a joint account 
unless one of those parties agrees that he or she doesnt require that. This is 
sometimes referred to as a dispensing notice.
TSB hasnt been able to provide our service with a copy of a dispensing notice 
signed by Mr C. So, Ive looked at whether there is any evidence to suggest that he 
had signed a dispensing notice.
It appears that prior to 2013 statements for the account were addressed to both 
parties and sent to a single address. And I can see that this continued after 2011 
which was when Mr C became separated from his former wife. Mr C doesnt appear 
to have raised any complaints about this or requested that the arrangement should 
be changed.
Whilst this arrangement tends to support an argument that there was a dispensing 
notice, Ive also considered the position after 2013. But, as mentioned above, I dont 
find any record that Mr C provided TSB with details of the address where he was 
living, after he and his former wife divorced. This is also consistent with what Mr C 
has told us. He assumed his former wife had closed the account. So, in those 
circumstances, he wouldnt have thought there was any need to keep TSB informed 
about his address.
This meant that the only address TSB had on its records was the address where Mr 
Cs former wife continued to live. And, even if TSB had sent separately addressed 
statements to Mr C, they wouldve been delivered to that address. He no longer 
resided there. So, I dont think he would have got them.
Having thought about the circumstances here, although I cannot be certain about 
whether a dispensing notice was signed by Mr C, Im not persuaded that TSBs 
failure to send him separate statements wouldve changed the outcome.
The overdraft and confirmation of the changes to the overdraft in 2015
Mr C says his former wife started to use the overdraft on the account after their 
mortgage account had been settled. He says he didnt know she was doing this or 
that she was allowing the account to move into unarranged overdraft. So, he doesnt 
think its fair that he shouldve had to pay the debt or that hes been adversely 
affected by the markers on his credit file.
Ive looked at the statement issued in July 2018. I can see it referred to an approved 
overdraft. TSB has confirmed an arranged overdraft facility was set up on the 
account shortly after it was opened in 2007 and amended in or around 2015. TSB 
hasnt been able to provide any copies of the documentation that was issued nor 
been able to say how the facility was amended in 2015.So, Ive considered what consent Mr C wouldve been required to give and what 
information he shouldve been provided with if the change in 2015 was to increase 
the overdraft.
The first point I would make is that an overdraft can be created and can be increased 
on a joint account at the request of one of the joint account holders. There is no 
requirement for both parties to make that application. That is a key feature of a joint 
current account. And, its also included in TSBs terms and conditions.
Ive also looked at the regulations which applied to overdrafts in 2015.
TSB wouldve been required to carry out a credit assessment before granting any 
increase on the overdraft. The regulations in 2015 required any such assessment to 
be proportionate taking into account the type and amount of credit. But I dont think 
this wouldve required TSB to get details of Mr Cs income and outgoings, in 
circumstances where it was satisfied that the income and expenditure flows on the 
current account were sufficient to support any proposed increase in the overdraft. So, 
Im satisfied that the requirement to carry out a credit assessment wouldnt have 
alerted TSB to the fact that Mr C no longer wanted to be a joint account holder.
Ive also considered TSBs obligations under the disclosure regulations which applied 
at the time. These state that in the case of an overdraft on a joint account, in the 
absence of explicit consent, certain information must be provided to both joint 
account holders. TSB didnt have Mr Cs express consent not to provide him with this 
information. But the requirement was that the information should be provided in 
writing. An oral disclosure was not required.
So, even if TSB had complied with this obligation, Im not persuaded Mr C wouldve 
received it. This is because he hadnt provided TSB with his address.
Notices about charges on the account when it exceeded the overdraft
TSB is obliged to send information to customers where an account exceeds an 
approved overdraft. It appears from the information provided that the account 
exceeded the approved overdraft on a number of occasions between 2015 and 2018. 
This would have triggered a requirement to inform the account holder in writing of 
certain matters such as applicable charges.
TSB has provided information from its records which shows that it did provide 
information about the charges on the account to the account holders. It fulfilled its 
obligation by sending the relevant notices to the account holders at the address it 
held on its records. As mentioned previously the address it held on its records was 
not the address where Mr C was living. But he hadnt provided a different address to 
TSB.
TSB didnt have a copy of his signature on its records and he didnt agree that 
this account should be domiciled with TSB after it split from Lloyds.
Mr C has told us that when he contacted TSB in 2018 it didnt have a copy of his 
signature on its records. He says TSB told him this was the reason it hadnt replied to 
his correspondence. And he thinks this may also be the reason why it didnt warn him 
that the account he was linked to was overdrawn.TSB wasnt able to locate its record of Mr Cs signature. However, that wasnt the 
reason why he didnt get correspondence about his joint account. As Ive explained 
above TSB hadnt been provided with his current address. So, I dont think that the 
fact TSB didnt have a record of Mr Cs signature contributed to what happened here.
Ive also considered what Mr C has said about how this account was switched to TSB 
after Lloyds moved some of its accounts to TSB. That switch took place in 2013 
which was around the same time as Mr C divorced his former wife.
Mr C says he wasnt asked to agree to this or to sign anything to bank with TSB. But I 
dont think that any formal agreement or signature wouldve been required when this 
change took place. Although the name of the bank where the account was held 
changed, there was no change to the joint account terms and conditions. The 
changes were widely published at the time and notices were also sent to customers. 
A signature wouldnt have been required to allow the change to take effect.
Summary
Having considered each of TSBs obligations to provide information to Mr C, Ive 
concluded that even if it had complied with all of its obligations, that wouldnt have 
changed the outcome here.
That doesnt mean TSB shouldnt have complied with its obligations or that its 
acceptable for it not to provide evidence that it did send notices as required. But I 
have to try to reach a decision of what is fair and reasonable, based on all of the 
information thats been provided.
Having considered everything here, Ive concluded that because Mr C didnt tell TSB 
he no longer wanted to be a party to the account and because he hadnt provided his 
address to TSB, it had no knowledge, either actual or implied, that he no longer 
wanted to be a party to this joint account. It only became aware of this when Mr C 
approached it in 2018.
Should TSB have entered the adverse markers on Mr Cs credit file?
Ive also thought about the adverse markers on Mr Cs credit file. I can see these 
were applied on three occasions at the end of 2017 and the start of 2018. The credit 
report lists the outstanding balance on the account over the period. There is no 
evidence that a default was registered on the account. The markers were applied 
because the arranged overdraft limit had been exceeded and TSB had an obligation 
to report the excess.
For the reasons outlined above, I dont think TSB did anything wrong when it 
reported the position to the credit reference agencies.
Mr C says this was prejudicial when he applied for a new mortgage account in 2018.
Information recorded with credit reference agencies can impact on credit scores. But 
thats not something TSB can dictate. Different lenders approach this in different 
ways and its up to each lender to decide how to use that information when 
calculating a credit score for lending purposes.
Ive also noted that because Mr C was still a party to the joint account with his former 
wife at the date when he was applying for credit, lenders would have regarded his 
former wife as an association. This means that the lender could use the associates 
information (in this case his former wifes information) to help it make its decision.Mr C thinks TSB should compensate him for the extra interest and costs he incurred 
when he couldnt get credit from his first choice of lender. But, for the reasons set out 
above, I dont think TSB did anything wrong when it provided the information to the 
credit reference agencies about the joint account. And, it updated the credit file as 
soon as the account was settled.
Poor service
Mr C has told us about the delays he experienced when he complained to TSB. And 
hes commented on the fact he was still receiving texts about the joint account even 
after his name had been removed from it. TSB acknowledged these matters and 
apologised. It offered to pay him £300 for costs hed incurred and for the 
inconvenience hed experienced. Our investigator thought this was fair and 
reasonable.
After our investigator provided her view on this complaint, we asked TSB to provide 
us with further information. TSB responded by saying it recognised that Mr C was 
disappointed with the situation and the length of time the complaint was ongoing. It 
also acknowledged that it didnt communicate matters as clearly as it could have 
done. And, although it did not accept that it was liable to compensate Mr C, it offered 
to make an additional token payment of £1000 to Mr C as a goodwill gesture. So, in 
total, it has offered to pay Mr C £1300 by way of compensation. Mr C has declined 
this offer.
For the reasons stated above it is currently not my intention to uphold this complaint. 
TSB has made an offer of £1300 (in total) by way of compensation for the poor 
service it provided. It is up to Mr C to decide whether he wants to accept that offer or 
not.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above I do not intend to uphold this complaint about TSB Bank 
plc.
Mr C responded to my provisional decision. He provided some new information. He said:
Hed contacted TSB in or around 2013 by telephone. At that time, he was certain 
hed provided it with his change of address. And, he says he asked it to send him 
copies of statements for the account.
Hed found some correspondence from TSB which had been sent to him at his 
current address at the end of 2017/start of 2018. He said this correspondence 
enclosed a new debit card for the joint account. He said this was evidence that TSB 
did have his address.
TSB also responded to my provisional decision. It said it had recorded Mr Cs change of 
address on 25 March 2013. It said it had confirmed this to be the case throughout the history 
of the complaint to our service.
In light of the new information I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted there is now no dispute that TSB did have Mr Cs current address from 25 March 
2013. In light of that Ive thought again about the complaint Mr C has made.As I said in my provisional decision one of the important facts in this case was that Mr C 
didnt ask TSB to remove his name from the joint account. He says he relied on his former 
wife to do that. And hes said he believed his name had been removed from the account. 
Thats why he says he was shocked when he discovered the account was still a joint 
account in 2018 and he was jointly and separately liable for the overdraft on it.
Mr C has now informed us that he did receive some correspondence from TSB in the period 
after 2013. And hes referred to a new/replacement debit card he received at the end of 
2017/start of 2018. I also think its likely he wouldve received a new/replacement debit card 
in the period between 2013 and 2018 when it wouldve been renewed. He hasnt been able 
to confirm if that was the case or not.
Mr C didnt query this with TSB. I think if he believed his name shouldve been removed from 
the account, he wouldve contacted TSB when he received a new debit card. Receipt of the 
debit card wouldve alerted him to the fact that the account was still a joint account. But he 
didnt contact TSB or raise any query about this - he simply filed the letter with his other 
records. 
Ive also considered what Mr C has told us about the phone call he made in March 2013. At 
that time, he says he gave TSB his new address and asked for statements and other 
correspondence about the account to be sent to him at his new address. That was prior to 
the date when he became divorced but after hed split up with his former wife. 
Ive thought about what Mr C has said here. And, as mentioned above theres no dispute he 
gave TSB his new address. But, if he asked it to send him statements and other 
correspondence about the account, Id have expected him to contact it again when that 
didnt happen. If hed done that, he wouldve been told the account was still a joint account. 
Ive also noted that although he was speaking to TSB at this time, he didnt specifically ask it 
to remove his name from the joint account, nor indicate that was what he wanted to happen.
Having considered what Mr C has told us, Im satisfied he had information to alert him to the 
fact that his former wife hadnt removed his name from the joint account. Despite this, Mr C 
didnt tell TSB, at any time in the period up to June/July 2018 that he no longer wanted to be 
a party to the account. I think there was an onus on him to do this and any failures on the 
part of TSB need to be considered in the context of his inaction.
Against that background, Ive also thought again about whether TSB could reasonably have 
been expected to know he wanted his name to be removed from the joint account. In my 
provisional decision Id referred to various opportunities TSB had to send Mr C information 
about the account, including statements and changes to the overdraft. 
Id concluded I couldnt be certain about whether Mr C had signed a dispensing notice. If he 
had signed such a notice TSB wouldnt have been required to send him separate statements 
of account. Mr C says he told TSB in March 2013 to send him separate statements. But hes 
also confirmed he didnt challenge it when he didnt receive statements. Id have expected 
him to do this  to verify for himself that his name had been removed from the account. I 
dont think it would be fair or reasonable to expect TSB to have been alerted to the fact that 
he wanted his name removed from the account when he hadnt gone back to it looking for 
separate statements.
Id also looked at other information TSB shouldve sent to Mr C about the overdraft and 
charges on it. Given that TSB has confirmed it had Mr Cs address this means there was 
some information it shouldve sent to him, separately. As a joint account holder, he was entitled to get certain disclosures, in writing, about changes in the overdraft which happened 
in 2015. He wasnt sent those disclosures.
So, Ive thought again about whether that wouldve changed the outcome here. TSB hasnt 
been able to tell us precisely what changes were made to the overdraft in 2015. And it is 
possible that the nature of the changes was such that no disclosures wouldve been 
required.
I also cant be certain what action Mr C mightve taken if disclosures had been provided. As 
Ive mentioned, he hadnt taken any action when he didnt get statements and he hadnt 
taken any action when he received the new/replacement debit card for the account at the 
end of 2017.
Ive also taken into account the fact that Mr Cs former wife couldve caused the account to 
be overdrawn without making a formal application. Mr C wouldnt have been entitled to the 
written disclosures Ive referred to if that had happened. But he wouldve still been jointly and 
separately liable for the overdraft. 
Having considered everything here, on balance, Im not persuaded Mr C did anything to 
bring the fact that he wanted his name removed from the account, to the attention of TSB. 
And, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to say that TSB shouldve known that was 
what he wanted it to do. 
In these circumstances, I remain of the view that TSB didnt do anything wrong when it 
reported the position regarding the overdraft to the credit reference agencies. 
As I said in my provisional decision TSB has acknowledged that it didnt communicate 
matters to Mr C as clearly as it could have done and offered him £1300 (in total) by way of 
compensation for what happened. That offer is still open, and Mr C can decide whether he 
wants to accept it or not.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman