DRN-3861953
The complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK plc (Santander) took four days to make a payment 
resulting in a lost investment opportunity. He would like a refund of the loss incurred.
. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mr Ds frustration, due to the time taken for Santander to process a 
payment he missed an investment opportunity. Mr D submitted made his payment 
on a  Friday, with the payment being made on the next working day  the following 
Tuesday as the Monday was a bank holiday. I have seen the terms and conditions 
for Mr Ds account. These state that payments will reach recipients no later than the 
end of the next working day. As this is what happened here I cant see that 
Santander was at fault.
Mr D has referred us to a clause in Santanders terms and conditions stating faster 
payments are made in 2 hours. Mr D hasnt given us a copy of what he found, and I 
have been unable to locate a specific reference to a 2-hour time frame. I have 
however looked up Santanders terms for faster payments which state these 
payments are made immediately. However, I understand that the  company Mr D 
transferred funds to isnt on the faster payment system so that method of payment 
couldnt be used. I have also looked at the companys website which states that 
transfers from UK bank accounts usually take one working day which was the case 
here.
I appreciate Mr D has he has lost out financially due to the timing of the payment. 
Thats unfortunate, but I dont think Santander has any responsibility for this. It made 
the payment in accordance with its terms and conditions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
