DRN-2287313
The complaint 
Mr Bs complaint is about the refusal of a claim under a golf club insurance policy with Aviva 
Insurance Limited, which he says was also mis-sold to him. 
These were being dealt with as two separate complaints until now but Aviva has confirmed it 
is responsible for the sale of the policy, as well as the refusal of the claim, so it can be dealt 
with as part of the same complaint. I will therefore be addressing both the refusal of the 
claim and the allegation of mis-sale in this decision. 
What happened
Mr B took out a policy to cover his golf clubs in December 2019. On 24 June 2020, he made 
a claim as his clubs had been stolen from his car. Mr B says he had played golf and driven 
home at around midday on 21 June 2020. He left the clubs in his car boot, so they were not 
visible and the car was locked. Mr B says that in the early morning of 24 June 2020, he 
found the car had been broken into and the clubs had been stolen. 
Aviva refused the claim, as it says it does not cover the theft of clubs from an unattended  
car between 10pm and 8am, and also that it only covers the clubs during the operative time 
(which is on the way to or from a golf club, or while at a golf club). 
Mr B is very unhappy with this and says the policy was mis-sold to him. Mr B has made a 
number of points in support of his complaint, which Ive summarised below:  
Aviva initially declined his claim on the basis that he is not covered between 10pm 
and 8am and then when he proved it could not rely on that term, it found another 
reason instead, all in the small print. 
He was not aware of these restrictions in cover until he made this claim, as there was 
no reference to these terms in the on-screen instructions when he took out the policy.
The terms relied on by Aviva were in the separate policy terms and conditions, but 
like most other people, he did not read these at the time. 
He took the policy out in good faith, believing that any important restrictions such as 
this, would be made apparent. 
If he had known about these restrictions, he would not have taken out the policy.
The policy is described as being platinum cover and so sounded like the most 
comprehensive policy. 
In any case, no one knows exactly what time the theft took place. 
The terms are also misleading and contradictory, as it says theft is covered from a 
vehicle as long as the clubs are in a locked boot out of sight, but then says they are 
not covered between 10pm and 8am. 
It is unfair for facts such as this to be hidden within lengthy terms and conditions and 
not made clear during the steps to purchase the policy. 
The insurance product information document, which sets out the key features of 
cover, contains different wording from the full terms of the policy. The insurance 
product information document says it excludes cover from an unattended vehicle 
parked outside or in close proximity to residence or work. The full policy document 
doesnt contain this wording and says theft from a vehicle is not covered unless it is 
out of sight in a locked boot or covered luggage area and the vehicle is locked, which 
his was. 
Aviva has changed the wording recently, making it clearer, which shows it was 
misleading in the first place. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He did not think the policy had been mis-sold 
and also did not think it was unreasonable that Aviva refused the claim, based on the policy 
terms. 
Mr B does not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
He still says the policy was mis-sold to him. Mr B says he purchased the top policy on offer 
and there should have been something to highlight that he was not going to be covered 24 
hours a day, or outside the operative time, on the initial pages of the online purchasing 
process. Had it been, Mr B says he would have purchased alternative insurance. He says 
this was totally misleading and not acting in good faith.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers theft of golf equipment but no policy will provide such cover without some 
terms and conditions. The policy contains the following exclusions relevant to Mr Bs claim:
What is not covered
Any loss, theft or damage which occurs outside of the Operative Time
Any theft from an unattended Vehicle unless the Golf Equipment is kept out of sight in a 
locked boot or a covered luggage area, the Vehicle is securely locked and any theft is 
verified by a Police Report.
Any theft from Vehicles left unattended at any time between the hours of 10pm and 8am
Operative time is defined in the policy as being:
From the time You leave Your Residence, place of work or education whichever is
the later to commence Your journey to play golf at a golf venue or attend a Hotel
Golfing Break until You return back to Your Residence, place of work or education
whichever is the earlier.
I think it is reasonably clear that the clubs are covered while the policyholder is on the way 
to, or on the way back from, a golf club, and while at a golf club; and that they are covered if 
left in a car but not if left in the car overnight between 10pm and 8am. The policy will cover 
theft from a vehicle outside of those hours, if they are out of sight. These terms are not 
unusual or inherently unfair, and Aviva is entitled to decide what it wants to cover. 
The theft didnt occur while Mr B was on the way to, or from a golf club and the clubs had 
been left in an unattended vehicle for up to three nights. Mr B found the clubs had been 
stolen at around 6.50am. They could have been stolen at any time between midday 21 June 
and 6.50am on 24 June 2020 but the risk of theft from a car is greater at night (which is why 
the policy contains this exclusion) and given the car was apparently parked outside Mr Bs 
home, it seems likely he would have noticed if the theft had happened before 10pm on 23 June 2020. Given this, I think it more likely than not that the clubs were stolen during the 
preceeding night. 
But, even if this isnt the case and they were stolen during the daytime, the claim is still 
excluded as the clubs were stolen outside of the operative time.
I think the policy terms relied on are sufficiently clear. I dont agree that they are so 
contradictory or misleading, due to the way they are set out, that they should be disregarded 
by Aviva. And, as stated, they are not inherently unfair or unreasonable. 
Mr B has also raised a complaint that the policy was mis-sold to him, and if he had known 
about the restrictions on cover, hed have looked for alternative cover.
 
Those selling insurance have a responsibility to provide clear information about the cover 
being provided, the cost and any significant terms or conditions. The information provided to 
the buyer must put them in a position to make an informed decision about whether or not to 
take the policy. To fulfil this responsibility, we would expect a seller to explain clearly any 
significant terms. This may be verbally or by providing clear documentation. As this policy 
was taken out on-line, I have considered the information provided to Mr B during that 
process. 
The sales process required Mr B to enter his personal contact information and select a level 
of cover (bronze, silver, gold and platinum). There are links to show the difference between 
these options, which is largely the value of the clubs covered and some other financial limits. 
Having selected which level of cover he wanted, the next page asks for certain declarations 
regarding previous insurances and convictions. There is then the following statement:
Any insurance policy purchased through this website will be subject to terms and conditions 
in the insurance booklet. To assess whether our policy meets your needs and requirement 
we strongly recommend that you read the terms of business and insurance booklet.
There are links to both relevant documents, in that paragraph. The documents are also 
accessible from other pages on the same website. The insurance product information 
document is two pages and clearly on the first page it says:
what is covered 
Theft loss or damage to Golf Equipment up to your chosen sum assured and next to this a 
box which says:
What is not insured
Any claims outside of the Operative Time. 
Theft from a vehicle between the hours of 10pm and 8am unless You are on a Hotel Golfing 
Break and Your Vehicle is in the hotel car park.
Theft from an unattended Vehicle which is parked outside or in close proximity to residence 
or work. 
The definition of operative time is also set out on the same page. 
I think this document sets out the restrictions on cover prominently and clearly. The full 
policy document is longer but I am not persuaded the terms are hidden in the small print, when they are prominently set out on the first page of the insurance product information 
document.  
The third one of the exclusions set out above (i.e. the exclusion of theft from an unattended 
Vehicle which is parked outside or in close proximity to residence or work) is not in the full 
policy terms. Mr B raises this in support of his allegation that the documents are misleading 
and unclear. However, this wording does not negate the two exclusions set above it and 
which are being relied on by Aviva.  Aviva has confirmed it will be looking into the difference 
in wording but I do not think it affects the outcome of Mr Bs case because, as Ive said it 
does not affect the terms it has relied on. Instead, it would seem to support them.
Mr B says he did not look at or read these documents before proceeding. He says the 
limitations of cover relied on by Aviva, in particular that cover is not 24 hours a day, should 
instead have been highlighted on the first pages of the online buying process.
No information about the cover (other than the different levels of cover) was provided on 
those pages but Mr B was alerted to where the relevant documents could be found. And, as 
set out above, I think those documents were sufficiently clear about the cover.
I am not persuaded that Aviva needed to have details of exclusions to cover on the pages 
which set out the cost of the policies on offer and where Mr B was required to enter his 
details. He had, by the time he went to those pages, already chosen to purchase the policy 
with Aviva. While, I would agree that it is not uncommon not to read an entire contract 
document when purchasing something on line, I do not think this means that Mr B was mis-
led and that the policy was mis-sold. The relevant information to allow Mr B to make an 
informed decision about the policy was provided to him and I am not persuaded that Aviva 
needed to do anything more. The insurance product information document and the full policy 
terms were also apparently posted to Mr B after the policy started. 
In addition, the terms relied on by Aviva to refuse the claim, are not unusual terms and are 
contained within most similar policies I have seen. So, even if Mr B had decided to try and 
find alternative cover, if he had known that there were restrictions to this policy, it would have 
been difficult to find a policy that would have covered his claim.  
Despite my sympathy for Mr Bs situation, I am of the opinion that the claim is not covered 
and that the policy was not mis-sold
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman