DRN-3428065
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him a Graduate Additions 
packaged bank account in 2004. Mr J says he was told he had to have this account in order 
to get an overdraft facility.
What happened
Our adjudicators have looked into Mr Js complaint already and they didnt think that 
Barclays had mis-sold the Graduate Additions account. Mr J disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint and make a final decision.
I note that Mr J, in his response to the adjudicators decision, mentioned that he feels that his 
overdraft may have been mis-sold to him. If he remains concerned by this he would need to, 
in the first instance, raise this directly with Barclays.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Js complaint.
Ive carefully thought about everything Ive seen on this complaint. And having done so, I 
dont think Mr Js complaint should be upheld. Id like to explain why in a bit more detail.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr J was given a clear choice in taking the account. At 
this point, it may help for me to explain that I have to make my decision based on what I 
think is most likely to have happened having weighed up what Mr J and Barclays have been 
able to provide me with.
Firstly, I can see that prior to taking out this account Mr J had held a fee free Higher 
Education account, so I think that he wouldve been aware that Barclays offered fee free 
accounts and they were an option for him. Mr J says he was told he had to take out the 
account in order to get an overdraft facility. But I can see that Mr J held an overdraft prior to 
this upgrade and the limit did not change at the time the account was taken out. What I think 
is more likely to have happened is that Mr J agreed to take out the account to get a larger 
fee free overdraft amount. 
To explain, Mr J held a Higher Education account prior to the upgrade. My understanding is 
that this account came with an interest free overdraft of £1500 and this account was only 
designed to be held for a limited time. The Graduate account came with a larger interest free 
overdraft of up to £3,000. So I think it is likely that either Mr J took out the Graduate account 
as he was either unable to continue to hold the Higher Education account, or Mr J took out 
the Graduate account in order to receive a larger amount of his overdraft as interest free. 
This is supported by Mr Js overdraft usage and balance increasing around this time. So the 
preferential overdraft terms on the Graduate Additions account were always likely to have 
been useful to him. I accept from what Mr J has said he may not have needed all the 
benefits that the account came with, but I am satisfied that he mainly wouldve taken out the 
account for the overdraft benefit.
So having thought about everything Ive seen, I think its most likely Mr J was given a clear 
choice on upgrading. And I think its likely that he chose to upgrade to the Graduate 
Additions account.
Barclays says that no personal recommendation was made when Mr J took out the account 
and from what Mr J has explained about his recollections from the sale I dont think a 
detailed discussion was had around the insurance benefits that came with the account or 
their suitability for Mr J. Therefore, I think it is likely that this sale was carried out without a 
personal recommendation. This means that Barclays did not need to ensure that the account 
was right for Mr J. It did though have to give Mr J enough information to decide this for 
himself.
I think the main benefits such as the interest free overdraft, the mobile phone insurance and 
the breakdown cover wouldve been highlighted to Mr J. Im open to the possibility that Mr J 
wasnt told absolutely everything he shouldve been told about the account. But I havent 
seen anything to suggest that he was affected by any of the main limitations or exclusions on 
any of the benefits. So I dont think that clearer information wouldve made a difference to his 
decision to take out the account in the first place and I do think he did most likely receive 
enough to know what it was he was agreeing to.
Mr J may now, with the benefit of hindsight, believe that he hasnt benefitted from the 
account as much as hed initially hoped and expected to. And given what he mightve read 
and heard about packaged accounts in general, I can understand why he believes his 
account was mis-sold.
But as I explained earlier, I have to base my decision on what I think is most likely to have 
happened and I cant use hindsight when reaching my conclusion. And I dont have enough 
here to say that Mr J was misled, or forced, into taking the packaged account. So although 
Mr J might now think that the account hasnt proved to be value for money over the entire 
period of time he had it, this doesnt mean that it was mis-sold to him.
Given this, I dont think that Barclays mis-sold the Graduate Additions account. So Im not 
upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Charlie NewtonOmbudsman