DRN-3203305
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. wont refund the premium paid for a travel insurance policy in full. 
What happened
In February 2020 Mrs W bought an annual travel insurance policy for the benefit of her and 
Mr W. Cover was due to start immediately and last for 12 months. The policy cost just over 
£170.
Two trips had been booked to take place during the period of insurance; in April and 
November 2020. But those trips didnt go ahead due to the impact of the Covid-19 
pandemic. No claims were made on the policy but Mrs W contacted Mapfre in early 2021 to 
cancel the policy and she was offered a premium refund of almost £25.
Mrs W wants a refund of the full premium paid because the policy wasnt used. So, a 
complaint was referred to our service.
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. The investigator also explained that it is a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a 
time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to 
keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also 
explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be 
performed because cover under the policy started in February 2020 and the policy covered 
various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Mapfre to offer Mr and Mrs W a pro-rata refund, which theyd already done. Mr and 
Mrs W disagree and have asked an Ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The relevant policy terms and conditions say: 
Cancellations & 'cooling-off' period
If this cover is not suitable for you and you want to cancel your policy, you must write 
(either by e-mail or letter, which you can post or fax to the number below) to within 
14 days of buying your policy or the date you receive your policy documentation 
whichever is the later.
If you have not travelled or made a claim and you wish to cancel the policy within 14 
days of receiving your policy documentation a full refund will be given. If you cancel 
after 14 days of receipt of your policy documents no premium refund will be made.
If you are an annual multi-trip policyholder and you have travelled or made a claim 
before you asked to cancel the policy[] may only refund part of the premium.
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so theres no requirement 
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for Mapfre to offer a refund to Mr and 
Mrs W. 
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that Mr and Mrs W arent 
entitled to a refund if cancelled after 14 days from receiving their policy documents. 
So, the offer Mapfre has made goes beyond whats required by the policy terms and 
conditions.  
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. In the circumstances of this case I think Mapfres offer is fair and reasonable 
because Mr and Mrs W had the benefit of cover during the time that the policy was in 
place. Mapfre has agreed to refund them for the unused period from early January 
2021 when Mrs W contacted Mapfre about cancelling the policy to the date the policy 
was due to expire.
Mrs W says shed like Mapfre to refund a higher amount of the premium as a gesture 
of goodwill. However, I dont think there are any grounds upon which I can fairly and 
reasonably ask Mapfre to do so. Whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W, Im not 
upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman