DRN-4354295
The complaint
Mr S complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) unfairly declined a claim on 
his motor insurance policy after being told the damage to his vehicle was covered. 
What happened
Mr S took out a Commercial Vehicle Plus insurance policy with Haven for his van. He was 
involved in a road traffic accident and his vehicle was written off. Mr S was breathalysed at 
the scene by police, and he was found to be over the legal limit for drink driving.
Mr S notified Haven of the incident and that he was one point over the drink drive limit. 
Haven told Mr S that he could make a claim for the damage to his vehicle. Haven arranged a 
date to collect Mr Ss vehicle  but later told him it wouldnt be providing cover. Haven 
pointed to the policy exclusion in Mr Ss policy which said it didnt cover loss or damage to 
the insureds vehicle while the driver is under the influence of alcohol.  
Mr S thought this was unfair  he said the advisor he initially spoke to when reporting the 
claim knew that he had been breathalysed and was over the limit, but he was told the 
damage to his vehicle would be covered. Mr S thinks its unfair that Haven has since 
changed its position and declined cover. Mr S wants Haven to honour what its advisor had 
told him would happen when he reported the claim.
Unhappy that Haven wouldnt change its stance, Mr S brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened - but didnt recommend that the complaint 
should be upheld. In summary, he said that while Haven may have caused confusion by 
incorrectly telling Mr S that hed be able to make a claim, the policy exclusion for loss or 
damage while under the influence of alcohol had been correctly applied by Haven. He 
therefore didnt require Haven to do anything more.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator gave. Ill explain why.
Haven has relied on the following policy exclusion when declining Mr Ss claim:
What is not covered 
See also Section N - General Exclusions
Section B does not cover: 
22. Loss of or damage to Your Vehicle whilst the driver is under the influence of, or is
affected by the use or consumption of:
a) Alcohol,
b) Illegal drugs, or
c) Medication (prescribed or otherwise, where the driver has been advised or 
instructed not to drive whilst taking that medication, including but not limited to 
instruction/guidance provided in information leaflets accompanying medication).
Its not in dispute that Mr S was under the influence of alcohol at the time of incident. He has 
also told us that he was found to be over the limit. I therefore agree with our investigator that 
Haven has correctly applied the above policy exclusion when declining Mr Ss claim.
Mr S said Haven should honour his claim because it told him it would. Haven has 
acknowledged that the call handler gave incorrect information to Mr S when he first 
contacted it about the incident. Haven apologised for the error in its final response letter. 
I understand why it must have been very disappointing for Mr S to find out there was no 
cover, having previously been told the damage would be covered. I also agree with our 
investigator that this may have caused some confusion, but Im satisfied that Haven acted 
reasonably by apologising for the incorrect information it provided during the initial call.  
In conclusion, Im satisfied Haven didnt act unfairly or unreasonably when declining Mr Ss 
claim. It therefore wouldnt be reasonable to ask Haven to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman