DRN-2943373
The complaint
Mr G has complained about his previous motor insurance broker, Brightside Insurance 
Services Limited, in respect of information it recorded about him on a shared database as 
well as about what it told his new insurer.
What happened
Mr G cancelled his policy with Brightside in November 2020. Brightside had told Mr G it 
intended to cancel that policy (for non-payment of premiums) but Mr G acted first to cancel it 
himself. Brightside updated a shared database with the non-payment details, but also with 
detail that would tell other insurers that Brightside had cancelled the policy.
When Mr G arranged new insurance and was asked if hed had a policy cancelled, he said 
no, he hadnt. But the new insurer then saw the information Brightside had logged on the 
shared database. Brightside was contacted and it told the new insurer that it had marked the 
database to ensure it didnt offer Mr G a policy again  but also that he was cancelled. The 
new insurer cancelled Mr Gs new policy and told him if hed told it of the previous 
cancellation by Brightside, it wouldnt have offered him cover.
Mr G contacted Brightside the next day to complain. It reviewed its file, amended the 
database and, the following day, contacted the new insurer to explain that Mr G had actually 
cancelled the policy (although if he hadnt it wouldve). Mr Gs new insurer reinstated his 
policy. But Mr G remained unhappy as Brightside wouldnt accept it had done anything 
wrong or acknowledge the stress as well as financial loss hed been caused (because he 
couldnt work for three days whilst he had no insurance). 
Our investigator felt Brightside had failed Mr G, noting hed been unable to work for three 
days as well as the worry caused to him. She said that if Brightside hadnt done so already, it 
should amend the shared database. She also said it should pay Mr G £150 compensation  
but if he wanted it to off-set that against any outstanding policy amount he could. She further 
said the two should work together to find a suitable payment plan for Mr G to deal with any 
outstanding amount owed to Brightside. 
Brightside said its failures had really been minimal, for example it was unfortunate a poorly 
worded email had been sent. But it had acted to correct things immediately, and Mr G, in its 
view, shouldnt be able to benefit by receipt of compensation when he owes it money 
(£149.90) for a policy hed benefited from. 
Mr G felt that we hadnt taken account of the fact that he couldnt work because of what 
Brightside had done. He felt the redress wasnt sufficient for what he viewed as serious and 
unlawful failures by Brightside. He said he believed it may have written-off the debt already 
because it hadnt asked him for payment. But, if it hadnt, fair compensation would be for it to 
write it off and pay him £350 compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do think Brightside failed Mr G and so I am upholding his complaint. But 
Im not minded to amend the redress suggested by our investigator, as requested by 
Brightside or Mr G.
From what I have seen Mr G owed Brightside money for the policy he had with it. And 
Brightside made a commercial decision that it didnt want to offer Mr G a policy again in the 
future. It was entitled to make that decision and to act to enable its company to ensure that 
Mr G didnt come back to it as a customer. But Brightside went beyond that. It marked the 
shared database in such a way that other insurers would be led to believe that Mr G had had 
a policy cancelled for non-payment, when he hadnt. If Brightside is going to share data it 
must ensure it is accurate in what it shares, otherwise thats unfair.
Furthermore, Brightside compounded this initial error when it was asked a direct question 
about the policy by the new insurer. Rather than explaining straightaway that Mr G had 
cancelled the policy, Brightside told the new insurer he was cancelled. That wasnt just 
poor wording, it was factually incorrect and misleading. And it directly led to the new insurer 
cancelling Mr Gs policy. And, when Brightside did explain the true situation to the new 
insurer it reinstates Mr Gs policy; so Ive no doubt that the policy would never have been 
cancelled if the correct information had been given initially. It follows that the fact the new 
insurer cancelled was entirely Brightsides fault, and that caused Mr G distress and 
inconvenience. It needs to make up for that. 
And in my view the compensation amount suggested by our investigator is not excessive as 
Brightside has suggested. Having your insurance cancelled and knowing that there is data 
recorded against you is a very worrying situation for anyone to be in. And by all accounts 
Mr G was struggling financially anyway  so learning that he couldnt drive, which meant he 
couldnt get to work, was extremely stressful. Whilst Mr G owes money to Brightside, that 
shouldnt stop him from being compensated for the upset Brightsides failures caused him.
Of course, if Mr G wants to use the awarded compensation to clear the debt with Brightside, 
or to off-set any part of it, hed be free to do so. Whilst I note Mr G thinks Brightside may 
have written-of this debt already, it has told us it hasnt. Rather it chose not to chase Mr G for 
it whilst his complaint with us progressed. It says it will be commencing collection activity 
once our process ends. To be clear  Im not saying whether its fair or not for it to do so  
but I do need to let Mr G know this is what it has told us.
I have taken into account what Mr G has told us about not being able to work for three days. 
But I also see that Mr G does claim universal credit  the amount of which he is entitled to 
reduces by 63p for every pound he earns. So, even accepting for a minute that for the three 
days without cover, Mr G had no choice but to turn down work, it isnt true to say Mr G has 
lost a full three days of income. And I note that whilst Brightside did fail Mr G initially, it did, 
albeit one Mr G had complained, act quickly to explain the true situation to the new insurer. 
This then reduced the period over which Mr G was caused loss, upset and worry. Although 
I accept that hed have remained frustrated with Brightside even once it had acted to clarify 
the situation with his new insurer. In the circumstances Im satisfied that £150 compensation 
is fairly and reasonably due.
Im also satisfied that its fair to say Mr G should get to choose how this compensating is 
used. So my award will be for Brightside to pay it to him, unless he asks it to do otherwise. 
And, for completeness, Im also going to include a direction to Brightside to amend the 
shared database if it hasnt already done so. Finally, it stands to reason that, if Mr G doesnt 
want to off-set the compensation awarded to him against the debt he owes Brightside, the parties will have to work together to arrange a payment plan to deal with the outstanding 
amount that takes into account Mr Gs financial situation. 
Putting things right
I require Brightside to:
Pay Mr G £150 compensation  but if he wants it to, this can be off-set, either wholly or 
in part, against the debt owed.
Amend the shared database so that it only flags Mr G internally, such that he wont be 
accepted by it in the future for cover.
Make a suitable payment arrangement with Mr G, if necessary, to deal with the amount 
he owes.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Brightside Insurance Services Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman