DRN-2235596
The complaint
This complaint is about a personal loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in 1999. Mrs F, on behalf of herself and the late Mr F says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold 
them PPI. Although it was a joint loan, the PPI was set up just to cover Mr F.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Fs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs F and the late Mr Fs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they 
didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and 
arguments theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Fs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding the 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think HSBC made it clear that Mr and Mrs F didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because, from what we know of HSBCs sales processes 
at the time, the PPI was normally presented as optional and I havent seen anything that 
would lead me to conclude that something different happened in this case.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs F so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them. And the evidence about the couples circumstances at the time, shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example Mr F was eligible 
for the cover and although he may have had some existing means, he still seems to 
have had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr Fs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And he didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions that 
could have affected his ability to claim. Mrs F has told us about some health issues she 
had but, as already explained, she was not covered by the policy.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for them as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying from the 
information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong and Mr F couldnt work. Because of 
this I dont think Mr and Mrs F would have declined the cover had HSBC done anything 
more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs F would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs F and the late Mr Fs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be 
general complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points 
include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the 
regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor 
value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with 
the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant HSBC should have disclosed 
the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the 
impact it had on the chances of making a claim.
But their representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs F and the late Mr Fs individual complaint  just that they apply to all 
PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means HSBC doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and the 
estate of Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2022. 
Carole ClarkOmbudsman