DRN-3211202
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) has declined 
their legal expenses insurance claim in relation to a dispute with their neighbour.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator  Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs H took this policy out with Acromas and it commenced on 29 May 2020. But the 
policy doesnt cover legal costs for a claim where the date of incident arose prior to the 
commencement of the legal expenses cover. Under the policy definition of date of incident it 
says, the date of the first event where there is more than one event arising from the same 
cause. 
Mr and Mrs H have said that the date of the incident was in June 2020 which is when they 
entered mediation with their neighbour. But Im persuaded that this was part on an ongoing 
dispute. I say this because Mr and Mrs H said the matter had previously been looked into in 
2016 but was dropped. I also note that the claim form asked for the Date of accident or 
when you first became aware of the problem/incident giving rise to the claim to which Mr 
and Mrs H wrote April 2nd 2020 (police attended with paperwork). Later on, it asked 
whether legal proceedings had commenced and, if so, when? Mr and Mrs H responded 
April 7th 2020. This has then been signed by both Mr and Mrs H. 
So, while mediation may not have commenced until June 2020, the date of the first event 
arising from the same cause  the neighbour dispute  was prior to the commencement of 
the legal expenses policy. Mediation was required as a result of an ongoing matter.
I appreciate how difficult this situation has been for Mr and Mrs H, and Im so sorry to hear of 
the impact this is having on them both. But I cant fairly ask Acromas to consider this claim 
as the event started before the policy was taken, and this has been specifically excluded 
from cover.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Acromas Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman