DRN-3807533
The complaint
Mrs E, who is represented by a third party, complains that Studio Retail Limited (Studio 
Retail) irresponsibly gave her a revolving credit account facility she couldnt afford.
What happened
In December 2016 Studio Retail granted Mrs E an account with an initial credit facility of 
£100. There were ten credit limit increases after that, granted between October 2016 and 
July 2017, when the credit limit reached £540. The credit limit went on to be reduced to 
£400.
Mrs E complained to Studio Retail to say that it should not have granted her the account 
and gone on to grant her multiple credit limit increases given her financial situation. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Studio Retail had acted unfairly in the way it managed the 
account. Because Mrs E disagrees, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Studio Retail will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about 
our approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Before providing credit and increased credit to Mrs E, Studio Retail says it carried out a 
check using credit reference agency information plus information provided by Mrs E to 
decide on the amount of credit it was able to offer. Mrs Es account was then assessed 
on a regular basis from the credit check information. Similarly, the credit limits were then 
set using the same type of updated information plus regular observation of Mrs Es 
management of her account.
Its possible that Studio Retails checks werent sufficient. But even if the checks 
werent as good as they should have been, I dont think better enquiries would have 
caused Studio Retail to think the opening credit limit was unaffordable. I say this 
because Studio Retail gave Mrs E an initial credit limit of £100, which even if the 
whole credit was used, would require relatively modest monthly repayments. Her 
management of the other credit and revolving credit accounts shed had up to that 
point generally been good and there was no evidence from the checks of financial 
difficulties such as defaulted accounts or county court judgments. Taking all of this 
into consideration, I dont think that better checks at this point would have led Studio 
Retail to decline the opening credit.
Turning to the credit limit increases, I agree with our adjudicator that Mrs E appears to 
have been able to meet the repayments required for each of these, based on her 
monthly income and the monthly commitments she told us about. Ive noted that she 
tended to keep her monthly payments to the minimum required, or slightly above it . But 
throughout the time she was being given credit limit increases, she didnt miss or make 
any late payments  although Ive seen that she started to go over her account limit 
begin incurring charges from August 2017. This led to her credit limit being reduced.
Generally speaking, Mrs E appeared to be managing the account well, with little 
evidence to suggest she was getting into difficulty. At the same time she was handling 
her credit elsewhere and meeting her day-to-day living expenses. Ive seen from Mrs Es 
bank statements that the she was dealing with her overall financial situation fairly well, 
with her monthly income and regular expenditure maintained so that her overall financial 
position wasnt worsening as a result of her use of this and other credit. 
I think Studio Retail ought to have carried out more thorough checks about Mrs Es level 
of income and committed expenditure elsewhere as her credit limits increased  and 
certainly  from the sixth credit limit increase in March 2017 when it was more than five 
times the opening credit limit. But I havent seen enough to persuade me that Studio 
Retail should have seen that Mrs E financial circumstances were such that giving her 
additional amounts of credit was unreasonable. 
So, although I cant say that all of Studio Retails actions were necessarily appropriate, I 
dont make any award as I dont think Mrs E was caused any loss or material distress or 
inconvenience as a result.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman