DRN-2707792
The complaint
Mr C complains that Creation Financial Services Limited refused his claim brought under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. He wants a refund of the cost price of faulty 
goods.  
What happened
Mr C tells us that he purchased a wedding dress from a retailer Ill call D. This was paid for 
by his Creation credit card. He says that when he and his partner were able to examine it 
more closely once theyd taken it home, they discovered several defects. He says a 
professional inspection report has confirmed the presence of several holes  amongst other 
faults  and finds that the dress wasnt of satisfactory quality. He explains that D refused to 
offer a refund saying it had a no refunds policy.
Creation said that Mr C had been given the opportunity to inspect the goods whilst in store. 
And that hed accepted and signed to agree that the goods were of acceptable quality. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 8 March 2021. I said that I intended to 
uphold the complaint. I was satisfied that the goods supplied hadnt been of satisfactory 
quality. And that Creation shouldve recognised this and accepted that it shouldve refunded 
the cost to Mr C.
Both parties have replied to my provisional view and I thank them for their responses. Mr C 
didnt have anything to add.
Creation said that the customer had been given an individual appointment to view the dress. 
And it thought that this had provided plenty of opportunity to examine the dress. And that it 
meant the quality of goods was known to the customer before the contract was signed.
Ive considered what Creation has said but Im not minded to change my provisional view. Ill 
give my full reasons in my final decision which is set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr C and his partner were disappointed with the quality of the wedding dress 
they purchased. Its obviously an item for a special occasion and its to be expected that it 
would be supplied in perfect condition (unless it is specifically described otherwise).
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, Im deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Cs complaint. I have to take 
account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law. As is the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
In summary, in some limited circumstances, Section 75 gives a consumer an equal claim 
against the provider of finance as they would have against the supplier of the goods or 
services about which complaint is brought. It requires there to have been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
The CRA states that in order to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being what a reasonable person would 
consider to be satisfactory. And with a new item this would include aspects of appearance 
and finish; freedom from minor defects; safety and durability.
The CRA contains a presumption that where goods dont conform to contract within six 
months of the date of supply that they didnt do so on that date. This presumption applies 
unless its shown that the goods did conform to contract at that time. The dress was 
purchased on 19 January 2020. The faults were identified to D on 1 February 2020.
But the CRA also contains a provision which is relevant to satisfactory quality where the 
consumer has inspected the goods prior to purchase. And it follows that in the 
circumstances of this complaint, anything that affects the assessment of satisfactory quality 
must also be relevant to the application of Section 75.
The relevant part of CRA reads (my underlining):
S. 9 Goods to be of satisfactory quality
(1) Every contract to supply goods is to be treated as including a term that the quality of the 
goods is satisfactory.
(2) The quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory, taking account of
(a) any description of the goods,
(3) The quality of goods includes their state and condition; and the following aspects (among 
others) are in appropriate cases aspects of the quality of goods
(a) fitness for all the purposes for which goods of that kind are usually supplied;
(b) appearance and finish;
(c) freedom from minor defects;
(d) safety;
(e) durability.
(4) The term mentioned in subsection (1) does not cover anything which makes the quality of 
the goods unsatisfactory
a) which is specifically drawn to the consumers attention before the contract is made,
b) where the consumer examines the goods before the contract is made, which that 
examination ought to reveal.
Here Ive seen photographs of the dress, as well as an independent report prepared by an 
individual Ill refer to as H. The report confirms that the dress had various faults including 
holes, and frayed edges.Im aware Creation suggests that H isnt an expert in lace dresses. And implies that her 
report is unreliable. Whether H is an expert or not doesnt alter my decision. Im able to see 
the photographic images of the dress for myself. And it doesnt take an expert to identify 
many of the faults. As H had the benefit of inspecting the dress itself, shes even better 
placed to judge.
Although Mr C and his partner inspected the dress in store, and I accept that they were 
given a specific appointment, I think theres still likely to be distractions such as a sales pitch. 
I dont consider it unreasonable that a consumer should expect the chance to examine the 
garment at their leisure and under no time pressure. So its very much open to debate what 
the in-store inspection ought to reveal. Some of the items such as frayed edges and holes 
probably show up more readily against a darker background as depicted in the photographs. 
So I find it reasonable and plausible that they werent observed in store. Otherwise Im sure 
that Mr C or his partner wouldve pointed them out.
Having examined the dress at home, Mr C complained to D. From the subsequent inspection 
and photographs its clear that there are several faults. Some are minor (pin and loose 
thread). But holes and frayed edges are plainly unacceptable in such a garment.
Its not for me to decide if all the contract terms are enforceable (I suspect not in terms of the 
no refunds policy). My determination is on the basis of what is fair and reasonable.
I dont think that the examination in store here, is sufficient to say the faults shouldnt be 
taken into consideration in relation to quality. And as the faults were unquestionably 
identified within six months of supply and resulted in the goods not conforming to contract, 
its presumed they were present at the point of supply.
Creation hasnt specifically supported Ds contention that a no refunds policy is effective. 
And its not apparent why a retailer would seek to try and rely on such a policy if they had 
confidence that the goods they supplied conformed to contract. If its suggested the defects 
are minor so as not to amount to a quality issue, they couldve been drawn to the attention of 
the customer. That wouldve removed any doubts as to whether Mr C accepted the dress in 
that condition.
In summary, I find that Creation shouldve accepted that it had a liability under Section 75. In 
my opinion it was apparent that this item  also bearing in mind its purpose  was not of 
satisfactory quality. And I find that Creations refusal to accept Mr Cs claim was unfair. 
Im upholding this complaint and require Creation to refund the purchase price of the dress. 
It is, of course, entitled to collect it prior to any refund being made.  
Putting things right
Creation Financial Services Limited should now take the following action:
1. Arrange to have the dress collected at no cost to Mr C;
2. Refund the purchase price of £1,280 to Mr C.
If Mr C has paid interest whilst repaying the capital amount, he should be refunded the 
interest on the amount repaid.
And if full payment has been made this should be refunded with simple interest added at the 
rate of 8% per year from date of final repayment to date of settlement.  My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im upholding this complaint.
I require Creation Financial Services Limited to take the action I stipulated in the preceding 
section.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman