DRN-3459149
The complaint
Mrs S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc acted unfairly by reducing her overdraft limit. She 
says HSBCs actions didnt take account of the impact this reduction would have on her 
finances and that HSBC was unwilling to discuss this with her.
What happened
Mrs S holds a current account with HSBC. This account had an overdraft facility which 
HSBC had been slowly reducing. On 16 November 2021 HSBC wrote to Mrs S to say that 
on 18 December 2021 it would be reducing her overdraft limit from £350 to £50.
Mrs S was very unhappy with this, she says that she had regularly been using up to around 
£150 of her overdraft and that this reduction of her limit to £50 would therefore significantly 
impact her finances. HSBC said it wasnt willing to change its mind and that, as per the 
terms and conditions of Mrs S account, the overdraft facility was repayable on demand.
Mrs S remained unhappy, so she referred her complaint to us. One of our adjudicators 
looked at what had happened but didnt think that HSBC had done anything wrong. Mrs S 
disagreed, so her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Ive looked at what the terms and conditions of Mrs S account say. Mrs S wouldve 
needed to agree to these terms and conditions when she opened her account and the terms 
and conditions are clear that all overdrafts are payable on demand and that overdrafts are 
offered for no fixed period, but well review (the overdraft) regularly.
And thats what HSBC did here. It reviewed Mrs S overdraft, took a commercial decision to 
lower the overdraft limit, and gave Mrs S a months notice of this change. So Im satisfied 
that HSBC acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account. 
That said, HSBC still wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs S if it reduced her 
overdraft in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have 
been aware, that doing so might cause her financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether by 
reducing the arranged overdraft limit HSBC didnt treat Ms M fairly and reasonably.
I dont think HSBC did treat her unfairly though. In the months prior to HSBCs 16 November 
2021 decision to reduce Mrs S limit she had used her overdraft very little  I can see she 
hadnt been more than £30 overdrawn since July. And Mrs S account was receiving a 
regular salary and operating well. So I dont think that HSBC acted unfairly by deciding to 
reduce her overdraft limit in those circumstances as Mrs S account wasnt showing signs of 
financial difficulties. 
I appreciate that Mrs S contacted HSBC to say that she wanted a higher overdraft limit to 
help her cover her monthly expenditure, but how much HSBC is willing to lend is a 
commercial decision and so not something for me to get involved with. If Mrs S account had 
been overdrawn we might expect HSBC to have taken steps to help Mrs S reduce that 
overdraft in an affordable way before reducing the arranged limit, but given that Mrs S 
account was operating in credit at the time her limit was reduced, I wouldnt have expected 
HSBC to do anything similar in these circumstances. 
I know this will be very disappointing for Mrs S, but with all this in mind Im satisfied that 
HSBC hasnt done anything wrong here, and so I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Im not upholding Mrs S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman