DRN-3694779
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) overdraft charges were unfair and 
causing her financial difficulty.
What happened
Mrs C complained to Santander that its overdraft charges were unfair and causing her 
financial difficulty. Santander referred Mrs C to its financial support team and offered Mrs C 
£75 compensation for poor service to which she declined.  
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Cs concerns and reached the conclusion Santander 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mrs C unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. Mrs C disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
Ive seen that Mrs C has in some of her correspondence referred to the proportionality of the 
charges applied to her account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I 
havent considered whether the various amounts Santander charged over the years were fair 
and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at Santanders various 
charging structures or processes per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards 
Mrs C if it applied any interest, fees and charges to Mrs Cs account in circumstances where 
it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mrs C was experiencing 
financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Santander didnt treat Mrs C fairly 
and reasonably. I dont think that Santander did treat Mrs C unfairly or unreasonably here 
though. I say this because having looked at Mrs Cs statements I cant see anything to 
suggest that Santander ought to have realised she might have been experiencing financial 
difficulty prior to it being notified of this. 
Mrs C may argue her regular use of her overdraft was in itself an indication that she was 
struggling. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mrs C 
expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual 
and discretionary transactions. 
There were regular  and sometimes large cash transfers into the account and Mrs C was 
able to bring the overdraft down and sometimes pay it off before once again going on to use 
her overdraft to make debit card transactions, further money transfers and cash withdrawals. 
I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Mrs I wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But 
there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted 
Santander to any potential financial difficulty. And although there were periods of time where 
Mrs C didnt see a credit balance Mrs C never exceeded her limit and by her own admission 
her credit score has never been affected by her overdraft use. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Santander to proceed 
with adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mrs Cs account was being 
used. 
So taking everything into consideration I dont think Santander treated Mrs C unfairly or 
unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mrs C  especially as shes been waiting 
some time for this answer. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman