DRN-2811781
The complaint
Miss O complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer 
Finance provided her with a conditional sale agreement in September 2019 which was 
unaffordable.  
This complaint has been brought by a family member on behalf of Miss O but for 
ease of reference I am only going to refer to Miss O as the agreement was in her 
name.
What happened
In September 2019 Miss O entered into a four-year conditional sale agreement for a used 
car. The cash price of the car was £19,300, the interest on the agreement was around 
£2,950 meaning the total to repay was £22,250. Under the agreement Miss O was to make 
48 monthly payments of around £300 and in the 49th month she could opt to pay around 
£7,750 to buy the car outright.
Miss O says at the time she entered into this agreement she was on maternity leave, 
and had Santander carried out proper checks as to her income and outgoings, it would 
have found that this credit agreement wasnt one she would be able to sustainably 
afford. She says she didnt return to work after her maternity leave because she found 
that the cost of childcare would be prohibitive due to her level of earnings. 
Miss O made some payments under the agreement but stopped around February 2020. 
Miss O says she hasnt used the car since March 2020 when it was SORN.
In April 2020 Miss O complained to Santander that the conditional sale agreement had 
been unaffordable. Santander didnt uphold her complaint. It said that the supplying dealer 
had conducted all the correct credit checks and Miss O had signed to say she understood 
the terms of the loan and that it was affordable for her.
Miss O disagreed with the decision of Santander and complained to this service. Our 
investigator recommended her complaint should be upheld. Our investigator said that 
he didnt think Santander had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks into 
Miss Os income and expenses, and had it done so, those checks would have shown 
this loan was unaffordable. 
Our investigator said he thought it would be fair for Santander to collect the car, cancel 
the agreement with nothing further to pay and remove any adverse information about 
this agreement from Miss Os credit file. He also said that he thought it would be fair for 
Miss O to pay for the usage she had of the car and for Santander to keep the payments 
Miss O had made under the agreement to cover this.
Miss O agreed with our investigators view, but Santander disagreed. It said that while it 
accepted Miss Os income had been around £699pm in September 2019 (as per the 
payslip she had provided) she had actually been on reduced pay at that time being on 
maternity leave. Santander said it couldnt assume Miss O would be unable to afford 
payments because she was on maternity leave as that would be discrimination, it was 
possible she had other sources of income available to her while her earnings were 
restricted. 
Santander said maternity pay was only a temporary situation and the payslip showed 
Miss Os gross annual salary was £18,813 which equated to a monthly income of 
around £1,370pm net. It said that as the agreement was for a 48-month period it was 
unlikely Miss O would have been on a reduced maternity income for the duration of the 
agreement. Santander said it hadnt known Miss O was on maternity leave at the time 
she entered into the agreement. 
Santander said that looking at the bank statements that had been provided by Miss O, it 
had seen that the monthly insurance payments which the investigator had included as 
an outgoing for Miss O, were actually covered by a payment coming in from someone 
else and so this cost shouldnt have been included in her outgoings. 
Santander said suffcient affordability checks on Miss O had been carried out at the 
point of sale.
As the parties werent able to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at whether a credit agreement was fair and affordable, I need to take into 
account the relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. There are two 
overarching questions I need to think about in order to decide what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. These are:
Did Santander complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Miss O would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
a). If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b). If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that 
Miss O wouldve been able to sustainable repay the agreement
Did Santander act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Santander says that the necessary checks were carried out to ensure this loan was 
affordable for Miss O by looking at her credit history, her residential status, time at the 
address, occupation and time in employment. It didnt review her income and 
outgoings.
Ive considered the FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC), which contains rules 
for responsible lending by consumer credit companies and assists credit providers in 
assessing a consumers ability to repay credit. These rules say checks should be 
conducted to ensure any lending is affordable and sustainable for the borrower and so 
should be borrower focused and proportionate to the circumstances of the credit. That 
means things like the amount being borrowed, the length of the loan, the size of the 
repayments as well as credit history should be considered.
Here, the information taken for Miss O was that she had been employed in her role for three years, had been living in her accommodation for five years and on the electoral roll 
for four years. Santander says the credit checks showed Miss O had no defaults or 
payday loans recorded and that she had a good credit score that suited its lending 
requirements. 
Santander hasnt been able to provide a copy of the credit check it undertook on Miss O, 
so Ive seen a copy of a more recent credit report provided by Miss O. This report 
contains information that is likely to have been in any credit report seen by Santander 
prior to agreeing the conditional sale agreement. There appears to have been some 
missed payments for a credit card account in 2018 although the account was 
subsequently settled. There were no defaults recorded. 
There was also a Demand and Needs document signed by Miss O when she 
attended the supplying dealership. This document asks Miss O to confirm that the 
credit agreement is affordable and sets out the maximum monthly amount she 
considers she can meet. The amount recorded is £280pm which was around £20pm 
less than the actual monthly payments Miss O then agreed to when taking out the 
credit agreement. Ive also seen that just above Miss Os signature on this document 
its recorded that Miss O was aware of the increased monthly payments and she 
couldnt see any reason why these payments couldnt be met.
This was a credit agreement for £22,250 to be repaid over a four-year period. And 
while I appreciate Miss O was asked to consider the affordability of the loan as part of 
the process of taking out of the credit agreement, looking at the length of the 
agreement and the amount of the monthly payments I think its clear this was a 
substantial commitment for her to meet. And Miss Os statement that she could afford 
the payments doesnt detract from Santanders responsibility to properly assess 
whether it was affordable for her.  
I dont think I can reasonably say that Santander carried out enough checks as it didnt 
ascertain the level of Miss Os income and/or her expenses. And although Santander 
recorded that Miss O had been living in her accommodation for several years and had 
been in her job for three years, it doesnt appear to have asked any questions as to 
her earnings and wasnt aware she was on maternity leave. Miss O says she told the 
supplying dealer that she was receiving maternity pay at the time she acquired the 
car.  
Here, I think due to the amount of the credit being borrowed and the length of the 
agreement, that it would have been proportionate for Santander to have verified Miss Os 
income and asked more questions about her committed spending. And as I havent seen 
that Santander did either of these things, I cant reasonably say Santander made a fair 
lending decision based on reasonable and proportionate checks.
The next issue I therefore need to consider is, if reasonable and proportionate checks 
had been carried out what would they have revealed? Here, Ive seen that Miss O was, at 
the time she entered into the credit agreement, receiving maternity pay from her 
employer. From the payslip she provided for the month of September 2019 she was in 
receipt of £698pm. I can also see from that payslip that Miss O was in a full-time post and 
her usual gross salary was around £18,800.
Under the rules of maternity pay run by Miss Os employer she was due to receive eight 
weeks full pay, 18 weeks at half pay, 13 weeks SMP and then there would be a period of 
13 weeks unpaid. I think this information would have been important in assessing 
whether a credit agreement was sustainably affordable. I dont think it would be 
discriminatory to ascertain how Miss O intended to meet the payments going forward. I disagree with Santander that it could be assumed Miss O may have had other resources 
available to cover the payments for the period of her maternity of leave as that wasnt the 
case, Miss O says she had, at maximum, a savings pot of around £150 available. So, I 
think this information should have been requested.
Santander also says that Miss Os usual monthly income was around £1,370 pm and 
although I accept she may have chosen to return to work full-time in the future I dont 
think I can reasonably say that her income should be considered at her pre-maternity 
leave figure when looking at whether this credit agreement was affordable. I think it would 
be fair to look at her actual income and expenses at the point she took out the 
agreement. So, I think Santander should have taken Miss Os income as being £698pm 
assessing whether it would be affordable for her.
Miss O says at the time she entered into this agreement her partner was paying the rent 
and utility bills, she covered the water rates amounting to £29pm, £59pm towards her 
mobile and £12pm for the TV licence. In addition to these expenses Miss O was also 
paying £196pm for a separate credit agreement that she had taken out about six months 
before for a four-year term for another car. This meant that, with this conditional sale 
agreement and the other credit agreement, Miss O was paying around £498 pm towards 
both cars and would have had to cover those costs for some time.
Ive seen that insurance payments were also being deducted from Miss Os bank account 
though it appears that cost was being covered by someone else as a payment into her 
account matches that outgoing. However, even disregarding this payment, Miss O would 
have been left with around £200 pm disposable income after paying both of her credit 
agreements. From that amount she had to cover the expenses shown above as well as 
any other usual and expected costs such as travel, food and car tax. I think its 
reasonable to say that had Santander carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
as to Miss Os disposable income and her ability to cover the cost of this conditional sale 
agreement, it would have found that it was unaffordable. 
So, for the reasons given above Im upholding Miss Os complaint. I think that if 
Santander had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks regarding Miss Os 
income and expenses these would have shown that she was unable to sustainably 
repay the agreement.
Miss O still has the car although she has been unable to make payments under the 
agreement for some months now and there are arrears. Miss O says she hasnt used 
the car since March 2020, and it is now SORN. Looking at the mileage, Miss O has 
driven the car around an additional 5,400 miles in around six months which closely fits 
the agreement on 10,000 miles per year and that the car didnt have a new MOT 
carried out in March 2020, I find Miss O is credible and consistent about not having 
used the car since that point. However, I think it would be fair for Miss O to pay for the 
usage she did have of the car.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what fair usage should be. However, in deciding 
whats fair and reasonable, Ive thought about the amount of interest that was charged under 
the agreement, the usage Miss O likely had of the car and what her costs to stay mobile 
might have been had she not entered into this agreement. Looking at the amount Miss O 
has paid under the agreement I think it would be fair and reasonable for Santander to retain 
all of these payments she has made under the agreement to cover the cost of that use.
The final question I need to consider is whether Santander acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in some other way. Although I think it didnt make reasonable and proportionate checks 
into Miss Os income and expenses, I havent seen any evidence that it acted unfairly in any other way.
Putting things right
As this agreement shouldnt have gone live due to it being unaffordable for Miss O then 
Santander should put her back in the position she would have been in had she not entered 
into the credit agreement, save as explained above, that its fair Miss O pays for the use she 
had of the car. This includes removing any adverse information from her credit file as 
although she hasnt been making payments it would be unfair that shes disadvantaged by 
that failure, when the credit agreement shouldnt have been provided to her as it was 
unaffordable. 
So, Im asking Santander to do the following:
Collect the car at no cost to Miss O.
Cancel the agreement with nothing to pay.
Remove any adverse information from Miss Os credit file relating to this account. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im upholding Miss Os complaint. Im asking Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer Finance to do the following:
Collect the car at no cost to Miss O.
Cancel the agreement with nothing to pay.
Remove any adverse information from Miss Os credit file relating to this account
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman