DRN-3479401
The complaint
Mr S complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) irresponsibly gave him two 
credit card facilities that he couldnt afford.
What happened
In April 2016, Mr S applied for an Mastercard credit card account with Capital One. He 
was given an initial credit limit of £1500. The credit limit was never increased. 
In April 2021, Mr S applied for a second Mastercard credit card account with Capital One. 
He was given an initial credit limit of £400. The credit limit was not increased. 
 
In 2022, Mr S complained to Capital One to say that the accounts shouldnt have been 
opened for him because they werent affordable.
Our adjudicator thought the credit provided on the first Mastercard was not unreasonable 
but thought the credit on the second Mastercard was not reasonable. Capital One agreed 
and has offered to calculate redress if Mr S agreed to this as a fair outcome. Mr S did not 
agree. So, the complaint passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Capital One will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases and 
suspensions of credit, and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the 
specifics into question, so, I dont intend to cover them off here. 
Our adjudicator thought the first Mastercard credit card, sold in 2016, was reasonable 
lending and thought the second Mastercard credit card, sold in 2021, was not reasonable 
lending. Capital One has already agreed to pay redress on that second Mastercard. Mr S is 
unhappy with that partial offer as he thinks both accounts were not reasonable lending. So, 
it is my job to see if I think Mr S is entitled to more redress than he has already been 
offered. So, I need say no more about the second Mastercard except to say that I agree that 
outcome for that card.  So, this decision will now focus on the provision of credit on the first 
Mastercard sold in 2016. 
Having considered all the submissions made in this case, I dont think that Mr S is entitled to 
more than he has already been offered. Ill explain why I say that.
The Mastercard Account provided in 2016
Mr Ss complaint is that Capital One made credit available that was unaffordable. Capital 
One has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit reference agency to 
determine the amount of credit it was able to offer. Its possible that Capital One failed to 
make adequate checks before providing Mr S with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think 
better enquiries would have caused Capital One to think the credit in 2016 was 
unaffordable. 
I say this because the initial credit limit was modest and the maximum monthly payments for 
that credit would have been relatively modest. And Mr S told Capital One that he was 
working and earning a good salary at that time. And whilst Mr S had some existing credit in 
2016, this was not so substantial that it made any further credit unreasonable. Capital One 
found no recent defaults on Mr Ss record. There had been two defaults prior to this, but 
these had occurred over three years prior to this lending decision. And there were no 
records of missed payments on any of the consumers credit lines. So, I dont think a record 
like that would put off Capital One from providing the relatively modest credit it provided in 
2016.
 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mr S to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that a 
more thorough affordability check would have led Capital One to think that the credit it 
provided Mr S was unreasonable in 2016.     
But Capital One should put things right on Mr Ss Mastercard account from 2021.
Putting things right
As I dont think Capital One ought to have opened the 2021 account, I dont think its fair for 
it to be able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I think Mr S 
should pay back the amounts he has borrowed. Therefore, Capital One should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr S along 
with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment 
to the date of settlement. Capital One should also remove all adverse 
information regarding this account from Mr Ss credit file.
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Capital One should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr S for the remaining amount. Once 
Mr S has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account 
should be removed from his credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Capital One to deduct tax from any award of interest. It 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If 
it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
I know that Mr S will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Mr S to know that I was 
sorry to hear about his personal difficulties and that I have considered all the submissions made in this case. But having done so, I have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this 
complaint in its entirety.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Mr Ss complaint. Capital One (Europe) plc 
should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman