DRN-3882218
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the amount of compensation Lloyds Bank PLC paid him for the 
mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr M complained to Lloyds about the sale of PPI on his credit card.
Lloyds initially paid Mr M compensation only for the excess commission on the policy, which 
they worked out to be about £43,000 before tax.
Our service found that the policy was mis-sold as a whole. Lloyds accepted this and worked 
things out again. They calculated that they owed Mr M about £67,000 compensation in total 
for mis-selling the PPI policy as a whole. So they took off the £43,000 or so theyd already 
paid for the excess commission part of the premiums, leaving about £24,000 before tax, or 
£22,000 after tax. They paid this to Mr M.
Mr Ms representatives queried this. They argued that since the excess commission only 
made up a minority of the PPI premiums, the full refund should have been several times 
larger than the excess commission refund. They also asked if wed consider adding 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr Ms 
representatives asked for the case to be looked at afresh, so the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
I sent Mr M and Lloyds a provisional decision on 7 December 2022, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think Lloyds have already paid Mr M fair compensation 
here  Ill explain why.
I can completely understand where Mr Ms representatives are coming from. They argued 
that the excess commission made up, on average, less than 25% of the PPI premiums. So 
the remaining refund should have been made up over 75% of the PPI premiums, and should 
have therefore been over 3 times larger. Thats a very intuitive way of thinking about it.
The issue is that the calculations involved are much more complex than that.
Lloyds commission calculation didnt simply take off the excess commission from each 
premium and refund that in isolation. Instead, it looked at things cumulatively. It compared 
Mr Ms real credit card history to a reconstructed credit card history where he was never 
charged the excess commission from Day 1. And since Mr Ms policy went back to 1982, but 
his oldest available statements are from 2000, Lloyds had to use his earliest statements and 
work backwards, assuming that Mr M would have gradually increased his balance from the 
point when he took out the card up to the point when the records start.
In this reconstruction, Lloyds assumed that Mr M would keep making the same repayments 
each month, despite being charged less for PPI and related interest. This had a cumulative 
effect as the calculation went on. It meant that in the reconstruction, each month Mr M was 
bringing his balance lower than he did in real life. This then meant hed be charged less PPI 
and related interest the following month, meaning hed have an even smaller balance going 
forward, meaning hed then be charged even less PPI and interest, meaning his balance 
would reduce even further the next month, and so on.
And since Lloyds were comparing Mr Ms real spending to this estimated reconstruction  
rather than just taking off the excess commission amounts as a flat percentage  it meant 
that they ended up refunding much more than just the excess commission part of the PPI 
premiums.
For example, the calculation estimated that between 1994 and 2001, Mr M would have more 
than paid off his card and had a 0 balance, were it not for the cumulative effects of the extra 
commission before then. That then meant he would have been charged £0 for PPI during 
that period. So Lloyds refunded 100% of the PPI premiums and related interest for that 
period  not just the 19% to 32% of excess commission. This sort of thing happens 
repeatedly over the course of the calculation.
Essentially, the assumptions that Lloyds used worked in Mr Ms favour here. Then since 
these assumptions were made from the very start of the calculation, and since the credit 
cards interest was compound and built on itself, this had a snowballing effect. So by the end 
of the excess commission calculation, Lloyds ended up refunding about 60% of Mr Ms PPI 
premiums and related interest, rather than about 25%.
This meant that when Lloyds came around to refunding the rest of the PPI premiums, there 
was only less than 40% left to refund.
Ive looked at what Lloyds paid for its full refund offer, and Ive found it to be fair. When a 
business has mis-sold PPI, we expect them to put their customer in the financial position 
theyd be in now if theyd never had the policy  as far as its possible to do that.
For a policy like Mr Ms, that means adding up all the extra costs he paid for PPI, including 
the premiums and related interest and charges. Then it means refunding that, plus 8% 
simple interest per year (15% before April 1993) to compensate him for the time that he was 
out of pocket.Thats the approach Lloyds followed in the full offer. They rebuilt Mr Ms account to see what 
it wouldve looked like without any PPI  taking off the premiums, and the interest and 
charges on those premiums. They paid him the difference between what he actually paid, 
and what he wouldve paid without PPI, and added on simple interest for the time he was out 
of pocket. And they used Mr Ms oldest statements to make reasonable assumptions about 
what his account would have looked like before records began. Then they took off what they 
had already paid him in compensation for the excess commission portion, so that they did 
not refund the same costs twice over. I find that to be fair.
Put simply, Lloyds full offer to Mr M was not too low  it was fair. The reason it may seem 
low is because his excess commission payment ended up refunding a much larger 
proportion of the PPI than Mr M might have expected, due to the way it was worked out. So 
there wasnt that much left to refund afterwards.
So while I do appreciate why Mr Ms representatives queried this, I find that Lloyds have 
already paid fair compensation in this case.
Lastly, Ive considered whether an additional award should be made for any distress or 
inconvenience. But neither Mr M nor his representatives have given us a substantial reason 
to award this. And as far as I can see, Lloyds paid Mr M fair compensation in good time.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
4 January 2023. But neither party sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman