DRN-4053254
The complaint
Mr S complains about advice on porting his mortgage that he told us hed received from 
Santander UK Plc. He said Santander wrongly told him he could port his mortgage to a 
property that his partner already owned, and he relied on that in selling his home.
What happened
Mr S said he bought his property in November 2021, with a mortgage from Santander. His 
mortgage was at 2.24% interest, fixed until early 2027. An early repayment charge (ERC) 
was payable until then, but his mortgage could be ported to a new property. 
Mr S said he decided to move in with his partner, who also owned her own home. He said 
Santander told him he could avoid paying the ERC if he ported his mortgage to a new 
property within three months of selling his old home. So Mr S said he and his partner 
decided to port his mortgage onto their next, jointly owned home. 
Mr S said theyd initially planned to sell his property, port the mortgage onto a new property 
which he would buy, then sell his partners property once they had somewhere else to go. 
But Mr S said the increasing cost of living meant they rethought this. They decided it was 
safest just to sell one of their properties, and live in the other. 
Mr S said he contacted Santander by phone on 12 October, to ask if he could port his 
mortgage on to his partner's property. They wanted to keep the better interest rate from his 
mortgage, and avoid paying the ERC on that mortgage too. Mr S said Santander told him 
this would be no problem at all. And he said if Santander hadnt confirmed this was possible, 
he and his partner would have pulled out of the sale of his property, sold hers instead, and 
then both lived together in his old property. 
Mr S said he then sold his property, and shortly after this, contacted Santander to find out 
how to move his mortgage onto his partners property. He said Santander then told him this 
wasnt possible after all. 
Mr S said Santander had accepted it was responsible for giving him wrong advice, but it 
wouldnt repay the ERC that he had been expecting to recover, or cover the difference 
between his old mortgage, at 2.24%, and the mortgage he and his partner could get now. 
Santander had only offered him £150.
Santander said it had made a mistake here. It had listened to the call recording from 12 
October 2022, and at the end of the call, Mr S said his partners property wasnt yet sold, 
could Santander allow him to take over the mortgage in joint ownership with his partner. 
Santander said its agent told Mr S the property would have to be in joint ownership. But 
Santander said the agent should have asked more questions, as it couldnt do what the 
agent had discussed. Santander said it had provided feedback to the agent, and it paid Mr S 
£75 in compensation (which it later offered to increase to £150.)
But our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said he had also 
listened to the calls Mr S had with Santander, and hed reached a different conclusion. He 
didnt think Santander had made a mistake during any of the calls hed listened to. He said 
Santander answered Mr Ss questions in a clear and non-misleading way. He didnt think 
Santander acted unfairly or unreasonably by not asking Mr S for more information about his 
plans. So our investigator said he wouldnt ask Santander to do anything.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he couldnt understand why our service didnt think Santander 
had made a mistake, when it had admitted it was to blame. Because no agreement was 
reached, this case came to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to tell Mr S that Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our 
investigator. So his complaint wont be upheld.
Before I explain why Ive reached that conclusion, Id like to acknowledge that Mr S may well 
be both disappointed and surprised that his complaint hasnt been upheld by our service. He 
told our investigator that he couldnt understand the conclusion reached at that stage, as 
Santander had already admitted it was at fault. But our service isnt bound to accept here 
that the bank is at fault, even if its said it thinks it is. Rather, our service is impartial, so we 
must review the complaint ourselves and reach our own independent view on a complaint. 
In reaching a final decision on this case, I have to determine this complaint by reference to 
what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable to find against Santander, where I dont think its made 
a mistake. Thats still the case, even if Santander thinks it did make a mistake.
Here, Ive listened to the three calls that Santander has been able to share with our service, 
including the one where Santander has accepted it was at fault. 
On the first call, Mr S rang to get his account number. Santander confirmed the redemption 
amount, and the ERC. Mr S was aware that there was an ERC, but he said the total 
redemption cost was more than he was expecting. Santander said it would send him an 
electronic copy of this information within the hour.
On the second call, Mr S rang on 12 October, and said his property sale was due to go 
through on Friday. He called to ask advice on his upcoming change of employment, and 
whether this might affect a future mortgage application.
The third call was also on 12 October. Mr S was seeking advice about his future options, and 
he asked questions about how his porting application would work. He asked whether his 
partner could be added to the mortgage, for any future purchase. Santander confirmed that 
this was possible, subject to an affordability assessment. Mr S then asked how much of the 
new mortgage would be on the old interest rate, and Santander confirmed hed only keep the 
old rate for the amount of his old mortgage. Any extra borrowing would be on a new rate. 
Finally, on this call, Mr S said his partners property wasnt sold yet, but his was, and he 
asked can I, if the affordability was there, to put it all into my name, but be under joint 
ownership. 
Santanders agent replies 
if it was going to be in joint ownership they would have to be named on the 
mortgage.
Crucially, I dont think Mr S was clear on the call that he was no longer asking about buying 
a new property. So he wasnt asking Santander whether he could have a mortgage for a 
newly purchased home solely in his name but own it jointly with his partner. What Mr S was 
apparently thinking about was remortgaging his partners property, putting that mortgage 
entirely in his name, whilst owning that property jointly with her. I dont think its reasonable 
to have expected Santanders agent to have realised this, from what Mr S said at the time.
I think Santander answered the question it had understood was put to it. And I think its 
response, to what Mr S actually said, was a reasonable one. And thats why, although I 
understand that Santander has accepted it made a mistake here, I dont think it did 
misadvise Mr S, based on the question he asked at the time.
I also note that Mr S said he was advised he could port his mortgage to his partners pre-
existing property before he decided to go ahead with the sale of his property. But on the call 
I can hear, Mr S started by saying that his sale was happening that week. And Mr S has 
shown us that he was tied into this sale from 12 October, which is the same date as the key 
call recording Santander sent us. So even if I had thought Mr S had been misadvised (which 
I dont) I still wouldnt have thought it was likely that Mr S only went ahead with the sale 
because of this.
Mr S has told us he had other calls with Santander, but Santander couldnt find any 
additional call recordings, other than the three Ive noted above. I dont think its likely that 
there was a separate discussion on this issue, which our service doesnt have access to. 
Thats because I dont think its consistent with the call recording Ive listened to for Mr S to 
say hed previously received advice on whether he could port his mortgage onto a property 
his partner already owned. And I also note that Mr S has told us the mistake was made at 
the end of the final call on 12 October. 
I understand Santander has already paid Mr S £75 for this complaint, and may have offered 
a further £75. I leave it to Santander to decide whether to pay Mr S that additional amount, if 
it hasnt already done so. 
I know that Mr S will be disappointed, but for all the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think 
this complaint should be upheld. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman