DRN-3419132
The complaint
Mr W complains about the support offered by Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax when 
he experienced financial difficulties during the COVID-19 pandemic. Hes also unhappy with 
a default being reported on a loan account with Halifax.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr W and Halifax and generally not 
in dispute. I wont repeat in detail what is already known to both parties. In my decision, Ill 
mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
Mr W had taken out a £25,000 personal loan with Halifax in September 2019. In March 2020 
- when the COVID-19 pandemic began to really impact the UK, Mr Ws income was affected 
and he wasnt able to maintain his contractual loan repayments. Halifax approved 6 months 
of payment deferrals, but unfortunately Mr W was unable to resume his contractual loan 
repayments and the account was ultimately reported as defaulted. 
Halifax offered Mr W £50 for issues with some of the customer service hed received, but 
didnt uphold the main part of his complaint. Mr W referred it to our Service for an 
independent review. Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld and as 
Mr W didnt accept, the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Similarly, I wont comment 
on every interaction between both parties here  only the key ones. However, Ive given 
careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
The support offered by Halifax and the default being reported
Overall, Im satisfied that Halifax have responded to Mr Ws financial difficulties in a positive 
and supportive way. I say this because:
Halifax gave Mr W a one month payment deferral in March 2020  before the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had published its own guidance on COVID-19 
payment deferrals. This was followed up by a further two month payment deferral. 
At the end of this period Halifax agreed to a further three month payment deferral. 
This meant a total of 6 months and was the maximum permitted by the FCA.
In September 2020, Halifax sent Mr W a default notice with a deadline of 10 October 
2020 to clear any arrears. Mr W disputes receiving this.
Mr W spoke to Halifax and outlined he was still suffering financially because of the 
pandemic. Halifax added a 30 day hold to the account. This froze interest and 
charges for 30 days. No payment was made by Mr W after this ended and arrears 
continued to build.
A further 30 day hold was added on 3 December 2020.
On 6 January 2021 Halifax sent a further letter about arrears and potential 
consequences should they not be cleared.
On 18 January 23021 Mr W told Halifax he might now be in a position to pay and a 
hold was added for 7 days.
On 19 January a 30 day hold was added to the account.
As Mr W made no payment after the 30 day hold expired, Halifax made the decision 
to report the account as defaulted.
The brief timeline above supports that Halifax have been patient, positive and supportive 
with Mr W - over an extended period of time, before ultimately reporting the account as 
defaulted. I can understand why Mr W might feel the initial default notice was sent too early. 
Even in a scenario where it was sent too early, Halifax didnt take action when it expired and 
instead continued to engage with Mr W (as outlined above) to provide tailored support - as 
required under the FCA guidance updated in January 2021. I find that this (the date of the 
default notice) had no material impact on the end result here  as the account wasnt 
reported as defaulted until February 2021.
Ive also considered Mr Ws point in response to our investigators assessment about not 
receiving the default notice. Ive seen a copy of the notice (from September 2020) and it was 
sent to the same address we hold on file for Mr W. I also note that Halifax havent 
commented on post being undeliverable or returned from Mr Ws address and he did receive 
post from Halifax both before and after that letter. Ive also kept in mind that various other 
correspondence - including a letter dated 6 January 2021 made reference to the previous 
default notice. 
In summary, I find this didnt make a material difference to the end result here. Mr W says 
had he received it, he wouldve tried hard to juggle finances to start repaying the loan  but 
the evidence Ive seen suggests that this just wasnt possible for Mr W due to his financial 
circumstances at that time. 
The customer service delivered by Halifax
Halifax recognise that the customer service delivered  at what was a difficult time for Mr W 
couldve been better. There was a call not returned for example on 19 January 2021  for 
which they offered £50.
When considering the impact on Mr W of the customer service delivered, Ive kept in mind 
that the COVID-19 pandemic presented unprecedented challenges for all business as they 
continued to try and offer their key services whilst dealing with many challenges - such as 
the move to working remotely and increased demand for their services. Overall, I dont find 
that the service delivered was poor to the extent that further compensation is appropriate 
here. 
My decision will be disappointing for Mr W, but it brings to an end our Services involvement 
in trying to informally resolve this dispute between him and Halifax.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman