DRN-3636965
Complaint
Mr B has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr B bought solar panels for his home in 2018. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr B into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr B, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a ten-
year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the 
panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. 
Ikano didnt agree. It said Mr B was provided with a sales document which set out his 
estimated benefit and the cost of the panels which it says showed that the solar panels 
would not be self-funding. Our adjudicator didnt agree, she said the document was not 
clear, and so she felt the complaint should still be upheld. Ikano didnt respond so the case 
was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ikano says that the cash price of the system (£7,855) was set out on the same 
sales document as the total annual benefit of £283.13 which it says ought to have made 
Mr B aware that the panels would not be self-funding. Whilst there was a contract variation 
document subsequently prepared, this document similarly set out the cash price and the 
estimated annual benefit. Mr B says there is also another figure on the document, which was 
the total estimated annual SAP. Mr B says he was led to believe that this was his annual 
benefit and the £283.13 was the profit he would likely receive. The estimated annual SAP on 
the original sales document was presented as 2,030 and 1,699.17 on the contract variation 
document. 
I have reviewed the documents referred to by Ikano and can see that the cash price and the 
estimated returns are on different pages and amongst an array of different facts and figures. 
I think given Mr Bs lack of experience in solar panels and energy generation figures, he 
would have required help in understanding what these facts and figures meant. The SAP 
figure for example isnt presented in kWh  but is just a number. And Mr B has consistently 
said he was verbally assured the solar panel system would be self-funding by the installers 
representative. I think it was reasonable for him to rely on what he was being told. And Im 
not persuaded that this document is clear enough to demonstrate that Mr B was told the 
panels would not be self-funding. 
So, having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those 
explained by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence 
supports the conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr B was not given clear 
information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate 
to an additional cost for him.
So, I think that Ikano didnt treat Mr B fairly and he lost out because of what Ikano did wrong. 
And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Ikano needs to do to put things right for Mr B
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint for Ikano to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr B from the solar panels 
over a 10-year period so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, 
and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr B is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Ikano needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr B by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Ikano to 
restructure Mr Bs loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr B in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a 10-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr B have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr B and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr B and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr B accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr B has settled the loan, Ikano should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr B has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Ikano, and Ikano should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr B paid each month with the Ikano loan.2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr B receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr B paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr B receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr B the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he wouldve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr B first 
contacted Ikano that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Ikano should 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Ikano Bank AB (publ) should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman