DRN-3219165
The complaint
Mr B complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans acted 
irresponsibly when it gave him an unaffordable loan.
What happened
Mr B took out a single loan with Everyday Loans as follows:
Date of 
loanAmount 
receivedTerm 
(months)Monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
payable
August 2017 £2,010 36 £166.10 £5,979.60
When he was unable to resolve his complaint with Everyday Loans, Mr B brought his 
complaint to us. 
In brief summary, Mr B mainly said that Everyday Loans didnt take properly into account 
information about payday loans and it shouldve realised he was in a debt spiral and not 
managing his finances. He disputed the figures that Everyday Loans relied on in its 
affordability checks and pointed out that it loaned to him after working out that his monthly 
outgoings were more than his income.  
Our investigator assessed the complaint and didnt think that we could uphold it.
As Mr B disagreed with our investigators view, it has come to me to consider afresh and 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. Id like to reassure Mr B that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and 
Ive independently reached the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why I say 
this. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan 
repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay.
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself 
that the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to 
borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable 
and proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account things like the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is 
for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit 
history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were 
done and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there 
was any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the 
lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a 
borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way.
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Everyday Loans did what it 
needed to before agreeing to lend to Mr B 
Everyday Loans asked Mr B about his income and expenditure and used payslip 
information and bank statements he provided to verify his income and his spending. These 
showed that his monthly income worked out at around £2,195.
When assessing affordability, Everyday Loans allowed for the £500 Mr B had said he paid 
monthly for rent. It also relied on statistical information and factored into its calculations an 
amount that reflected the typical monthly expenditure someone in Mr Bs position might 
reasonably expect to pay for general living costs. As well as this, Everyday Loans also 
carried out credit checks to understand Mr Bs credit history and see what his current credit 
commitments cost him. As a result, Everyday Loans boosted his declared expenses to 
allow for the amount Mr B needed to pay to service his existing debt. 
All in all, Everyday Loans worked out that under his existing arrangements, Mr B had no 
disposable income  in fact, he would be left short each month by around £150.
I've thought carefully about what a responsible lender should have made of all the 
information it had gathered and whether the information Everyday Loans saw supported its 
lending decision. 
I think its fair to say that the information Everyday Loans gathered showed that Mr B had 
been using payday loans and there was some potentially concerning information shown in its 
credit checks. But I think its useful to remember that it isnt unusual for applicants for this 
type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing other high cost borrowing or even an 
impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be fair reasons not to lend to 
an applicant if the loan otherwise looked affordable. 
And in this case, Everyday Loans could see from the bank statements Mr B provided that 
there wasnt any particular evidence of financial difficulty apparent. He was largely 
maintaining his account in credit and there werent any signs that he was struggling to 
manage his repayments  he appeared to be able to afford all his spending, including what 
looked like discretionary spending on non-essentials which I think Everyday Loans might 
reasonably have understood to mean that Mr B wasnt financially over-stretched. So I dont think the information in the credit checks was enough to make Everyday Loans 
think it shouldve declined the loan application when the other evidence it saw suggested 
that Mr B was, broadly speaking, managing his credit successfully.
I dont think Everyday Loans had any reason not to accept at face value what Mr B had said 
about using the loan to repay some other debt. And I think its fair to say that if Mr B had 
used some of the loan for debt consolidation, in other words, to repay other debt, then this 
could have improved his financial situation significantly. Everyday Loans worked out that 
instead of a monthly shortfall, Mr B could use part of the loan to repay £747 worth of other 
monthly debt. So the smaller monthly repayments for its loan (at around £166 per month) 
would leave him much better off  it worked out he should have approximately £431 spare 
cash after doing this. 
I think in these circumstances Everyday Loans was reasonably entitled to take a view that 
this suggested Mr B was borrowing specifically to help him manage his finances more 
responsibly.
I think the scale of his payday loan debts compared to the value of the loan would suggest 
that Mr B could potentially have used this loan to move away from being over-reliant on 
payday loans. If he chose to spend the money differently, and not use it as he said he 
planned to, I dont think its fair and reasonable to say that this makes Everyday Loans 
responsible for his continuing financial difficulty. 
Its my overall view that Everyday Loans took reasonable steps to ensure that it wasnt 
increasing Mr Bs indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful, as 
well as taking reasonable steps to ensure Mr B was able to make the monthly repayments.
It would only be fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Everyday Loans did anything 
wrong when deciding to lend to Mr B - it carried out proportionate checks which suggested 
the repayments were affordable if the loan was used for its intended purpose and it couldve 
helped improve Mr Bs financial situation. 
So, overall, I dont think that Everyday Loans treated Mr B unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with this loan. As this is the case, Im not upholding the complaint that this 
loan was unaffordable or irresponsibly provided.
Ive thought about what Mr B has said about the high cost of the loan and the APR being 
higher than he was initially offered. I think there was a large amount of interest payable on 
the loan and I can appreciate that Mr B might now feel this was unfair. But the loan 
agreement set out reasonably clearly both what the interest rate was and how much he 
would have to pay if the loan ran to term. Taking everything into account, I think Mr B was 
aware he was taking a high cost loan on terms he seemed happy to agree to at the time. So 
I cant fairly say that the high cost of this credit is a reason for me to uphold this complaint.
And I havent identified any other reasons that mean it would be fair for me to make any 
award of redress against Everyday Loans. So theres nothing it needs to do to put things 
right.
I do understand that Mr B takes a different view to me and I appreciate that my decision 
is going to be disappointing. But I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help 
explain how Ive reached my decision.If Mr B is still in a position where he would like help to manage his finances, theres 
more information about how to get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide 
contact details if he gives us a call.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman