DRN-4246964
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC havent refunded money he lost as a result of a scam. 
Mr R is being represented by a claims management company but for ease Ill only refer to 
him throughout the decision. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. Mr R was researching online and found 
information about online investment trading. He then came across an advert for a merchant 
which he thought offered a credible investment profit. He researched the online reviews for 
the merchant and was impressed with the positive reviews from people who had made 
money. So, he created an account with a genuine cryptocurrency exchange before being 
told by the merchant to also create a decentralized application (dapp). He started to send his 
money to the cryptocurrency exchange and was able to make two withdrawals back to his 
Lloyds account which only made him more satisfied that everything was legitimate. 
In total, Mr R sent around £28,600 in eleven payments between 28 June 2022 and 01 July 
2022 to the cryptocurrency exchange. When Mr R spoke to the merchant about withdrawing 
all his money, he checked the account at the cryptocurrency exchange and saw that there 
were no funds remaining. Mr R then realised that he had been scammed. So, he raised the 
scam claim with Lloyds. 
Lloyds said the payments werent covered under the voluntary code known as the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) as Mr R made the payments to an account in his 
name at the cryptocurrency exchange - so that couldnt be considered here. Lloyds added 
that when Mr R downloaded the dapp at the scammers request this had inadvertently 
allowed them access to his account and withdraw the money from the cryptocurrency 
exchange. So, Lloyds said it was unable to retrieve any of Mr Rs funds. 
Mr R remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service. He said Lloyds 
shouldve done more to protect his money and the payments he made were unusual. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said the CRM code wasnt 
applicable here as Mr R had made the payments to an account in his own name. And the 
payments Mr R had made towards the scam didnt seem unusual or suspicious compared to 
other transactions he had previously made. 
Mr R disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said the fact that the payments 
were made to a new and high-risk payee meant that Lloyds shouldve done more to hold the 
payments and speak to him. If it had done so this wouldve stopped the scam. Mr R also 
raised that the account held at the genuine cryptocurrency exchange wasnt in his name. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr R has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
It is common ground that Mr R authorised the scam payments totalling around £28,600. I 
accept that these were authorised payments even though Mr R was the victim of a scam. 
So, although it wasnt his intention to pay money to the scammers, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms of his account, Mr R is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
Practice (which Mr R has mentioned) and good industry practice, there are circumstances 
where it might be appropriate for Lloyds to take additional steps or make additional checks 
before processing a payment in order to help protect customers from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud. 
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions given by Mr R to Lloyds (either 
individually or collectively) were unusual in relation to his typical account activity. So, Ive 
reviewed the account statements around the time Mr R made the payments in question here. 
The account was typically well maintained with the balance ranging from around £20 up to 
around £10,000. And there were genuine transactions ranging from £3,000 and £6,000 on 
16 May 2022, £5,000 on 17 June 2022, £3,100 on 27 June 2022 and £18,000 on 28 June 
2022.  
On 28 June 2022 Mr R sent £1 to his account at the cryptocurrency exchange, before 
sending a further £1,000 and £9,000. He then sent a total of £5,100 on 29 June 2022, before 
sending a total of £7,500 on 1 July 2022 and £6,000 on 6 July 2022.
I appreciate Mr R has said the payments towards this scam were sent to a high-risk 
cryptocurrency exchange which shouldve raised a concern for Lloyds. But that alone isnt 
sufficient for me to consider these to be unusual payments  account usage can change 
over time. And the payments he made towards the scam were largely similar in size to the 
payments he made previously. 
As a result, I dont think the payments towards the scam were so unusual or out of character 
for this account that its reasonable to have expected Lloyds to have intervened at the time. 
Mr R has said that the account at the cryptocurrency exchange wasnt in his name. This 
service has asked the cryptocurrency exchange for the name of the person who held the 
account. Its confirmed that it was in Mr Rs name. Which is consistent with the testimony we 
received from Mr R previously which said the account was held in his name and that he 
could make withdrawals. So, Im satisfied that Mr Rs account at the cryptocurrency 
exchange was in his name and that the most likely reason for his money disappearing was 
because the scammers gained access to his account via the dapp he was instructed to 
download.  
So, Ive considered whether Lloyds acted reasonably when it was made aware of the scam. I cant see that Lloyds attempted to recover Mr Rs funds on this occasion. But 
because the account Mr R sent the money to was in his name, before being taken by the 
scammer, its unlikely that Lloyds wouldve been able to reclaim his money here.
In these circumstances I cant conclude the outstanding loss is the fault of Lloyds. To be 
clear, Im not blaming Mr R for the loss  its ultimately the scammer who is to blame. But 
for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think hes been treated unfairly by Lloyds. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman