DRN-1916669
Complaint
Mrs H complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
her alongside a store card in 1994.
Although the PPI was sold by another business AXA France IARD has taken 
responsibility for this complaint. For ease of reference, I will refer to AXA throughout this 
decision.
Background
In May 2020 I issued my provisional decision. In it I explained why I wasn't intending to 
uphold Mrs Hs case.
A summary of what I said in my provisional decision is set out below.
Mrs H applied for the PPI in the store when she took out her store card there. This 
policy covered her if she lost her job, was off work because she was sick, or if she had an 
accident.
The policy cost £1.00 for every £100.00 of the outstanding balance owed on the card and 
on a successful claim, it would have covered Mrs H for 15% of that balance until 
the outstanding balance on the card was repaid, or she returned to work.
I said that I didn't think AXA had recommended the policy, so it didn't need to make sure it 
was suitable for her circumstances. Even so, AXA still had to give Mrs H enough 
clear information, so she could decide for herself whether she wanted to take out the policy 
or leave it and whether it was a good fit for her needs.
I also said it was possible not all the information AXA gave to Mrs H was as clear as it 
should have been. But that doesn't automatically mean I should uphold this complaint. I have 
to decide on balance, whether if Mrs H had more or better information, she would have 
made a different decision.
I explained this policy was sold over twenty-five years ago so not all the information is 
available. Thats not surprising or unusual as businesses aren't required to keep records 
indefinitely. But where the evidence is incomplete, I will rely on the balance of probabilities - 
that is whats more likely to have happened taking into account the evidence that is 
available. Ive also thought about what we know about how this business sold policies at the 
time. 
Thinking about everything, I still think Mrs H would have bought the cover.
Our adjudicator thought that this was a case that should have been upheld. He said that 
the policy likely didn't cover Mrs H for accident and sickness claims, if they resulted from a 
pre-existing health problem Mrs H already knew about when she bought the cover. I accept 
Mrs H had a disability which she wouldn't have been covered for under the policy if she had 
to take time off work because of it. However, I dont think this was something that she 
would have needed to take time off work for. Mrs H has told us that she had her disability since she was eighteen months old, and she has also told us she had been working in her 
job for ten years. So, I dont think Mrs H would have thought that this would have been 
something which affected her ability to work, so shed need to take time off work. So, I dont 
think its likely this would have resulted in her making a claim. So, I dont intend to uphold 
this complaint for this reason.
I next went on to see if there was another reason to uphold this complaint. This is what I 
said:
I can see Mrs H was eligible for the policy. And as she was in full time employment, I 
dont think its likely she would have been affected by any of the main limitations and 
exclusions of the policy about employment circumstances which might have made it more 
difficult to make a successful claim.
Mrs H said she would have received less than three months sick pay from her employer. 
But I can see if Mrs H had to make a claim on the PPI, 15% of her balance would have 
been paid every month until the balance was repaid. So, with this cover, she could have 
used her sick pay on her other essential expenditure at what would have no doubt been a 
very stressful time for her if she was out of work. I have also taken into consideration that 
this policy would have paid out in addition to and for longer than her sick pay would have 
lasted. So overall, I still think the policy was useful to her.
AXA also had to give Mrs H a choice about buying the PPI. So, Ive also thought 
about whether Mrs H was given an option. Mrs Hs policy was taken out in store. AXA has 
provided a copy of the agreement Mrs H saw and signed at the time of the sale. On it theres 
a section about PPI. Mrs H has ticked the box to confirm she wanted her account covered by 
the insurance. There is also another equally prominent box to decline the insurance if Mrs 
H hadn't wanted it. Mrs H has also signed and dated the application. On balance, I think Mrs 
H would likely have read the form confirming all her personal details and understood she 
had applied for the insurance. I also think the PPI would have appeared on Mrs Hs 
statements so if she didn't want the policy or didn't know she had it she could have 
questioned it at the time - I havent seen evidence she did so.
Taking everything into account, on balance, I think its more likely that she agreed to take 
the PPI out at the time knowing she could refuse it if she didn't want it even if its 
understandable if she cant remember that now after such a long time.
Ive also thought about what Mrs H says about PPI on her other cards and being paid out 
on those. But each case is decided on its own merits and what applies in one case doesn't 
necessarily apply to another.
So, for the reasons Ive given above I still think the PPI could have been useful if Mrs H 
lost her job or couldn't work. And it looks as though she chose to buy the insurance  so 
it seems like she wanted that type of cover at the time. I havent seen anything to suggest 
the premiums were unaffordable. With that in mind, I dont think Mrs H would have 
acted differently even if AXA had given her more or better information about the policy.
I am sorry to disappoint Mrs H, but after taking everything into account, it follows that I 
am not intending to uphold her complaint.
I invited both parties to come back to me with any further information they wanted me to 
consider before making my final decision.
Mrs H responded to my provisional decision. She said shed thought long and hard about 
why she was entitled to PPI- she told me she didn't know what PPI was and she didn't know she had it. She was surprised when she discovered she did have the cover  if she had 
known she had it she would have complained earlier than she had done.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in 
deciding this case.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs H told me - that she didn't know she had the PPI. As I 
explained in my provisional decision this policy was sold over twenty-five years ago so its 
completely understandable that Mrs H might not remember taking out the cover when she 
applied for her store card. 
As I also explained in my provisional decision however, I thought it was likely Mrs H had 
chosen the PPI at the time. I said this because based on the paperwork I saw there was a 
section about the PPI on the completed application form Mrs H had signed and she had 
chosen to take out the cover. She could have declined it if she hadn't wanted it. I think its 
more likely she read what she had signed, and on balance, I think she would also have 
understood that this policy would have covered her in case she was off work or lost her job 
when she completed the form. All in all, I think its more likely she chose to take out the PPI 
knowing she could decline it if she didn't want it.
For the reasons I set in my provisional decision and in my final decision I think Mrs H chose 
the cover at the time  so it seems like she wanted the cover and I think the policy was 
useful for her. Overall, I dont think Mrs H lost out because of anything AXA did wrong.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs H but for the reasons Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman