DRN-2971935
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money has closed its online 
service and instead, he must use the mobile app to access his credit card account. He also 
complains about the customer service he received.
 
What happened
Mr S has a credit card account with Virgin. In Autumn 2020 Virgin informed Mr S he would 
no longer be able to manage his account through the internet browser. From February 2021 
he would have to access the account only through the mobile app. Mr S challenged this 
decision by Virgin and asked a few questions by secure messaging. 
Mr S said Virgin didnt answer his question about how he could obtain printed statements 
and manage his account when he never uses mobile apps for financial matters. He said 
when he applied for the card in March 2020 it was not an app-only service and no mention 
was made of Virgins plan to discontinue online banking. Mr S complained to Virgin.
Virgin partially upheld his complaint. It said its decision to close the online service was taken 
to ensure it continues to provide the best possible service while continuing to comply with 
regulations regarding security and encryption. Virgin said it had received some of the secure 
messages Mr S had sent but not all and it apologised for not answering his questions. To 
say sorry, it credited his account with £50. Mr S wasnt satisfied with this response and 
brought his complaint to this service. 
Mr S said Virgins unilateral policy change meant he could no longer use his card, keep track 
of his account or access written statements.  He said there has been an ongoing, time 
consuming and costly waste of time to get answers from Virgin. 
Our investigator concluded that Virgins decision to change to mobile banking only wasnt 
something this service could overturn but that it was within its rights to make changes, per 
the terms and conditions of the account. The investigator noted that the terms and conditions 
allowed Mr S to receive paper statements and that there was provision on the website to opt 
for this.
Our investigator thought £50 was fair and reasonable for Virgins failure to adequately 
respond to Mr Ss messages. 
 
While Mr Ss complaint has been with our service, he made a subject access request (SAR) 
to Virgin requesting data held in connection with the complaint. Mr S wasnt happy with its 
response to the SAR request and wanted to complain further to the Ombudsman service. 
Our investigator informed Mr S that he needed to complain to Virgin first about this separate 
matter so that it had the opportunity to investigate and respond. 
Mr S did not agree with the investigators conclusions and asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman. 
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr S but having done so I wont be asking 
Virgin to do anything further. Id like to reassure Mr S that Ive read all the information on the 
file, including his detailed responses to our investigator. I thank him for this as its enabled 
me to better understand the details of his complaint. I know Ive summarised this complaint 
in far less detail and in my own words. No discourtesy is meant by this. If theres something 
Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to 
comment on every individual point to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Online banking to mobile app banking
We dont have the power to tell a business how it should treat all consumers or how it 
develops its internal policies or processes. Thats a matter for the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). So, I cant direct Virgin to change its system or the way it operates 
credit card account access.
We offer an informal dispute resolution service. We try to resolve complaints by individual 
customers about financial businesses by looking at what we consider to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. In this case Im able to decide if Virgin has acted fairly and 
in line with its terms and conditions. 
In the terms and conditions of Mr Ss account it says:
We may also change this agreement to:
reflect new technology and other innovations, or changes to systems or card 
schemes
change our services or how we operate
make this agreement clearer to you and to correct errors
We will give you 30 days notice when making a change to your disadvantage.
Mr S is free to end his agreement. The terms and conditions say:
The agreement has no fixed term and you can ask us to end it at any time by calling 
or writing to us. You do not need to give us a reason for this
Mr S said Virgin is trying to force him to buy a new phone and printer which would be 
compatible, while mobile apps are a clear security risk for financial matters. Its not my role 
to determine the security of mobile apps. In its final response to Mr S Virgin said that part of 
its rationale to change to mobile app banking had been motivated by security; that in issuing 
the latest versions of device software customers would be able to take advantage of all 
possible security enhancements in addition to the industry standard encryption which, it 
says, virgin is regulated to comply with. I see no reason to dispute the accuracy of this 
statement.
In his response to the investigator Mr S said terms and conditions may be written and 
published, but this neither makes them fair, nor legally enforceable and the terms the 
investigator quoted are not reasonable. I can certainly appreciate Mr Ss frustration with the 
technical changes Virgin has insisted upon and I see Mr S doesnt want them. I understand 
his strength of feeling in this matter. But in applying for the credit card and signing the credit 
card agreement he accepted the terms and conditions and agreed to be bound by them. Im satisfied by changing from internet banking to mobile banking Virgin has acted in line 
with the terms and conditions and that it gave Mr S the required advance notice period. Mr S 
is not being forced to do anything and is free to close the account, subject to settling any 
outstanding credit balance.
Secure messaging
Mr S said Virgin paid him £50 but carefully avoided answering all his questions. 
On 20 November Mr S messaged Virgin. He said that two weeks previously he sent a 
message about the new app only plans and other issues. He said Virgin did not reply. He 
said he doesnt use mobile apps, nor does he want to. He wanted to know how he should 
manage his account when Virgin withdrew online access. He also asked when the zero 
interest offer ended on his account.
Virgin sent a screen shot of search results in its system for messages from Mr S. I can see it 
has a record of messages on 20 November 2020 and 25 November 2020. In its response to 
this service Virgin said it did not receive a message from Mr S two weeks prior to 20 
November. I can see from the screen shot the message before 20 November was dated in 
April 2020.
Where evidence is disputed, missing or unclear I must make my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities, that is, what I believe most likely to have happened. Im not 
disputing Mr S sent a message two weeks prior to 20 November with some concerns and 
questions. Im also not disputing that Virgin didnt receive it. I think it likely that while Mr S did 
send a message and ask questions in good faith, the message failed to arrive. Its not 
possible for me to determine why it failed to arrive as it could be a technical failing at either 
end of the message sending process. It wouldnt be fair of me to hold Virgin responsible in 
this instance. 
I can see that in its response to messages it did receive Virgin accepted it didnt answer Mr 
Ss question regarding his interest rate. But Im satisfied it did so in the final response. 
Mr S has said Virgin cant discontinue the download of statements or account transactions 
through the browser. In his original complaint he said its not possible to obtain a written 
statement through telephone banking and that in effect Virgin was refusing to provide him 
with printed statements unless he used a smart phone. He said nowhere within any of 
Virgin's responses does it state he has the option to receive a monthly printed statement.
In his later response to the investigators view Mr S said the Virgin website had been 
updated since to include the option to change to paper statements. He said the link wasnt 
there on the site between November 2020 and January 2021, when he made his complaint 
to Virgin.
I can see that in November Virgin didnt clarify with Mr S how he could obtain statements. 
But I note from the terms and conditions that paper statements can be requested. In addition 
the letter to Mr S did say Virgins contact centres would remain open for him to call. So the 
option was there for Mr S to request paper statements by telephone prior to the switch from 
internet to mobile app. 
Im satisfied that the ability to have paper statements posted has always been available for 
Mr Ss account should he request it. 
Mr S said the link to the paper statements form only arrived after they shut down online 
access. He has asked me to establish whether the request form was added in February.  I 
do understand why Mr S has asked me this but as this is Virgins process it is not for me to comment further on. And I dont believe confirmation of whether the link appeared in 
February or not would affect my decision.
I accept that Virgin could have been clearer about how Mr S could access his statements in 
its response messages but Im satisfied Mr S could switch to paper statements at any time 
irrespective of whether he was using the internet or the app. And Im also satisfied Mr S 
didnt need to rely on messaging. He had other means, via telephoning the contact centre, 
with which to seek help with his account and to request paper statements. 
I do understand that the access changes Virgin has made for its credit card accounts is not 
something Mr S wants, and his frustration is understandable. But Im satisfied Virgin has 
acted in line with its terms and conditions. I am also satisfied that £50 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the lack of answers to Mr Ss questions in the secure messaging.
Subject access request (SAR)
Mr S made a further complaint about Virgins response to his SAR. Virgin first need to be 
given the opportunity to investigate Mr Ss concerns and provide a response. If Mr S isnt 
satisfied with its response, he can of course bring that separate complaint to this service.  
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman