DRN-4021726
The complaint
Mr M complains Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CGI) declined his 
claim under his pet insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 1 March 2023 and gave both parties until 15 March 2023 
to respond. My provisional decision explained I wasnt minded to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
CGI didnt respond to my provisional decision, and Mr M disagreed with it for the following 
reasons:
He did everything he could to keep his puppy crated, and only let her out to use the 
toilet and eat  and she ate on his lap.
He had no option but to visit an emergency vet to replace his puppys cast due to the 
time it came off. And this is the only part of the claim that isnt covered.
A different vet hospitalised his puppy and reduced the burden on him.
His puppy broke her leg while on a lead, and he couldnt have done anything 
differently to help her recovery.
Ive taken on board Mr Ms further comments; and considered them alongside everything we 
have on file. However, my decision remains the same and Ill explain the reasoning below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint, for these reasons:
When making a claim, its for the policyholder to prove the event theyre claiming for 
meets the criteria set out in their policy. Mr Ms policy has a condition that explains 
policyholders must take reasonable precautions to prevent accidental injury or 
damage. It also says they should ensure their dog is under control at all times, and 
due care should be maintained to prevent their dog from causing itself accidental 
injury. CGI doesnt consider Mr M has provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate 
this term has been met, and thats why they declined his claim.
Mr Ms puppy injured her leg, and I want to explain that Ive seen nothing to suggest 
or persuade me this accident happened because Mr M wasnt taking due care of her. 
The medical evidence provided by his vet explains that the injured leg needed to be 
kept as stationary as possible. The medical notes provided by Mr Ms vet explain that 
Mr M was told (in the first appointment) that his dog needed to be under strict cage 
rest. The notes also said theyd explained how important rest is he cant have her 
out to cuddle and carry but the limb needs to be as stationary as possible. 
Therefore, Im satisfied Mr M ought to have known this, and Mr Ms testimony 
suggests he did.
The age of Mr Ms dog means its likely there would be occasions when it was difficult 
for him to prevent her from moving all the time. Therefore, I can understand why hes 
said he couldnt prevent her jumping in her crate when she saw him, for example. 
However, the vet notes from follow up visits say Mr M allowed his dog to walk around 
the garden when going to the toilet and that he fed her standing up.
Wed expect CGI to base their decision on the evidence they were provided to 
support the claim. In this case, I consider the most relevant piece of evidence was 
the information contained within the medical notes. And given what Ive detailed 
above, I cant agree CGI acted unreasonably by relying on the commentary provided 
by Mr Ms vet. These notes suggest Mr M ought to have known he had to keep his 
dogs leg immobilised, but there were occasions when he didnt do that. And 
moreover, theyre a reflection of what was discussed between Mr M and the vet at 
the time.
I appreciate Mr M may have a different recollection of what was discussed with his 
vet. However, CGI and I must base our decisions on the information were provided. 
The medical notes suggest the vet was given some contradictory information from 
Mr M  or that there may have been some form of breakdown in communication 
between the two of them. However, I minded to believe the evidence contained in 
these notes is an accurate reflection of what happened and what was discussed 
between Mr M and the vet. Therefore, I can understand why CGI relied on this when 
considering this aspect of Mr Ms claim. Given the notes suggest Mr M could have 
done some things differently when helping his dog recover, I dont consider CGI 
treated him unfairly when they declined this part of his claim.
For the reasons above, while I appreciate Mr Ms frustrations and disappointment, Im not 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about Casualty & General 
Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman