DRN-2101806
The complaint
Ms S complains Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly terminated her income protection claim.  
What happened
Ms S holds a senior role with her employer, and is a beneficiary of its group income 
protection policy. The policy is designed to provide incapacity cover in the event that Ms S is 
unable to perform the material and substantial duties of her own occupation, due to illness or 
injury. And the relevant policy definitions are as follows.
Incapacity or Incapacitated shall mean that a member is incapacitated, by reason of illness 
or injury, when the insurer is satisfied that the employee is incapable of performing the 
material and substantial duties of his or her own occupation and is not following any other 
occupation
Material and substantial means duties that are normally required for and/or form a significant 
and integral part of the performance of the members own occupation and which cannot be 
reasonably omitted or modified by the member or the employer.
Ms S said she started to experience severe headaches in March 2018, and she became 
absent from work. Following an attempted phased return to work in April, she became 
absent again in June and ultimately a claim was made against her employers group income 
protection policy. 
Ms S was referred to two neurologists. The second of which  Dr T  reviewed her condition 
regularly from June 2018 onwards. He diagnosed refractory migraine and began trialling Ms 
S on various medications. 
Aviva accepted the incapacity claim in September 2018. And it reviewed the claim in 
January 2019.
When reviewing the claim, Aviva requested Ms Ss GP records and asked Dr T to provide 
copies of clinic letters. And it asked Ms S to attend an Independent Medical Examination 
(IME) with an Occupational Health Physician.
The IME took place in July 2019 with Dr S. He was supplied with Ms Ss medical records 
and letters from Dr Ts clinic as part of his review. 
Dr Ss report concluded Ms S was not incapacitated by her symptoms, and was fit to begin a 
return to work with adjustments. He also commented on stresses in the workplace and 
issues around job security and workplace bullying, which he thought were a factor in Ms Ss 
absence from work. 
Aviva decided to terminate the claim in August 2019.  It later extended the period for which it 
would continue to pay benefits, to October 2019, as it accepted itd not given sufficient notice 
of its intention to terminate the claim. 
Ms Ss employer raised a complaint with Aviva on her behalf. It said Dr S hadnt been 
provided with all of the available medical reports, or Ms Ss job description. And it disputed 
some of the information contained in Dr Ss report about workplace issues as being factually 
incorrect  and Ms S also disputed the same. 
Aviva referred these points to Dr S for comment in December 2019. There was a delay in Dr 
S responding until March 2020, although I have seen that Aviva was actively chasing for a 
response. Due to the delay, Aviva extended the period it would continue to make benefit 
payments to February 2020.
When Dr S responded, he said the points raised had not changed his opinion that Ms S was 
fit to perform the duties of her role. He made some minor amendments to the background of 
his report. And said the notes hed made about negative issues in the workplace were a 
reflection of the information Ms S relayed when they met. And he said although hed not 
been provided with Ms Ss job description, hed asked her questions about her job role. 
Following Dr Ss response, Aviva responded to the complaint. It said it was satisfied Dr S 
had been supplied with all of the relevant information, and although hed not seen the job 
description before his assessment, hed discussed the role with Ms S. And it said the 
missing medical reports had been subsequently provided for Dr S to consider, and had not 
changed his opinion.
Aviva said Dr S is a consultant in occupational health medicine, so it thought it reasonable 
that it had accepted his opinion. It said as the medical evidence didnt support that Ms S was 
completely unfit to perform the duties of her own occupation, she didnt meet the policy 
definition of incapacity. 
Unhappy with Avivas response, Ms S brought her complaint to this service. An investigator 
here looked into what had happened and said she didnt think there was sufficient evidence 
that Ms S was able to fulfil her occupation. She thought Aviva had acted unfairly in 
terminating the claim and should reinstate it, making the missed benefit payments, plus 
interest. 
Ms S accepted the investigators view. However Aviva disagreed and provided comments 
from its Chief Medical Officer (CMO). In summary it said:
Dr Ts report in February 2020 noted some improvements in Ms Ss symptoms;
There is no biological marker to diagnose or assess Ms Ss condition;
Dr T and the OH assessor didnt explore what Ms S is able to do in life and may 
have been unaware that she had travelled abroad and been skiing and cycling with 
intense light exposure; and
Avivas CMO believes the evidence shows Ms S is capable of performing her role, at 
least on a part-time basis with the workplace modifications suggested by Dr S.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Cases like this one can be finely balanced, as it can be difficult to evidence symptoms such 
as pain, which are usually self-reported. However, its not my role to decide whether or not 
Ms S experiences the symptoms shes described. Rather its for me to look at whether or not 
Aviva acted fairly when it made its decision to terminate the claim, based on the evidence 
available at the time. 
Aviva originally accepted Ms Ss incapacity claim in September 2018. And as it has since 
decided to review and terminate the claim, the burden of proof falls to Aviva to demonstrate 
that Ms S no longer meets the policy definition of incapacity. 
Having reviewed the circumstances of this case, I dont think Aviva has sufficiently 
demonstrated Ms S is no longer incapacitated, and so I dont think its acted fairly. Ill explain 
why. 
The IME report
Many of the conclusions around work-related factors and stresses set out in Dr Ss report 
relate to his recollection of Ms Ss descriptions of difficult situations and changes at work. 
However, both Ms S and her employer have strongly refuted many of these points relating to 
workplace issues, including confirming that her job was not subject to restructuring, and that 
she was not asked to work under a line manager for the first time.  Ive considered Dr Ss 
responses to these points: he maintained hed reflected the difficulties Ms S described at 
work as accurately as possible in his report. 
Considering Ms S and her employer separately raised similar points about negative issues 
relating to her job being factually inaccurate in the IME report, Im persuaded to accept what 
theyve said. And because of this, I think its most likely that there was a mistake or 
misunderstanding in the way Ms Ss comments about workplace factors were recorded 
following the IME. 
Aviva said Dr S thought difficulties at work were a very relevant factor in the overall clinical 
picture. So as Ive found some of the reporting about workplace factors to be unreliable, it 
follows that Ive called into question the reliability of the report as a whole. It seems most 
likely to me that if Dr S considered negative workplace factors to be so relevant, 
inaccuracies in this information could have had a significant impact on his overall conclusion 
about Ms Ss capacity to work. 
Further to this, Ms S and her employer questioned whether Dr S had been supplied with all 
of the relevant records to undertake his review. Some of the reports from Dr T and 
occupational health reports obtained by Ms Ss employer were not originally provided to Dr 
S. And he wasnt provided with a copy of Ms Ss job description. 
Copies of the missing reports were later provided to Dr S, and he said these didnt change 
his opinion. And he confirmed that although hed not been supplied with Ms Ss job 
description, hed asked her several questions about her role during their meeting.
Considering the policy terms reference own occupation I think it was relevant and important 
that Dr S was provided with a copy of Ms Ss job description prior to his assessment. Based on the information contained in Dr Ss report, the questioning about Ms Ss job role didnt 
reveal the same level of detail as that which is provided in the job description Ive seen. And 
considering the seniority of Ms Ss role, the nature of the work she undertakes, and the 
symptoms she has described around levels of concentration and focus, I dont think it was 
fair that her full job description was not considered as part of Dr Ss original review. 
Due to the issues raised around factual inaccuracies relating to workplace factors, and the 
job description which was not initially supplied, Im not persuaded that it was fair for Aviva to 
place so much reliance on Dr Ss report when reviewing Ms Ss claim. Whilst Ive noted the 
amendments Dr S made to his report, these dont sufficiently persuade me that the overall 
outcome of the report is a fair reflection of Ms Ss abilities. 
Other medical evidence
Reviewing both Ms Ss job description and her own account of her role, much of her job 
involves working with screens, and using focus and concentration. All of which Ms S has 
said shes found she struggles with due to her migraines and medication side-effects. I 
acknowledge these are symptoms Ms S has self-reported. And that much of the contents of 
the reports from Dr T, and the occupational health reports commissioned by Ms Ss 
employer, relate to self-reporting. And I appreciate that there is no relevant biological 
marker, to diagnose or assess her condition as Avivas CMO has said.   However, Im not 
persuaded that this sufficiently evidences that the symptoms Ms S reported are not as 
debilitating as she has described. And I think the occupational health reports serve to 
evidence that Ms Ss accounts of her symptoms were consistent with those documented in 
Dr Ts reports.
Ms S had many regular consultations in person with Dr T, and his reports show that she had 
tried a variety of different treatment options on his recommendation. And this included 
trialling a medication which Ms S had to pay a considerable amount of money to obtain. His 
reports are detailed in terms of symptoms and treatment recommendations. And he 
continually concluded that Ms S was unfit for work, even when he noted some improvements 
as a result of medication combinations she had tried. Dr T is a consultant neurologist, so Im 
satisfied he is a relevant expert to assess Ms Ss condition, and Ive found his reports to be 
persuasive. And Im similarly persuaded by Ms Ss regular and continued efforts to seek 
treatment for her condition. 
Because of this, I think it would have been reasonable for Aviva to have placed greater 
reliance on Dr Ts reports, particularly considering the inaccuracies Ms S and her employer 
raised in relation to Dr Ss report.
Avivas CMO said that Dr Ts reports and the occupational health reports do not explore 
what Ms S is able to do in life and said Dr S had made a more proper assessment of this. 
However what Ms S told Dr S about her daily activities, such as exercising, is no more or 
less self-reported than her symptoms. So I think its unreasonable that Aviva would accept 
Ms Ss own account of some of her capabilities but not others. 
Avivas CMO called into question trips Ms S has made abroad, and activities she had 
undertaken including sailing, cycling and skiing. And in doing so has drawn a comparison to the light intensity Ms S might experience during these trips, such as light reflecting on the 
water, and the symptoms she has reported in relation to movement.
Based on the reports Ive seen, Ms S has described her symptoms and the way shes 
affected by light and movement in detail. But Ive not seen evidence that she had said all 
forms of light and movement exacerbate her symptoms.  I note from a pain clinic report in 
October 2019 that Ms S had complained of her migraines being aggravated by flashing lights 
and coughing or sneezing, but she had also said she goes walking, swimming and sailing, 
and feels at her best when sailing. And I note from Dr Ts reports that he had encouraged Ms 
S to undertake light exercise. So in these particular circumstances, whilst I understand the 
link Aviva has attempted to make, without further evidence, Im not persuaded that Ms Ss 
physical activities show she is able to fulfil the duties of her occupation. 
Putting things right
As Ive explained, I dont think Aviva has sufficiently evidenced that Ms S no longer meets 
the definition of incapacity set out in the policy. So I think it acted unfairly in terminating Ms 
Ss claim. To put things right it should reinstate the claim and make a payment covering all of 
the missed benefit payments, plus interest. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I direct 
Aviva Insurance Limited to do the following: 
reinstate the claim;
make a payment to cover all missed benefit payments dating back to the last 
payment made; and
add interest at 8% simple to the back-dated payments from the date they should 
have originally been paid to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman