DRN-4038513
The complaint
Miss S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC allowed a third party Credit Reference Agency 
(CRA) to change her email address and they provided her with poor customer service.
What happened
Miss S says that when she rang Barclays to update her account to paperless 
communication, the email address they held for her was incorrect as it had a letter missing. 
She says that Barclays told her that a third party CRA gained access to Barclays system and 
accessed her bank account and changed her email address. She says she was told this took 
place on 7 January 2014. Miss S made a complaint to Barclays.
Barclays upheld Miss Ss complaint in part, and they offered her £100 compensation. They 
said the CRA cannot access their systems directly to update her details. While they share 
information with the CRA, and vice versa, in line with some of their processes, they said 
given the time that has elapsed since January 2014, they no longer have access to some of 
the records which might have shed light on exactly how her e-mail address was updated. 
Barclays said in some instances they do update details based on information from another 
department within Barclays or from third parties, like CRAs, with whom they have an 
agreement with, and no error is made when they update information in line with their 
processes. Miss S brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator said he thought £100 compensation was fair for what happened. He said as 
the amendment was over six years ago, Barclays have insufficient records to show why the 
email address was changed or what it was previously. However, theres no evidence the 
email address was changed fraudulently. He said Barclays have confirmed the CRA are 
unable to access their banking systems to make changes. 
Miss S asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She said she wanted the cost of 
the calls to be refunded and she lost two days worth of work, which she wanted Barclays to 
pay what she lost as a result of not being able to afford to travel to work due to their errors. 
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Ive listened to a number of calls about the conversations Miss S has had about this issue, 
including the call where the email address issue is first discovered. On the call on 15 
January 2022, Miss S talks about changing to paperless communication and the call handler 
goes through some security details with her and asks for her email address. It is here that 
they realise there is a different email address. Miss S says it must have been changed 
recently and the call handler checks for her. The call handler says when Ive clicked on, it 
just says it was last updated on the 7th of January 2014, then last updated source (name of 
the CRA). Miss S asks if the CRA updated her email address and the call handler says well 
they say last updated source, they wouldnt be able to update an email address. The call 
handler updates the email address to the correct address and Miss S asks her to carry out 
an investigation into what happened. The call handler then registers Miss S for paperless 
statements. 
Ive listened to another call which Miss S had on 22 February 2022. This is a short call where 
the complaint handler introduces herself to Miss S and lets her know she will be investigating 
the complaint. She says I understand that it is very worrying. Im not quite sure if they (the 
CRA) have actually accessed our systems or if they have notified us of your email address 
and we have updated our systems in 2014, Im getting some clarity about how this was 
actually done. Miss S confirms she is happy for the complaint handler to continue to 
investigate and tells her she is very grateful for her call. The complaint handler confirms she 
will get back to her and it could be the next day, it could be the Friday, but it would be in and 
around that timeframe. But no definitive time was agreed.
On 11 March 2022, Miss S rings Barclays. She says she was expecting a call from the 
complaint handler, but the complaint handler never rang her back. The call handler informs 
Miss S that they have 56 days to resolve her complaint and she would add onto the existing 
complaint that the complaint handler didnt ring her back. The call handler did not provide 
any comment on what happened regarding the change of the email address.
On 29 March 2022, Miss S asks for an update for her complaint. The call handler explains 
that they issued her a final response letter on 22 March 2022. Miss S said she wanted to put 
in a complaint as the complaint handler didnt ring her back. The call handler attempts to 
transfer Miss S to the level two complaints team. But while she is on the phone, she receives 
a call on her other line from a Barclays call handler.
Although Miss S asks the new call handler to ring her back on her other number, the call 
handler says Barclays were paying for the call. Miss S tells the other call handler she will let 
him go as the call handler is paying for the call then she says Barclays are going to pay for 
all of my calls, but the call handler had not confirmed they were going to pay for all of her 
calls, he had said they were paying for that call. 
Ive listened to a call on 15 June 2022, where call costs are discussed from earlier in the 
year. Miss S tells the call handler that the CRA changed her email address on the Barclays 
systems, but the call handler tells Miss S that the CRA cant change your email address on 
Barclays because they are nothing to do with Barclays Miss S replies I know, but Barclays 
is the one that told me that, Ive got their paperwork. She tells the call handler she has 
brought this to our service and the call handler informs her that he cant discuss anything 
else with it being with our service, and that your correspondence will be with (our service), 
not with Barclays.
On none of the calls Ive been provided, does any call handler (including the original call 
handler or the complaint handler) confirm that the CRA has accessed Barclays systems and 
amended her email address. After considering all of the evidence here, Im satisfied that the 
CRA did not have access to Barclays systems and were able to change Miss Ss email 
address. I know Miss S may be doubtful about this. But the evidence Ive seen shows the 
last updated source for her email address was the CRA (prior to it being changed to the 
correct email address). Im persuaded that this wording is important - source. As this 
suggests the CRA were the source for the different email address.
Ive looked online at the terms and conditions of the account. These say under the Credit reference and fraud prevention agencies section that Barclays share information about you 
and your accounts with credit reference agencies and fraud prevention agencies. They also 
share information about you back to us, and with each other and other organisations. This 
includes information about your financial history. We do this to make sure the information 
you give us is correct. Its also important for preventing crime, to recover debts, and to check 
that the accounts and services you take from us are right for you. 
They also say Well also continue to exchange information about you (and your accounts) 
with credit reference agencies while you are our customer. The credit reference agencies 
may in turn share your personal data with other organisations which may use it to make 
decisions about you.
Based on the terms and conditions, Barclays and the CRAs share information about 
customers. This is not unusual. But here, on the balance of probabilities, Im persuaded that 
the CRA is likely to have shared the wrong email address with Barclays who had likely 
thought that the email address they had for Miss S was incorrect and they updated the 
system based on the source  the CRAs information given to them.  
It has since been confirmed to Miss S via her responses from Barclays and at least two call 
handlers that the CRAs do not have access to their systems. And Ive seen no evidence that 
the CRA has access to change things on Barclays systems. They can share information with 
them, but they dont appear to be able to change anything directly. I hope this gives Miss S 
the reassurance that a CRA cant amend Barclays systems directly and nothing untoward 
happened here.
But Barclays did let Miss S down with the complaint handler not calling her back when she 
should have done. They also let her down by saying they would pay for at least one of her 
calls, but they did not consider that she would have incurred roaming call costs as a result of 
this. I have read everything that Miss S has said about the impact this had on her as her 
increased phone bill did not leave her enough money to pay her expected bills and resulted 
in her missing two days of work due to not being able to afford to travel to work. 
Ive considered that Miss S wants to be paid for loss of earnings. But for me to even consider 
this, there were a number of items of evidence that I requested from Miss S to prove 
Barclays were the sole reason of this and to see if she was able to mitigate the impact of 
this. But Miss S was unable to provide these documents by the deadline issued and 
although I offered to wait until the deadline to give her a chance to get these items, she 
asked for me to progress her case as she said it didnt make any sense to delay this matter 
any further. So unfortunately Im unable to consider this aspect of her complaint here for loss 
of earnings due to Barclays call costs making her phone bill higher than expected and 
having a knock on effect on other financial matters.
But I have considered the roaming call costs. While Miss S has not been able to provide us 
with an itemised bill, she has told us that these costs total £66.19. Barclays told Miss S that 
they were paying for the phone call on 29 March 2022. But this was to the phone line she 
asked not to be rung on. So its only fair that Barclays pay for these costs that they agreed 
to. I asked Barclays if they considered that she would be charged a roaming fee while 
abroad and they told me they had not. So on this occasion, they have agreed to pay for the 
call costs that Miss S had said she incurred without any extra evidence. Im satisfied that this 
is fair as without an itemised phone bill I would be unable to award her the full £66.19 she 
said she had for her costs. 
Barclays have said that there was two unsuccessful attempts by the complaint handler to 
ring Miss S on 1 and 11 March 2022. However, this was later than when she said she would 
ring back Miss S. And there are no indication of these calls on the call log. While this may be due to the call not connecting, it would be reasonable for the complaint handler to leave a 
short message to let Miss S know she tried to give her a call. It is not clear what telephone 
number these calls were attempted on either  whether these were calls to her overseas 
telephone number, or to her UK number (which she could have incurred roaming charges if 
she had been able to answer these calls). But Miss S is adamant that she had no missed 
calls here. 
It appears that she only spoke to the complaint handler who said she would ring her back 
once. I know Miss S may dispute this, but there is no evidence to say they spoke more than 
once. Miss S is unable to give us any dates of another call with the complaint handler, there 
are no system or call notes or call recordings of any other call with the complaint handler and 
Miss S has said to several call handlers she never received a call back from the complaint 
handler. 
Barclays have said that they originally offered her £100 for compensation. But they would 
increase this to £175 for the distress and inconvenience she suffered as a result of letting 
her down with not considering roaming charges and her not getting a phone call back when 
she was told she would get one. Im satisfied that £175 is fair for what happened here. In my 
opinion it recognises the impact that the lack of phone call would have had on her. Miss S 
was clearly distressed by this and she was inconvenienced by having to chase up Barclays 
about this. In addition, she found out later that she incurred call costs despite asking the call 
handler to ring her back on her overseas telephone line and him reassuring her that Barclays 
were paying for the costs of that call, but they hadnt considered the roaming charges, and 
as such this had an impact on Miss S also. 
So while I cant agree that the CRA changed Barclays systems and there is no evidence that 
this happened for the reasons Ive already given, Im satisfied that £175 for distress and 
inconvenience is fair for what happened here. With the addition of the £66.19 for the phone 
call costs that Barclays agreed to pay without evidence, then the total amount of 
compensation that Barclays should pay Miss S is £241.19. So it follows I intend to ask 
Barclays to put things right for Miss S.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Miss S wanted to know why my provisional decision did not include the reason why 
her evidence would not be able to be included by the deadline that I gave her to provide this 
information. She said it seemed that I thought that she has or had no intention of putting 
forward this evidence. Barclays said they had no further points to raise.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must make it clear to Miss S that I am not of the opinion that she has or had no intention of 
putting forward the evidence I asked her for before the deadline which was set. I am aware 
that Miss S asked for this deadline to be extended to five/six months as she is currently 
overseas, but I explained to her through our investigator the role that our service provides 
and why I was unable to agree to her extension request.
In summary, Miss S response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Miss S will be disappointed, but I 
hope she understands my reasons. Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I said I intend to ask 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Miss S a total of £175 for distress and inconvenience and 
£66.19 for call costs. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Miss S a total of £175 for 
distress and inconvenience and £66.19 for call costs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman