DRN-4310756
The complaint
Mr Fs complaint is about advice he received from Acumen Financial Services (Acumen) in
2021/2022 about early retirement.
Acumen is an appointed representative of Sense Network Limited who, as principal, is
responsible for the advice Acumen gave.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 19 July 2023. Ive recapped here what I said about what 
had led up to Mr Fs complaint together with my provisional findings.
In brief, Mr F met with Acumens adviser in July 2021. Mr F wanted to retire early, in 2022 at
age 61. Mr F was a member of his employers Group Personal Pension (GPP). He also had
two policies with Phoenix Life which had Guaranteed Annuity Rates (GARs) and pension
plans with Standard Life and ReAssure.
Acumen recommended that Mr F retain his GPP, to which his employer was contributing,
and his Phoenix Life policies. The latter had valuable guarantees which would be lost on
transfer. Acumen recommended that Mr F transfer his Standard Life and ReAssure plans to
a new Flexi Access Drawdown (FAD) arrangement with Aviva with the investments to be
managed by Square Mile Investment Consulting and Research Limited (Square Mile).
Mr F accepted the recommendations and, after taking some of his tax free cash, the
remainder of the funds were transferred to Aviva and the new FAD arrangement was set up
with effect from 25 March 2022. Mr F was able to view his investments online. He quickly
became unhappy about how his funds were performing and contacted Acumen. What
Acumen said didnt reassure him and, as the fund value continued to fall, Mr F ended his
agreement with Acumen. He dealt himself with the transfer from Aviva to Canada Life to
purchase an enhanced annuity. I understand Mr F took his remaining tax free cash of
£153,175.67 which left the sum of £463,539 which bought an annuity of £20,284 pa, which I
think was set up in late June 2022.
By then Mr F had complained to Acumen. Amongst other things Mr F said his risk profile was
extremely cautious and his priority was to protect his investment and generate an overall
pension of about £30,000 pa without risk. The adviser had said, to grow the investment and
keep pace with inflation, it may be necessary to take some risk with a small proportion of the
investment. The safer option of an annuity seemed to have been disregarded as the income
would be too low. Mr F said, given his risk profile, FAD wasnt the right product for him. The
losses and fund value fluctuations had caused stress and impacted on his mental health. He
was seeking compensation of £30,633.91 which represented the loss from his initial
investment, plus a refund of fees of £6,295.
Sense Network Limited didnt uphold the complaint. But it accepted that the adviser hadnt
completed the implementation of his recommendations regarding the Phoenix Life policies.
And that Mr F had spent time contacting Phoenix Life about the matter. A refund of fees of
£1,059.98 was offered plus £200 for distress and inconvenience. There were some further
exchanges but Sense Network Limiteds position didnt change.
Mr F referred his complaint to us. It was considered by one of our investigators who upheld
it. He said Sense Network Limited had agreed that the adviser had failed to deal with Mr Fs
Phoenix Life policies and so the offer to refund fees and pay distress and inconvenience
should be reinstated.
As to the recommendation to go into FAD, the investigator didnt think any responsibility
rested with Square Mile. The losses had happened over a short period of time and Mr Fs
investment was intended to be longer term. But the investigator didnt think Acumens
recommendations had been suitable for Mr F. His primary concern was to protect his
investment. Although he had an ideal income figure in mind, he wasnt prepared to subject
his investment to the degree of risk represented by the FAD arrangement. Mr F appeared to
be a Very Cautious investor and, although global events and his decision to terminate the
relationship had contributed to his losses, the investigator thought the losses wouldve been
less if Mr F had been in an investment portfolio more suited to his cautious approach.
The investigator recognised that an investors attitude to risk (ATR) could be subject to
review and Mr F had accepted the advisers recommendations. Mr F had also told our
investigator that he was under some pressure at the time and that may have impacted on
him accepting advice that he may not have been entirely comfortable with. The investigator
said the fact find and the recommendation letter didnt indicate that any alternative strategies
had been discussed with Mr F and that, despite contacting Sense Network Limited for an
explanation about that and other matters, we hadnt heard further. The investigators view
was that the recommendation was unsuitable. He set out how Sense Network Limited should
compensate Mr F fairly.
Mr F accepted what the investigator had said. Sense Network Limited didnt. And in
response to what the investigator had said about not having had a response to some
queries, Sense Network Limited asked if the investigator had seen its email of 23 February
2023, which made the following main points:
Mr Fs initial ATR score was 25 (Very Cautious). His responses to the ATR
questionnaire were discussed against his overall objectives and any discrepancies or
amendments were fully discussed and disclosed. And the suitability letter gave Mr F
a record of the final discussions and rationale.
Mr F had an income objective of £30,000 pa. The annuities with GARs provided
around £9,000 pa and a pension forecast showed hed get a state pension of
approximately £8,800 pa in 2026. So over half of his income needs were guaranteed
for life. It was agreed that with the remainder of the funds hed take a small but higher
risk profile for a sustainable income with added flexibility. That was discussed and
agreed with Mr F. The increased weighting in the ATR was recorded on the fact find, 
a copy of which was supplied to Mr F and it was confirmed in the suitability report
issued to him.
Given the guaranteed element of the income currently and shortly to be received,
along with the investment timeframe of over twenty years, Mr F agreed to a portfolio
with an element of risk but defensively placed which provided the guarantees Mr F
required and flexibility for the remaining income.
The file given to Mr F confirms all that within the report and fact find and which is an
accurate representation of the discussions held. Mr F was aware of the
recommended solution and was happy to proceed with the investment. Hed taken a
very short term view and not the longer view as originally intended.
A full annuity purchase wasnt discussed but was considered holistically due to the
annuity plans recommended to underpin the guaranteed income.Death benefits were also important to Mr F whose partner is ten years younger.
The investigator hadnt seen Sense Network Limiteds comments and reviewed them but he
didnt change his view. Sense Network Limited didnt agree and reiterated why it considered
FAD had been suitable for Mr F. The investigator told Mr F and Sense Network Limited that
as agreement hadnt been reached the complaint would be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered first what happened in respect of Mr Fs policies with Phoenix Life. Sense
Network Limited offered to refund charges calculated at £1,059.96. I dont think theres any
dispute that Acumen agreed to deal with the Phoenix Life policies on Mr Fs behalf and then
didnt do that work. Like the investigator, I dont think the offer shouldve been made
conditional when it was clear, despite what Sense Network Limited thought about other
aspects of Mr Fs complaint, thered been an obvious failing on Acumens part in overlooking
the Phoenix Life policies. Ive made a direction below for Sense Network Limited to refund
Mr F and pay him £200 for the distress and inconvenience this aspect of the matter will have
caused him.
Ive gone on to consider if Acumens advice that Mr F switch to the FAD arrangement was
suitable for Mr F. A considerable amount of documentation has been supplied, all of which
Ive seen. But Im going to focus on what I see as central to the complaint.
It seems agreed that Mr Fs starting position is that he didnt want to take any risk with his
pension. His ATR was initially assessed as being Very Cautious which was adjusted to
Cautious or the Low end of Cautious to Moderate. I think thats quite a significant uplift.
Sense Network Limited says Mr Fs responses to the ATR questionnaire were discussed
against his overall objectives and any discrepancies or amendments were fully discussed
and recorded. I dont dispute that such discussions may take place. And I accept that, in
some circumstances, an investors ATR might change, having been made aware of the
options. But I think an adviser needs to be careful, in any discussions which might lead an
investor to agree to accept more risk, to ensure the investor is fully comfortable with that and
aware of the possible consequences.
Sense Network Limited says the agreed adjustment to Mr Fs ATR was recorded in the fact
find and the suitability letter. But whats set out is more the outcome, not how the amended
position was arrived at and the rationale. The suitability letter simply says that Mr F is a
Cautious Investor, prepared only to take a small amount of investment risk. Theres nothing
to indicate thats a change to Mr Fs natural and lower ATR or how the increase has come
about and why Mr F was prepared to adopt a higher risk approach. Especially given the 
large amount involved. It wasnt the case that Mr F would be adopting a higher risk profile for
a small element of his pension provision. Hed be taking more risk with a very significant
fund size which increased the overall risk.
Id also expect there to have been some clear reference to the risks that FAD presented. I
note there are some warnings in the letter about performance and other issues. But I dont
think thats enough to be satisfied that the risks of FAD were fully explained and why, despite
the fact that he was a Cautious investor (whether thats Cautious or very Cautious), FAD
was nevertheless considered suitable for him.
The recommendation letter seems to have been framed instead on the basis that Mr F
wanted the flexibility that FAD would provide. And, in responding to Mr Fs complaint, SenseNetwork Limited has stressed the flexibility afforded by FAD which, by purchasing an
annuity, Mr F has given up. I dont doubt that flexibility might have been attractive to Mr F.
But Im not convinced that was necessarily at the expense of his other objectives. I think,
properly assessed, Mr Fs main priorities were protecting his accumulated pension savings
and generating an income of around £30,000 pa on a risk free basis.
Mr Fs Phoenix Life policies with GARs would provide an income of around £9,000 pa and a
pension forecast showed hed get a state pension of approximately £8,800 pa in 2026 which
meant from then over half of his income needs were guaranteed for life. I agree that formed
an important baseline income. And Mr F had the GPP too. I agree he had some capacity for
loss and that there might be some room for adopting a more flexible approach for the
pension plans Acumen was considering.
But, and even if flexibility was as important to Mr F as Sense Network Limited says, Id
expect to see any other options available to Mr F, including annuity purchase, set out and
fully discussed in the recommendation report, with reasons as to why other options had been
discounted, so Mr F could make a fully informed decision. Sense Network Limited has
stressed that the recommendation was fully discussed and Mr F agreed with it. But I dont
think the report  which was the central document on which Mr Fs decision would be based
 was balanced. For example, it seems that an annuity of £28,219.23 was available from
Aviva. It didnt match Mr Fs target income of £30,000 pa. But it wasnt too far short. Theres
nothing to indicate that there were any discussions as to whether Mr F would be prepared to
compromise a slightly lower income in return for certainty.
I note whats been said about Mr Fs partner who could be nominated as the beneficiary of
the FAD arrangement. But I dont see that death benefits were the primary driver. The main
purpose of pension savings is to provide an income in retirement. And an annuity can make
provision to protect a partner. Even if a joint life annuity isnt bought the annuity may include
a guarantee period. And Mr F did buy an annuity which would suggest that any inheritance
considerations didnt outweigh the need to secure a guaranteed retirement income.
On a more general note, Im not persuaded that FAD is low risk. Or that the risk element is
determined by the funds selected. The FAD arrangement means that the pension funds
remain invested and, even if a relatively cautious investment strategy is adopted, are
exposed to investment fluctuations. Theres a chance the portfolio will grow but it can also
reduce, which was Mr Fs experience, albeit over a relatively short investment period. The
portfolio value will also reduce if ongoing charges arent outweighed by investment returns,
which generally tend to be lower if more cautious investments are selected.
All in all I dont think FAD was suitable for Mr F. I think that type of arrangement represented
more risk than Mr F was prepared or shouldve been advised to take. And, from what Ive
seen, I dont think the annuity option was fully explored. So I dont think Mr F was placed in a
fully informed position.
As to how things should be put right, my approach differs from what the investigator
suggested. I dont think the FAD arrangement was suitable for Mr F from the outset. I think,
with suitable advice, hed have done what hes since done which was to buy an annuity. So
the redress Ive set out is aimed at putting Mr F back in the position hed be in if hed have
bought an annuity instead.
Square Mile who was responsible for managing Mr F has been mentioned. The investigator
didnt think any responsibility attached to Square Mile, taking into account that Mr F only
remained invested for a very short period. Given my approach  that Mr F shouldnt have
had the FAD arrangement in the first place and should be redressed on the basis hed
bought an annuity instead  Square Miles involvement in the matter falls away.I went on to set out what Sense Network Limited needed to do to put things right for Mr F. 
In response to my provisional decision Sense Network Limited said it had no new 
information to supply. Having reviewed the redress Id proposed it was assumed Mr F was a 
basic rate taxpayer. But if the calculation determined otherwise that should be taken into 
consideration. 
We checked with Mr F. We explained that the redress Id set out in my provisional decision  
and in particular the notional reduction of 20% from the lump sum payment  was on the 
assumption he was a basic rate taxpayer. But if he was a higher rate taxpayer (or would be 
taking into account the redress awarded) Id agree the deduction should be 40% instead. 
And, as the loss in respect of past annuity payments was on a net basis, the same rate 
would be deducted. 
Mr F confirmed he was a basic rate tax payer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr F and Sense Network Limited have accepted my provisional decision. In the 
absence of any new information or evidence my views remain as set out in my provisional 
decision. Ive repeated those in full above and they form part of this decision. 
Putting things right
To compensate Mr F fairly Sense Network Limited needs to take the steps Ive set out below 
(and which follows what I said in my provisional decision). Working out what redress is due 
may involve liaising with Canada Life, Mr Fs annuity provider. If required, Mr F should 
complete a letter of authority enabling Sense Network Limited to obtain information direct 
from Canada Life to assist in calculating redress.
Sense Network Limited should:
A. Calculate what Mr Fs tax free cash wouldve been using the values transferred to
Aviva and pay Mr F any shortfall, plus interest at 8% pa simple from 25 March 2022
(the date the FAD arrangement was established) to the date of payment.
B. Calculate what Mr Fs annuity wouldve been had Mr F bought his annuity on 25
March 2022, assuming the annuity was set up on the same basis as the annuity Mr F
actually bought.
C. Work out Mr Fs past annuity losses  the difference between the net annuity
payments Mr F has received and what hed have received if the annuity had been set
up earlier. Interest at 8% pa simple should be added to each net monthly payment
from the date it was due to the date of payment.
D. Work out Mr Fs future annuity losses by calculating the current cost of setting up an
annuity (on the same basis as Mr Fs current annuity) for the difference in annuity
which he lost out on. The purchase price of the annuity is Mr Fs gross future loss.
This should be paid directly to Mr F as a lump sum after making a notional reduction
to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid  had Mr F been able to
buy a higher annuity hed have been liable to income tax on the annuity payments hereceived. So that hes not over compensated a deduction to recognise that can be
made. Mr F had confirmed hes a basic rate tax payer so the reduction should equal 20%.
This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a
payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr F wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after
compensation is paid.
E. Pay the £400 suggested by the investigator (which I agree is fair and reasonable
compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr F) direct to Mr F.
F. Provide details in a clear and simple format to Mr F showing how the compensation
in A, B, C and D above has been calculated.
G. What Ive said above is in addition to the compensation offered  £1,259.96 in total
which includes a payment of £200 for distress and inconvenience  which should be
paid direct to Mr F. Im not making any award in respect of the balance of the fees as the 
redress Ive set out above aims to put Mr F back in the position hed be in if hed been given 
suitable advice, for which a fee wouldve been payable.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Sense Network Limited must redress Mr F as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman