DRN-4332022
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt allow them to cancel a new interest 
rate product for their buy to let mortgage during the cooling off period. Theyd like the 
product fee and early repayment charge (ERC) refunded.
What happened
Mr I applied for a new interest rate product in early August 2022. He sold the property later 
that month and asked Barclays to cancel the product. Mr I said this was within the cooling off 
period.
Barclays says Mr I hadnt cancelled within the withdrawal period. It didnt agree to refund the 
product fee or ERC.
Mr I says he was given conflicting information about whether the product was cancelled and 
spent considerable time trying to sort out the matter. He says he didnt know the product 
start date was 3 August 2022, or that this was when the cooling off period started. He says 
he thought hed have 11 days from when he signed the agreement on 9 August 2022. 
Our investigator said Mr I had wanted the product to start as soon as possible when he 
applied, so Barclays hadnt made an error by applying the product from 3 August 2022. And 
even if the cooling off period had started when Mr and Mrs I signed the documents they 
would have still missed the deadline to cancel the product. Our investigator said the £750 
offered by Barclays was fair.
Mr and Mrs I didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman reconsider the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays says customers can cancel a rate switch that hasnt yet taken effect. And theres a 
cooling off period of 11 days for a customer to cancel a rate from the date it takes effect.
The issue here is whether Barclays misled Mr I about when the product switch would take 
effect, and that the cancellation period would start from that date.
Barclays provided recordings of its calls with Mr I.
Mr I called Barclays on 15 July 2022. He said hed hoped to sell the property but the 
purchase hadnt proceeded. He said hed given the purchaser a deadline of 22 July 2022 to 
complete and wanted to secure a rate before rates increased again. Barclays said the rate 
switch would apply from the next working day or the date chosen by Mr I, whichever was 
later. Barclays said there was a cooling off period of 11 days. There was no discussion about 
when the 11 days would start. 
Mr I applied for the product online in late July 2022. He called Barclays on 1 August 2022. 
He wanted to cancel the product and re-apply. Barclays cancelled the product during the 
call. It said Mr I would have to wait until he received confirmation the product had been 
cancelled, which would usually be three working days, before re-applying for a product.
Mr I called Barclays on 3 August 2022. He wanted to re-apply for the same product. Mr I 
filled out the product application while on the call. He had difficulty when he tried to enter the 
preferred start date as the system didnt accept 4 or 5 August 2022 as valid dates. There 
was a discussion about whether he could choose 3 August 2022 or if the standard variable 
rate would apply. Mr I said hed been unable to enter 3 August 2022  and then said its 
alright now. He didnt ask about the cooling off period on this call.
There was a short delay in the product documents being sent to Mr I. Barclays sent Mr I a 
message asking him to get in touch. It wanted to check he wanted to take out a product with 
an ERC as hed said he was selling the property. Mr I called on 5 August 2022 and 
confirmed he wanted to go ahead.
Barclays sent information about the new product to Mr and Mrs I on 8 August 2022. The 
mortgage information sheet says you will have specified a preferred start date when you 
submitted your application but for the purpose of providing figures in this information sheet 
we assume the interest rate will start on 1 September 2022. The actual payments you will 
make will vary slightly, as they will be based on the mortgage balance on the date when the 
new interest rate is applied. 
Mr I signed and returned the documents on 9 August 2022. The mortgage illustration sheet 
used an assumed date of 1 September 2022 to illustrate the monthly payments. But I think it 
was clear this was for the purposes of the illustration and not the actual start date. As Mr I 
told Barclays his preferred start date was 3 August 2022, I dont think Barclays made an 
error when it applied the product from 3 August 2022. I dont think it misled Mr I about this.
Mr I says the property was sold on 19 August 2022. He called Barclays on 22 August 2022. 
He said hed sold the property and while he thought the product would cancel by default he 
wanted to make sure. Barclays asked if this was the first time hed called to cancel and Mr I 
said hed tried to call a few minutes before and failed security. He didnt say hed tried to call 
before 22 August 2022. Barclays said it couldnt cancel the product as it was already in 
place. 
Mr I says he tried to call Barclays on 20 August 2022 (a Saturday) but couldnt get through. I 
appreciate its difficult for him to provide evidence he tried to call and was unable to get 
through, and that this was due to errors by Barclays. I must also take into account that Mr I 
didnt mention this when he called Barclays on 22 August 2022.
I dont think Barclays told Mr I the withdrawal period would start from the date he signed and 
returned the documents. Equally, I dont think it told him it would start from when the product 
was effective. But even if the 11 days had started from 9 August 2022, Mr I would still have 
missed the deadline to cancel the product. 
I know Mr and Mrs I will be disappointed. But I dont think Barclays made an error. It applied 
the rate switch with effect from 3 August 2022, in accordance with Mr Is instructions. It 
checked this was what he wanted to do, given hed said he was selling the property. Mr I 
didnt cancel within the 11-day withdrawal period. 
There was some confusion as to whether Barclays would refund the ERC and product fee 
and this must have been frustrating for Mr and Mrs I. But I dont think this makes it fair and 
reasonable to require Barclays to refund these sums. I think Barclays offer of £750 for the 
delays and falsely raised expectations is fair and reasonable.My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £750 to Mr and Mrs I as it offered to 
do.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman