DRN-4421004
The complaint
Mr K, Mr K and Ms R are unhappy that Westfield Contributory Health Scheme declined a 
claim made under a group healthcare plan (the plan). 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Westfield has an obligation to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
I know Mr K, Mr K and Ms R will be disappointed but, for the following reasons, Im satisfied 
Westfield has fairly and reasonably declined to cover the therapy session, Mr K had towards 
the end of March 2023.  
Subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the plan, it covers therapies 
including chiropractic and physiotherapy  up to certain financial limits. That 
cover extends to dependent children.
Under the terms and conditions of the plan, several conditions need to be met for 
a person to fall within the definition of dependent children, one of which is being 
under the age of 18. It also says a person wont be covered for dependent child 
benefits once theyre 18. 
Considering the date of the therapy session, Im satisfied Mr K had turned 18 
when the therapy session took place. So, under the terms of the plan, I dont 
think the cost is covered.
Ive considered whether its fair and reasonable for Westfield to rely on the terms 
and conditions in the circumstances of this case. Ive listened to the call which 
took place shortly before the therapy session. Ms R asks Westfields 
representative to go through what the plan covers as she couldnt locate her 
documents and the financial benefit remaining under different sections of the 
plan. Im satisfied that Ms R didnt ask any specific questions about dependent 
children cover or the age someone had to be to benefit from the plan. And the 
representative didnt provide any information about that. Without a specific 
question, I dont think the representative reasonably ought to have provided 
information about the definition of dependent children.  
After the therapy session had taken place, Westfield sent an email dated 31 
March 2023 to say that Mr K was still on the plan and will be covered until his 
22nd birthday. That was in response to an email that was sent to Westfield dated 
25 March 2022, around the time of the therapy session, to say that Mr K was 18 
years old and should be on the policy. It was Mr K and Ms Rs belief that Mr K 
had been removed from the policy.
Westfield updated the terms and conditions of the plan with effect of 1 April 2023. 
And the age limit for dependent children for some benefits was increased to their 
22nd birthday. So, Im satisfied that the email Westfield sent on 31 March 2023 
(the day before the terms and conditions were due to change) was in reference to 
that, rather than confirming that the plan currently covered dependent children up 
to the age of 22.
Whilst Westfield accept that this shouldve been made clearer in the email, I dont 
think Mr K, Mr K and Ms R have lost out as a result. The therapy session had 
already taken place by 31 March 2022, when the email was sent by Westfield. 
And Ive seen nothing which persuades me that before the date of the therapy, 
Westfield had told them that Mr K was covered up to the age of 22. Im satisfied 
that the terms and conditions in place at the time of the therapy session, make 
clear that Mr K needed to be under the age of 18 to have cover for therapies. 
Westfield has said in its final response letter that it will provide/training feedback 
to the representative who drafted the email dated 31 March 2023. I think thats a 
fair and reasonable response in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K, Mr K and Ms 
R to accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman