DRN-2062761
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Premium Credit Limited wouldnt adjust the day on which he was
required to make monthly repayments under the credit agreement he had in place.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint at the end of June 2020, part of which is 
copied below:
Mr S entered into a credit agreement (the Agreement) with Premium Credit in October
2018 to pay for an insurance policy hed taken out.
It was a term of the Agreement that the monthly repayment of approximately £35 would be
collected, via direct debit, from Mr Ss bank account on the 23rd of each month going
forwards (or if that fell on a weekend, the next working day) until it came to an end after 12
months. Three monthly repayments were successfully collected; on 23 November and 24
December 2018, and 23 January 2019.
Premium Credit tried to collect a monthly repayment, again by direct debit, in February 2019.
That direct debit request was returned unpaid due to insufficient funds in Mr Ss account.
Premium Credit successfully reapplied for the direct debit payment on 8 March 2019 and
charged Mr S a late payment fee of £27.50 as per the terms of the Agreement.
On 18 March 2019, Mr S requested that the date on which Premium Credit collected the
monthly repayment by direct debit be changed. Mr S also notified Premium Credit that he
suffered from autism and considered himself disabled as defined by the Equality Act 2010
(the EqA).
Premium Credit refunded Mr S the late payment fee as a gesture of goodwill and said it
would change the date on which it collected the monthly direct debit payment to a date that
suited Mr S. Premium Credit also said it would delay collecting payment due for March 2019
pending Mr Ss confirmation of the date he wanted to change the monthly repayment date to.
Mr S didnt respond and didnt make a monthly repayment for March. Premium Credit
unsuccessfully attempted to collect the monthly direct debit payment due for April. Premium
Credit submitted the request again on 1 May 2019 and this was, again, declined. It wrote to
Mr S providing 14 days notice to terminate the Agreement for non-payment and as it
received no reply, the Agreement was cancelled on 16 May 2019.
Mr S says hes been treated unfairly, and had Premium Credit agreed to change the
repayment date from the 23rd of each month to every fourth Wednesday he wouldve been
able to make payment, and the Agreement wouldnt have been cancelled. He also says hes
been subjected to disability discrimination by Premium Credit and its failed to make
reasonable adjustments.
Our investigator didnt think Premium Credit had acted unfairly in this particular case, so he
didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. Mr S didnt agree so his complaint was passed to me to look 
at everything afresh and decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing so, Im required to take into account  amongst other things  relevant law and
regulations. Relevant to this case is the EqA so Ive taken that into account. But its not our
role to determine whether Premium Credit has breached the EqA  thats the role of the
courts. The EqA sets out the ways in which someone who has a protected characteristic
may be discriminated against by a service provider. Mr S says he has autism and, as such,
hes protected under the EqA.
Weve asked Mr S for further information about how his autism affects his ability to carry out
normal day to day activities. Hes explained that he finds it hard to manage his finances and
has referred us to certain websites which go into detail about the effects of autism. However,
autism affects people in different ways and to varying degrees. Under the EqA for a physical
or mental impairment to amount to a disability, such impairment(s) must have a long term
and substantial - i.e. more than minor or trivial  impact on someones ability to carry out
normal day to day activities.
In this particular case, Im currently satisfied that I dont need to determine whether a court is
likely to find that Mr Ss autism amounts to a disability. Because even if a court did conclude
this, Im proposing to find that a court is unlikely to find that Mr S has been discriminated
against. And in all the circumstances Im not persuaded Premium Credit has acted unfairly or
unreasonably by not changing the repayment day to every fourth Wednesday or cancelling
the Agreement. Ill explain why.
There are three forms of disability discrimination that could be applicable to Mr Ss complaint
under the EqA:
indirect discrimination:
This applies only where the following conditions are met:
a service provider, applying a provision, criterion or practice, treats service
            users who dont have a disability the same as those who do;
doing so puts those with a disability at a disadvantage compared to those who
            dont have a disability;
the provision, criterion or practice puts (or would put) the person complaining at
            a disadvantage; and
the service provider cant show that it is objectively justified  that is, that its
            a proportionate means of achieving a legitimate aim.
discrimination arising from disability:
A service provider:
treats a service user unfavourably because of something arising in consequence
            of a disability; and
it cant show that the treatment is objectively justified  that is, that its a
            proportionate means of achieving a legitimate aim.In each of the above cases, justification depends on proportionality. This is a legal concept
and, essentially, Premium Credit would need to show that it has a specific lawful aim in mind
when making the decision it did, and that the way it chose to achieve that aim was
proportionate.
failure to make reasonable adjustments:
This is where a service providers provision, criterion or practice puts disabled persons at a
substantial disadvantage compared to those who dont have a disability. A service provider
should take such steps as necessary reasonable steps to alleviate the disadvantage.
Its possible that a court may find Premium Credits policy that it can only collect payments
on the same date each month puts autistic customers at a disadvantage compared to those
customers who arent autistic. But Im not proposing to make a finding on what a court is
likely to say about this. Thats because Im currently satisfied that Premium Credits policy to
only collect direct debit payments on certain dates of the month didnt put Mr S to a
disadvantage in the circumstances of this case.
Mr S did make the first three monthly payments even though the payment dates fell on
different days of the week, and not on the fourth Wednesday of the month. Our investigator
asked Mr S what changed in March 2019 which meant he needed to have that arrangement
in place. Mr S said he wasnt good with finances and his wife would put some money into his
account to ensure there were sufficient funds for direct debits to be collected. However, she
forgot to do so one month and so the direct debit couldnt be collected. For similar reasons, I
also think its unlikely that a court would find that Mr S was treated unfavourably because of
something arising in consequence of his autism.
Premium Credit did apply a criterion to Mr S; namely that it could only collect direct debits
from customers accounts on a set day each month. I dont propose making a finding about
whether that placed Mr S  as a customer with autism - at a substantial disadvantage
compared to those who dont have that condition. Thats because, in the circumstances of
this complaint, Im satisfied a court is unlikely to find Premium Credit failed to take such
steps as were reasonable to alleviate any substantial advantage.
Whats reasonable can depend on many factors such as the extent to which its practicable
for a business to take such steps  and the likely cost to be incurred and disruption caused
by taking them. Ive considered Premium Credits comments that its internal systems prevent
it from changing Mr Ss direct debit payments to a set day each month (as opposed to a set
date) for various reasons, including that it would be relying on a manual process which
would be subject to human error and could be burdensome to maintain / monitor. Its
possible that in certain circumstances it would be fair and reasonable for Premium Credit to
adjust its processes to change the way it collects payments - if those processes cause a
customer (or prospective customer) a substantial disadvantage and reasonable steps can be
taken to alleviate that disadvantage.
But in the circumstances of this particular complaint, Im not currently persuaded Premium
Credits decision not to change its policy to collect direct debit payments on a certain day of
the month was unfair or unreasonable - taking into account the requirements of the EqA, in
conjunction with the EqA statutory code of practice for services, public functions and
associations.
Thats because another factor to take into account when considering what constitutes a
reasonable adjustment is the effect Mr Ss autism had on him. As Ive said above, Mr S has
told us that the reason he missed one monthly payment was because his wife had forgottento put money into his account  not because the date on which payment fell. Ive seen
nothing to say that if payment had been collected on the fourth of the month, payment
wouldve been made.
Further, Mr S signed the Agreement confirming that the monthly payment would be collected
by direct debit on the 23rd of each month and the first three monthly payments were collected
without issue. The fourth direct debit was also collected  albeit at the second attempt. As far
as I can see, Mr S didnt make Premium Credit aware of his condition and nor had he
requested any adjustments until after the fourth repayment had been collected. Further, Ive
not seen anything that leads me to reasonably conclude that Premium Credits failure to alter
its criterion meant that he was unable to make the monthly payment due on 23 April 2019.
Once Mr S made Premium Credit aware of his condition and requested that monthly
repayments be collected by direct debit on a certain day of the month, it said it would change
the date of collection to whichever date Mr S preferred. I know Mr S doesnt think Premium
Credit went fair enough by offering to do this, but it also waived the late repayment fee. And
Im currently satisfied that was fair and reasonable.
Premium Credit was unable to collect the monthly direct debit from Mr Ss bank account for
payment due in April 2019. Having also not received any payment for March 2019, I dont
intend to find it unfairly relied on the term in the Agreement giving it the discretion terminate
the Agreement, providing 14 days notice, if a direct debit repayment had been missed.
And having not received any payment within the notice period, I dont think Premium Credit
unreasonably cancelled the Agreement with effect of 16 May.
When proposing to make this finding, Ive considered what Mr S says about other
businesses agreeing to change the day on which they collect direct debit payments to
certain days on the fourth week of each month. That may be the case. But for the reasons
above, I dont think Premium Credit has acted unreasonably by not doing so in the
circumstances of this particular case.
Responses to my provisional decision 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they wanted me to consider.
Premium Credit said it agreed with my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. 
Mr S disagreed with my provisional decision. He has provided an explanation of the duty to 
make reasonable adjustments and said:
Hes registered as a vulnerable adult, he struggles with his finances and every other 
supplier and employer has always made reasonable adjustments to allow him to 
manage his autism;
Hes paid on a particular day of the week, so his money goes into his bank account 
on that day  and his bills are paid then too;
Premium Credit hit him with £50 of charges; 
Autism is classified as a mental health and learning disability and requires support;Theres been a clear breach of the Equality Act 2010 and he will proceed to Court if 
our Service doesnt uphold his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That all the points raised by Mr S in response to my provisional decision. 
Having done so, I dont uphold his complaint for the reasons detailed in my provisional 
decision.
Id already considered many of the points Mr S raised in response to my provisional decision 
when provisionally determining his complaint, as theyd been made previously. But I 
understand why he wanted to raise them again, to make sure that I had considered them  
which I have.
Although Mr S has told us that hes paid on a particular day of the week and his bills are paid 
on that day, as I said in my provisional decision, the first three monthly payments were 
collected from Mr S in line with the terms of the Agreement he signed - without issue. And 
hes also told us that the reason he subsequently missed one monthly payment was 
because his wife had forgotten to put money into his account. So Im not persuaded that 
payment was missed because of the date on which the payment date fell. And all in all, Im 
not persuaded that Mr S was put to a substantial disadvantage on account of the monthly 
payment not being collected on a particular day of the fourth week of the month. 
Ive also taken into account what Mr S says about being charged late payment fees. But Im 
satisfied that these were reimbursed shortly thereafter  after Premium Credit was told of his 
medical condition, and whilst exploring options around changing the date on which the 
monthly payment should be made.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman