DRN-3866648
The complaint
A limited company, that Ill refer to as B, has complained about Hiscox Insurance Company 
Limiteds refusal of a claim for business interruption cover under its business insurance 
policy. 
Mr M, as director of B, has brought the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened 
B is a provider of audio content. It produces radio programmes and other audio content and 
also rents out audio recording space to customers. B contacted Hiscox to make a claim for 
business interruption, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
B said that as a result of the Government restrictions imposed in March 2020 it had to 
change the way it operated. Some of its work streams could be done remotely with staff 
working from home, which caused an increase in costs of working, but it was unable to use 
the recording studio or rent it out as it had to close it as a result of the Government 
restrictions, which resulted in a loss of revenue.   
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued a business interruption insurance test case 
in which it asked the courts to consider a sample of policy wordings and how they should 
respond to the pandemic. One of the policies considered in this case had the same wording 
as Bs policy with Hiscox. The Supreme Court handed down its judgment in January 2021. 
Hiscox considered Bs claim, following that judgment, and refused the claim. Hiscox says the 
policy provides cover for losses arising as a result of B not being able to use its premises 
following closure by a public authority. However, Hiscox said that B was not one of the types 
of business that was required to close as part of the Governments March 2020 restrictions 
and had been permitted to continue to operate. 
Hiscox also considered if there was cover under a non-damage denial of access clause 
which covers denial of access of the insured premises as a result of a specific incident within 
a mile radius of the premises. Hiscox said B was not denied access of its premises as a 
result of an incident and so this section of cover would not apply to the claim either. 
B is very unhappy about this and the time take by Hiscox to deal with the matter. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as she was satisfied Hiscox was entitled to refuse the claim. The Investigator said 
that whilst B may have suffered some disruption to the normal service it was able to provide, 
and a loss of income, it was not a type of business that had been required to close by the 
Government. So, it had not been caused an inability to use its premises, as required by the 
policy. The Investigator also agreed with Hiscox that there was no cover under the denial of 
access section of cover.
B does not accept the Investigators assessment. B has made a number of submissions in 
the initial complaint and in response to the Investigator. Ive considered everything B has 
said but have summarised the main points below: 
The Investigator has failed to consider the individual circumstances of the case and    
has not understood the nature of its business. 
In March 2020, the Government ordered the closure of non-essential businesses. Not 
all businesses required to close were listed by the Government in the regulations and 
no evidence has been provided to show that it was allowed to stay open. 
It was required to close the recording studio by the Government restrictions, which    
meant a significant proportion of its normal revenue ceased. It also suffered
increased costs of working, in order to enable staff to work from home. 
Production studio hire to third parties is clearly a discrete business activity and the 
loss of revenue from this part of the business should be covered. 
If it was allowed to keep the studio open in the March 2020 lockdown then the 
creative arts industry would not have had to fight so hard to keep venues open in the 
November 2020 lockdown. 
Hiscox has met claims for photographic studios, which provide a similar service and 
operate in a similar way to B. The Supreme Court judgement on the FCA test case 
clearly showed that photography studios were required to close, even though they 
were not specifically listed in the March Regulations. 
B wants an apology, compensation and interest to reflect the delay in settling the claim and 
distress and upset Hiscox has caused by its handling of the mater. 
 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident from Bs submissions that the Covid-19 pandemic has had a significant financial 
impact. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business insurance policies provide protection for some of the common things which might 
happen to a business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each policy may 
provide different cover. 
I have considered Bs entire policy carefully. The business interruption section of the policy 
provides cover for a number of events, most of which clearly do not apply to the 
circumstances of this claim. I have considered the most relevant parts of that section of 
cover below: 
Public Authority 
This provides cover for losses caused by: 
your inability to use the insured premises due to restrictions imposed by a public 
authority during the period of insurance following 
b. an occurrence of any human infectious or human contagious disease, an outbreak 
of which must be notified to the local authority  
The insured premises includes the recording studios. The term inability to use in relation to policies with the same wording as Bs was 
considered as part of the FCAs test case. Paragraph 129 of the Supreme Courts judgment 
said: 
The public authority clauses in Hiscox 1-4 (set out at para 111 above) do not cover 
all business interruption due to restrictions imposed by a public authority following 
an occurrence of a notifiable disease. They apply only where the interruption is 
caused by the policyholders inability to use the business premises due to such 
restrictions. 
The court went on to say, at paragraph 136: 
 an inability of use has to be established; not an impairment or hindrance in 
use. 
There were restrictions imposed by a public authority following an occurrence of Covid-19 
and Covid-19 is an infectious disease, the outbreak of which must be notified to the local 
authority. I dont consider that this occurrence needed to have been either at or in the vicinity 
of the premises. And I dont consider that the restrictions needed to have specifically 
targeted Bs business alone. The court also made it clear that it may be possible for a 
business to claim for losses that arose out an inability to use its premises for a discrete part 
of its business activities. As such, this extension would provide cover to a business that had 
been caused an inability to use their insured premises, for all or for a discrete part of its 
business. So the question is whether or not B suffered an inability to use its premises.
The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020 (the March 
Regulations) are relevant to considering this question. These regulations were important in 
setting out which businesses were required to close. 
Bs business doesnt fall clearly into any of the types of business specifically mentioned in 
the March Regulations, either as being a business that was required to close or that was 
permitted to stay open. Ive therefore considered all the evidence to determine whether it is 
reasonable to conclude that B was required to close the studio and not allow it to be used for 
hire. 
Non-essential shops and some other service industries (such as hair salons and leisure 
centres) were listed specifically as being required to close, as were theatres, cinemas, 
museums. These categories of business would all seem to be places that members of the 
public could gather or attend for recreational, non-essential retail purposes and sometimes 
for services that could not be undertaken at a distance (such as hair dressing services).
The regulations also stated that certain professional services firms were not required to 
close.
I also note that Schedule 2, Part 2 of the 26 March 2020 Regulations stated that while 
theatres and cinemas (and other such venues) were required to close to public visitors,  
those premises could be used to broadcast a performance to people outside the premises, 
whether over the internet or as part of a radio or television broadcast. While I understand B 
didnt broadcast directly from its studio, this suggests people could work together at such 
venues on content to be broadcast. 
The March Regulations also allowed people to leave home to attend work, if they were 
unable to work from home. I consider that both Bs own employees and its customers that 
would hire the studio would be seen to be travelling for the purposes of work when attending 
the studios. B might have had to adjust how its studios were used, to comply with social 
distancing regulations and guidance, but the fact remains it was able to use the premises 
(even if not as it would usually).B has also made a comparison with photography studios and says Hiscox has paid such 
claims. It seems to me that a photography studio that caters to the general public would 
likely fall within the category of non-essential retail. Ive not seen any evidence to suggest 
that Bs studios were available for hire to members of the public for recreational use. 
Having considered the types of businesses required to close and those that were permitted 
to stay open, as well as the comments about the use of theatres and cinemas etc for 
broadcasting, I think it is reasonable to conclude that B was not required to close the studio 
as a result of the March Regulations.  
In the second lockdown in November 2020 the Government made clear that recording 
studios could remain open but I dont think this means that they were required to close 
previously. 
The circumstances at the time would have meant that the demand for Bs services might 
have fallen. So, whilst I do not doubt B suffered a disruption to the normal operation of its 
business, the policy requires that there be an inability to use its premises. And I do not 
consider B suffered such an inability to use its premises. As such, I do not consider Hiscox 
acted inappropriately in declining Bs claim under this section. 
Non-damage denial of access 
This part of the policy covers business interruption losses caused by: 
an incident occurring during the period of insurance within a one mile radius of the 
insured which results in a denial of access or hindrance in access to the insured 
premises, imposed by any civil of statutory authority or by order of the government or 
public authority, for more than 24 consecutive hours.
I dont intend to make a finding on whether Bs access to the insured premises was hindered 
or prevented because I dont think that any restrictions were as a result of an incident. 
I think the FCA test case is relevant. The High Court said (at paras 404-405) about the need 
for an incident: 
 this word should be given the same essential meaning as an event: something 
which happens at a particular time, at a particular place, in a particular way ...an 
incident is not synonymous with emergency or danger it is a misuse of 
language both generally and on the correct construction of the NDDA clause to 
describe the pandemic as an incident let alone an incident occurring within a one 
mile radius of the insured premises. 
It may amount to a state of affairs but it istoo geographically dispersed, variegated, 
prolonged and non-specific to amount to an incident in any event, it is a misnomer 
purposes of the clause. 
This part of the judgment was not appealed to the Supreme Court and so is relevant case 
law.
Ive considered whether this position would be amended by the Courts position in Corbin 
and King Ltd v AXA Insurance UK Plc [2022] EWHC 409 (Comm) but I dont believe it would 
be. Thats because the judge said at para 516: 
The word Incident also is capable of lending a very distinct colour to a wording  as 
the telling argument recorded at [398] of the Divisional Court's judgment makes clear. Its significance is underpinned by the Divisional Court's conclusion at [404] that In 
our judgment, the FCAs entire case on the NDDA founders on the requirement for 
an incident. 
I see no reason to depart from the findings of the High Court and do not therefore consider 
that there was an incident within the vicinity which prevented or hindered Bs access to its 
premises. Therefore, I think Hiscox has acted fairly and reasonably in finding that this clause 
doesnt cover Bs claim.
I appreciate this is a matter Mr M feels very strongly about, and Im mindful of the 
consequences my decision may have on B. But I havent found Hiscox acted unfairly in 
declining its claim. Im therefore not directing Hiscox to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman