DRN-1458039
The complaint
Mr I complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc ("HSBC") has unfairly declined his application for a 
credit card.
What happened
Mr I applied for a Reward credit card with HSBC which was declined. Mr I complained, 
saying he had a good credit rating. HSBC said he hadn't met its lending criteria, and advised 
him to speak to the relevant credit reference agencies about this. HSBC said it couldn't be 
more specific as its lending criteria is commercially sensitive and not public.
Mr I said that prior to applying he'd improved his credit score. And as a result of the declined 
application he felt humiliated and disappointed, saying he deserved the card because of the 
efforts he'd made. So he asked HSBC for £600 to compensate him.
Mr I brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into what 
happened and didn't uphold the complaint. She explained that HSBC is able to set its own 
lending criteria. And it had provided evidence to show Mr I didn't meet its criteria. So she 
said HSBC had fairly declined the application.
Mr I disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsman's decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I'm not upholding this complaint. I'll explain why.
When deciding whether to lend money or give credit to an individual, businesses consider a 
number of factors. Often this includes information provided by the applicant, identity checks, 
information from credit reports, its own lending criteria as well as other considerations.
Our service is not here to decide the criteria that businesses should use when deciding 
whether to lend. Instead my role is to consider whether HSBC has treated Mr I fairly when 
considering his application.
Mr I has said HSBC shouldn't have declined his application because his credit score is good. 
However HSBC has said it declined his application because he didn't meet its lending 
criteria. And it has provided our service with evidence to support this. 
I appreciate Mr I feels strongly that HSBC should've given him the credit card because of the 
work he's put in to build his credit score. But put simply, HSBC hasn't commented on his 
credit score and has said, and demonstrated, that he didn't meet its criteria. So I'm satisfied 
Mr I's application was fairly declined based on HSBC's lending criteria.
My final decisionFor the above reasons, I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2020.
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman