DRN-1925909
The complaint
Mr B and Miss M complain that Acromas Insurance Company Limited communicated poorly 
during their accident claim and that Mr Bs premiums have risen and hes had to pay a £500 
policy excess.  
What happened
Mr B and Miss M were driving in France on the 26 March 2019. Their car was struck by a 
lorry when they were stationary in traffic, and the other driver failed to stop. Mr B reported 
the accident to Acromas within 24 hours of the incident, and the repairs were arranged to his 
satisfaction. They then needed to settle who was to blame for the accident.
Acromas asked for details about the accident, which Mr B provided. Shortly after, Acromas 
asked a foreign car insurance handling agent for help in finding the other driver. Updates 
were given to Mr B in July and August 2019. In September 2019, Acromas told Mr B that the 
claim was likely to be settled on a partial fault basis, but with no detailed explanation. Mr B 
thought Acromas had no interest in investigating the accident. He asked Acromas how they 
came to this decision, but doesnt feel Acromas response explained its reasoning.  
Mr B complained to Acromas about lack of progress in the claim and poor communication. 
He says he spent a lot of time on the phone to Acromas being passed around different 
departments. On one such call, he was told his complaint hadnt been logged and on 
another a promised return call wasnt made. Acromas admitted this amounted to poor 
service, and paid Mr B £50 compensation for this error. But they did not agree with any of Mr 
Bs other points about their communication or the slow progress in managing the claim. Mr B 
was not happy with this outcome, and so brought the complaint to our service.
Mr B says that he would like answers to his questions about the investigation of the claim. 
He also said his excess would have been reimbursed if the other driver was found to be at 
fault. And, Mr B is concerned about the impact of the claim on future premiums and wants an 
explanation why his no claims discount doesnt prevent his premiums rising after a claim.
Our investigator thought that Acromas could have done more to keep Mr B updated about 
his claim. And for misleading information in their communications our investigator suggested 
Acromas pay Mr B £100 compensation. Acromas disagreed, as they say the regularity of 
their communication was not part of the original complaint and so they have not had the 
opportunity to respond. So, the complaint has been passed to an ombudsman to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Acromas are correct to say that Mr B didnt raise the regularity of updates as part of the 
original complaint. But our investigator also referred to the content of the updates, which Mr 
B has raised. Acromas final response letter was dated 29 December 2019, and so I will look 
at their handling of the claim up to then. If Mr B wants to complain about service after that 
date, a new complaint needs to be made to Acromas so they have the chance to respond. 
Prior to September 2019, I think Acromas communicated appropriately, asking Mr B for 
information and informing him of the handling agent. We would expect claims for foreign 
accidents to take a lot longer. But, I can understand why Mr B was disappointed with how 
long this has taken, and this has caused him frustration. But as the claim hadnt been settled 
at the time of Acromas response to his complaint, I cant consider their decision on liability. 
In September 2019 Acromas told Mr B that the claim was most likely going to be settled on a 
partial liability basis. I can see why Mr B was upset at the lack of explanation. When further 
questioned, the response did not fully consider Mr Bs queries around forensic examination 
of the vehicle. I can see why Mr B felt the claim would be closed without investigation if he 
hadnt pressed for answers. I can appreciate that Acromas was trying to manage Mr Bs 
expectations of what often happens when there is no independent evidence of a crash, such 
as CCTV. In my experience, it is common that these cases will settle on a partial liability 
basis. But this was explained poorly. He had asked for clear detail and this wasnt provided. 
This poor communication has led Mr B to spend time in writing and on the phone, being 
passed around different departments at Acromas, trying to get answers. Whilst Acromas 
have already awarded £50 compensation for one aspect of this  a call back not being made 
 they have not addressed the remainder of the concerns here.  
Mr B is also unhappy about rising premiums. It is worth noting that a no claims discount 
provides a percentage reduction to an overall premium. It doesnt protect the premium from 
rising in line with a number of factors, such as a change of address, local crime rates or a 
claim for an accident. So, its not unusual that Mr Bs premium would rise, despite the no 
claims discount being applied. I cant uphold this aspect of Mr Bs complaint. 
Mr B complained about the £500 policy excess hes paid. Its normal for the policyholder to 
pay the excess in all claims. This may be refunded by the third partys insurer if the accident 
was found not to be their fault. As the claim had not been settled at the time of the final 
response letter from Acromas, I cant reasonably say that this should be refunded to Mr B, 
as its dependent on the outcome of the claim. 
From what Ive seen I think the compensation of £100 recommended by the investigator is 
fair for the upset caused to Mr B. I understand that not having his claim settled on a non-fault 
basis is causing Mr B much more upset, but this is not something that can be considered by 
the ombudsman service at this time. I also think that Acromas should provide a full 
explanation about the damage to Mr Bs car and the impact on its investigation of the claim. 
Putting things right
For the reasons given I uphold the complaint and require Acromas Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr B £100 compensation for the distress and upset it has caused.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct Acromas Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr B £100 
in compensation for the distress and upset caused due to their poor communication. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Deborah Hall
Ombudsman