DRN-3867020
The complaint
Mrs W complains Pen-Life Associates Limited (PLA) set up an offshore bond with an 
unsuitable life assured. 
What happened
The bond Mrs W opened was put in a discounted gift trust. That trust was set up to make 
regular payments to Mrs W. But the bond was set up by PLA with Mrs Ws husband as the 
life assured. That meant when he died in 2019 the bond was encashed and Mrs W had to 
pay tax on its gains. 
Mrs W complains that her husband was a poor choice for the life assured. She feels ones 
should have been chosen that kept the bond invested for at least her lifetime, if not longer. 
In their response to the complaint, PLA suggested having Mrs Ws husband as the life 
assured on the bond was reasonable, considering the life expectancy of men his age at the 
time. They didnt though have a record saying why hed been chosen. PLA acknowledged 
that with hindsight a younger life assured could have worked out better. They offered to pay 
Mrs W £3,000 as an ex-gratia payment. 
That wasnt accepted, and the complaint came to us. One of our investigators agreed with 
Mrs Ws complaint. They said PLA shouldnt have set the life assured on the bond as only 
Mrs Ws husband. To put this right, they said PLA should refund their advice fee, pay interest 
on that amount, and pay Mrs W £600 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
On the tax incurred, our investigator initially noted this would be payable at some point when 
the bond was disinvested. But they later concluded that the difference here was the tax 
liability was for Mrs W to pay, as she was the living settlor of the trust that held the bond. If 
different lives assured had been used that allowed the bond to continue after Mrs W dies, 
responsibility for paying the tax will sit with the trustees of the trust. 
On that basis, our investigator said PLA should reimburse Mrs W the tax shed had to pay. 
Mrs W accepted this remedy, but PLA didnt. They referred back to their earlier response to 
the complaint, and felt it was too speculative to say the tax bill could have been entirely 
avoided with younger lives assured on the bond. 
With no agreement on resolving this complaint, its come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ill briefly explain why, and what 
PLA must do to put things right. 
Our investigator highlighted part of the key features document for this bond that said neither 
a settlor nor their spouse should be set as the lives assured if the bond was being put in a 
discounted gift trust. Thats because a trust like that is expected to make a regular payment 
to its settlor until either they die or the money held in the trust runs out. 
To go against that guidance is unusual, to the extent Id expect to see a clear justification for 
it in PLAs advice letter to Mrs W. Ive read that letter though, and the reasoning behind 
having Mrs Ws husband as the life assured isnt given. It feels more like the use of Mrs Ws 
husband as the life assured didnt do enough to consider the guidance, or the foreseeable 
negative impact on the bond and the trust if he died before Mrs W. 
I agree with Mrs Ws complaint that having younger lives assured was more in keeping with 
her objectives. It would have helped the trustees time the encashment of the bond after 
shed died to minimise tax. Had PLA made it clearer how using younger lives assured could 
have helped meet Mrs Ws objectives, Im satisfied shed have chosen that approach. 
The question then is how PLA should put this right. 
Putting things right
The tax payable here reflects that the bond has gained value while the money Mrs W gifted 
to the trust was invested. Mrs W  via a representative who is also a trustee for the trust she 
set up  has confirmed she personally had to pay the tax bill, using her own money not what 
was in the trust. 
While PLA have said speculation is needed to know exactly how the bond will be encashed 
in the future, that seems only to be the case for how the trustees will manage the tax 
position. For Mrs W, things are clearer. 
If younger lives assured were used, then the bond would  baring any deaths  have paid 
Mrs W an income for 20 years before she had to pay any tax. Payments after that point 
would incur a tax bill, but just on what Mrs W received  a relatively small amount, which 
could have fallen within her personal allowance at that point. 
When Mrs W died, the bond wouldnt necessarily have had to be encashed in the same tax 
year. That would mean the liability for tax didnt fall on her estate, instead becoming a 
trustee liability. 
So I find its more likely than not that the tax Mrs W has had to pay because of the way PLA 
set up the lives assured could have been avoided. Its a cost she personally has incurred 
entirely because of their mistake, so its fair PLA should reimburse Mrs W that cost. 
Ive checked with the trustees that Mrs W hasnt sought to claim the tax cost back from them. 
Theyve confirmed she hasnt. Ive also asked PLA if the tax rules would allow Mrs W to do 
that, but theyve told me she cant. Based on that, Im satisfied this was a cost incurred by 
Mrs W alone. PLA should reimburse her for this amount, as soon as Mrs W provides them 
proof its been paid. 
As well as reimbursing this cost, the value of the original advice has been significantly 
undermined by PLAs failing. To remedy that, I find itll be reasonable to have PLA refund 
what was paid for that advice. 
Both these amounts should receive a payment of interest from PLA. This reflects that Mrs W 
has been without the money since it was paid, when if the service had been reasonable she 
would have had the use of it for other things. Ive decided to use the courts standard rate of 8% simple interest, to be applied from the point each amount was paid by Mrs W. 
Tax may be payable on this interest. PLA should account to Mrs W for this, so she can 
consider whether she may be able to claim some of it back from HMRC. 
Mrs Ws complaint talked about the cost of reinvesting the money held by the trust. But that 
appears to be distinctly a trust expense, rather than a cost that falls on Mrs W to pay. As 
such, Im not going to direct a remedy for that cost. 
I can though appreciate how unpleasant the whole situation has been for Mrs W. Shes 
received an unexpected  and large  tax bill following the death of her husband. This could 
have been avoided had PLA given more reasonable advice. Shes also incurred some tax 
penalties and seemingly had some of the income due from the discounted gift trust delayed. 
To acknowledge this, PLA should pay some compensation to Mrs W. Picking an amount is a 
matter of opinion, but Ive settled on £600 as a reasonable amount. It reflects how significant 
the financial impact on her was in terms of the cost. But it also acknowledges that Mrs W 
had inherited some funds to allow her to bear that unwelcome burden a little easier. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ws complaint about Pen-Life Associates Limited. To put this 
right, they should:
reimburse the tax Mrs W can show them shes paid;
refund the initial advice fee paid by Mrs W;
pay 8% simple interest on those two amounts from the time Mrs W made the 
payments to the time she receives the reimbursement or refund; and
pay £600 compensation to Mrs W to acknowledge the emotional impact on her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman