DRN-3558559
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the service provided by Link Market Services Trustees Limited (LMST) 
when dealing with his share transfer. 
What happened
Mr M had purchased shares through his employee share save scheme. Company L was the 
registrar for Mr Ms shares. On 31 August 2021 Mr Ms shares were transferred by company 
L to LMST. LMST held these shares as a nominee on behalf on Mr M. 
In September 2021 Mr M contacted LMST asking about transferring his shares. During this 
call Mr M was told that hed receive a nominee transfer form, which would allow him to 
transfer his shares to any other individual. 
Mr M received a nominee transfer form but it wasnt the one he needed. Mr M wanted to 
transfer his shares to his broker (broker H) and so needed a different nominee transfer form. 
Mr M called LMST to explain what had happened. Mr M was told to contact broker H to start 
the share transfer process. Mr M did this, but broker H told Mr M to contact LMST as it 
couldnt start the share transfer process without instruction from LMST. During this further 
call to LMST Mr M was transferred to the employee shares transfer team. 
The representative in the employee shares transfer team told Mr M that hed already been 
sent a nominee transfer form. Mr M explained The nominee form you have sent me is for 
gifting. Mr M explained he wanted to transfer his shares to broker H. It was agreed that Mr 
M would be sent the correct nominee transfer form.
Mr Ms completed nominee transfer form with details for broker H was received by LMST on 
7 October. The following day LMST contacted broker H to arrange a trade and settlement 
date. This was chased on 15 October. Broker H responded on 19 October and the transfer 
of Mr Ms shares was successfully completed on 22 October. 
Mr M complained to LMST about the delay in sending him the correct nominee transfer form. 
Mr M said hed lost out on the opportunity to sell his shares at a high price because of the 
issue with sending him the correct nominee transfer form. LMST said it had acted correctly 
and didnt offer Mr M anything in settlement of his complaint.
Mr M was unhappy with this response, and brought the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
The investigator found that LMST couldve done more to deal with Mr Ms share transfer 
request properly. The investigator recommended LMST pay Mr M £100 in recognition of the 
incorrect information provided about contacting broker H, and the inconvenience caused to 
Mr M because of this. 
LMST accepted these findings. Mr M disagreed saying he has been trying to transfer his 
shares to broker H since January 2021 and LMST hasnt dealt with his requests properly. As 
the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, so not everything thats happened or been argued is set out above, Ive read and 
considered everything that has been provided.
Mr M is frustrated that he had been trying to transfer his shares to broker H since January 
2021, and LMST continually caused delay in this happening. Mr M has been informed that 
the scope of this complaint will only consider the actions of LMST from 31 August 2021. This 
is the date LMST received Mr Ms shares. 
Its not disputed that LMST couldve handled things better following Mr Ms request to 
transfer his shares in September 2021. During the initial call I think the call handler couldve 
asked Mr M who he was intending to transfer his shares to, so that the correct nominee 
transfer form could be sent. But Im also mindful that Mr M didnt specify that he wanted to 
transfer his shares to a broker. I can appreciate the frustration caused to Mr M when he 
received the incorrect nominee transfer form. 
When Mr M called LMST to ask what hed need to do to transfer his shares to broker H, the 
first representative told him that hed need to contact broker H directly to start the share 
transfer process. This information wasnt correct. Although the representative may have 
believed this process to be what usually happens, the representative ought to have asked Mr 
M for more details about the type of shares he was looking to transfer in order to direct him 
to the correct team for further information about what hed need to do. 
I think Mr M was caused unnecessary inconvenience in contacting broker H, only to be told 
that hed need to contact LMST again. Even when Mr M contacted LMST a second time, the 
representative initially told Mr M that hed already received a nominee transfer form. Mr M 
had to inform the representative that the nominee transfer form that had been sent wasnt 
the correct one. This wouldve caused more upset to Mr M. 
Ive considered the actions taken by LMST once it received the correct nominee transfer 
form from Mr M. The timescales in which LMST progressed the transfer of Mr Ms shares 
were reasonable and in line with what wed expect. LMST contacted broker H the day after 
receiving Mr Ms nominee transfer form. As broker H didnt respond, LMST chased broker H, 
and once a suitable trade and settlement date had been agreed, the transfer of Mr Ms 
shares was successfully completed. 
Mr M has commented on the financial loss incurred by him because of LMST holding onto 
his shares for longer than it shouldve. But Mr M couldve asked LMST for information about 
selling his shares if it was his intention to do this. I havent seen any evidence of Mr M asking 
LMST for this information, and so I cant say that LMST is responsible for any losses 
incurred by Mr M in not selling his shares when he wanted to. 
I do think LMST couldve done more to assist Mr M with the transfer of his shares to broker 
H. It couldve done this by asking for clarity on who Mr M was intending on transferring his 
shares to, and providing correct information about the process for getting Mr Ms shares 
transferred. Because it didnt do this, Mr M was caused unnecessary upset and 
inconvenience when clarifying to the call representative that the first nominee transfer form 
sent by LMST wasnt the right one, and contacting broker H following instruction from LMST, 
only to be referred back to LMST. The investigator recommended £100 in recognition of LMST not handling the share transfer 
as efficiently as it couldve, and the impact on Mr M because of this. I think this amount is 
reasonable and reflects the upset caused to Mr M that could otherwise have been avoided. 
Putting things right
Link Market Services Trustees Limited must pay £100 to Mr M. 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I uphold this complaint. 
Link Market Services Trustees Limited must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman