DRN-3996563
The complaint
Mr R complains about advice from Stirling House Financial Services Limited to transfer his 
personal pensions and says he suffered a loss as a result, in particular due to losing the 
guarantees included with his previous pension plans.
What happened
In 2017 Mr R spoke to Stirling House about his pensions. A fact-find document was 
completed which recorded that Mr R:
was 54 years old, divorced and in good health;
did not have any financial dependants;
ran a company of which he was the Managing Director and had an income of 
£45,000 per year, with a net monthly income of £2,700 and expenditure of £1,200;
had £6,500 in a savings account;
had six pensions with Reassure with a value of around £86,000 in total and one 
pension with Standard Life with a value of around £104,000; and
had no other assets or liabilities.
Stirling House also completed a risk profile which assessed Mr R as a dynamic investor.
The notes of a meeting in December 2017 recorded that there was a discussion of various 
options and noted that:
Mr R wasnt happy being in With-Profits investments, which were not in line with his 
attitude to risk;
he wanted flexibility on income withdrawal and his existing plans didnt offer flexible 
income drawdown;
he didnt want an annuity;
he wanted to be able to pass funds to his beneficiaries on his death;
pro-active management of his pension funds appealed to him;
exit penalties and transfer costs were discussed;
there were guaranteed income/annuities attached to some of his pension plans but 
he felt potentially better growth, flexibility and investments in line with his attitude to 
risk were more valuable, particularly as he didnt want to have an annuity.
In January 2018 Stirling House sent a suitability report to Mr R. This noted that Mr Rs target 
retirement income was £24,000 and he would like to start taking his retirement income at 
age 65. The report said he wasnt sure when he would access his tax-free cash but was 
aware it would be available from age 55. He was recorded as being a moderately 
experienced investor with a moderate capacity for loss. The report also noted that four of 
Mr Rs pension plans provided a guaranteed pension income from Age 60 of £1,109.16, 
£1,129.92, £172.20 and £1,722.72 respectively.
The report recommended that Mr R switch his pensions to the Aviva platform and invest in 
the HC Stirling House Dynamic Fund. He agreed with the recommendation and the switches 
took place between March and May 2018. By that time, a pension sharing order had been 
made in relation to the pension with the second provider and around £54,000 was paid to his 
former wife, leaving around £53,000 which was switched to his new pension.
Mr R later complained, with the help of a representative. The complaint included that:
he had lost valuable guarantees and enhanced tax-free cash;
the assessment of his attitude to risk was contradictory;
the switch wasnt justified;
there had been no consideration of simply balancing the existing portfolio;
the information about the plan charges had been incorrect.
Stirling House didnt accept that it was at fault but when Mr R referred his complaint to this 
service, our investigator thought it should be upheld. The investigator said Mr R should not 
have been classed as a dynamic or moderately experienced investor and did not have a 
high attitude to risk; he wasnt given all the information needed to make an informed 
decision; and he lost important guarantees without a good reason for this.
The investigator noted that Mr R was 12 years from his chosen retirement age and there 
was no need for him to switch at that point. They didnt think the advice was suitable and 
thought Mr R would have left his pensions where they were if he had been given suitable 
advice about the loss of the guarantees.
The investigator recommended that Stirling House carry out a calculation to see if Mr R had 
lost out as a result of switching his pensions and, if he had, to compensate him for that loss. 
They also recommended that compensation of £200 be paid in respect of the distress 
caused to Mr R.
Mr R accepted the investigators view but Stirling House didnt. It raised a number of points, 
including that:
The recommendations were in line with Mr Rs needs and objectives.
He had seven pensions and had little knowledge about any of them  his main 
objectives included having them all in one place, with the option to leave any 
remaining funds to his beneficiaries.
The only option available with one of his existing pensions was to take an annuity, 
which he didnt want  flexibility was a key driver for him as, although he planned to 
retire when he was 65, he wanted flexibility and to have access to his pension if his 
circumstances changed.
The pensions held with the other provider, which had guaranteed retirement 
incomes, were in With Profits funds and had no option for a switch to different funds.
Although some of the funds could be switched, that was limited to 22 alternative 
funds unlike the new pension that was recommended, which had over 3,000 options.
Mr R was very clear he didnt want a fixed income and wanted to have access to his 
pension earlier if that became necessary. His circumstances had changed as his 
business went into voluntary liquidation and the new pension had shown its value as 
he could access his pension funds if he needed to.
Information about alternatives was provided in a clear format and Mr R signed a 
document confirming his understanding of them.
The target retirement income was £24,000 and checks were done which showed that 
if Mr R left his pensions where they were, he would only have received his target 
income until age 69; after that point he would have had a lower income. Switching his 
funds meant he would achieve his target income until age 74.
When they saw Mr R, he was unaware of what retirement income he would have. He 
was clear he wanted to put all his funds together. He wanted flexibility, good death 
benefits and to consolidate his pensions in one place, all of which could be done 
through the recommended pension. Although he gave up some guaranteed income, 
its income modeller showed that the recommended pension could provide him with a higher level of income and so it was in his best interests.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
Before proceeding with the decision I sought some further clarity over the nature of the 
guaranteed pensions in four of Mr Rs Reassure pension plans. Stirling House has confirmed 
these did not provide a guaranteed minimum pension (GMP) or guaranteed annuity rates 
(GAR). They are described as Versatile Individual Pension plans, which provided a minimum 
income from age 60 as a monetary amount, and appear to be deferred annuities. These 
provided a minimum retirement income, which was guaranteed for five years, on a single life 
basis.
I also sought further information about Mr Rs circumstances, following the comment from 
Stirling House about his business going into voluntary liquidation and the value his more 
flexible pension would have in those circumstances. His representative advised that:
a voluntary arrangement was entered into, to clear an outstanding debt;
this was completed and the business remains viable and continues to operate; and
Mr R did not need to access his pension funds and doesnt intend to do so until his 
full retirement.
I then issued a provisional decision. I explained that I intended to uphold the complaint but 
thought the loss should be calculated in a different way from that suggested by the 
investigator. I set out my reasons as follows:
When advising Mr R on his pensions Id expect Stirling House to act in accordance with the 
requirements set out in the Regulators principles and standards, including that it should 
exercise due skill, care and diligence, pay due regard to a customers interests and treat 
them fairly. It should have obtained enough information about Mr Rs financial situation and 
objectives to ensure its recommendation was suitable for him.
Ive also taken into account a report from the then Regulator in 2009 on pension switching 
that highlighted four main areas where consumers had lost out:
they had been switched to a more expensive pension or a stakeholder pension 
(because of exit penalties and/or initial costs and ongoing costs) without good 
reason;
they had lost benefits without good reason, which might include the loss of ongoing 
contributions from an employer, a guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) or the right to take 
benefits at an earlier than normal retirement age;
they had switched to a pension that didnt match their recorded attitude to risk and 
personal circumstances;
they had switched to a pension where there was a need for ongoing investment 
reviews but this wasnt explained, offered or put in place.
The suitability report said the pension recommended for Mr R was in line with his attitude to 
risk. But he was assessed as a dynamic investor. This was defined as someone who is 
relatively comfortable with investment risk and whose aim is to achieve higher long 
term returns and understand that this can also mean some sustained periods of poorer 
performance. You are prepared to accept significant fluctuation in value to try and achieve 
better long term Results.
Looking at the assessment of Mr Rs attitude to risk I agree with our investigator there were 
contradictions about this in the suitability report. Mr R had no investment experience. His 
existing pension had been chosen for him by his then financial adviser and he said he hadnt 
reviewed the plans. And Stirling House says he didnt know what retirement income he 
would have.As Mr R had 12 years until his expected retirement date I agree its likely he would have 
been prepared to take some risk but theres nothing in the report that persuades me he 
would have had a high attitude to risk, or a high capacity for loss. These pensions were the 
only pension provision he had for retirement and in my view he wouldnt have been able to 
bear the risk of making any large losses.
The pension recommended for Mr R was the HC Stirling House Dynamic Fund, suitable for 
someone with a higher degree of risk. As Ive said, Mr R had little knowledge of his pension 
and no real investment experience. I dont think this assessment of Mr R matched his 
experience, attitude to risk or capacity for loss.
The other justifications for recommending the switch focused on the ability Mr R would have 
to drawdown funds when he wanted to; the ability to leave money to his dependents on his 
death; consolidating his funds in one place; and having an ongoing service from an adviser, 
with active management of his funds.
I appreciate these are things Mr R said he wanted. But the fact that someone is attracted to 
the features of a new plan doesnt necessarily mean they need it  or that it should be 
recommended for them; Stirling House had to ensure its advice was suitable for someone in 
Mr Rs circumstances.
Stirling House should have provided comparisons between the existing plans and the 
recommended plan, and reasoning, so Mr R could make his decision fully informed about 
the alternatives. But the suitability report had little by way of comparisons between what 
Mr R would expect to achieve from the recommended pension and his existing plans.
The report did say the costs of the recommended pension were likely to be higher and that 
Mr R would lose out on the guaranteed minimum income provided by four of his existing 
plans, but I think it down-played the significance of that. Where there is a loss of guarantees 
its important to consider whether any potential increased value was enough to justify that 
loss but theres little consideration of that.
Stirling House says there was the potential to provide higher benefits but doesnt set out in 
detail the risks involved to achieve that. And these were likely to be higher risks that wouldnt 
have matched Mr Rs attitude to risk.
It's also relevant that Mr R had 12 years until his expected retirement date. Stirling House 
says the recommended plan met his objectives of being able to drawdown pension funds 
when he wanted to  and that would have been possible soon after, when he reached age 
55. But there was no apparent need for him to access his funds then.
If Mr R reached retirement age and wanted to access his pension through drawdown he 
could have switched at that point, and would have known exactly what he required. There 
was no need to make the switch at this time  at the time of the advice Mr R didnt know 
when he might need access to his funds or how much he might need, and that remains the 
case since he does not intend to access his pension funds before retirement.
Two of Mr Rs existing plans had exit penalties. I appreciate these were only two of his 
seven plans but it was nevertheless a factor to consider. On making the switch Mr R lost 
around 5% of the value of those two plans. And there were other costs as a result of the 
switch.
As mentioned, the objectives given by Stirling House as reasons for the switch were mainly 
flexibility, consolidating his pension, that Mr R didnt want an annuity and that his current 
plans were not in line with his attitude to risk. I think his current plans were suitable for a more medium risk investor and therefore more in line with his attitude to risk than the 
recommended plan.
Taking into account all of the above  the assessment of Mr Rs attitude to risk, the 
additional costs involved, the loss of benefits and the fact that Mr R didnt need to make the 
switch at that point  Im not persuaded it was in Mr Rs best interests to switch or that it was 
suitable for him.
I dont think the desire for flexibility or to consolidate his pensions outweighed the other 
factors involved. Although Mr R had seven plans, six of these were with the same provider. 
Stirling House says Mr R's circumstances have changed and it was helpful for him to be able 
to access his pension funds if he needed to. But these factors could still have been 
considered at a later date, when Mr R could have made a decision based on his 
circumstances at that point.
If Stirling House had explained properly to Mr R the benefits of guaranteed pension income 
from four of his plans at age 60 I think its unlikely he would have given those up at that 
point. And finding out that he had potentially lost out on that income would have been 
upsetting for Mr R.
I set out in the provisional decision how I intended to direct Stirling House to put things right, 
with two sets of proposed calculations to assess whether there was a loss. The first 
calculations were for the plans that did not provide a guaranteed pension, and the second 
were for the four ReAssure Plans that had guaranteed pension income.
I said I also intended to direct Stirling House to pay compensation of £200 for the distress 
caused to Mr R.
Replies to the provisional decision
Stirling House replied to the provisional decision with the following points:
The provisional decision says Mr R should not have been assessed as having a 
higher attitude to risk but his answers initially identified him as being in this category, 
based on the investment being long-term. That was its assessment at the time but 
his attitude to risk would have been reviewed every year and as the term reduced his 
attitude to risk may have reduced.
The provisional decision says it downplayed the value of the guarantees. It gave 
Mr R a guarantee disclaimer, which highlighted the difference between the minimum 
income attached to the policies with the best annuity rates. This was discussed with 
Mr R, who signed to confirm his understanding. He also confirmed that he didnt want 
an annuity.
It had no comments to make about the redress calculations.
Mr Rs representative also replied, with the following comments:
Reassure has confirmed to them that Mr R was entitled to more than the usual 25% 
tax-free cash.
The two unit-linked plans (which did not have any guaranteed pension income) would 
have been taken 100% tax-free. The four With-profits plans (which provided the 
guaranteed incomes) provided tax-free cash of 30.84%. 
As the transitional tax-free cash available to him would have been taken mainly from 
the two unit-linked plans not providing the valuable guarantees, he would have 
access to more tax-free cash while still being able to benefit from the guarantees.
The annuities offered by the Reassure plans were equivalent to rates much better 
than the standard rates available on the open market. It wished to clarify that in 
relation to the second calculation, the redress was the difference between the cost of providing this guaranteed monetary amount as an annuity and the amount Mr R 
could purchase with the Aviva transfer value, after completion of the Reassure 
transfers.
I advised Stirling House of the representatives comments about the tax-free cash and 
explained that this meant the redress would likely be amended; if the tax-free cash would be 
more than 25%, the notional deduction for tax would need to reflect that. I set out to both 
parties a proposed additional calculation to reflect this.
Stirling House says it had asked about any guarantees or safeguards and the information 
provided at the time said there wasnt any enhanced tax-free cash. As Mr Rs representative 
has received contradictory information from the provider, Stirling House questions what 
responsibility the provider has for that  since it can only advise a client on the basis of the 
information it has.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the further comments carefully, I dont see any reason to change my 
view that the complaint should be upheld. This is for the reasons set out in the provisional 
decision, together with the following comments on the additional points that have been 
raised.
Stirling House says it was the answers Mr R gave that identified him as having a 
higher attitude to risk. But I think there were contradictions about this in the suitability 
report. He had no investment experience and little knowledge or understanding of his 
pensions. And its not just attitude to risk that is relevant but also his capacity for loss. 
These were his only pension provision and he wouldnt realistically have been able to 
stand large losses.
I appreciate Mr R signed a disclaimer. But Stirling House had to ensure its advice 
was suitable for Mr R taking into account all his circumstances. Taking everything 
into account  Mr Rs attitude to risk, his capacity for loss, the additional costs 
involved, the loss of benefits and the fact he didnt need to make the switch at that 
point, I dont think the advice was suitable.
I agree Stirling House could only advise on the basis of the information it had, and I 
appreciate the information provided at the time didnt say Mr R would be entitled to 
enhanced tax-free cash. But I dont think that changes the outcome. My provisional 
decision took into account the information Stirling House had at the time and my view 
was that the advice wasnt suitable, for all the reasons set out above. 
The information I have now seen about the tax-free cash is set out in a letter from the 
provider in response to a question Mr Rs representative asked. While it appears 
different from the information given at the time, that was in a standard format 
document rather than a letter put together specifically to respond to the request. In 
my view, that letter carries more weight. If the original information was incorrect, 
thats something for Stirling House to take up with the provider; I dont think Mr R 
should lose out as a result of this. 
The redress in the second calculation is intended to reflect the cost of providing the 
guaranteed monetary amount as an annuity (in other words, what Mr R would have 
been entitled to). If the notional fund values at the date when he transferred his pension away from Aviva, for the proportion of the Aviva pension funded by these 
four plans (together with a fair value from that date onwards) is less than the amount 
he would need to buy such an annuity, he should be compensated for the difference 
in value.
If in fact Mr R is entitled to more tax-free cash, that needs to be reflected in the 
redress calculation, as it wouldnt be fair to make a notional deduction for tax based 
on the wrong figures. If Mr R had kept his Reassure plans, he would have been 
entitled to more than 25% tax free  the two unit-linked plans would have been taken 
as 100% tax-free cash; and the four with-profits plans provided 30.84% each. Mr R 
will now be charged tax which he would not otherwise have had to pay, so he should 
be compensated for this.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr R as close as possible to 
the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr R would have remained with his previous provider but I cant be certain that a 
value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have been worth. Im satisfied 
what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and given Mr R's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
I have provided two redress calculations. The first calculations are for the proportionate 
transfer value for the total of Mr Rs Standard Life plan and the two ReAssure plans that did 
not provide a guaranteed pension income.
Mr R took further advice and moved his pension again in November 2018. From that point 
onwards I dont think its reasonable hold Stirling House responsible for advice and any 
losses incurred after the switch.
The other ReAssure plans were Versatile Individual Pension Plans which appear to be 
deferred annuities. They were set up on a With-Profits basis to provide a guaranteed annual 
pension amount. The remedy for these is set out in the second calculation below.
Redress recommendation for the plans that did not provide a guaranteed pension 
income
To compensate Mr R fairly Stirling House should:
Compare the performance of Mr R's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous providers. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, pay into Mr R's pension plan, to increase its value by the amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If its not possible to pay the compensation into Mr R's pension plan, the amount 
should be paid directly to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr R wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr R's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Mr R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the 
reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr R would have been able to take a tax free 
lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in 
an overall reduction of 15%.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Stirling House considers its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr R how 
much has been taken off. Stirling House should also give Mr R a tax deduction certificate in 
respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Notional 
valueFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Proportionate 
value of 
Aviva 
Pension Plan 
(Total of 
Standard Life 
and 
ReAssure 
plans 5 & 6 
referred to 
above)No longer 
existsNotional 
value from 
previous 
providersDate of 
transfer to 
AvivaDate Aviva 
plan was 
transferred 
awayAny loss 
calculated 
should be 
brought up to 
date using 
the FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income total 
return index
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr R's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Stirling House should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any additional sum paid into the Aviva Pension Plan should be added to the notional value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the Aviva Pension Plan should be deducted from the notional value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Stirling House totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Stirling House will need to determine a fair value for Mr R's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of 
a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr R wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr R's circumstances and risk attitude.
Redress recommendation for the four ReAssure Plans that had guaranteed pension 
income
To compensate Mr R fairly Stirling House should:
1) Obtain details of the annuity income that Mr R could have taken at the date of 
calculation on a single life basis and a five-year guarantee period (which is what he 
would have been entitled to).
2) Using current annuity rates, work out how much it would cost to buy an annuity for 
Mr R at the date of calculation providing the same benefits as calculated under (1).
3) Obtain the notional fund values from the provider Mr R switched to (Aviva) at the date 
when he transferred his pension away from Aviva, for the proportion of the Aviva 
pension funded by these four plans, together with a fair value from that date 
onwards, using this benchmark  the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total 
Return Index.
4) The loss to Mr Rs pension funds at the date of calculation is calculated as the 
difference between (2) and (3). If the answer is negative, theres a gain and no 
redress is payable.
The loss should if possible be paid into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Reassure is unable to calculate a notional value, Stirling House will need to determine a 
fair value for Mr R's investment instead, using this benchmark  the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of 
a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Mr R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction 
would equal 20%. However, if Mr R would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 
15%. Additional compensation relating to the enhanced tax-free cash Mr R lost
For the two unit-linked plans that would have been taken 100% tax-free: 
Mr R will be able to take 25% tax free cash from his current plans. So he has lost out on 
75% of his pension that was funded by these plans being paid tax-free. Instead hell likely 
pay 20% tax on these funds. To compensate him for his additional tax liability, Stirling House 
should:
take 75% of the part of Mr Rs current pension which was funded through these plans 
after being adjusted for losses or gains as calculated above 
pay 20% of this sum to Mr R in cash.
For the four With-profits plans where Mr R could have taken 30.84% tax-free cash:
Mr R will be able to take 25% tax free cash from his current plans. So he has lost out on 
5.84% of his pension that was funded by these plans being paid tax-free. Instead hell likely 
pay 20% tax on these funds. To compensate him for his additional tax liability, Stirling House 
should:
take 5.84% of the part of Mr Rs current pension which was funded through these 
plans after being adjusted for losses or gains as calculated above 
pay 20% of this sum to Mr R in cash.
Stirling House should also pay Mr R £200 for the distress caused by finding himself in a 
situation where he has lost out on valuable pension benefits due to the unsuitable advice 
provided by Stirling House.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Stirling House Financial Services Limited to pay 
compensation as set out above.
Stirling House Financial Services Limited should provide the details of the calculations to 
Mr R in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman