DRN-3677759
The complaint
Mr S complains that Starling Bank Limited wont reimburse the money he lost when he fell 
victim to a bank impersonation scam. 
What happened
Mr S received a text message saying he needed to apply for an NHS Covid pass or risk a 
fine. He remembers filling in his details on the link in the message and entering his payment 
information. Unfortunately, it was not genuine and was really sent by fraudsters phishing to 
obtain Mr Ss personal details. 
On 23 December 2021, Mr S received an unexpected phone call from a number very similar 
to Starlings. The caller said they worked for the banks fraud department and told Mr S his 
account was being hacked. Mr S says the caller knew his name, his date of birth, his bank 
details and how much money he had in his account. He says he was told someone was 
trying to steal £2,500 from his account. Mr S says that he checked his mobile banking app 
and saw a transaction for this amount was in process. Thinking his account was at risk, Mr S 
followed the callers instructions to move his money to another account that the hacker could 
not access. He says he believed he was speaking to the bank because the caller knew 
details that only a member of the banks staff would know.
Mr S made five payments amounting to over £13,000. Unfortunately, he wasnt really 
speaking to the bank. He was interacting with a fraudster who had tricked him. 
Mr S realised hed been scammed when the caller started to play a song from a well-known 
film soundtrack. He says the caller asked him if he liked the song, then hung up the phone. 
He reported it to Starling straight away. Starling tried to recover the funds that hed sent but 
only £1.54 remained. 
Starling considered the claim under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code). This is a voluntary code Starling has signed 
up to, designed to reimburse customers that have fallen victim to a scam. The starting 
position under the CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of authorised push payment scams like this in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. Starling said it did not have to reimburse the remainder of the loss because it 
had sufficient fraud prevention measures in place, and because it considered Mr S had not 
carried out reasonable checks to confirm the payments were genuine. 
Unhappy with this, Mr S complained. Starling issued its final response. It explained it was 
unable to refund him because it had followed its policy and guidelines. 
Mr S was disappointed with the banks position and contacted us. Our Investigator said the 
complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the warnings Starling gave were impactful in 
Mr Ss circumstances as they did not do enough to bring the scam to life. She didnt think 
Starling had done enough to establish that Mr S had made the payments without a 
reasonable basis for believing he was talking to the real bank. She noted that English is not 
Mr Ss first language and thought he would have struggled to understand the banks 
information under the pressure he was put under by the caller. She pointed out that the 
payments were out of character for Mr S in both value and number. She said the bank 
should have been alerted that he was at risk of financial harm because of how quickly the 
payments were being made and how quickly his balance decreased.
Starling didnt accept our Investigators view. It felt it had given Mr S warnings targeted to 
this scam. It said that whilst English is not Mr Ss first language, he can read English well. It 
pointed out that when Mr S made the payments, the account name checking service 
Confirmation of Payee gave a no match result which ought to have caused him concern. It 
added that Mr S could have checked the number that was calling him against the number on 
the back of his card and if he had done so, a discrepancy with the callers phone number 
being one digit away from the banks genuine number would have been noticed. 
Our Investigator pointed out to Starling that Mr S did question the caller about why the 
money was being sent to a different account but was given a reason that would have made 
sense to someone that didnt know how banks work. 
Starling thought its messaging about this scam risk was clear regardless of whether Mr S 
thought he was talking to the bank or not. As no agreement could be reached, the matter 
has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required
to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer
even though they authorised the payment.
Starling is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code), which requires firms to reimburse customers 
who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr S fell
victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Starling has argued that two of the exceptions to reimbursement apply in this case. It says 
that Mr S ignored the effective warnings it gave during the payment journey and he made the 
payment without a reasonable basis for belief that the payee was the person he was 
expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services and/or the person or 
business he was transacting with was legitimate.
Having considered the facts of the case carefully, I am not persuaded either exception 
applies here. I will explain why. 
Effective warnings 
Starling says the information it presented to Mr S at the time the payments were made were 
effective warnings as required by the CRM Code, so it did enough to make him aware of the risks. But I dont consider the information was impactful enough in the circumstances of the 
fraud to be an effective warning under the CRM Code.
Starling recognised Mr S was transferring money to an account with another bank and 
reviewed the first payment by asking him a series of guided questions. I accept that the on-
screen questions were broadly relevant to the type of scam he was falling victim to, but 
I dont think they were enough to disturb this type of scam risk or that they went far enough 
to influence Mr Ss decision making. 
The information Mr S was presented with didnt set out or bring to life what a bank 
impersonation scam would typically look or feel like. It didnt give important contextual 
information that would have affected Mr Ss decision to go ahead. The guided questions 
dont bring to life the common features of a bank impersonation scam and they dont explain 
the potential consequences of continuing with an irrevocable payment.  
Starling explains that Mr S was presented with a further fraud warning after the guided 
questions at the time the new account payee details were set up. It has provided evidence 
from its systems to show that Mr S saw this information at the time yet continued to proceed 
with the transactions. But I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr S to have proceeded to 
make the payments even after having seen the information Starling provided. It is important 
to remember that Mr S was genuinely convinced he was talking to the banks fraud 
department. To have a sufficient impact, the warning had to overcome that belief by breaking 
the spell and trust that the fraudster had been able to generate, both verbally and by their 
actions. I am mindful that from what Mr S has said, the fraudster was talking to him 
throughout the process and coaching him through what to do, which would have impacted 
the time and mental space Mr S had to critically challenge what was happening. The overall 
environment created by the fraudster, such as by making Mr S feel panicked and using his 
card details to set up a payment of £2,500 that he could see in his genuine mobile banking 
app were very powerful. 
The fraud warning required Mr S to click on a link to go to the Starling website to find out 
more about current scams. But at the time this information didnt resonate with Mr S. I am 
not convinced that he ought to have recognised his own circumstances from the information 
that hed been presented with. He would have needed to have doubts to click through to 
Starlings website for scam advice. I dont consider that including a link to information goes 
far enough to meet the CRM Codes requirement to provide specific, timely and impactful 
information that would reduce the likelihood of an APP scam succeeding. 
So, I dont think the warnings Starling gave were impactful or specific enough here given 
Mr Ss situation at the time, and I can see why they did not have a material impact on 
preventing this sophisticated scam.
Reasonable basis of belief 
Ive also thought about whether Mr S had a reasonable basis for believing the payments 
were genuine. Ive considered what steps he took to reassure himself about the legitimacy of 
the situation, and whether it was reasonable for him to follow the callers instructions and 
send the money. 
This is a scam that hooks its victims in the moment. It creates a short-term time pressure 
and a fear, exploiting the trust that customers feel in the legitimate organisation and its 
authority. Although Starling considers that Mr S didnt make sufficient checks before making 
the payments, I think there is a balance to be struck. The CRM Code requires Starling to 
think about all the circumstances at the time of the payments, including the characteristics of
the customer along with the sophistication and complexity of the scam. In doing so, 
I consider Starling should bear in mind the nature of this type of scam, as well as itscustomers capability to weigh up the situation they are in at that time and make an
informed decision about whether to proceed with making payments.
Mr S has explained that he thought the caller was genuinely from the banks fraud team. 
Hes explained that the caller knew personal details about him and details about his bank 
account. Its more likely than not that the fraudsters obtained some of Mr Ss personal 
information when he interacted with the phishing text message about the NHS Covid pass. 
The caller knew how much money Mr S had, and they knew how to use Mr Ss card details 
to mimic a genuine payment that was immediately visible as an attempted transaction in 
Mr Ss genuine Starling mobile banking app. In the heat of the moment, it was not 
unreasonable for Mr S to believe the situation and caller were genuine. 
Starling has referred to certain aspects of what Mr S was being told to do and said he should 
have been concerned, such as when he was being asked to make payments to accounts 
held by other individuals at another bank. But Mr S has explained that the caller allayed his 
fears and gave plausible explanations for what was going on. He said: I asked why a 
different name since the account is in my name and then he told me to write my name, 
I filled in the information he told me, he repeatedly assured me that he was an employee of 
the bank and that the bank was protecting me he was with me on the phone the whole time, 
instructed me what to do.
This type of fraud was designed to impact Mr Ss thoughts and actions in the moment. It can 
be difficult for consumers to think clearly, and take steps they might otherwise take, under 
the kind of worry and emotional pressure Mr S found himself under at the hands of a 
fraudster. Thats not unreasonable and the CRM Code takes into account the sophistication 
of the scam and the characteristics of the consumer in its design.
Starling needs to be realistic in its expectations of what constitutes reasonable when
understanding the level of checks, diligence and any element of social engineering
which has occurred given the circumstances of the scam and the customer. Im also mindful 
that an appreciation of those social engineering techniques can be more difficult to spot 
when you are not a native speaker of a language. Whilst Mr Ss language skills mean he is 
able to manage everyday life, I am mindful that the fraudsters created an environment where 
Mr S was being coached and placed under considerable pressure, with the focus being on 
securing his money. 
I dont consider it was unreasonable of Mr S to believe he was genuinely speaking to his 
bank, or that it was unreasonable for him to act on the advice he believed his bank was 
giving him. 
Overall
Considering everything, Im persuaded that Starling should have reimbursed the money Mr S 
lost to this scam under the terms of the CRM Code. Im not persuaded that any of the 
permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case.
In addition, I think that Starling ought reasonably to have done more to prevent this scam. 
I am mindful that when Mr S made these payments, Starling should fairly and reasonably 
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in some 
circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, 
or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make 
a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud.Ive looked at Mr Ss account statements in the months leading up to the scam. The 
payments Mr S made on this day were out of character for his account in both value and 
frequency. All of the payments were made within half an hour and rapidly drained the 
balance of the account. In addition, the funds went to a new payee. I think the activity stands 
out as being unusual and it bore the hallmarks of common types of potential fraud. I think 
there were indications that Mr S was at risk of financial harm and it would be reasonable to 
expect Starling to have intervened by contacting Mr S to ask questions about the account 
activity. Had it done so, I think the scam wouldve quickly unfolded and he wouldnt have lost 
his money. 
The relevance of this finding is that Starling ought to have prevented the loss, rather than 
just reimbursing Mr S under the provisions of the CRM Code. It follows that a fair and 
reasonable way to put things right would be for Starling to pay Mr S interest from the date of 
loss, rather than the date it decided not to refund him under the CRM Code.
From what I have seen, Starling took reasonable steps to try and recover Mr Ss funds, but 
unfortunately only £1.54 remained. I dont think there was anything further Starling could 
have done which would have resulted in more funds being recovered.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint about Starling Bank Limited.
To put things right, Starling Bank Limited should now:
Pay Mr S a refund of the money that was lost to the scam, less the funds it has been 
able to recover 
The money was lost from Mr Ss current account. From what I have seen in his bank 
statements, Mr Ss current account ran with a high balance so I think the money 
would have most likely remained in his account but for the scam. As such, Starling 
Bank Limited should also pay simple interest at the underlying account rate on the 
refunded amount from 23 December 2021 until the date of settlement 
If Starling Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr S a tax deduction certificate if it asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman