DRN-4361697
Complaint
Miss B complains that Moneybarn No.1 Ltd (Moneybarn) unfairly entered into a conditional-
sale agreement with her. Shes said the agreement was unaffordable and so she shouldnt 
have been accepted for it. 
Background
In July 2019, Moneybarn provided Miss B with finance for a used car. The cash price of the 
vehicle was £11,505.00. Miss B didnt pay a deposit and applied for a loan to cover the 
entire £11,505.00 The loan had interest, fees and total charges of £10,748.62 and the total 
amount to be repaid of £22,253.62 was due to be repaid in 59 monthly instalments of 
£377.18. 
Miss Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think that 
Moneybarn had done anything wrong or treated Miss B unfairly. So he didnt recommend 
that Miss Bs complaint should be upheld. Miss B disagreed with our investigator and the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Bs complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Miss Bs complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Miss B could make her payments in a sustainable manner before agreeing to lend 
to her. And if the checks Moneybarn carried out werent sufficient, I then need to consider 
what reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have shown.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Moneybarn says it agreed to this application after it completed an income and expenditure 
assessment on Miss B. During this assessment, Miss B provided details of her monthly 
income. Moneybarn says it also carried out credit searches on Miss B which showed some 
low outstanding balances on existing credit and some adverse information. 
But when the amount Miss B already owed plus a reasonable amount for Miss Bs living 
expenses, based on statistical data from the Office of National Statistics, were deducted 
from her monthly income the monthly payments were still affordable. On the other hand,       
Miss B says she was already struggling at the time and that these payments were 
unaffordable.
Ive thought about what Miss B and Moneybarn have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that I dont think that the checks Moneybarn carried out did go 
far enough. In my view, bearing in mind it will have seen defaults and county court 
judgements (CCJ) registered against Miss B as a result of its credit search, Moneybarn 
needed to take further steps to verify Miss Bs actual living costs, rather than rely on 
statistical data, in order for its checks to have been proportionate. 
As Moneybarn didnt carry out sufficient checks, Ive gone on to decide what I think 
Moneybarn is more likely than not to have seen had it obtained further information from        
Miss B. Given the circumstances here, I would have expected Moneybarn to have had a 
reasonable understanding about Miss Bs regular living expenses as well as her income and 
existing credit commitments. 
Ive considered the information Miss B has provided us with  including her bank statements. 
And having done so, this information does appear to show that when Miss Bs committed 
regular living expenses, existing credit commitments and a reasonable amount for her 
defaulted accounts and CCJs are deducted from her monthly income at the time, she did 
have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due under this 
agreement. 
What Im required to think about here in order to determine whether Moneybarn acted fairly 
and reasonably towards Miss B, is whether Miss B had sufficient disposable income to 
enable her to make the monthly payments to this agreement. And having considered 
everything, Im satisfied that the available information indicates that Miss B did have 
sufficient funds left over to make her monthly payments in a sustainable manner. 
  
So overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that Moneybarns 
checks before entering into this hire purchase agreement with Miss B did go far enough, Im 
satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have prevented 
Moneybarn from providing these funds, or entering into this agreement with her. Im 
therefore satisfied that Moneybarn didnt act unfairly towards Miss B when it agreed to 
provide the funds and Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss B. But I hope shell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman