DRN-4004987
The complaint
Mr S complains that Capital One (Europe) plc has failed to make reasonable adjustments to 
the way it communicates with him. 
What happened
Mr S opened a credit card account with Capital One in September 2021. Later the same 
month, he called to ask that correspondence be sent in large print as hes registered as 
blind.  Since then, he has continued to receive correspondence in standard print. In 
November 2021 he called to complain and has done so several times since.
During a call with Mr S on 2 November 2021, Capital One explained that its process was to 
send standard print letters followed by a larger print version. It sent a final response letter to 
Mr S on 17 November 2021 explaining the situation and offering audio communication as an 
alternative to large print. 
Capital One issued a further final response letter on 27 January 2022 reiterating that its 
process was that hed receive standard print letters ahead of large print ones. In February 
2022, Mr Ss account was updated so hed receive audio communication as well as large 
print, which was confirmed by letter on 20 April 2022.
Subsequently, Mr S has continued to complain about receiving standard print letters and 
poor service and requested compensation. During a phone call on 1 July 2022 Capital One 
explained the process again, and offered £25 for the distress caused, which Mr S accepted. 
Mr S has continued to complain to Capital One and has referred his complaint to us. One of 
our investigators looked into it. He acknowledged that Capital Ones process was to send 
normal print as well as the large print and audio correspondence. But he felt that it should 
compensate Mr S for the distress the process caused. Our investigator recommended 
compensation of £100 including what had already been paid.
Capital One accepted our investigators recommendation, but Mr S didnt. As there was no 
agreement, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our role as a dispute resolution service is to look at individual complaints and try to resolve 
them on a fair and reasonable basis. We can make an award for any financial loss or 
material distress and inconvenience caused to a consumer as a result of mistakes made. 
But we dont have the power to tell businesses to change their procedures although we do 
seek to ensure procedures have been applied fairly.
Capital One has explained its process. Letters are generated and dispatched in standard 
print and subsequently, large print letters and audio versions are created and sent. So Mr S 
will continue to receive standard print letters with the other formats arriving shortly 
afterwards. I cant interfere with that process.
Ive seen copies of large print letters sent to Mr S and records of requests for the audio 
versions. So from what Ive seen, Capital One has complied with Mr Ss request for larger 
print and audio correspondence, its just they follow on later. I think the process that is in 
place (and has been explained to Mr S) is being applied fairly. Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that Capital One has treated him any differently from any other customer who requests large 
print or audio communications.
I appreciate that after asking for larger print and audio correspondence, the receipt of 
standard print letters early on may have caused him some distress as he may have thought 
his reasonable request hadnt been complied with. I think its right he should be 
compensated for that. But after Capital One had explained its procedure, I think its 
reasonable to expect hed have understood that hed receive the adapted communications a 
few days after receiving a standard print letter.
Having considered the distress caused to Mr S and Capital Ones actions and explanations, I 
think Capital One should pay Mr S a further £75 compensation  a total of £100  in 
resolution of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Capital One (Europe) plc, should pay Mr S a total of £100 for the 
distress it caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman