DRN-3481485
The complaint
Mr H complains that the fees Dentons Pension Management Limited (DPML) charged him 
when he transferred his pension savings to another provider were unfair.
What happened
Mr H had held pension savings in a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) operated by 
DPML since 2011. For most of that time he only held a single investment in his SIPP  an 
offshore trust. In December 2019 Mr H sold that investment and held the proceeds in his 
SIPP as cash. Around September 2019 Mr H informed DPML of his intention to transfer his 
pension savings to a new provider.
In response to that request DPML set out for Mr H the fees that he would need to pay in 
order for the transfer to be completed. In brief these comprised a transfer out fee of £250 
plus VAT, and administration fees for the period of 1 July 2021 to 30 September 2021 
amounting to £142.50 plus VAT. It told Mr H those fees were in accordance with the fee 
schedule that hed been sent each year.
Mr H was unhappy with the level of those fees. He thought that the charges amounted to a 
barrier to him exiting the investment in breach of the Treating Customers Fairly (TCF) 
guidance from the regulator. And he thought the administration charge should have been 
lowered once he changed his pension investments into cash. DPML didnt agree with Mr Hs 
complaint so he brought it to this Service.
Mr Hs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She though that the fees 
that DPML had charged Mr H before completing the transfer had been reasonable and in 
line with its terms and conditions. So she didnt think that DPML had done anything wrong, 
or that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr H didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr H and by DPML. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a 
consumer and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask 
the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
In deciding this complaint I have first considered the fees that apply to Mr Hs SIPP. Those 
are shown in a document that DPML says is sent to him annually. There are two charges 
that are applicable to the transfer of Mr Hs pension savings to a new provider, and form the 
basis of his complaint.
Mr H needs to pay DPML an annual administration charge for his SIPP. That charge is 
based on the number and type of assets that are held in the SIPP. While Mr H only ever held 
a single asset, that investment was of a non-standard nature  it was an offshore trust. So 
I dont think it unreasonable that Mr Hs SIPP was charged the higher administration fee of 
£570 per annum in line with the fee schedule.
The administration fees are collected in arrears  in Mr Hs case the last administration fee 
he paid was for the period up to the end of June 2021. So, when his pension savings were 
transferred to the new provider, a further three months fees were due. DPML appears to 
have correctly calculated those fees as amounting to £142.50.
As I explained earlier, in December 2019 Mr H sold his offshore trust investments. And he 
then went on to hold his pension savings within the SIPP as a cash balance. So Mr H says 
that it was unreasonable for DPML to continue to charge the higher administration fee given 
the simple, and single nature, of his pension investment.
The situation Mr H describes is covered in section 5 of the SIPP terms and conditions. That 
says;
If you establish your Plan at the higher Standard administration fee as a result of the 
investments selected, you will not be able to downgrade to the lower Standard 
administration fee at any time.
I think it is clear from that section of the relevant terms that, once Mr Hs SIPP had been 
established holding a more complex investment, he would continue to be liable for the higher 
Standard administration fee throughout its lifetime. So I dont think DPML has done anything 
wrong by continuing to levy the administration fee at the higher rate, even after Mr H had 
sold his pension investments and just held cash.
The SIPP fees guide also details the costs that would be incurred when a transfer out to 
another provider is requested. Those costs are shown as being the actual costs that DPML 
incurs subject to a minimum charge of £250. The document details the costs as including;
winding up of the SIPP, preparation of legal documents to close the trust, moving 
out the cash and completion of the transferring information request form.The charge that DPML has asked Mr H to pay is the minimum amount contained in the fees 
schedule. It seems to me that the closure of the SIPP, including the liaison with the new 
provider and the successful transfer of the pension savings, is more complex than the simple 
cash transfer that Mr H suggests. And, in my experience, the fee that DPML has charged is 
not out of line with what is generally accepted in the market for work of this nature. So again 
I dont think that DPML has done anything wrong here.
Mr H has asked that I consider the charges DPML has made in respect of the FCAs TCF 
guidance. In particular he has reminded me of the concerns expressed by the FCA about 
unreasonable post-sale barriers imposed by firms when consumers are looking to change 
product or switch provider.
The FCAs concerns looked at charges that might be considered excessive. I dont think that 
is remotely the case here. The administration charges that Mr H was asked to pay would 
have been due regardless of whether he had asked to transfer his pension savings or not. 
And the transfer charge  which was at the lowest end of the charges DPML could impose  
consisted of less than two hours of work for an administrator at DPMLs published rates. 
I dont consider I could reasonably conclude that time, or the resulting charge, to be 
excessive for the work that needed to be done.
I appreciate that Mr H will be disappointed by my findings. But I think the charges for his 
SIPP, both for its ongoing administration and the transfer to the new provider, were clearly 
set out in the fees guide, and were reasonable. I dont think they could be considered as 
excessive, or a post-sale barrier, in respect of the FCAs TCF guidance. So I dont think 
DPML has done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Dentons Pension Management Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman