DRN-4202943
The complaint
Mr D complains that Monzo Bank Ltd gave him incorrect information about a breathing
space arrangement, which he says he relied on to his detriment.
What happened
Mr D had a loan account with Monzo Bank. During 2022, it became difficult for him to
maintain the monthly repayments, so he contacted Monzo Bank in August to ask for help.
Monzo Bank applied breathing space to his account until early September. Mr D was told
that he wouldnt have to make a payment during the breathing space and that the missed
payment would be tacked on to the end of the loan, effectively extending the loan term.
After the breathing space ended, Monzo Bank contacted Mr D to say he was behind with his
loan and asked him to catch up with the payments. He responded to say he wouldnt have
funds until the end of the month, as hed previously told Monzo Bank. Following numerous
messages on the online chat facility, Monzo Bank told Mr D that the missed loan payment
wouldnt be added to the end of the loan. It said that he was in arrears and it could look at
repayment plans. Mr D said that wasnt what hed been told when he accepted the breathing
space arrangement, so Monzo Bank logged a complaint.
Mr D agreed a repayment plan, but he was very unhappy about the situation. He says he
accepted the breathing space on the basis of the information given by Monzo Banks agent,
which turned out to be incorrect. He says that, as a result, he had to enter a repayment plan
which meant he was paying back more each month than before (so that the arrears would
be cleared within the original loan term). He also says that his credit file has been adversely
affected because the account has been reported as being in an arrangement.
Monzo Bank accepted that the information Mr D was given in August was wrong. It said he
shouldnt have been told that the missed payment would be tacked on to the end of the
repayment period. It upheld the complaint and offered Mr D £50 as an apology for the
inconvenience and upset caused.
Mr D wasnt happy with this and asked this service to look at the complaint. I issued a 
provisional decision on 7 June indicating my intention to uphold the complaint. Both parties 
accepted my provisional findings, so Im making a final decision on the same basis.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that the advice Monzo Bank gave Mr D about breathing space was
incorrect. Mr D asked if the missed September payment would be tacked on to the end of
the loan term. Monzo Bank said yes. But this wasnt right. Instead, the loan was treated as
being in arrears and Monzo Bank required Mr D to repay it (or enter into an arrangement) as
soon as the breathing space ended.
Mr D says he relied on the information hed been given when he decided to accept the
breathing space arrangement. Im satisfied thats the case.
Mr D says hes worse off as a result of accepting the breathing space. I understand that the
loan has now been repaid in full. Mr D didnt repay more overall than hed have paid
otherwise, so hes not worse off in that sense. And I note that Monzo Bank didnt apply
interest while the repayment plan was in place, which I think is fair.
But, rather than extending the repayment period, the breathing space had the effect of
putting Mr Ds account in arrears and requiring him to immediately take action to address
those arrears. So, at a time when he was struggling financially, he had to agree a repayment
plan which meant he was paying more each month than hed been paying when he asked
for help. So, I think he did suffer a detriment through having to make the increased monthly
repayments from October 2022 onwards, which I dont doubt was difficult and stressful.
Mr Ds credit file has also been adversely affected because the arrangement has been
reported to the Credit Reference Agencies.
Mr D says that, if hed known how the breathing space would affect his loan account, he
wouldnt have agreed to it. He says that, at the time, he could have borrowed money from
family, withdrawn savings or made a cash transfer from one of his credit cards to make the
September payment, rather than end up in this situation. I have no reason to doubt what he
says about this.
So, in summary, the advice Monzo Bank gave about breathing space was incorrect. Mr D
relied on it and is worse off as a result. Monzo Bank agrees that the advice was incorrect
and has offered Mr D £50. But I dont think thats enough to reflect the impact of its mistake.
When he brought the complaint to this service, Mr D said he wanted the monthly repayments
to revert to their original amount, for the loan term to be extended and for Monzo Bank to
refund his overpayments from October onwards. But since then, the loan has been repaid in
full. So I dont need to ask Monzo Bank to make any changes to the loan term or the
repayments.
Instead, I think the appropriate resolution would be for Monzo Bank to pay Mr D
compensation to reflect the impact of its mistake, so far as possible. The situation was
distressing, caused him inconvenience and led to higher repayments over a few months. But
this has to be balanced against the fact that Mr D hasnt paid more overall as a result of
Monzo Banks mistake and, even if the loan term had been extended, this would only have
been by one month. In the circumstances, I think £200 would be a fair amount of
compensation.
I think Mr Ds credit file should be amended as well. Although it was accurate for Monzo
Bank to report the account as being in an arrangement, I dont think it was fair that Mr D
ended up in that situation. If hed been given accurate information by Monzo Bank, I dont
think hed have agreed to the breathing space and I dont think hed have ended up in a
repayment plan. So I think Monzo Bank should amend its reporting of the account so that
its not shown as having been in an arrangement.
I understand that Monzo Bank reported a missed payment for September. Im not going to
ask it to amend that, as I find that it told Mr D in August that his credit report would show
missed payments if he didnt make them while on breathing space.My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd should:
pay Mr D compensation of £200, and
ask the Credit Reference Agencies to amend Mr Ds credit file so that the account
isnt reported as having been in an arrangement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman