DRN-4333800
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) refuses to refund him losses after he fell 
victim to a scam. Mr A has a representative assisting him with his complaint.
What happened
Mr A noticed some television and media adverts about investment opportunities that 
advertised the use of artificial intelligence to help consumers invest  noting consumers 
could start with an initial investment of only £200. Mr A started looking online for companies 
to invest in. 
In June 2022, while doing his research, Mr A found the scam company (which Ill call CP). 
This company offered to provide him with an investment advisor and noted that he could 
invest with also only £200. Mr A submitted his details to CP via an online enquiry form. 
Mr A was called by the scammer and he paid £200 from his bank account with a different 
bank (which Ill call M). A trading platform with CP had been set up for him, and Mr A could 
see the £200 in his platform. 
On the advice of the scammer, Mr A opened accounts with two other UK regulated 
businesses which Ill call R and W. He was also advised to open accounts with 
cryptocurrency exchanges and he opened one with cryptocurrency exchange B. 
On 29 July 2022, Mr A transferred two payments to his account with W  all but £10 of this 
was returned the same day by W.   
Over the next few days, Mr A made further payments to W, then onto B and then on to what 
he believed was his trading platform (although he now believes it was the scammers wallet).  
Mr A says he started having problems with W, so he then started to also send money to his 
account held with R. 
On 2 August 2022, a payment of £5,550 to R was blocked by Lloyds, but after speaking with 
Mr A, Lloyds processed the payment. Mr A went on to make further payments to R over the 
coming week. 
On 8 August 2022, a loan was taken out in Mr As name, but I understand a complaint about 
this loan was dealt with and resolved separately by Lloyds. 
I understand Mr A was happy with how his trading platform had been performing and tried to 
withdraw his money. CP resisted allowing the withdrawal instead persuading Mr A to keep 
his money in the investment. 
On 9 August 2022, Mr A tried to make another payment to his account held with R, but this 
was blocked. After again speaking to Mr A, Lloyds processed this payment. 
On 9 August 2022, Mr A again tried to withdraw his money, but was asked to pay £17,000 to 
enable him to access his money in the investment. Mr A did not have this money to send, 
and despite pleading with the scammers to return his money over the next few days, the 
scammers continued to press for payment. Mr A explained he didnt understand why he 
needed to pay any further money to simply be able to withdraw his investment. After not 
being able to withdraw his money, Mr A realised hed been scammed. 
On 12 August 2022, Mr A reported the scam to Lloyds. As the money was transferred to his 
accounts to R and W which were UK regulated financial institutions, Lloyds was not in a 
position to try to recover any amounts sent to the scammer. And any money retained in 
Mr As accounts with W and R was already in Mr As possession. 
Lloyds told Mr A that it could not help and refused to refund him the money he had lost. It 
said that the initial transactions on his accounts did not flag as unusual as the payments 
were being sent to accounts in his own name  and its only after so many transactions were 
sent to these accounts that it intervened. And whilst it asked questions with a view to 
protecting him from financial harm, Mr A was dishonest, so it did not discover the scam on 
either occasion. 
Unhappy, Mr A referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint and while they felt that Lloyds should have intervened on an earlier transfer for 
£8,200 on 30 July 2022, they didnt think an intervention at this stage would have stopped 
the scam in any event. They said that Mr A had been dishonest with his answers on both 
intervention calls with Lloyds, so its likely that he would also have been dishonest then, and 
Lloyds wouldnt have discovered the scam. Mr A was dishonest during his intervention call 
on 9 August 2022, after hed already tried to withdraw his money and was persuaded not to. 
So, its more likely that during an earlier intervention call, before Mr A had tried to withdraw 
the money and was instead happy with how his trading platform was performing, he would 
also have misled Lloyds. Theres nothing to suggest Mr A would have been forthcoming at 
this time. Overall, they didnt think an intervention at an earlier stage would have prevented 
the loss. 
Mr A, through his representative didnt agree. They felt that the intervention calls were brief 
only asking some basic questions  gave no context as to why questions were being asked 
and didnt inform Mr A of the common themes of investment scams. They felt that, if Lloyds 
had given Mr A some context, at an earlier stage, Mr A may have been forthcoming with the 
truth at this point as he hadnt invested any significant sums. Scammers coaching 
consumers to lie to their bank is common for these types of scams and Lloyds as the expert 
ought to be aware of this. Mr As representative pointed out that, Mr A hadnt been coached 
substantively, so if Lloyds had probed further (given its knowledge that consumers may 
sometimes lie) then its likely it would have discovered the scam. Overall, Mr A felt the calls 
were inadequate and Lloyds had failed in its duty to protect him. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me. 
In my provisional decision of 21 August 2023, I set out why I was minded to not upholding 
the complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to 
make before I reached a final decision. Mr A rejected the provisional decision but made no 
further comments and Lloyds also didnt make any further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: Having thought very carefully about what happened, currently, I have decided not to uphold 
this complaint  for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. I appreciate that Mr A will 
be disappointed by this, and Im very sorry for what has happened to him. But, based on 
what Ive seen, I cant reasonably ask Lloyds to reimburse him for any of his losses. 
To begin with, where customers authorise payments from their accounts, businesses such 
as Lloyds are under an obligation to process such transfers. If consumers are the victim of a 
scam (like Mr A), the starting point is that theyre responsible. To be clear, Lloyds did not 
scam Mr A and it is not the perpetrator of the scam. 
However, financial businesses also have a duty to try to prevent their customers falling 
victim to scams. Businesses therefore need to strike a balance between intervening with 
payments to prevent scams or financial harm against the risk of unnecessarily 
inconveniencing or delaying legitimate transactions. 
In order for me to uphold a complaint of this nature, and hold Lloyds liable for the losses 
instead of Mr A, Id need to be satisfied that Lloyds failed in its duty to protect Mr A in some 
way, and that if it had instead done what it should have done, this either would have stopped 
the losses from occurring in the first place or helped to mitigate the losses once notified of 
the potential scam (by retrieving the money, for example).
I understand that Lloyds felt the first 12 transfers Mr A made were not unusual or suspicious 
as the money was being sent to accounts in Mr As own name. However, like our 
investigator, I disagree. The payment Mr A sent on 30 July 2022, for £8,200 was significantly 
higher than any other payment going out of Mr As account. So, in my view, it does stand out 
as out of the ordinary in terms of the amount being sent. Additionally, while the payment was 
going to Mr As account with another UK regulated business, money is often moved between 
consumers accounts as part of a range of different scams and we would expect Lloyds to be 
aware of this. So, I think it ought to have intervened on the payment Mr A made on 30 July 
2022 for £8,200.
However, for me to uphold this complaint and hold Lloyds liable for the losses instead of 
Mr A, Id need to be satisfied that had Lloyds done what it was meant to do, and intervened 
on this transaction, that it would have discovered the scam. Im afraid that while Ive thought 
carefully about Mr As representatives comments, Im not persuaded that an intervention at 
this stage would have succeeded for broadly the same reasons set out by our investigator. 
While Lloyds didnt intervene on these earlier transfers, each time it did intervene, Mr A 
misled Lloyds with his answers to its questions  so Im inclined to think that he would also 
have misled Lloyds with his answers on any other calls. I have to assess whether Lloyds 
asked appropriate questions based on the information it had available to it. 
When assessing whether an intervention would likely have worked, I have to consider the 
overall picture that likely would have been presented to Lloyds, a payment being out of the 
ordinary by itself isnt enough. Based on the information available to it, business have to 
judge whether something warrants further exploration and act reasonably based on the 
information available to them. We have to be mindful, that many transfers made by 
consumers on a daily basis are legitimate and we wouldnt want customers who are carrying 
out legitimate transfers to be interrogated without good reason and delay transactions 
unnecessarily. 
 
Lloyds asked Mr A if hed been asked by any third parties to move his money to a safe 
account or whether hed been contacted regarding an investment opportunity. Mr A said he 
hadnt been and confirmed he was acting alone. As the money was going to his own account 
with a UK regulated firm, and Mr A hadnt given any indications that he was being asked to move the money, Lloyds didnt discover the scam and processed the payments on both 
occasions. I think if Lloyds had called earlier on, Mr A likely would have given the same 
answers given that at that time he had no concerns that he was being scammed, and was 
happy with how his CP platform was performing.  
I understand Mr As representative feels that Lloyds should have probed further and asked 
more detailed investment scam related questions or given Mr A more context and 
information regarding investment scams. It felt that Mr A hadnt been coached substantively 
so if Lloyds had probed further or given more context, it would have discovered the scam. It 
also adds that if Lloyds has called earlier on during Mr As scam journey, before Mr A had 
sent any substantive payments to the scammer, and before Mr A had built a strong 
relationship with the scammer, then he may have been more forthcoming with the truth, 
despite being told to lie. But I disagree and Ill explain why. 
Lloyds did not know Mr A was sending this money onto his account with cryptocurrency 
exchange B, nor did it know that he was sending the money on to be invested. The only 
information Lloyds had was that Mr As money was being sent to his own account with 
another UK regulated business, that he hadnt been contacted by any third parties and was 
acting alone. Consumers can fall victim to an array of different scams and I dont think its 
unreasonable that Lloyds did not ascertain that Mr A was potentially losing money to an 
investment scam based on the information it had available to it and the answers Mr A gave 
him. 
As explained above, Lloyds had to tailor any responses and judge whether to probe further 
based on the information it had available to it. So, I dont think it was unreasonable that 
Lloyds didnt go on to give Mr A any warnings or context specifically about investment 
scams, when there were no indications Mr A was at risk of this specific scam based on the 
information available to it. 
Ive also thought about what impact (if any), an earlier call would have had on Lloyds 
chances of discovering the scam despite Mr As dishonest answers. But I think given that 
Mr A didnt tell Lloyds the truth on his call on the 9 August 2022, despite having tried to 
withdraw his money once earlier  and being persuaded to keep his money in the 
investment, I dont accept he would have been forthcoming with the truth during a period 
where he was happy with how the investment appeared to be performing and having had no 
concerns with CP based on his dealings with it at the time. Mr A had also found no adverse 
information about CP during his online research. So, based on the particular circumstances 
on this case, I dont think an earlier intervention would have resulted in Mr A revealing the 
truth about what he was doing. 
As explained by our investigator, the payments sent from Lloyds account were sent to 
Mr As account with R and W, so it couldnt have attempted to retrieve the money from the 
scammer for him. And any monies left in Mr As account with R and W were in his own 
accounts. So, I dont think Lloyds could have done anything to help Mr A recover the money 
once alerted to the scam. 
I am very sorry for the losses Mr A has suffered and I dont doubt that he has been a victim 
of a cruel scam. But as I dont think Lloyds would likely have discovered the scam during an 
earlier intervention call, and it didnt discover the scam on two actual intervention calls, I 
cannot fairly hold it liable for the losses that Mr A suffered.
In the absence of any new points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my 
original findings as set out in my provisional decision. I appreciate Mr A rejected my 
provisional decision and is likely disappointed with it. I am again sorry that he has lost such 
significant sums to this scam. But for the same reasons I set out in my provisional decision, Im afraid Im not able to uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman