DRN-1617751
The complaint
Mrs N complains that BIG Warranties Ltd mis-sold her insurance for her televisions as she 
believed they would be replaced on a new for old basis. She has made a claim, and this 
wasnt the settlement she received, receiving a value far less than a new television would 
cost.
What happened
Mrs N took out an appliance service plan with Go Assist Ltd in 2014. Mrs N says she 
decided to take out the plan for her television as she was told during the sales calls that it 
would be replaced new for old. Following the sale a review was conducted into the sale and 
Mrs N sent a letter which set out any replacement would be done on a like for like basis. As 
a cancellation request wasnt made the policy continued. 
In June 2015 BIG Warranties, a sister company to Go Assist Ltd, took over the service plans 
and replaced any unexpired part of the plan with an insurance policy and going forward the 
plan was insurance instead. Mrs N was notified of this change by email on 25 June 2015.  
The notification provided a link to the terms of the policy and explained that continued 
payment would constitute acceptance of the change. As Mrs N continued paying premiums, 
her plan was changed to an insurance policy.
Mrs N complained following the settlement of a claim she had made and her not receiving 
the expected settlement. BIG Warranties was satisfied it had settled the claim in accordance 
with the terms. And it also said that following the sales call, Mrs N was sent a letter 
explaining the correct basis of any settlement. 
Our investigator initially upheld the complaint as he wasnt persuaded the letter sent 
following the call was clear enough about incorrect information being given during that call. 
However, BIG Warranties explained it didnt sell the policy and provided information about 
the change to insurance from 2015. It did, however, offer to refund Mrs Ns premiums while 
the plan had been with Go Assist. 
Our investigator revised his findings, explaining a different business sold the policy, and in 
any event, it didnt appear to be insurance and so wasnt something we could look into. He 
was also satisfied BIG Warranties had provided sufficient information when the plan was 
changed to insurance for Mrs N to make an informed decision whether to continue with it. 
Mrs N has said she has only ever received the original policy information but nothing further,  
including the change to insurance; any emails sent could have gone into her trash or spam. 
And she says BIG Warranties has admitted the original plan was mis-sold so she doesnt 
understand why it is now saying it was a different business that sold it.  
When the matter was referred to me, I asked for clarification about the sale, and BIG 
Warranties has confirmed it never took responsibility for any sales conducted by Go Assist. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The sale of the plan to Mrs N took place in 2014. The documentation from 2014, and which 
Mrs N has confirmed receiving, shows the plan was provided to her by Go Assist. There is 
no mention in any of that documentation of BIG Warranties. 
In June 2015, she was sent an email from Go Assist explaining that its service plans were 
being taken over by BIG Warranties and being changed to insurance policies. Im satisfied it 
was Go Assist that sold Mrs N the appliance service plan and not BIG Warranties. In the 
absence of any persuasive evidence BIG Warranties took on the liabilities of Go Assist, then 
it isnt responsible for answering any complaint about the sale of the service plan to Mrs N. 
Even though BIG Warranties is a sister company, thats something shell need to take up 
with Go Assist if she wishes to pursue that further. 
Im given to understand the plans didnt amount to insurance, although I cant say for certain 
as I havent been provided with the terms and conditions of the original plan. The information 
I do have suggests the plans were service plans, which dont usually amount to insurance. If 
thats correct, then its unlikely wed be able to investigate any complaint about the sale by 
Go Assist as plans that arent insurance are not within our power to consider. But thats not 
something I can make a firm finding about here (nor do I need to, as this complaint is against 
BIG Warranties). 
I accept this has caused confusion for Mrs N and it isnt clear why BIG Warranties didnt 
explain this sooner. But Im afraid the lack of explanation doesnt mean I can hold BIG 
Warranties responsible for the acts or omissions of Go Assist.
Im satisfied Mrs N was sent correspondence in June 2015 explaining the change to an 
insurance policy through BIG Warranties. Although Ms N says she didnt receive this, Im 
satisfied it was sent to the same email address she has provided to us. Im therefore 
satisfied it was correctly addressed to her and so ought to have been received. If the email 
was directed to her junk or trash folder as she has said might have happened, that isnt 
something I can hold BIG Warranties responsible for; its for Mrs N to check her email folders 
to ensure items are being received to the right inboxes. It didnt need to do anything further, 
such as contact Mrs N by other methods, when that happened. 
Im satisfied the email sent in June 2015 explained the change to an insurance policy. It also 
provided a link to the terms and conditions. These explained that:
In the event that Your Equipment cannot be repaired We will, at Our discretion, 
replace Your Equipment with new or reconditioned Equipment of the same or similar 
make and specification,  or offer You a settlement in the form of vouchers or cash 
in line with the current market value of Your Equipment based on the age of the 
Equipment.  
It was for Mrs N to read the information she was sent and decide whether she wished to 
continue with the now insurance policy. Im satisfied she was sent clear information about 
that to enable her to make a decision. 
In summary, as BIG Warranties isnt responsible for the sale of the service plan, that isnt 
something I can investigate against it. And it isnt clear its something we could investigate 
against Go Assist either, although I have not made a firm finding about that. And Im satisfied 
Mrs N was provided with clear information about the change to insurance in 2015 and the 
terms which applied. Im therefore not upholding Mrs Ns complaint. I note BIG Warranties has offered to refund the premiums Mrs N paid whilst the plan she had 
was a service plan. Thats not something I can comment on. If shed like to accept that, shell 
need to contact BIG Warranties directly. 
Finally, I note that Mrs N has asked for copies of all the correspondence she has been sent 
by BIG Warranties/Go Assist about the policy, including renewal notices etc. That isnt 
something we needed to consider during this complaint. And I have already found the email 
of June 2015 was correctly sent to her and so likely correctly received. A copy of this has 
already been provided, but if there is more information shed like, shell need to request that 
from BIG Warranties or Go Assist. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman