DRN-2696229
The complaint
Mr A complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) were unfair when rejecting a claim he made to them under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr A, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr A made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Mr A has complained that his phones have been deliberately slowed down by the 
manufacturer. He initially raised that issue with the business after hed had the phones for 
more than six months.
Legislation says that if goods fail after six months the onus is on the consumer to 
demonstrate they were faulty when supplied. It also says that when we consider whether 
goods are of satisfactory quality we should think about whether they have been suitably 
durable. 
Mr A has referred BPF to reports that the manufacturer had accepted it slowed down phones 
once the battery began to degrade. I think he has provided sufficient evidence to suggest the 
phone hes been using has suffered from these issues.
Im not persuaded there is evidence the other phone he purchased at the same time is 
affected. I say that because Mr A has explained to the investigator that this phone hasnt 
been used yet and is still in its packaging.
BPF have given Mr A £456 in respect of the costs that may be incurred repairing the phone. 
It seems it may not be possible to repair the phone and Ive therefore considered whether 
£456 is reasonable compensation. I think it is.
I say that because the relevant legislation allows the business to keep some of the finance 
instalments paid in respect of the usage the consumer has had from the product. Mr A was 
able to use the phone for some time without issue before the battery started to slow and 
continued to benefit from the phones, albeit impaired, use. I think in the circumstances a 
refund of £456 on a sales value of £999 is reasonable and Im therefore not asking BPF to 
take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman