DRN-3159234
The complaint
Mrs N is unhappy with the hourly rate DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited is 
willing to pay her preferred choice of solicitors having made a successful claim for 
assistance under the terms of her legal expenses policy.
While this is a joint policy with Mr N, as the claim and complaint is being brought by Mrs N, 
for ease, I will only refer to her in my decision. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The policy terms set out clearly the normal hourly rate DAS will pay non-panel firms 
is £100 an hour plus VAT, in accordance with the policy terms (all following 
references to hourly rates are exclusive of VAT). 
As a general principle, as DAS is prepared to pay the legal costs incurred, its fair for 
it to restrict what its willing to pay. So, the least Mrs N can expect DAS to pay is 
£100 per hour. 
It is not my role to decide how complex Mrs Ns legal claim is. Mrs N says it is so 
complex only a specialist firm is able to help her. DAS and one of its panel firms 
disagrees. DAS has provided a list of panel firms to this service it says would have 
been able to assist with Mrs Ns case. 
Ive considered if DASs hourly rate unreasonably restricts Mrs Ns freedom of choice 
to appoint a solicitor of her choosing, however I dont think it does. DAS has a large 
panel of solicitor firms and it has confirmed it is able to offer Mrs N a choice of 
different firms with the ability to deal the type of case she wishes to pursue.  I dont 
think that is unreasonable and it doesnt seem to me that by setting the hourly rate as 
it has, DAS has unreasonably restricted Mrs N choice so much that it makes it 
meaningless. 
DAS has offered Mrs N £100 compensation to reflect the poor service she received 
as its case handlers did not deal with and respond to her promptly. I think this is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this case and therefore I wont be asking 
DAS to increase this amount. 
I dont think DAS has acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining to pay more than the 
hourly rate of £100 per hour as set out in the policy terms. And, I think it has offered 
Mrs N adequate compensation for the poor service she has received.
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint against DAS Legal 
Expenses Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman