DRN-3880658
The complaint
Mr C complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) hasnt handled his
claim on his car insurance policy for a replacement windscreen fairly.
What happened
Mr C had a car insurance policy that included cover for repairing or replacing his windscreen
if it was damaged.
Mr C says his windscreen developed a long hairline crack when it was hit by stone chips
from a passing car. When inspecting this damage, Mr C says he also noticed some non-
incident related corrosion on the central and rear parts of the cars roof gutters. Mr C was
told by the dealership he got to look at the corrosion that this damage was covered by his
warranty.
On 12 July, Mr C took his car in for the corrosion to be repaired. He was told it would take
three to five days but Mr C says it turned out there was significantly more involved work in
the repairs than his repairer had initially thought  so they took longer than planned.
On 26 July, Mr Cs repairer told him his windscreen needed to be removed and then refitted
before some paintwork could be finished. Mr C says this hadnt been apparent when the car
went in. Because the windscreen was cracked, Mr Cs repairer couldnt remove and refit it, it
needed to be replaced.
On 27 July, Mr C contacted Advantages windscreen repair service but was told it would be
two weeks before a replacement windscreen could be fitted. Mr C says he spent a lot of time
that day speaking with Advantage and its agents in an effort to find an earlier date. He was
told one of Advantages agents would liaise with his repairer about a date but it seems this
didnt happen.
On 28 July, Mr Cs repairer said it could fit the new windscreen if Mr C got insurance
approval or paid for it himself. When Mr C asked Advantage for approval, it refused. It said if
Mr C used his repairer to replace the windscreen, under the terms of his policy, hed be
liable for all costs beyond the first £95 because his repairer wasnt one of Advantages
approved repairers. At this point, Mr C says he made a complaint to Advantage.
On 2 August, having heard nothing about his complaint, Mr C says he contacted Advantage
and was told his complaint hadnt been logged when hed called on 28 July. I understand the
complaint was logged on that day.
Mr C says when his repairer offered a reasonable price and timescale for fitting the
windscreen (which would also enable it to complete the rest of the work on Mr Cs car), he
told it to go ahead.
On 5 August, Advantage emailed Mr C saying his car had been booked in for a windscreen
replacement with one of its partners on 12 August. It said its partner had tried to contact
Mr C twice to confirm the arrangements. Advantage acknowledged the wait time was still
longer than it expected  it said this was because there was high demand nationally  and
offered Mr C £50 for the distress and inconvenience this had caused him. Advantage says
Mr C didnt respond to its email or to the phone calls its partner made to him.
Mr C was unhappy with Advantages response and so brought his complaint to us. Hed like
Advantage to pay for his replacement windscreen (which cost £350), minus his policy
excess. Among other things, he says the process of trying to get the windscreen replaced
was unnecessarily stressful and more hassle than it shouldve been.
The investigator who looked at Mr Cs complaint upheld it. He said Advantage knew Mr Cs
car was at his repairers and that the paintwork could only be finished once the windscreen
had been replaced. So he didnt think Advantage had treated Mr C fairly by offering him an
appointment that was two weeks away. He recommended Advantage pay Mr Cs claim of
£350 (minus his £85 policy excess) and increase its compensation payment to £100 for the
distress and inconvenience it had caused Mr C.
Advantage disagreed with our investigators findings. It said (among other things):
Mr C was correctly advised by Advantage that, if his windscreen wasnt replaced by
one of its approved repairers, it would cover only £95 of his costs (after his excess
had been paid). It said this was part of the terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy.
Mr C contacted its customer care team on 2 August and was able to register a
complaint over the phone with one of its representatives on that day. It says the
following day it confirmed a replacement windscreen appointment for 12 August
(brought forward from 23 August), which it doesnt think is unreasonable.
It attempted to contact Mr C on 3 and 4 August and also sent him a letter by email,
none of which he responded to, so Mr C was unreachable even if an earlier
appointment had been available.
In my provisional decision of 28 November 2022, I explained why I intended to uphold one 
part of Mr Cs complaint but not the other. Mr C has given me some comments on my 
provisional decision. Advantage hasnt responded to it. So Mr Cs complaint has now come 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold part of Mr Cs complaint. I think its fair and 
reasonable for Advantage to pay Mr C £100 for the distress and inconvenience its handling 
of his claim has caused him. But, on balance, I dont think it would be fair and
reasonable to direct Advantage to pay the whole cost of replacing Mr Cs windscreen (minus 
his policy excess). I explained my thinking in my provisional decision, as follows:
Mr Cs car insurance policy says limited cover for windscreen damage may apply if he
doesnt use his insurer's approved repairer  that is, a garage or repairer from the insurers
approved network. And Mr Cs certificate of insurance has a section headed windscreen
excesses which says (among other things) if his windscreen is replaced and he doesnt use
one of Advantages approved repairers, the most it will pay is £95, with Mr C paying an
excess of £85. Its not unusual for insurers to say repairs should be carried out by one of its
approved repairers. And I dont think theres anything unreasonable about limiting cover in
the way Advantage has if a consumer chooses to use an unapproved repairer.Its not disputed Mr C had his windscreen replaced by an unapproved repairer. And its clear
he knew this meant his policy cover was limited because, when hed asked Advantage to
approve the whole windscreen replacement cost, it had refused on the basis of the policy
terms and conditions. Mr Cs argument, though, is that in the particular circumstances of his
case, the timeframe Advantage gave for replacing the windscreen wasnt reasonable. To be
able to continue his other car repairs, he says he had to use his repairer to replace the
windscreen  so he thinks its only fair Advantage should cover the whole replacement cost.
Our approach to claims for windscreen damage is we expect an insurer to arrange for a
windscreen to be replaced (or repaired) within a reasonable time. Thats because its
potentially dangerous for someone to drive with a damaged windscreen. So, if theres been a
delay, we expect an insurer to have a good explanation for it.
In Mr Cs case, it was a week after he first made his claim that Advantage gave him a date
for replacing his windscreen  which was then another week away. Advantage has given two
different reasons for the time it took to give Mr C a date. One is that there was high national
demand. The other is that the glass would need to be sourced, ordered, delivered and then a
fitter arranged. Advantage has given no evidence to support either of these statements.
On their own, and given the seeming disparity between them, I dont find Advantages
statements a compelling explanation for the delays Mr C experienced. Advantage says its
windscreen repair/replacement service isnt an emergency service. But, as Ive said, our
approach is it should be available with a reasonable time. From what Ive seen, I think it took
Advantage too long to give Mr C an appointment in the first place  and this only happened
after hed made a complaint. In this case, I dont think Advantage has shown the date itself 
two weeks from when Mr C first notified it of his claim  was within a reasonable time.
Of course, I have to bear in mind Mr Cs car was already with his repairer  so the potential
danger to himself and others from driving it was removed. Even so, its clear from what Mr C
says that the way Advantage handled his claim  its delay in giving him a date to replace his
windscreen and the date he was eventually given being some time after he first claimed 
caused him distress and inconvenience. Mr C says he spent over two hours on hold trying to
get through to Advantage and its agents and countless more hours chasing it to uphold
[its] end of the contract. Mr Cs frustration with the situation is obvious. Because of this, I
intend to direct Advantage to pay Mr C £100 (rather than the £50 it has already offered) for
the distress and inconvenience its handling of his claim has caused him.
Its possible Advantages delay also meant it took longer for the corrosion repairs to Mr Cs
car to be completed. But since Mr C didnt collect his car from his repairers until towards the 
end of August, from what Ive seen so far Im not sure how likely this is. I wouldnt have
thought finishing off some paintwork after the windscreen was replaced would take weeks.
Mr C says hed like Admiral to treat the self-funded windscreen fitting as equivalent to using
their approved fitter. From what Ive seen so far, I dont think that would be fair and
reasonable. Mr C chose to take his car to have the corrosion repaired before he notified
Advantage of the windscreen damage  so, at that point, a replacement windscreen doesnt
seem to have been his priority. And, while I can understand why Mr C chose to have his
repairer replace the windscreen later on, I think this was ultimately his choice made for his
and his repairers convenience  and not one that Advantage forced on him. Also, he made
his choice in the knowledge his policy didnt cover him for the windscreen cost beyond the
first £95.
As Ive mentioned, Mr C has given us some comments on my provisional decision. In 
response to Advantages statement that he didnt reply to its email or its partners phone calls, Mr C says Advantages email didnt ask for a response. And Mr C says he tried to 
phone its partner on 5 August but failed to get through. I accept what Mr C says about these 
things. 
Mr C says, in response to my comment that I wouldnt have thought it should take weeks for 
his repairer to finish off some paintwork on his car, that the work was more involved than my 
comment suggests. Again, I accept what Mr C says here. 
Mr C also says that, on 3 August, Advantage emailed him asking him to get quote for a 
replacement windscreen that it knew was coming from a non-approved repairer. He says if it 
was never going to consider the quote, this was both a pointless and a misleading exercise. I 
dont know why Advantage wouldve asked Mr C to do this. But, as Ive said, I think the 
policy wording is clear about the limit on liability that applies where a policyholder uses a 
non-approved repairer. So Mr Cs comment doesnt change my conclusions on this part of 
his complaint.
A final point Mr C has mentioned is that Advantage hasnt reimbursed him the £95 its liable 
to pay him for using an unapproved repairer. As Ive already said, Mr Cs certificate of 
insurance says if he doesnt use one of Advantages approved repairers to replace his 
windscreen, the most itll pay is £95. Ive seen a copy of the invoice from Mr Cs repairer 
showing the replacement windscreen cost £350. Ive also seen a copy of Mr Cs credit card 
receipt for payment of that amount (both of which I attach to this final decision). If Advantage 
hasnt yet reimbursed Mr C £95, which is the limit of its liability under his policy for replacing 
his windscreen using an unapproved repairer, it should do so.
My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision (which now form part of this final decision), 
I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay Mr C him £100 for the distress and inconvenience its handling of his claim has 
caused him. 
Reimburse Mr C £95 towards the cost of his replacement windscreen, if it hasnt 
done so already.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay both sums within 28 days of the date we 
tell it Mr C has accepted my final decision. If it doesnt, Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited must pay simple interest on both amounts at the rate of 8% a year from the date of 
my final decision to the date of payment. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2023. 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman