DRN-4250784
Complaint
Miss L has complained about loans Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) provided to her. She says 
the loans were unaffordable.
Background
Lloyds provided Miss L with a first loan for £3,200.00 in November 2018. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £125.11. This loan was settled early in May 2019 
with some of the proceeds from loan 2. 
In May 2019, Miss L was provided with a second loan for £4,834.39. £2,834.39 of the 
proceeds from this loan went towards settling the outstanding balance on loan 1. This loan 
also had a 36-month term with 36 monthly repayments of £189.82. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss L and Lloyds had told us. And she thought that 
Lloyds hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss L unfairly. So she didnt recommend that 
Miss Ls complaint be upheld. 
Miss L disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ls complaint.
Lloyds needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Lloyds needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss L 
could afford to repay before lending to her. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Lloyds provided Miss L with loans for £3,200.00 and £4,834.39 in November 2018 and            
May 2019. These loans were due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £125.11 and 
£189.82 respectively. 
Lloyds says it agreed to Miss Ls applications it carried out credit searches and obtained 
some information on Miss Ls income and expenditure. And all of this information showed 
Miss L could comfortably afford to make the repayments she was committing to. On the 
other hand, Miss L has said the loans were unaffordable in the same way her overdraft was.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss L and Lloyds have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Lloyds has provided us with an indication of what it saw 
about Miss Ls debts at the time of his applications. Crucially, Miss Ls debt total at the time 
of the applications was reasonable in comparison to her income and they appeared to be 
relatively well managed. For example there were no recent arrears, defaults or county court 
judgments recorded against her.
Ive also kept in mind that Lloyds provided a second loan to Miss L and that sometimes 
repeat borrowing in itself can be an indication of difficulty. But the amount borrowed for loan 
2 didnt make it appear as though it was being taken because of the hole the repayments for 
loan 1 might have left in Miss Ls finances. 
Furthermore, loan 1 was taken out to clear what was much more expensive overdraft debt 
and I can see that Miss Ls overdraft limit was reduced at this time. Im afraid that I dont 
agree with Miss Ls suggestion that her overdraft in itself demonstrates that these loans 
shouldnt have been provided to her.
I do think that the increased amount borrowed for loan 2 was a warning sign that Lloyds 
ought to have kept in mind should Miss L have gone on to make any further applications for 
loans. In other words, I think that Lloyds would have had to apply increased scrutiny to an 
application for a third loan should Miss L have made one. 
So while the pattern of lending here has seen me take a closer look at the individual 
applications, Im satisfied that it wasnt immediately obvious that loan 2 was demonstrably 
unsustainable for Miss L. And there isnt anything else obvious in either of these applications 
which clearly demonstrates Miss L couldnt have afforded the loans either. 
I accept that Miss Ls actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the information Lloyds obtained. But the key here is that its only 
fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did 
something wrong. Given the circumstances here, in particular the lack of any obvious 
inconsistencies in the information gathered, Im satisfied that Lloyds was reasonably entitled 
to lend to Miss L on each occasion. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Lloyds did anything wrong when deciding to lend to  
Miss L - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. And the second loan was provided in 
circumstances where Miss Ls indebtedness didnt appear to be increasing unsustainably. 
So overall I dont think that Lloyds treated Miss L unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
her with her loans. And Im not upholding Miss Ls complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Miss L. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman