DRN-3698114
The complaint
Mr F complained about Ageas Insurance Limiteds handling of his repair claim under his car 
insurance policy. 
What happened
 Mr Fs car was damaged in an incident and Ageas agreed for their approved repairer 
(Ageass garage)  to repair it under his policy. This was in about November 2021. But in 
about May 2022 there was a problem with his cars bumper and Ageass garage took his car 
back to repair that. 
Mr F said that while his car was with the garage for that repair they damaged it more. He 
wanted them to repair that damage too. Ageas wouldnt do so. They said that their garage 
didnt do the damage and it was pre-existing, and their engineer inspected it and confirmed 
that. 
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Ageas hadnt acted unreasonably. Mr F didnt agree and so Ive been asked to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide if or how or when a car has been damaged, as that is a matter for the 
experts in these situations, the insurers, and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to 
determine if the insurer has considered all the available evidence and whether they can 
justify their decision that the damage was not caused by their repairer. 
Im not going to detail here all the damage Mr F says Ageass garage did, as its not in 
dispute that his car has that damage. But Ageas say their garage were not responsible for it.  
Mr Fs car went into the garage in about November 2021. Ageas showed us their two 
checklists dated November 2021 and May 2022 which have diagrams showing the condition 
of his car then. Mr F has signed both of these. The diagrams show accident damage and 
separately, non-accident damage, meaning damage which was there already. In both of 
these checklists the non-accident damage noted is consistent. So this suggests that there 
was already non-accident damage to the car in in November 2021.So this supports Ageas 
claim that Mr Fs car was already damaged before their garage worked on it again in May.   
The investigator asked Mr F for photos of his car beforehand to show its condition then, but 
he didnt have any, so theres no persuasive evidence that this damage wasnt there before 
his car went to Ageass garage. 
After Mr F complained, Ageas arranged for his car to be inspected by their engineer and he 
did so at Mr Fs home. The engineer in his report has detailed six separate areas of scratch 
and chip damage to the car and has given his opinion as to how each of them were likely to 
have been caused. He concluded that it was not likely that the car sustained all that damage 
while it was in for repair and so it was not likely to have been caused by the garage. Ive 
looked at the engineers report and it is a detailed and comprehensive analysis, and so I 
think that Ageas are entitled to rely on it. 
What we expect of an insurer is that they reasonably investigate and that they can justify 
their conclusion on the evidence. In this case Ageas relied on the checklists signed by Mr F 
and on their engineers report, that the damage was not caused by their garage. Looking all 
the evidence Ageas had, I dont think their decision was unfair. This means that I dont 
require Ageas to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
