DRN-4156751
The complaint
Mr M complains that Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd didnt do enough due diligence when he 
opened his accounts, and that the amounts he deposited were well outside the amount of 
assets and income he declared. He feels that the accounts were not appropriate for him, and 
he should not have been allowed to trade. 
Mr M further complains that IB failed in its responsibilities in relation to money laundering 
regulations given the size of his deposits, and that once he told IB that he was vulnerable it 
took no action. Mr M also complains about the commissions he says IB took. 
What happened
Mr M opened an account with IB in February 2021. He traded for over a year and suffered 
significant financial losses. In April 2022 Mr M made a complaint to IB, claiming among other 
matters, that it had failed to properly monitor how much he was depositing versus what he 
had declared to it were his liquid assets  and furthermore had failed to close his account 
when he had asked it to after disclosing his gambling addiction. 
IB didnt think it had done anything wrong. In short it outlined the process it had followed in 
allowing Mr M to open the account and trade. It explained the options available to Mr M to 
close his account, including closing his existing positions and requesting any residual 
balance be transferred to his bank account. 
Mr M referred his complaint to this service, and one of our investigators looked into Mr Ms 
complaint. In summary:
She didnt consider there was anything wrong with IB allowing Mr M to open an 
account. 
She thought that there was no breach of anti-money laundering regulations, and that 
the deposits Mr M made did not amount to complex or unusually large transactions. 
As Mr M agreed to the commissions IB charged on trades, she didnt think there was 
anything wrong these charges. 
She did consider that IB ought to have stopped Mr M trading after 6 April 2022, when 
he told it that he had a huge gambling addiction and that he also suffered from 
manic periods and depression. She considered that IBs decision to take no further 
action wasnt fair and reasonable, and recommend it:
oRefund all of the deposits Mr M made after 6 April 2022; 
oAdd 8% per year simple interest on those funds. 
oPay Mr M £750 for the distress and inconvenience he was caused. 
IB provided no comments in response to the investigators view. Mr M provided detailed 
comments. 
He corrected a mistake in the investigators view around his deposits, and claimed this 
meant her whole assessment ought to be invalidated. In summary, he also said:
The financial circumstances he outlined to IB did not match his subsequent deposits. 
Therefore, how could the investment be appropriate if he didnt have the liquid net 
worth to support it. He queried why this information was provided if it wasnt to 
assess account suitability. 
He was only earning £719.90 per week, even though his deposits were consistently 
far more than this. He disagreed with the investigator around the enhanced due 
diligence, and argued that his deposits amounted to an unusual pattern of 
transactions for the purposes of anti-money laundering regulations. 
He said he changed his financial information in September 2021, but before that the 
amount he had deposited was far more than he had indicated his net worth was. 
He said he made several changes to his knowledge and experience after opening his 
account which ought to have alerted IB to a problem. 
He reiterated that the discrepancy was the main reason why the account should 
never have been allowed to deposit such vast amounts of money.
He said that the investigator had quoted a rule in COBS which said that IB was 
entitled to rely on what he had told it  given the discrepancy in the information he 
provided it and the way he deposited money in the account, this showed that IB had 
failed. 
He maintained that between February 2021 and September 2021 when he amended 
his details, he had not informed IB that he had a wealth of experience. 
He provided payslips to show his earnings during the relevant period, and said that at 
no point did IB request this information when his deposits exceeded what he had 
declared was his net worth. He said this was a violation of FCA principles and 
regulations. He made further points around his deposits, the lack of enhanced due 
diligence, discrepancies in the investigators assessment and the reasons behind 
why he changed the account value. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has provided detailed comments throughout the course of the investigation, and in 
response to the investigators assessment. 
I understand there was an error in her original assessment, which she later corrected and 
confirmed it did not change the outcome. Id like to thank Mr M for his submissions around 
this, and other aspects of his case. I want to confirm to him that Ive read and considered all 
of his submissions, but my role isnt to respond to each issue individually. So if I dont 
address something he has raised, it isnt because I havent taken into account. I have. But 
my role is to focus on the key issues in the complaint and provide reasons for my decision. In this case, the key issues are the opening of the account, Mr Ms subsequent management 
of the account and whether it ought to have prompted IB to recognise he had vulnerabilities 
sooner, and finally how it dealt with Mr M once it was told that he had a gambling addiction. 
In light of this, Im not going to comment on whether or not anti-money laundering 
regulations were followed or how they applied to him. I say this because Im not persuaded 
that these regulations, even if they werent technically followed (and Im not making this 
finding), would mean that Mr M receives compensation. Thats not the purpose of those 
regulations. If Mr M believes that IBs anti-money laundering processes are not up to the 
standards expected by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), Im satisfied 
that is a regulatory matter and not something that I need to decide in order to resolve this 
complaint  given that theres no suggestion in this case that any money laundering actually 
took place. 
The account opening
The investigator has correctly explained that IB was entitled to rely on the information Mr M 
gave it when he opened the account. I should be clear that COBS10A, which deals with 
appropriateness, is not concerned with Mr Ms wealth. That is not a part of the assessment. 
What COBS10A required IB to do is determine whether Mr M had sufficient knowledge and 
experience to understand the risks involved in the service he was asking IB to provide to 
him. Furthermore, COBS10A did not apply to all the services Mr M was asking IB to provide 
to him. For example, it did not apply to buying and selling listed shares.  
If, in carrying out the assessment required by COBS10A, IB decided that the type of service 
Mr M was requesting was not appropriate for him, it needed to warn him that this was its 
assessment. If Mr M still wanted to this service despite this warning, the guidance from the 
FCA in COBS10A.3.3 suggests that it was for IB to decide whether to allow him to do so, 
having regard to the circumstances. 
Mr M amended his information between 5 February 2021 and 7 February 2021. He has not 
explained why he felt he needed to do so, but given the short delay Im not persuaded it 
makes any difference. 
I also want to make clear that Mr Ms subsequent trading with IB shows that he was an 
active and experienced trader. So Im not persuaded, on balance, that the information 
recorded on 5 February 2021, which basically suggested he had very little investment 
experience with the exception of one year trading stocks and two trading on margin, is 
accurate. 
IB has explained that when Mr M opened his account on 5 February 2021, he requested 
margin permissions for which he failed the appropriateness assessment. He received a 
warning that said:
Based on the experience and knowledge information you have provide we consider that 
Margin products are not appropriate for you.
He was presented with two options:
To remove margin as an option or;Click continue, where after account approval hed be able to trade subject to 
completion of a task. IB has explained that this task was product specific and 
consisted of a tutorial, consisting of explanatory narratives and sets of questions 
used to illustrate the features of the product and associated risks. 
Mr M decided that despite this warning, he still wanted to trade on margin and proceeded 
with opening his account on that basis. In doing so he also had to read and accept IBs 
Margin Risk disclosure notice which outlined the significant risks associated with margin 
trading.  
IB has explained that IB uses clients knowledge and experience on a client basis and not 
per account, and further, that Mr M was required to provide information when trading certain 
permissions for the first time. This would explain why his information was amended on 7 
February 2021. 
The evidence Ive seen shows that he started trading on margin and with stocks on 5 
February 2021  the two areas where he had provided information. At that point, he had 
declared two years trading on margin and one year trading with stocks. 
On 7 February 2021, he received further trading permissions for a variety of assets, 
including Contracts for Difference (CFD), options and futures. For each of these he amended 
his form, and declared:
4 years and between 51 and 100 trades in CFDs;
5 years, and between 26 and 50 trades in futures;
3 years, and between 11 and 25 trades in options
He passed IBs appropriateness assessment for each of these products, and was therefore 
able to trade them with no additional steps required. As part of this process, Mr M was 
presented with terms and risks warnings which he was required to read and accept. Ive 
seen evidence that he did so. 
In my view, the process IB followed in relation to Mr Ms account opening shows that he was 
treated fairly and reasonably. It assessed the information he provided to it, in light of the 
services he was requesting, and properly warned him when it found a particular service was 
not appropriate for him. In balancing whether or not to allow Mr M to continue to trade it 
needed to weigh up all the circumstances, including Mr Ms clear wishes. Im not persuaded 
there was any reason, at that time, to have prevented Mr M from opening a margin account. 
As a result of requesting further trading permissions, Mr M then amended his information two 
days later. As Ive said above, Im not persuaded theres any inferences I can draw from this, 
nor that IB ought to have seen this as some sort of indication that there was something 
untoward with Mr Ms application. It has explained how Mr M was required to provide 
additional information when requesting to trade certain permissions for the first time and this 
is what he did on 7 February 2021. Based on the information he did provide, Im persuaded it 
was fair and reasonable for IB to conclude that he had sufficient knowledge and experience 
to trade the various products he asked to trade. 
Furthermore, looking at Mr Ms trading from February 2021, Im satisfied that the sheer 
volume of trading and the complexity and variety of financial instruments he traded shows 
that Mr M was, more likely than not, an experienced trader who knew what markets he wanted to invest in, had a defined strategy and was evidently wanting to enact it. 
Taking all this into account, I dont uphold this element of Mr Ms complaint. 
How Mr M managed his account and should IB have been alerted to a vulnerability sooner 
than April 2022
Mr Ms complaint is that the volume of deposits, compared to what he had declared his 
financial circumstances to be, ought to have alerted IB to a problem. The issue is that, as 
Ive explained above, the rules didnt require IB to have done this  they only required it to 
assess his knowledge and experience when he requested a specific type of service. There 
was no particular rule that required it to have assessed affordability, and therefore, for it to 
have continued to assess whether this type of account was affordable for him in light of what 
it knew about him. 
Furthermore, its not in dispute that Mr M never declared any information to IB that ought to 
have alerted it to a problem with the source of his money  for example that he was 
borrowing to invest or that funding the account was creating financial hardship. 
At the time, there werent any particular rules about whether or how accounts such as Mr Ms 
ought to be monitored or whether a certain size of loss, or cumulated losses, ought to trigger 
the closure or suspension of trading. However, there were two relevant overarching 
obligations which IB needed to comply with. 
The first overarching rule that IB was required to comply with at all times was in COBS 2.1  
Acting honestly, fairly and professionally. In short, this rule required IB to act honestly, fairly 
and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The second was complying with the FCAs expectations on how to identify and treat 
vulnerable customers. The Finalised Guidance on this sets out these expectations: FG21/1 
Guidance for firms on the fair treatment of vulnerable customers. 
In considering how IB complied with these rules until April 2022, when it was directly notified 
by Mr M of his vulnerability, Ive had to weigh up several different factors:
In deciding what was in its clients best interests IB was required to weigh up what Mr 
M clearly wanted to do with his money, and what he had been doing, versus its own 
objective assessment of what it considered was in his best interests.
The FCAs guidance on vulnerability makes it clear that while frontline staff should 
take steps to encourage disclosure where they see clear indicators of vulnerability 
they are not expected to go further than this to proactively identify vulnerability.
The FCAs guidance directly discusses examples of complex trading on margin, and 
explains that before restrictions were placed, many consumers were unable to 
understand the complexities of the products or the impact of the leverage on the 
likelihood of the products making a profit. But Mr M had experience in these 
products, and had already been warned about the risks and the complexities of 
trading on margin.
The guidance also says firms should proactively tell consumers about the options of 
help and support they offer.
Even after over 12 months trading, and significant losses, Mr M was still requesting a 
margin account, and making additional deposits. In looking at Mr Ms trading statement, Im not persuaded there was anything that ought to 
have alerted IB to an undisclosed vulnerability that it needed to encourage disclosure of. Its 
clear that he was trading large amounts of money, but there was no indication that he was 
struggling financially, nor have I seen evidence that he disclosed anything like this to IB 
during the time he was trading with it until April 2022. Furthermore, he had clearly been told 
about the risks of trading on margin, had been told IB didnt consider it appropriate for him, 
and still he proceeded to trade. Its clear to me, therefore, that even if IB had attempted to 
elicit more information from Mr M, for example about how he was able to fund his account, 
its more likely than not that he would not have disclosed his vulnerability to it. 
This particular aspect of Mr Ms complaint relies on me accepting his evidence that the 
discrepancy between his actual deposits, and what he declared his liquid wealth to be, ought 
to have been enough for IB to prevent him from trading or to close his account. As a result, 
because it didnt do so, it ought to refund his losses. 
But given what Ive said above about Mr Ms behaviour, his experience, his trading and the 
rules which IB was required to follow, Im not persuaded either of those conclusions would 
be fair and reasonable. 
In my view, the level of deposits was just one part of the information IB had about Mr M  
which included how he traded, on what markets, how frequently, and what he said about his 
experience (which Ive already found, by 7 February 2021 showed he had sufficient 
experience on the derivatives he was trading). But even if I thought that his deposits were 
such that IB ought to have done something, I dont agree that it would be fair and reasonable 
for me to conclude that it ought to have unilaterally closed or limited his account, in the 
absence of any other information. In my view, making IB liable for the very significant losses 
Mr M incurred during the life of his account would be to ignore the fact that these were his 
trading decisions  trades that he chose to fund, open and close, and for which in principle, 
only he was responsible for. 
As the FCA have said, IB wasnt required to proactively identify Mr Ms vulnerability  and 
Ive seen insufficient evidence to persuade me that before April 2022, there was enough 
information for it to have concluded that Mr M had a vulnerability such that trading 
derivatives was not in his best interests. 
The April 2022 disclosure
However, its evident from everything Ive said above, that once Mr M did disclose his 
vulnerability to IB, it was required and obliged to take action. It was clearly not good enough 
to place this burden back on Mr M, particularly when he very clearly told it that his 
compulsion was such that he found it impossible to take this action himself. 
At this point, it ought to have been abundantly clear to IB that Mr M was unable to manage 
his account, close it or even manage any open positions. 
There was numerous contact from Mr M during this time, but in particular an email sent on 6 
April 2022 in my view was sufficient. It outlined areas where he felt IB had failed him, and 
then stated: 
I unfortunately suffer from a huge gambling addiction and find myself playing/gambling in 
ways that I just should not do, I suffer from manic periods and depression. 
In my view this email alone ought to have prompted IB to immediately review Mr Ms 
account. At this point, a customer had disclosed to it a vulnerability and it wasnt enough to 
respond to Mr Ms complaint and take no further action, which is essentially what IB did. It needed to proactively review Mr Ms account, from inception to that date  and had it done 
so, it wouldve identified the level of losses Mr M had sustained during that period, which 
wouldve made his disclosure, and his request to have his account closed, that much more 
urgent. 
Whilst I accept that at that moment Mr M had some open trades, in my view it was clear that 
continued exposure to market risk via trading derivatives was not in Mr Ms best interests at 
that moment in time  and his subsequent correspondence confirmed this. On 20 April he 
said I cannot control the urge to deposit more and have asked countless times for the 
account to be closed. 
Im therefore satisfied that IBs failure to take any action in relation to Mr Ms disclosure, and 
in particular its failure to limit and close Mr Ms account as soon as it was made aware of Mr 
Ms situation, meant that it did not treat him fairly nor did it act in his best interests. Im 
therefore satisfied that it is fair and reasonable to require it to pay compensation to him. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive given, I consider that Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd needs to do more to 
put things right. Im satisfied that it did not act in the way the regulator expected it to when Mr 
M notified it of his difficulties and vulnerability, and it didnt treat his situation with the 
urgency, care and customer focus it should have. 
Ive considered how to put things right, bearing in mind that it isnt possible for me to specify 
exactly what actions it shouldve taken. Im satisfied that taking all of Mr Ms circumstances 
into account, including his communications, and the importance of being able to provide 
some finality to Mr Ms complaint, the fair and reasonable way to put things right is to award 
him his losses from the period 6 April 2022, until the account was closed, plus 8% per year 
simple on those losses until the settlement date. This is because had IB immediately 
proceeded to close his account, those losses wouldve been avoided. And since they were 
incurred as a result of a vulnerability that he disclosed to IB, specifically instructing it to take 
the action he could not by virtue of this vulnerability, Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable. 
This means Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd needs to work out how much cash Mr M had in his 
account on 6 April 2022:
a) add any additional deposits from that date;
b) subtract from a) any withdrawals he made to his bank accounts and any residual 
balance refunded to him when the account was eventually closed), 
c) Refund him any difference  adding 8% per year simple interest from 6 April 2022 to 
the date of settlement. Ive chosen this date as thats when the account shouldve 
been closed, and no further losses wouldve accrued had IB done this.  
Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd need to provide this calculation to Mr M in a clear and readable 
format. 
Ive also considered the distress and inconvenience Mr M suffered. I agree with the 
investigator that not all of this was caused by IB  some of it was clearly caused by Mr Ms 
condition, and his own actions throughout the life of the account which, for the reasons Ive 
given above, I dont consider IB was responsible for. However, his communications with IB after 6 April 2022 clearly show the difficulty he was 
experiencing in getting his account closed, and I consider that his language could not have 
been any clearer. Im therefore satisfied that an award of £750 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Ms complaint and award the compensation Ive 
outlined above. Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd must pay the compensation Ive awarded within 
28 days of when we tell it Mr M has accepted this final decision.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman