DRN-1517319
The complaint
Mr B complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) included 
additional interest in an early settlement figure for a car he was financing through them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators opinion. I know that will come as a 
disappointment to Mr B so please let me explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ive looked at the hire purchase agreement. This states at the top that it is regulated by The 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
The Consumer Credit Act covers several areas of consumer credit including the content and 
form of credit agreements and the procedures relating to default, termination and early 
settlement. In relation to early settlement the Consumer Credit Act says that settlement 
figures should be calculated using the rules set out in the Consumer Credit (Early 
Settlement) Regulations 2004. It says that the settlement date becomes 28 days after receipt 
of the settlement request and it goes on to allow the creditor, if the loan is for more than one 
year, to defer the settlement date by 30 days. So that explains the 58-day charges Mr B is 
complaining about. 
These terms arent explicitly referred to in the credit agreement and I understand Mr Bs 
concern. But theres a balance to be struck between defining and explaining each and every 
term of a contract and keeping a contract to a reasonable length. The credit agreement says, 
under early settlement that the agreement may be settled by making any payment and 
other sums that you should have paid under the agreement. So, whilst I understand that the 
terms dont explicitly refer to the Regulations early settlement calculation; I think other 
sums would reasonably cover charges that arise from those calculations.
Ive thought about whether Mr B would have done anything differently if he had been aware 
of the early repayment provisions. Mr B has said he wouldnt have gone ahead with the loan 
and thats why he asked the dealership about early settlement fees. The additional payment 
Mr B is disputing is not an insignificant figure but its a small proportion of the overall credit 
and, on balance, Im not persuaded that if Mr B had known hed be liable for this at the 
outset it would have been significant enough to persuade him not to proceed with the finance 
agreement. And if he hadnt settled early he wouldve paid significantly more interest. So, I 
cant say hes been financially disadvantaged by this situation and overall, I dont think 
MBFS needs to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman