DRN-3107161
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE unfairly declined a claim under her pet 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Great Lakes, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
 
What happened
Mrs C took out a pet insurance policy for her dog in June 2019. In November 2020, she 
made a claim for the cost of surgery needed to treat her dogs Brachycephalic Airway 
Obstruction Syndrome (BOAS).
Great Lakes declined the claim as it said Mrs C had received advice about BOAS in 
February 2019  which was before she took out cover and within 24 months of the policys 
start date. So it said its a pre-existing condition which is excluded under the policy.
Mrs C felt this was unfair so she raised a complaint. She said the advice from the vet was 
about the breed in general, not her dog specifically. And that he wasnt diagnosed with 
BOAS until after the policy started. She provided a letter from her dogs current vet which 
confirmed that on the first visit in September 2019, there were no signs of BOAS.
Great Lakes maintained its rejection of the claim. It said the vets letter came from a different 
vet to the one that saw Mrs Cs dog in February 2019. And it was clear the original vet had 
seen signs of BOAS as it had given Mrs C advice about surgery. Mrs C brought her 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that as Mrs C received advice about 
BOAS, it would fall under the policys definition of a pre-existing medical condition. So it was 
fair for Great Lakes to decline the claim.
As Mrs C didnt accept this, the complaint was passed to me. And in September 2021, I 
issued a provisional decision, which said:
The terms and conditions of Mrs Cs pet insurance policy says that it will not pay for any 
costs relating to pre-existing conditions. It goes on to say that when we say pre-existing 
condition we mean anything your pet had treatment, medication or advice for in the last 24 
months.
I dont consider this term to be unusual or unfair. The purpose of insurance is to cover 
unforeseen risks and it should not be used to cover claims that a policyholder knew about, or 
thought would arise and for the purpose of which they took out the policy.
So Ive reviewed the vet notes in full to determine whether its fair for Great Lakes to say that 
BOAS is something Mrs Cs dog received treatment, medication or advice for in the 24 
months leading up to the policy being taken out.
I can see that Mrs Cs dog was originally registered with a vet - Ill refer to as H  from 
October 2018. In Hs notes, I can see that Mrs C took her dog for a consultation in February 
2019 for what appears to be an unrelated issue. In the notes, H has said:
Discuss breathing - occ noisy breathing in, but exercise normal, doesn't stop. 
Discuss BOAS surgery if concerned.
The notes continue, where H say they also discussed castration, flea and worming. I 
understand the dog was approximately six months old at that time. Ive found no other 
reference to the dogs breathing or BOAS in the remaining notes which end in March 2019.
On this entry alone, it would be hard to conclude that Mrs Cs dog had received treatment, 
medication or advice for BOAS. It would be more reasonable to say that advice was given on 
BOAS  rather than for BOAS. The difference being that many vets will give generic advice 
on a condition, especially if its one which is common in that particular breed. Whereas if a 
vet considers the dog is suffering from a condition, they will give advice for it.
Mrs Cs testimony is that H was providing generic advice on BOAS as her dog is a 
brachycephalic  short-headed  breed which are prone to BOAS. And from what Ive seen, 
Im persuaded this is the case. I say this because I think its unlikely that H wouldve 
concluded that the dog had BOAS solely because hes occasionally noisy when breathing in. 
And I think H wouldve given more definitive advice for the condition if they considered the   
dog was suffering from it, rather than simply saying surgery is an option if concerned.
Im also mindful that Mrs Cs dog was six months old at this time and still growing. And there 
doesnt appear to be any further mention of BOAS in the vet notes until over a year later.
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think its fair for Great Lakes to conclude that Mrs Cs 
dog had a pre-existing condition solely because of Hs notes. Im persuaded by Mrs Cs 
testimony and the context in which the notes are written, that H was giving generic advice 
arising from the breed of dog rather than any specific condition they considered him to be 
suffering from.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs C has confirmed that shes since paid the vet the full cost of the claim. She had no 
further comments or evidence for my consideration and has accepted my provisional 
decision. Great Lakes didnt respond.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 As neither party had any further submissions for my consideration, I see no reason to 
deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to reconsider the claim on the 
basis that this is not a pre-existing condition.
If the claim is subsequently accepted, Great Lakes Insurance SE should reimburse Mrs C 
the amount she has paid, minus any policy excess and up to the limits of the policy. It should pay simple interest of 8% per year* on the claim settlement from the date Mrs C paid the vet 
to the date the claim is settled.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
*If Great Lakes considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs C a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman