DRN-2712480
The complaint
Mr H complained about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) being mis-sold to him 
on 3 separate occasions. He says he was mis-sold the cover by Leeds Building Society in 
1998, 2003 and 2006. Policies 1 and 2 offered to cover Mr Hs mortgage repayments in the 
event of him losing his job or being unable to work through accident or sickness. Policy 3 
was only for accident and sickness protection (not unemployment)
For consistency Ill refer mainly to LBS in my decision.
What happened
My understanding is that LBS has arrived at the viewpoint where it accepts sales 1 and 2 
(carried out in 1998 and 2003) were partially flawed in as much as Mr H would have found 
claiming for unemployment very difficult. As a self-employed person the policy rules put 
some onerous conditions on him being able to make a successful claim for losing his job. 
LBS therefore offered to pay back the unemployment portion (only) of both the policies Mr H 
was sold. LBS was unwilling to repay the accident / sickness elements for either policy.
However, one of our adjudicators looked into this case and said the complaint about sale 
numbers 1 and 2 ought to be upheld in full. The adjudicator said that LBS should fully refund 
Mr H for these 2 policies, with interest.
Agreement seems to have been reached on the third policy, sold in 2006. This is because on 
that occasion, Mr H wasnt sold any unemployment protection, he was only sold the accident 
and sickness cover. 
LBS doesnt agree with the adjudicator regarding the first 2 policies, so Im making a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided to partially 
uphold the complaint in the same way our adjudicator recommended. 
When Mr H was sold the PPI cover on each occasion, he was entitled to receive information 
that was clear, fair and not misleading. And being an advised sale, LBS had additional 
responsibilities to ensure the PPI was suitable for Mr Hs circumstances.
LBS accepts he shouldnt have been sold unemployment protection for the first 2 policies; 
the policy rules required self-employed people to take additional and onerous measures, 
including ceasing trading completely, to make such a claim.
So, this type of cover was not suitable for Mr H because he was self-employed. He should 
not have been advised to take it out, and in my view, he obviously wasnt given clear 
information about the policy rules. LBS seems to accept this, but it nevertheless wants to 
only pay him back for the element of the PPI cover that related to unemployment protection. 
I think this use of hindsight is unfair.
As a regulated business, LBS should know that Mr H was entitled to be advised correctly 
and given clear enough information so he could make an informed choice about all the 
features of the PPI cover. In short, he was entitled to all the correct information, not just 
some of it. And I think if hed been told the cover wasnt completely suitable for him and that 
hed find claiming quite difficult, Mr H would have rejected the PPI as a waste of money. 
I therefore uphold Mr Hs complaint about policy numbers 1 and 2 in their entirety. LBS 
needs to fully compensate Mr H for the whole policies, in accordance with our approach, with 
which it will be familiar.
For Mr Hs 2006 mortgage application and PPI sale, no unemployment cover was sold to 
him. For this sale, I think Mr H was correctly advised and theres nothing I can see which 
points to him not knowing he had a choice. All the documentation Ive seen for sale number 
3 strongly points to him giving his proper consent. I therefore do not uphold the third policy 
complaint relating to 2006.
Finally, in 2019 LBS sent a response about Mr Hs complaint to the wrong address. This 
included a letter, a cheque, appendices and personal information. LBS accepts this was 
wrong and offered £150 for distress and inconvenience which our adjudicator recommended 
should be increased to £250. This error, in my view, endangered Mr Hs data security and so 
should be increased to £250.
Putting things right
LBS should put Mr H in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI for mortgages 
1 and 2 (1998 and 2003). It should:
Pay Mr H the full amount he paid each month for the PPI on both these policies.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid them until he gets the full 
amount back. The rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr H made a successful claim under any of these first 2 PPI policies, LBS can take off 
what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him. 
LBS should pay Mr H £250 for destress and inconvenience caused by sending personal 
information to an incorrect address.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires LBS to take off tax from the interest. It must give Mr H a certificate showing 
how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partially uphold Mr Hs complaint against Leeds Building 
Society. As Ive set out above, I uphold the complaint about PPI policies 1 and 2 (1998 and 2003). I 
do not uphold the complaint about PPI policy number 3 (2006). I also think he should be 
compensated, as above, for the data breach.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman