DRN-3965351
The complaint
Mr K complains that he lost out financially because Charles Stanley & Co Ltd provided 
insufficient information and innaccurate settlement dates when he was placing online trades.
To put things right, Mr K wants compensation.
What happened
Charles Stanley provided Mr K with an execution-only dealing service. 
On Monday 1 August 2022, Mr K instructed the sale of four funds held in his stocks and 
shares ISA. He particularly wanted to have the money from the sales of these funds 
available to re-invest elsewhere on Friday 5 August 2022 and he relied on information he 
saw onscreen which mentioned a settlement date of 4 August 2022.  
When Mr K checked on 4 August, he found there were no funds in his account. He contacted 
Charles Stanley and was told that two of the investments wouldnt settle until 8 August when 
his withdrawal would be processed and the whole cash balance transferred to him. 
This led to Mr K deciding to buyback his investments with Charles Stanley and he 
complained to Charles Stanley about what happened and asked for compensation. 
Charles Stanley didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. In brief summary, it said:
the order confirmation page for any given fund showed the standard settlement 
period for that fund, but didnt factor in the trade cut-off time (which Mr K had missed 
on 1 August) and 
the confirmation page stated that his order would be executed at the next available 
pricing point, and 
the contract notes issued clearly stated the settlement dates. 
Mr K didn't feel this was enough to resolve his complaint so he came to us and one of our 
investigators looked into what happened.   
Our investigator didnt feel she had seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Ks complaint. She 
said that it wasnt possible for a firm to guarantee settlement dates until after orders were 
processed and Mr K was provided with enough information to have known this.
Mr K disagreed with our investigator. He mainly said:
the screens he saw showed the cut-off point but not when the next trading point was
it wasnt reasonable to expect him to remember detailed terms and conditions when 
hed opened his account some years before
clearer information and a disclaimer about settlement dates being only a guide 
shouldve been shown upfront for each trade  as other dealing services do
he wanted to know where he would have been able to see information about how 
long each of his planned sales would take when placing trades.
As the complaint hasn't been resolved, it comes to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mr K  I can completely understand that whats happened has been 
upsetting and frustrating for him. We provide an informal complaints handling service and 
this is reflected in the way Ive approached the complaint. The purpose of my decision isnt 
to address every single point or question raised because its not what Im required to do in 
order to reach a decision in this case. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr K 
and Charles Stanley and reach an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the 
facts of the case. And having thought about everything I've seen and been told, Ive 
independently reached the same overall conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why 
I say this. 
Whilst Mr K has said that Charles Stanleys complaint procedure is confusing and needs to 
be streamlined, this service doesnt have jurisdiction to look into stand-alone complaints that 
are just about complaint handling. The industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), says our service can only look into complaints about regulated activities, and 
complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. 
I can however consider the customer service he received. And its my understanding that the 
crux of Mr Ks complaint is that he was misled by the information he saw onscreen when 
placing trades into thinking that he could rely on his trades being settled in time for him to 
use the money for other purposes. So this is the focus of my decision. 
Ive carefully considered the onscreen journey that Mr K wouldve had to complete in order to 
action these trades and Ive looked at the information he wouldve been able to see. 
The Trade Cut-Off time for placing each trade was shown on the screen Mr K saw when 
looking online at the details of the funds hed chosen to sell. This was the latest time on any 
business day that Charles Stanley could process Mr Ks selling instructions for that particular 
fund.
On the screen headed You are selling the following fund, Mr K wouldve been able to see 
that the four trades he placed (all within a five minute window shortly before 9pm in the 
evening on 1 August) would all have missed that days cut-off times (ranging from 9am 
through to 1pm that day) for each of his selected funds. This screen also included the 
following information: You are selling the following fund at the next pricing point, refer to the 
Trade Cut-Off Point. So Mr K was reasonably made aware when placing his trades that he 
was effectively already a day behind in terms of when he could reasonably expect his trades 
to settle. 
The next page Mr K wouldve seen, headed Confirm your order, showed a settlement date 
which reflected the standard period it took to settle that fund, as well as a statement saying 
that the order will be executed at the next available pricing point.
Read together, the cut-off times and settlement dates Mr K saw indicated the expected 
timescale once Charles Stanley was able to action his planned trades  which Mr K was 
aware wouldnt happen until the next pricing point. The business terms Mr K had signed up to in order to be able to trade on his account with 
Charles Stanley, included the following: 
1.7.21:Orders are accepted strictly on the basis that we give no guarantee of the 
time at which the Order may be completed, and the price at which the Order is 
executed may be different from the price indicated to you (if any) when you place the 
Order
All this leads me to conclude that Charles Stanley provided enough information to make 
Mr K reasonably aware that there could be no assurance or guarantee when placing a 
selling order exactly when it would be traded and settled. Although it wasnt explicitly stated 
that the settlement date shown reflected an estimate of the likely time it would take to 
complete the trade, I dont consider this is a good enough reason for me to uphold this 
complaint. Mr K had missed the chance to trade on the same day he placed his orders, he 
didnt know exactly when the next pricing points were and it wasnt guaranteed when the 
orders would be completed. So I dont think Mr K was reasonably able to assume that these 
trades would be completed in time for him to be able to re-invest his money on the date he 
planned.  
In the event, all his orders were placed at the next pricing point the following day and settled 
at which point Charles Stanley provided detailed contract and settlement dates on a contract 
note. So I havent identified any unreasonable delay here on the part of Charles Stanley.
Copies of the contract notes sent to Mr K show the transaction details and indicated 
settlement dates of 5 August for two of his trades and (with the intervening weekend) 
8 August for the remaining two funds. So I find that as soon as it was in a position to do so, 
having placed the trades, Charles Stanley provided reliable settlement dates to Mr K. 
Although Mr K has said if hed known settlement dates on the earlier screens were not set 
in stone and there might be a delay I would have sourced money from elsewhere, Charles 
Stanley provided contract notes to Mr K on 2 August indicating when his trades would be 
completed. So Mr K was alerted in reasonable time to the need to make other financial 
arrangements if he still wanted to go ahead with his planned investment on 5 August. I cant 
fairly say in these circumstances that Charles Stanley is responsible for Mr K making any 
financial loss or missing out on an investment opportunity. 
Mr K feels other financial businesses providing a similar service provide better information 
in a clearer format, and I have noted Charles Stanleys assurance to Mr K that feedback 
regarding the language on that screen has been passed on to the site developers for 
consideration. But in order to uphold Mr Ks complaint I would have to find that Charles 
Stanley has done something wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably  and I havent seen 
enough here to do so. So I cant award the compensation Mr K would like me to. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr K but I hope that setting things out 
as I've done helps to explain how I've reached my conclusions. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Susan WebbOmbudsman