DRN-4443035
The complaint
A limited company, which I will refer to as C, complains that Barclays Bank UK Plcs errors in 
relation to a commercial mortgage caused delays in opening new premises.
What happened
In early 2021, Cs directors wanted to buy new premises for their business. They had a 
property in mind, but they knew it would require extensive work to make it suitable. They 
approached Barclays, through a broker, with the aim of taking out a commercial mortgage to 
fund the purchase of the property.
Barclays and C eventually came to an agreement, and Barclays lent funds to C in October 
2021. But Cs directors told us that Barclays delays caused significant problems. They could 
not open their new premises until March 2023, which was much later than would have been 
the case without Barclays errors. Cs directors also told us that theyd expected to be able to 
take a loan with a fixed rate, but Barclays didnt give them that opportunity.
Barclays told us that the proposal made by Cs directors changed over time, particularly with 
respect to whether the directors would be seeking additional borrowing from other lenders. It 
said that if the original proposal had included a full explanation of the directors plans, then 
its original support would have been structured differently  which might have prevented 
some of the delays C experienced.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. He agreed that Barclays had made 
mistakes in relation to its customer service, but he didnt think Barclays had caused C to 
suffer the losses its directors claimed. He was also satisfied that Barclays had provided a 
loan to C on the agreed terms, and he didnt think Barclays was required to proactively offer 
a fixed rate.
Overall, our investigator thought Barclays should pay £750 to compensate C for the 
inconvenience caused by its poor customer service. Barclays agreed, but Cs directors did 
not. The directors accepted that Barclays was not at fault for all of the delays, but they said 
£750 did not represent sufficient compensation for the delays that were Barclays 
responsibility. The complaint was therefore referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it would be fair for me to order Barclays to pay C more than 
£750. I will explain why not.
There is no doubt that Barclays made mistakes here. Everyone  including Barclays  
accepts that its customer service was poor. It sent some documents to the wrong address, 
and lost other documents entirely. Barclays did not always respond to Cs directors emails 
within a reasonable time (or at all), and it recognises that the directors individual 
circumstances mean it should have done more to signpost them to additional support.
However, I dont think Barclays mistakes made a significant contribution to the delay in C 
being able to open its new premises. I say that because:
I dont think Barclays actions could possibly have caused the problems C 
experienced with the refit of Cs new premises. In particular, Barclays cannot have 
been responsible for the problems C had with the water supply, or for the subsequent 
difficulties with builders. 
Im aware that there is a dispute between Cs directors and Barclays as to when 
Barclays found out that C planned to borrow additional money from elsewhere to 
finance the work on its new premises. Barclays says that the directors initially told it 
that they intended to finance the work through savings, and that Barclays only 
discovered later that C intended to borrow from another lender  which had an 
impact on Barclays own lending decision. The directors say that they were always 
clear about the fact they would need additional finance to carry out the refit. Ive been 
provided with very little evidence on this point, but I havent seen enough to be 
satisfied that Barclays made a mistake in this respect.
In any event, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Barclays ever promised the directors 
that the loan would be in place by a particular date. The directors had an initial 
meeting with Barclays in April 2021 and were able to draw down the loan in October 
2021. I know the directors are particularly unhappy that Barclays took four months to 
consider issues relating to the other loan they needed, but overall I think Barclays 
timescales here were reasonable. Commercial lending can take a considerable time 
to arrange, and I dont think Barclays took an unusually long time to arrange the loan 
in this case.  
I have noted the directors concern that Cs loan has a variable rather than a fixed interest 
rate, but Im satisfied that the directors agreed to the terms Barclays offered. Our investigator 
was right to say that Barclays was not obliged to proactively offer alternative terms.
Putting things right
My aim here is to award fair compensation to C for Barclays poor customer service.
I know that the directors have been through an extraordinarily challenging time. One of them 
explained that the period between first trying to arrange the loan and finally opening the 
premises was the most difficult period of his life. I was very sorry to hear of the directors 
health issues, but despite my natural sympathy for him I must ensure that the award I make 
is fair to Barclays as well as to C. I can only award compensation for the errors Barclays has 
actually made in respect of its poor customer service. It would not be fair for me to order 
Barclays to pay compensation for issues that it is not responsible for.
In addition, Barclays customer here is C, a limited company with a separate legal 
personality from its directors. Barclays lent money to C, and not to the directors as 
individuals. C is a corporate entity, and therefore not capable of suffering distress. That 
means I cannot order Barclays to pay C compensation for distress  I can only order 
compensation for the inconvenience C suffered.
I know that Cs directors strongly disagree with me, but having looked at all of the evidence 
both sides have provided, I dont think it would be fair for me to order Barclays to pay C more 
than £750. Whilst I accept that Barclays poor customer service caused significant distress to the directors, I have no power to compensate them for that distress. Overall I think the loan 
was arranged in a reasonable amount of time, which means that overall I think the impact of 
the Barclays customer service errors on timescales was relatively limited. I am satisfied that 
the majority of the delays were caused by factors entirely outside of Barclays control, so it 
would not be fair for me to order Barclays to pay compensation for the delays as a whole.
My final decision
My final decision is that I order Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay C £750.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman