DRN-2709261
The complaint
Ms G complains about a cosmetic treatment package that was financed through a fixed sum 
loan agreement with etika Finance UK Limited (etika).
What happened
Ms G entered into a contract with a supplier Ill call S in July 2018. The contract stated that 
Ms G would be provided with the following: 
a VIP package of 12 face or body treatments
three diagnostics 
a facial kit
The total cost of the package came to £2,800. Ms G paid an upfront amount of £280 and the 
remaining cost of £2,520 was to be paid with a fixed sum loan agreement with etika.
Ms G had only received some of the treatments as outlined in the contract, before S had 
ceased trading. When etika told Ms G that they were looking to source an alternative 
supplier to complete the treatment package, she was unhappy with this option and 
complained to them. She mentioned that S had been trading fraudulently, the creams 
provided to her were fake, and that the treatments shed received hadnt benefited her. Ms G 
said she wanted the agreement to be cancelled and to be refunded for the payments she 
had already made.
In response etika said that Ms G wasnt a victim of fraud with regard to the products shed 
received. Etika also said that they had offered alternative treatments of a higher quality from 
the replacement supplier, but as Ms G didnt wish to continue with any further treatments, it 
made an offer to cover the elements of the contract she hadnt received. They calculated this 
by attributing an equal cost of £164.71 to each element of the package which they worked 
out to be 17 elements with an overall cost of £2,800. 
The 17 elements were made up of 13 treatments (including 1 complimentary treatment), 
three diagnostics and a facial kit. Etika said Ms G had redeemed the facial kit, five 
treatments (which included the complimentary treatment) and one diagnostic, which totalled 
seven treatments in total. As Ms G had 10 parts of the contract left, which she wasnt able to 
redeem, etika offered to credit her loan account with £1,647.06. This left Ms Gs account as 
having an outstanding balance of £872.94 which etika said she was liable for.
Ms G didnt accept etikas offer of redress and referred her complaint to our service. Ms G 
mentioned how shed only had three treatments carried out, with the fourth being 
complimentary. She also explained that the package included four diagnostics not three.
When our investigator considered Ms Gs complaint, they said the contract was made up of 
16 elements. The investigator said the booking details showed Ms G had six appointments, 
which they believed was for one diagnostic, four treatments and one complimentary 
treatment. As the complimentary treatment was provided due to a service issue at the salon, 
and wasnt a paid service, the investigator didnt include this as an element of the contract. 
As Ms G only received a total of six elements, and still had 10 treatments outstanding, the 
investigator thought Ms G should receive a price reduction, to reflect this breach of contract. 
The investigator said Ms G should receive a price reduction of £1,750 (10 x £175), leaving 
her liable to pay the remaining £1,050.00.
Etika agreed with the investigators view, but Ms G didnt. In summary, Ms G said that she 
was told that the treatment package would only work if she received all the treatments. As 
she didnt receive all the treatments, she considers there to have been a breach of contract, 
under Section 75, and so doesnt think she should pay anything towards the package. In 
terms of the treatments and products she did receive, she feels the products werent 
genuine, they didnt benefit her and instead made her skin worse. She also disagreed with 
the number of treatments etika said she was provided with. She said etika told her she had 
received a body treatment, which she didnt, and whilst the booking system showed she had 
redeemed six treatments, she said she only had four treatments carried out, and of which 
one was provided as complimentary.
This complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In situations where a consumer wishes to claim for a misrepresentation, or a breach of 
contract, against a supplier of goods or services, they can also bring that claim against the 
credit provider (etika here), under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
To gain protection under Section 75 there are certain conditions that have to be met before 
even considering whether there has been a breach of contract or material misrepresentation. 
I am satisfied that this transaction falls within the financial limits required by the Act. There 
also needs to be the required three-party contractual relationship-debtor, creditor and 
supplier; often referred to as the DCS relationship. I think this is also made out here. 
As etika has already acknowledged that the entire course of treatments wasnt provided to 
Ms G, and therefore a breach of contract has occurred, I will go on to consider how this 
matter should be resolved fairly between the parties. 
As Ms G bought goods and services under a sales contract, the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
(CRA) is relevant here. I note that etika initially sought to source a replacement supplier, so 
that the contract could be completed in full.
Section 54 of the CRA mentions the following:
(3) If the service does not conform to the contract, the consumers rights (and the provisions 
about them and when they are available) are: 
(a) the right to require repeat performance; 
(b) the right to a price reduction. As Ms G declined etikas offer for repeat performance of the contract, and this isnt disputed, 
the next step would be for Ms G to receive a price reduction. This is covered in Section 56 of 
the CRA as follows: 
(1) The right to a price reduction is the right to require the trader to reduce the price to the 
consumer by an appropriate amount (including the right to receive a refund for anything 
already paid above the reduced amount). 
(2) The amount of the reduction may, where appropriate, be the full amount of the price. 
(3) A consumer who has that right and the right to require repeat performance is only entitled 
to a price reduction in one of these situations 
(a) because of section 55(3) the consumer cannot require repeat performance; or 
(b) the consumer has required repeat performance, but the trader is in breach of the 
requirement of section 55(2)(a) to do it within a reasonable time and without significant 
inconvenience to the consumer. 
Section 55(3) in summary talks about whether repeat performance of the contract is 
impossible. As Ive already mentioned, Ms G declined the option for repeat performance of 
the contract. However, I am not persuaded anyway that the replacement supplier that etika 
appear to have sourced wouldve been able to complete the contract in such a way as to 
exactly mirror how S was supposed to perform it. 
The nature of facial and body treatments is that these will differ from one supplier to another. 
There are many different types of facials and body treatments available and these all use 
different techniques and products. In Ms Gs case, and under the terms of the contract with 
S, it was a given set of treatments and these came at a high overall cost. The assessment of 
the suitability of any replacement treatments is made even more difficult by the fact that the 
invoice provided by S isnt very specific as to the received products or treatments. 
Etika likely did what it could, when it could, to source a new supplier for Ms G, as it seems 
they initially intended to do. However, I think Ms G entered into the contract with S on the 
reasonable understanding that this was a treatment package. Having such large gaps 
between treatments would I think likely lessen the benefits of those treatments as an overall 
package. So, taking everything into account, I think a price reduction is a fair and appropriate 
remedy for Ms G.
Ms G has made the point that this was a course of treatments and without completing the 
course the full benefit of the course wasnt achieved and so she doesnt think she should pay 
anything towards the treatment. I understand the point Ms G is making. The contract was 
sold as a package, and she entered this contract with the understanding that the purpose 
and benefit of it would be realised once it had been fully completed. However, I havent seen 
any persuasive evidence to show what the specific result of the treatments were supposed 
to be, or how it would be quantified or assessed. 
I also think that some benefit mustve been achieved by each treatment otherwise there 
wouldnt be a need for a course of single treatments to be carried out. Similarly, the amount 
of benefit received from treatments, products and diagnostics differs not only between them 
but in their respective impacts on different customers. So, I dont think there is enough 
evidence to say that the treatments Ms G received had no benefit to her at all. And in view of 
this, I think its reasonable for Ms G to pay for the goods and services she received, and she 
should receive a price reduction for the treatments she didnt receive. In terms of working out what the price reduction should be, Im satisfied that, under the terms 
of the contract, S agreed to provide Ms G with 16 different elements. These were for 12 
facial or body treatments, three diagnostics and a facial kit. However, as I havent seen any 
evidence to show that specific, different costs were applied to the different elements of the 
contract, this has made working out how much each element had as a monetary value very 
difficult. 
Not only that, but weve seen several contracts in respect of other consumers which attribute 
the same elements as those shown on Ms Gs contract, at differing prices and discounts. In 
some examples, weve seen that the treatments have been discounted; in others the actual 
products themselves have been reduced or discounted. In view of this, I think the fairest way 
to determine what Ms G should pay is to attribute an equal cost to all of the 16 elements in 
the contract.
Although I am satisfied that there are 16 different elements to the contract, Ms G disputes 
some of the information etika has provided about the number of treatments she received and 
what those treatments were. 
Ms G mentioned that there were meant to be four diagnostics instead of three as part of her 
treatment package. She also said etika told her that she had received a body treatment, 
when she didnt. In terms of the treatments she did receive, Ms G said this was for one 
diagnostic, three facial treatments and one complimentary treatment.
In terms of the diagnostics, the contract states that Ms G would receive three diagnostics. I 
havent seen any evidence showing that Ms G went back to S, at the time she took out the 
contract, to query the number of diagnostics to be provided, or anything to show that she 
was told that she would be receiving four diagnostics instead of three. So, based on the 
available evidence, I am satisfied that there were only three diagnostics as part of the 
contract, and that Ms G received one diagnostic before S ceased trading.
In terms of the number of treatments Ms G received, it seems that the supplier kept records 
of the treatments it gave Ms G, and these are the records etika relies on here. I think the 
records appear to be genuine and I consider they are likely to be an accurate account of the 
treatments Ms G received.
Whilst Ms G suggests she received fewer treatments than etika says she did, and she didnt 
receive a body treatment, based on the available evidence I think its unlikely she received 
less treatments. And so, I am persuaded by what etika has sent and consider that six 
treatments were provided to Ms G.
However, I note what Ms G has said about receiving one complimentary treatment, which 
etika has also agreed with. And as this complimentary treatment wasnt part of the paid 
contract that Ms G initially took out, I havent included it as an element of the contract. 
So, in terms of how many treatments Ms G received overall, the booking system showed six 
appointments took place, and I consider this to mean one diagnostic, one complimentary 
treatment and four treatments. Excluding the complimentary treatment, I consider Ms G to 
have received five treatments, and the facial kit, giving a total of six elements of the contract 
received, and leaving ten elements which werent provided.
As the total cost of the contract, according to the sales invoice, was £2,800, this gives a 
price per element of £175 (= £2,800/16). From the above information Ms G received six of 
the 16 elements so Ms G should receive a price reduction of £1,750 (= £175 x 10) to 
represent the ten elements of the contract not provided to her. The total price was £2,800 
and this therefore means the total amount Ms G is liable for is £1,050 (= £2,800 - £1,750). Ms G paid up front a £280 deposit so that payment, and any others Ms G may have made, 
should be removed from the outstanding amount that Ms G now needs to repay.
In terms of the other arguments Ms G has made for why she shouldnt have to pay for 
anything received from the salon I shall now address those key outstanding arguments here.
Ms G explained that the products provided by S were not genuine. I accept that by 
implication, the supplier was representing itself as being an authorised licensee and the 
situation appears to be a licensing issue between the two parties, but I dont believe that the 
treatments, including the creams, were provided to Ms G using goods that didnt or couldnt 
provide the intended benefit, or that there were failings in the treatments Ms G received in 
this case. 
I say this because Ive not seen enough evidence that would make me think that the 
products used werent genuine products. We certainly havent had compelling evidence of 
this, for example what was used was tested and examined and found to be markedly 
different. It looks more likely that this is a dispute around whether S was entitled to use or 
licence the products from the trademark owner. So, although there may have been issues 
between the salon and its suppliers, Im not persuaded Ms G has lost out because of this. 
Ms G also explained that the treatments and creams affected her skin negatively and it is 
now in a worse state than before. In order to uphold a complaint on this basis Id need to be 
satisfied that damage had been done and that it was as a direct result of something the 
salon did which was either due to the goods provided not being of satisfactory quality, or that 
the service provided wasnt provided with reasonable skill and care. 
Cosmetic treatments can cause adverse reactions or not be as effective on some people as 
others. However, that does not necessarily mean they are defective or applied without 
reasonable skill and care. Ms G has not provided a medical report or other expert 
assessment to support her claim. And based on the evidence available to me I am not 
persuaded that Ms G has been caused injury by the products or that the goods were not of 
satisfactory quality or applied without reasonable skill and care.
I did put the above comments to Ms G, and she explained that she did complain to the salon 
about the adverse reaction to her skin, and she says S said it used the wrong treatment and 
that this also showed up on the diagnostic test. Unfortunately, I am still not persuaded that 
the treatments were defective, or applied without reasonable skill and care, based on the 
available evidence.
I should also add for clarity that in any event, this service cannot award for loss of amenity. 
So, if Ms G feels she has suffered such a loss then she should take independent legal 
advice on that specific matter. It may be that with such independent medical evidence to 
support her position a court, which can decide on loss of amenity, may find differently on 
different evidence to that which is available to me. 
However, I think its important to make clear to Ms G that if she were to accept this decision, 
it may affect any future claims she might have against the supplier, etika or other third 
parties in relation to this incident. For example, if she wants to claim compensation in court 
for existing or future injury this might not be possible if she accepts my decision. If Ms G 
wants to know how accepting my decision might affect any other claims/legal action, she 
should consider taking independent legal advice beforehand.
In summary, Ive considered everything that Ms G has said, and whilst I appreciate how 
strongly she feels about what has happened, I consider the price reduction as outlined 
above to be a fair remedy for the breach of contract that took place.Putting things right
To put things right, I will be directing etika to reduce the balance owed under the agreement 
so that Ms G is only liable for a total of £1,050. In the event this leaves a zero balance, etika 
should end the finance agreement. If Ms G has paid more than the £1,050 that she is liable 
for, and the price reduction results in a credit balance, then the overpayment should be 
refunded to her, plus 8% simple yearly interest, calculated from when any payment was 
made until the date of settlement. Again, in this circumstance, etika should end the finance 
agreement. I also think it fair and reasonable to direct etika to remove any adverse 
information they have currently recorded on Ms Gs credit file, after S ceased trading.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct etika Finance UK Limited to do the 
following (if it has not done so already): 
Recalculate Ms Gs liability to them under the loan agreement by ensuring that she is 
only liable to pay a total of £1,050; 
In the event this recalculation leaves a zero balance, etika Finance UK Limited 
should end the finance agreement; 
If Ms G has already repaid more than £1,050 then the overpayment should be 
refunded to her, plus 8% simple yearly interest. Interest is to be applied from when 
any overpayment was made until the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse information they have recorded on Ms Gs credit file, after S 
ceased trading. 
If etika Finance UK Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from any interest that is to be awarded, it should tell Ms G how much its taken 
off. It should also give Ms G a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Farhana Akhtar
Ombudsman