DRN-3794014
The complaint
Mr J and Miss J have complained about how U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill 
(UKI) dealt with a claim under their home insurance policy.
Mr J mainly dealt with the claim and complaint. So, for ease, I will normally only refer to him. 
References to UKI include companies acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr J contacted UKI to make a claim for storm damage to his home. UKI sent a surveyor to 
inspect the damage. It then declined the claim because it said the damage was due to wear 
and tear. 
Mr J complained to UKI. When UKI replied it said it had reviewed the claim and would accept 
the claim for internal damage as accidental damage. However, it continued to decline the 
claim for the external damage. It said the surveyor couldnt go into the loft for health and 
safety reasons but accepted that its surveyor hadnt assessed all of the evidence provided 
by Mr J. It offered £75 compensation for the poor service.
When Mr J complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. She said UKI had 
fairly dealt with the complaint by accepting the claim for the internal damage and offering 
£75 compensation.
As Mr J didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Ive looked at the weather conditions around the time Mr J found the damage. This didnt 
show storm strength winds. So, I think the answer to the first question is no. This means I 
dont need to consider the other questions. However, for completeness, I also looked at the 
surveyors findings and didnt see evidence of external damage caused by a storm. The 
surveyor said there was evidence of a natural breakdown of materials, which I think was 
supported by the photos in the report. As a result, I think it was reasonable for UKI to decline 
the claim for the external damage.
Following a review, UKI accepted the claim for the internal damage. It also said that its 
surveyor should have considered all of the evidence Mr J provided and offered £75 
compensation for the issues with how the claim had been assessed. I think UKI responded 
fairly to this aspect of the complaint.
Mr J also said the amount he was offered for the internal damage wasnt enough to get the 
work done. Im aware that, for health and safety reasons, the surveyor was unable to go into 
the loft. So, the settlement for the internal damage was based on the available information. 
When Mr J disagreed with the amount offered, UKI told Mr J he could provide more photos 
of the damage and also said it could revisit Mr Js home, which he declined. I think what UKI 
offered was reasonable in the circumstances to try and address Mr Js concerns. So, having 
thought about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require UKI to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman