DRN-3484795
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) have failed to refund over £140,000 he 
lost as part of two different investment scams. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. In summary, Mr H fell victim to an investment scam, where he made around 25 
payments between October 2015 and November 2017 that totalled over £140,000. The 
payments were made both by bank transfer and debit card as a result of discussions Mr H 
had with two fraudulent investment merchants called Stratx Markets and TSP Options, 
whom the FCA have since published warnings about after Mr H fell victim to the scams each 
was operating.
Mr H realised he had been scammed when he was unable to withdraw the money he had 
invested, and when he discovered the merchants registered premises did not exist. He 
raised a dispute with HSBC in April 2018 for help in recovering his lost funds. HSBC sought 
to recover the money he had transferred from the beneficiary banks but said that no funds 
remained. They also said he was too late to raise a chargeback claim for the debit card 
transactions he had made. As Mr H had authorised the payments, HSBC declined to provide 
him with a refund. Mr H complained as he says HSBC ought to have done more to prevent 
him from falling victim to a scam.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think the payments would have 
appeared unusual in comparison with Mr Hs normal spending, and also didnt think that 
HSBC could have done anything more to prevent the loss or recover the money. Mr H 
disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the reasons set 
out below:
It isnt in dispute that Mr H authorised the disputed payments, which were requested 
by him using his legitimate security credentials provided by HSBC. And the starting 
position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in 
order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether HSBC should have done more to prevent Mr H 
from falling victim to the scams, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character for him. But having taken 
Mr Hs account activity and payment history into account, I do not think the payments 
he is disputing were particularly unusual for him at the time.
Prior to the disputed payments being made, Mr H had already made payments as 
high as £6,000 in April 2015. So, when he started to send payments as a result of the 
Stratx Markets scam for £5,000 in October 2015, this amount wouldnt have flagged 
as unusual. I appreciate it would have been made to a new payee, but the first few 
payments Mr H sent to the merchant did not represent a sudden increase in 
spending. So the fact that they were made to new payee(s) would not have been 
enough in itself to have warranted an intervention by HSBC. I understand that Stratx 
Markets have since had a warning published about them by the FCA. But this was 
not put in place until after Mr H had made the disputed payments, so there would 
have been no reason for HSBC to have automatically blocked them at the time. 
I appreciate that larger payments were subsequently made as part of the Stratx 
Markets scam, which increased to £10,000 from 23 May 2016. But in the month prior 
to this, Mr H had already made a legitimate (and undisputed) payment of 
£120,1550.1 to a payee called MSC Funds on 29 April 2016. This would have 
therefore established a history of large payments being made from Mr Hs account, 
meaning that an amount of £10,000 would not have seemed unusual following this. 
The remaining payments Mr H made as part of this scam (sent to BNX Broker 
Podgorica and OSG Podgorica) were also for lesser amounts, and there does not 
appear to have been any active warnings in place for these payees at the time either. 
So, Im not persuaded there was any unusual or out of character activity that ought 
reasonably to have prompted HSBC to prevent the payments from being made as 
part of the Stratx Markets scam.
With regards to the disputed payments made as part of the TSP Options scam, there 
are similarly no instances of account activity that could reasonably be regarded as 
unusual, or that would represent a significant deviation from Mr Hs usual pattern of 
spending. The amounts paid ranged between £2,000 and £8,000 which, as 
previously outlined above, were not atypical payments to be made from his account. 
However, despite this, HSBC did in fact intervene when it prevented a £6,000 
payment Mr H made to FG Trading UK on 23 August 2017.
When HSBC intervened, Mr H told them that it was a legitimate/genuine payment 
and that the funds were showing in his trading account, which appeared to have a 
good turnover. HSBC warned him and suggested he make no further payments as 
he would have no guaranteed refund if it turned out to be a scam. I havent received 
a copy of this call recording, so I can only see what was discussed from HSBCs 
notes, so its difficult to determine whether their intervention and line of questioning 
went far enough. But even if I thought they ought to have made further enquiries and 
asked more probing questions, Im not persuaded it would have made a difference 
here or have ultimately prevented Mr Hs loss
Looking at Mr Hs previous account activity, its clear he had experience in investing. 
HSBC could have only given him a scam warning and told him to check sources such 
as the FCA website, which would not have shown any warnings published about FG 
Trading UK or TSP Options at the time. Mr H was also under the impression that he 
had received returns on his investment, so I dont think any scam warning from 
HSBC at this point would have ultimately deterred him from making further payments. 
Indeed, it did not do so when HSBC urged him to exercise caution, as he continued 
to make payments after this. 
Therefore, Im not persuaded that HSBC can fairly or reasonably he held liable to 
refund the payments Mr H made to TSP Options either, because although it may 
have missed an opportunity to ask further probing questions about the investment 
Mr H was making, Im not persuaded it would have ultimately prevented him from 
making further payments. So, the banks failure to carry out an adequate intervention 
cannot be said to be the dominant and effective cause of Mr Hs loss in this instance. 
Mr H has also referenced the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) as a reason why HSBC should refund his payments. But the CRM Code did not come into force 
until 28 May 2019, and so it would not apply to the payments he made between 2015 
and 2017.
Ive also thought about whether HSBC could have done more to recover Mr Hs 
money after he reported the scam, as there are some instances where funds can be 
recovered (via a chargeback claim for debit card transactions, or by contacting the 
receiving bank for bank transfers). In terms of a potential chargeback claim, the last 
debit-card transaction Mr H made was on 16 February 2017, but he did not dispute 
the payments until he reported the scam in April 2018. Therefore, a chargeback claim 
would not have succeeded as it would have exceeded the time limits set by Visa for 
bringing a claim. So, I dont think HSBC acted unreasonably when they failed to 
pursue a chargeback in this instance.
In terms of the bank transfers Mr H made, HSBC attempted to recover the stolen 
funds from the beneficiary accounts he had paid. But unfortunately, no funds 
remained, which isnt surprising in cases of fraud, particularly where a long period of 
time has passed between the payment being made and the fraud being reported, as 
was the case here. So, Im not persuaded HSBC could have reasonably done 
anything more to attempt to recover Mr Hs money. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr H, and Im sorry to hear that he has 
fallen victim to a cruel scam. But Im unable to fairly or reasonably hold HSBC liable for his 
loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman