DRN-3292910
The complaint
Ms D complains that HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) has refused to reimburse money she lost 
as part of an investment scam.
What happened
In June 2020, Ms D was contacted by a representative of an investment brokerage firm 
which Ill call N. The individual claimed to be an expert in bitcoin trading and talked Ms D into 
an investment opportunity. In order to invest, payments were required to be made via a 
cryptocurrency platform. 
Over the next three months, seeing her investment making profits and being persuaded to 
invest more, Ms D made the following transactions from her HSBC account to her account 
with the cryptocurrency platforms:
Date Type Merchant Amount
19 June 2020 Bank transfer Bitstamp Ltd £5,000.00
22 June 2020 Bank transfer Bitstamp Ltd £3,000.00
24 June 2020 Bank transfer Bitstamp Ltd £6,500.00
3 July 2020 Bank transfer Bitstamp Ltd £25,000.00
13 July 2020 Bank transfer Bitstamp Ltd £25,000.00
15 July 2020 Bank transfer Bitstamp Ltd £20,000.00
20 July 2020 Bank transfer Bitstamp Ltd £25,000.00
9 September 2020 Bank transfer CB Payments £2.00
9 September 2020 Credit Coinbase £2.00 (credit)
14 September 2020 Bank transfer Binance £15,000.00
15 September 2020 Bank transfer Binance £15,000.00
15 September 2020 Bank transfer Binance £9,959.49
Total loss £149,459.49 
Ms D eventually realised she had been scammed when a third payment  of £30,000  that 
she attempted to send on 15 September 2020 was blocked by HSBC pending further review. 
When questioned about the payment, Ms D had told HSBC that she was settling a tax 
payment to secure a guaranteed refund of her investment which, at the time, had a balance 
of over £400,000.  
HSBC attempted to recover the money from the receiving bank but was told that no funds 
remained on the platform. Ms D complained to HSBC and said that it should have prevented 
the transactions and stopped the money being sent to the scammer a lot sooner. She also 
raised concerns about not receiving any calls from HSBC at the time of making the 
payments.
HSBC didnt think it had done anything wrong.  Unhappy with this response, Ms D referred 
the matter to our service. She also said that as a signatory to the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code, HSBC should have taken care of a loyal customer.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ds complaint. He explained that the CRM Code didnt 
apply in this case as Ms D made the payments into her own account with the cryptocurrency 
platform. It was also his view that the payments werent so unusual or uncharacteristic that 
they ought to have triggered HSBCs systems. Ms D disagreed, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by reassuring both parties that although Ive only summarised the background 
and main arguments, so not everything that happened is mentioned, Ive read and 
considered everything thats been provided in its entirety. 
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks and 
building societies should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. 
The starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if 
they were duped into doing so, for example as part of an investment scam. 
It is common ground that Ms D authorised the payments she made in 2020  she used her 
security credentials to make the transfers. So, under the Payment Service Regulations 2017, 
Ms D is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Ms D submits that HSBC should refund the money she lost under the CRM Code, which 
applies to payments made from 28 May 2019. But as the investigator explained, the code 
only applies to payments made directly to another person  payments made to a customers 
own accounts arent covered by the CRM Code. That means the CRM Code provisions 
arent relevant to Ms Ds complaint  her payment instruction was to send money from her 
HSBC account to her own cryptocurrency wallet.
While I find the CRM Code doesnt apply here, that code is not the full extent of the relevant 
obligations that could apply in cases such as this. In accordance with the law, regulations 
and good industry practice, a bank has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of 
fraud and scams so far as is reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act 
on information which ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or 
financial crime, it might be liable for the losses incurred by its customers as a result. 
So, even though Ms D was transferring funds to crypto accounts in her name, HSBC ought 
to have been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. While the 
transfers were made to her own wallet, scams involving transfers to cryptocurrency accounts 
were well known to banks by this time and I therefore think that where payments were also 
out of character, potential losses were foreseeable to the originating bank. 
Ms D submits that payments to Bitstamp Ltd ought to have alerted HSBC. But the firm was  
and to my knowledge still is  a legitimate company. The payee name alone doesnt make a 
transaction sufficiently unusual or suspicious. When considering what payments should be 
considered significantly out of character, its often a finely balanced matter  and banks have 
a difficult balance to strike between identifying transactions where there are indications of 
higher fraud risks, and allowing customers to utilise their accounts with minimal unnecessary 
disruptions.
Ive considered whether the transfers made by Ms D were significantly out of character or 
unusual. Looking at the account activity in the year leading up to the first disputed transaction, I can see multiple payments for similar amounts during that period. For instance, 
I can see three transactions  two bank transfers and a debit card payment 
for £20,000 each in March 2020. I acknowledge Ms D has said that these were ISA 
transfers, but the transactions indicate that it wasnt unusual for large-value payments to be 
made from her account. The transactions also show that it wasnt uncharacteristic for Ms D 
to make multiple large-value payments within a space of a few days. 
By the time Ms D made the first £25,000 transfer, there had already been three transfers to 
the same payee account. And they came to form part of her pattern of account activity. So, 
this larger transaction wouldnt have appeared unusual to HSBC. 
I can see that HSBC did block a transfer of £30,000 on 15 September 2020. At that point, it 
was the third such transaction in one day and Ms D had already transferred approximately 
£25,000 that day. In the circumstances  the frequency of the transactions in one day and 
the overall amount transferred  it isnt surprising that this specific transfer did trigger 
HSBCs systems. But considering the particular circumstances of this case, Im not 
persuaded the transfers Ms D made up to that point were so unusual or suspicious to HSBC 
that it ought to have intervened and asked questions about them before executing her 
payment instruction. 
That being the case, while I know Ms D feels strongly about this, I also dont think HSBC 
acted unfairly or unreasonably by not contacting her at the time the transfers were made. 
I dont dispute HSBC later apologised to her  theres a record on its system notes that the 
agent apologised when Ms D pointed out that HSBC didnt contact her. But it seems to me 
that this came from failure to meet Ms Ds expectations. When the dispute (and later the 
complaint) was investigated, HSBC set out its position on the matter. 
I realise that Ms D will likely be disappointed with my findings. I know she feels strongly that 
HSBC ought to have done more to protect her. But, for the reasons set out above, Im not 
persuaded that HSBC ought to have done more in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman