DRN-3704747
The complaint
Mrs M complains that she was misinformed by Santander UK Plc about how it would treat a 
lump sum payment off her mortgage that she wished to make following the death of her 
husband. This caused her a lot of stress and she feels that the bank has not fully 
compensated her for that.
What happened. 
Mr M died in May 2020 during the early stage of the Coronavirus Pandemic in tragic 
circumstances. Apart from the emotional impact this had on Mrs M, it also caused her 
financial hardship. Mrs M wanted to pay down the mortgage but there were difficulties 
sorting out her late husbands estate given the sudden circumstances of Mr Ms death and 
the effect of the Pandemic, so his death certificate wasnt issued until December. Mrs M told 
Santander of her plans and the bereavement team confirmed that given the circumstances, 
she would be able to make a lump sum payment off the mortgage without incurring an early 
repayment charge (ERC) that would otherwise be payable.
But when Mrs M went to make the lump sum payment in November 2021 she was told that 
an ERC of £18,200  which was incorrect - would be payable in addition to the lump sum 
payment of £152,000 as the payment was made more than 12 months after the passing of 
Mr M. Santanders policy is not to require payment of the ERC if the payment was made 
within the first 12 months after the date of death date but - subject to certain exceptions to 
require payment thereafter. Mrs M became very upset on hearing this. Santander then 
reviewed the matter and reversed its decision later in November allowing Mrs M to pay the 
lump sum without also paying an ERC.
Santander accepted that incomplete information was provided to Mrs M and offered Mrs M 
compensation of £500 for the distress and inconvenience it caused her. Our investigator 
thought that this represented fair compensation and didnt recommend that this complaint 
should be upheld. Mrs M disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ms husband had died tragically, and Mrs M found herself dealing with her husbands 
estate, two mortgages and a business during the Pandemic. Mrs M had contact with 
Santanders bereavement team where I understand her case was dealt with sympathetically 
and she was told that whenever she got round to making a lump sum payment off the 
mortgage that she would be able to do it without incurring an ERC. But that was not the full 
picture. Santander operates a 12 month time-limit on such payments - that can with 
discretion be extended - presumably to distinguish between those payments that are related 
to monies that arise following the death of the deceased and those that are voluntary 
payments unconnected to the deceaseds death.
Mrs M first learned about this 12-month period when she went to make the payment on 10 
November and again on 12 November when she was also quoted an incorrect and higher 
ERC than she would have had to pay. Ive listened to both calls on 12 November and can 
understand that these were distressful conversations for Mrs M. Although I also found that 
the Santander adviser was very sympathetic to Mrs M, with the conversation ending that the 
matter would be reviewed given the points that Mrs M was making. In fact, it was reviewed, 
and Mrs Ms position was accepted by Santander so that she made a lump sum payment 
without an ERC.
Mrs M suffered no financial loss but clearly she suffered distress when told that she would 
have to pay an ERC, given she was told previously that none would be payable, and in fact 
was told she would have to pay a higher ERC than she would have had to pay in any case. 
But shortly after this Mrs M was told that the matter would be reviewed and a short period 
later it was indeed reviewed sympathetically by Santander. 
The only remaining  issue I have to decide is the amount of the compensation. At one level 
this was an error by Santander that it addressed fairly rapidly, and it was sorted out in a 
short period to allow Mrs M to do what she understood she would be able to do. On the other 
hand, it was an error related to a bereavement that would have caused considerable distress 
to Mrs M. Mrs M has told me how she was affected. But a review was put in place almost 
immediately and sorted within a few weeks. So, I accept that Mrs M suffered considerable 
distress but for a reasonably short period of time. Using our guidelines, I believe that the 
£500 offered by Santander represents fair compensation. 
I note that I dont have all the phone calls relevant to this complaint especially the phone 
calls Mrs M had with the bereavement team before November 2021. But I dont consider I 
am prevented from coming to a decision without listening to them. I accept that in those 
phone calls, Mrs M was told that she would be able to pay a lump sum off the mortgage from 
her husbands estate without having to pay an ERC. But for the reasons set out above I 
believe that the amount offered by Santander represents fair compensation and, so, I cant 
fairly uphold this complaint.   
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman