DRN-4164104
The complaint
Mr I complains about numerous issues relating to the service he received from Financial 
Administrations Services Ltd (trading as Fidelity International) since July 2019. 
What happened
Mr I is a customer of Fidelity with policies including a drawdown self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP) and investment platforms.
Mr I has raised numerous complaints with Fidelity about its service since 2019. These 
include, but arent limited to:
Fidelity causing a delay in transferring a pension into Mr Is SIPP;
The fact that Mr I was unable to view his nominated beneficiary for his SIPP online 
due to a technical issue;
A delay in paying Mr I cashback from his pension transfer;
Sending Mr I the cashback twice in error;
Delaying sending Mr I his P60 in May 2020;
Providing Mr I with incorrect information relating to the Government Actuarys 
Department (GAD) review of the maximum drawdown income he could take from his 
SIPP;
Incorrectly processing a drawdown income payment resulting in incorrect tax that 
Fidelity then had to correct;
Issues with his Relationship Manager (RM);
Issues with the online reporting of profit and loss data in Mr Is Investment product;
Errors in the figures provided for the costs and charges in the April 2020 statement.
Poor handling of his complaints, by taking too long to investigate and respond and in 
failing to respond when it said it would.
Fidelity logged these issues in a number of complaint references and responded to each. 
Sometimes on more than one occasion, summarising its responses in subsequent 
correspondence. 
Fidelity upheld most of the complaints that Mr I made over the period in question. It 
repeatedly apologised for the mistakes and service failings that it acknowledged. For 
example:
In a response letter in October 2019 Fidelity apologised for: the delay Mr I 
experienced in transferring his pension; for his not being able to invest in brokerage 
assets straight away; for the delay in sending his cashback cheque and his overall 
experience. It paid Mr I £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience that 
he experienced.
In a response letter in July 2020 it apologised for: the review error; sending the 
second cashback cheque and late payment; over deduction of tax etc. It paid Mr I a 
further £200 for the distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of those 
things.
Fidelity sent a further response that appeared to recap on several of the issues 
addressed above, as well as addressing the service provided by his RM and the 
failure to show his nominated beneficiary online. A further apology was offered and a 
further £550 was paid to Mr I in recognition of the multiple errors.
In April 2021, following ongoing correspondence between Mr I and Fidelitys 
complaint department, Fidelity gave a further response. It recapped on some of the 
previous issues, but acknowledged failings in its attempts to resolve Mr Is 
complaints. And offered a further £500 for the ongoing distress and inconvenience its 
handling of Mr Is complaint had caused. 
Mr I referred his issues to us because he didnt accept that the compensation he was offered 
by Fidelity was fair.
Our investigator looked into what happened. Overall, he was of the opinion that Fidelitys 
offer of compensation was fair and reasonable given Mr Is overall experiences. Mr I didnt 
agree and the matter was referred to an ombudsman. I then looked into what happened and 
issued a provisional decision to both parties to allow them the opportunity to comment on 
what I thought, and provide further evidence in response to that it necessary.
What I said in my provisional decision
There has been a great deal of correspondence to consider in this case. Its meant that Mr I 
has had to wait some time for a final answer from our service, and Im sorry for that. Having 
considered everything, Im minded to say that Fidelity dont need to do anything more to put 
things right. I understand the depth of feeling Mr I has regarding these matters, so I 
appreciate that he will be disappointed with this outcome. But Ill explain why I think its fair. 
I can see that Mr I challenged our investigators view for not covering all of the issues he has 
raised over the years. He will see that Ive also not provided a detailed response to all the 
points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; ours is a service intended to resolve disputes 
between financial businesses and their customers with a minimum formality. So, while Ive 
taken into account all submissions, I've concentrated my findings on what I think is relevant 
and at the heart of this complaint.
What will this decision address?
I should also explain that I am able to consider all of these things because Fidelity have 
consented to us doing so, having elected not to ask that matters referred late are time 
barred. I thank them for this. 
Irrespective of the time limits for complaints to be brought, I should also point out a further 
limit of what our service is allowed to look at. We are allowed to investigate complaints about 
the acts or omissions of firms carrying out a regulated activity. This will include the way that 
Fidelity administered Mr Is SIPP and investment products. But it will not include the way that 
Fidelity handled Mr Is complaints. Relevant case law is R (Mazarona Properties Ltd) v 
Financial Ombudsman Service [2017]. This case set the precedent that we have to follow 
and means that issues relating solely to the way that a business deals with complaints are 
not something that we can help with.
I mention this as I can see that Mr I complains, in large part, about the delays of Fidelitys 
complaint department. I can see that he was dissatisfied that our investigator had chosen not 
to comment on those issues. But as Ive explained, complaint handling isnt a regulated 
activity that our service can look into. Which means that much of the frustration that Mr I 
experienced after he received responses to his complaint points does not relate to activity that I will pass comment on in this decision.
Has Fidelity done anything wrong?
It is clear to me that Mr I remains unhappy with the answers hes been given by Fidelity. But 
I think that Fidelity has, over the course of time, given him detailed explanations about what 
went wrong. So I dont really see any significant disagreements about the merits of Mr Is 
complaints. And conclude that mistakes were definitely made.
Fidelity have already upheld the things that appear to me to be at the heart of the issues. 
Apologies have repeatedly been given. And whilst it is understandably disappointing for Mr I 
to have experienced so many issues its the role of our service to resolve disputes. It means 
that, in this case, there is no real dispute about whether or not Mr Is complaint points were 
valid as Fidelity have agreed that they all were. Which I think was the right thing to do. 
The ongoing unresolved issue here is whether or not Fidelity have done enough to put things 
right for Mr I. 
What should Fidelity do to put things right
The first thing I would expect to see is that Fidelity has tried to correct any financial loss that 
Mr I was caused by its mistakes. I can see that Fidelity responded in a timely fashion to 
correct the overpayment of tax that it caused. The misinformation regarding the GAD review 
caused no financial loss and Mr I was not drawing down his maximum income anyway (so 
was not actually impacted by the mistake). So, overall I have seen no evidence that the 
things Mr I complained about have left Mr I suffering any quantifiable financial loss that 
needs to be put right. 
But our service is also able to direct businesses to pay compensation to consumers for the 
distress and inconvenience that a businesss mistakes have caused. In deciding what is fair 
and reasonable I must consider the overall impact of the mistakes in considering any award 
to make. 
I have looked at the compensation that Fidelity has already paid Mr I. I wont re-list the things 
that this covered as I summarised this above. But so far it has added up to £950. Ive 
considered the cumulative impact of these mistakes to decide whether it was fair. The issues 
have clearly caused frustration and damaged Mr Is confidence in Fidelity. It will have caused 
him more inconvenience than I think it was fair for him to have experienced in dealing with 
Fidelity over these types of products. Hes had to engage in repeated correspondence to sort 
these things out. So I think this level of payment is a fair award for what I would accept must 
have been a significant amount of inconvenience and disruption over this amount of time.
Mr I continued to express his dissatisfaction with Fidelity well beyond that point. I dont doubt 
the time and effort that he invested in that endeavour. This continued, in the main, to be over 
the same issues that hed already raised. I can see his frustrations over the way that Fidelity 
handled his complaints. But, as I explained above, those issues arent specifically things that 
our service can help Mr I with. Our role is limited to giving an answer on Fidelitys provision 
of the financial service. Fidelity did acknowledge failings in the way that it dealt with Mr Is 
complaints and offered him £500 for the distress and inconvenience he was caused by that. I 
dont intend to make any direction in relation to this. If Fidelitys offer of compensation still 
stands, Mr I should contact them to let them know if he now wishes to accept that. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Fidelity responded to say that it agreed with the finding Id provisionally reached.Mr I contacted Fidelity to tell them he would accept the £500 compensation that it had 
originally offered. He acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision and explained that he 
didnt agree with it. But offered no new evidence or comment for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered this case in full again, my final decision is the same as my provisional 
decision. And for the same reasons that I previously explained to both parties and set out 
again above. I am not upholding Mr Is complaint and wont be directing Fidelity to do 
anything further to put things right. I am, however, glad to see that Fidelity have now paid 
Mr I the outstanding compensation that it had offered.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman