DRN-2722476
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint concerns a disputed direct debit payment on his account. He feels Monzo 
Bank Ltd hasnt honoured the direct debit guarantee.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr C contacted Monzo to say he didnt recognise a direct debit payment 
on his account. The payments for £316.67 came out of his account in February 2019 and 
March 2019.
Monzo raised a direct debit indemnity for the payments but the merchant declined the claim. 
Mr C disputed this with Monzo. When Monzo acquired the direct debit mandate from the 
merchant, Mr C said the handwriting was different on different sections of the form and the 
address wasnt his.
Mr C says he first noticed the direct debit via a notification on his mobile banking application 
in June 2019 and cancelled it at this point. However, he says he did not actually notice 
transactions had come out of his account until he printed off 12 months worth of statements 
in November 2019.
The debit debit was for a members club of a serviced office unit and Mr C says he had only 
been to the location once for a seminar and may have bought a coffee there, but he says he 
never signed up for a membership.
Monzo said that although Mr C is protected by the Direct Debit Guarantee, in order to 
support his case, it needs evidence as to why he is looking to raise this dispute; for 
example, he made the payment by another account or the payment was incorrectly charged 
by the merchant. However, Monzo offered Mr C £50 for the service and wait times.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He concluded that Mr C was more likely than 
not aware of the direct debit and did recognise the payments. He said this because the 
payments were large amounts and Mr C had made payments into his account on the same 
day the direct debit was due seemingly to cover those payments. The investigator also 
considered that, whilst the address on the direct debit mandate was incorrect, it doesnt 
mean Mr C hadnt authorised the payments in dispute.
As the case could not be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
Im sorry for the length of time it has taken for Mr Cs case to reach a final decision and I 
thank both parties for their patience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator, broadly for the same 
reasons.
Its important to highlight that with cases like this I cant know for certain what has happened. 
So, I need to weigh up the evidence available and make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words what I think is more likely than not to have happened in the 
circumstances.
The direct debit guarantee protects consumer in the rare event that there is an error in the 
payment of a Direct Debit, for instance if a payment is taken on the incorrect date, or the 
wrong amount is collected. It cannot be used to address contractual disputes between 
consumers and the billing organisation or merchant. 
Mr C says he didnt authorise the direct debit. Monzo have declined the refund the 
transaction because the merchant challenged the dispute. 
I have noted that the address on the direct debit form is not the same address that Monzo 
had on its records for Mr C. I have also noted the comments about the different handwriting 
used. I dont think this on its own is conclusive evidence that Mr C did not authorise this 
direct debit. So, Ive gone on to consider whether, based all the available evidence, it is more 
likely than not that Mr C authorised this direct debit.
The direct debit in question was for around £316 per month. In my view this is a relatively 
large amount and therefore ought reasonably to have been noticeable to Mr C. I appreciate 
Mr C describes this account as very much a secondary account for certain day to day 
banking with a number of direct debits coming out. There was in fact only one other direct 
debit on this account around the time in question. The other direct debit for £234, came out 
of the account on the same day as the one in dispute.
Mr C had been paying the other direct debit of £234 for several months. With the new 
disputed direct debit, the new total amount debited on the same day was now over double - 
at around £550. In my view, this represented a very significant increase in outgoings from 
the account. 
Mr C was aware of the amount needed to cover his direct debits as he says the banking 
application notified him of the amount. Mr C transferred £492 on 1 February 2019 and £552 
on 1 March 2019. I think Mr C ought reasonably to have noticed the amount needed was 
now over double and represented a sudden increase to what he had previously been paying. 
And I think Mr C ought reasonably to have questioned it at the time if he genuinely didnt 
know anything about it.
In April 2019 and May 2019, Mr C did not have enough money in the account to cover the 
direct debit. Monzo says Mr C would have received notifications for the failed direct debit 
attempts. I think Mr C ought reasonably to have noticed the notifications and questioned why 
a direct debit was set up which he says he didnt authorise.
Mr C says he cancelled the direct debit in June 2019 as this is when he first noticed it on his 
dashboard on the mobile banking application. However, Mr C did not query what this was or 
check his statements for the full details until December 2019 when he raised a dispute with 
Monzo. Im not persuaded that these are the actions of someone who has had an 
unauthorised direct debit set up.
Initially on 6 December 2019, Mr C told Monzo he had no relationship with the private 
member club and hadnt even heard of it. When Mr C first bought the complaint to us, he 
confirmed he had visited the venue in question but only once for a seminar and may have 
purchased a coffee there. I note from his bank statements there are two transactions to the 
members club; one for £15.89 on 4 June 2019 and one for £30.66 on 27 June 2019. I would expect Mr Cs testimony to remain consistent and it hasnt. And whilst this might seem like a 
minor detail, it causes me to question the credibility Im able to attach to Mr Cs testimony 
evidence.
Mr C says Monzo did not send an initial notification procedure for setting up the direct debit. 
But, even if Monzo had sent one, Im not persuaded it wouldnt have made a difference here. 
Mr C did not react to a sudden increase in direct debit payments in February 2019 and 
March 2019. He did not react to notifications about a failed direct debit in April 2019, May 
2019 and June 2019. He cancelled a direct debit in June 2019 without questioning what it 
was for and waited a further 6 months to notify Monzo in December 2019. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, I think it more likely than not that Mr Cs authorised 
the direct debit and I dont think the Monzo did anything wrong when it declined to refund the 
direct debit payments. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman