DRN-4231241
The complaint
Mr A complains about the increase in his Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) 
motor insurance premium when he changed his vehicle mid-year. 
What happened
Mr A has a car insurance policy with Admiral which was due to expire in April 2023. In 
September 2022 Mr A changed his car which led to an increase in his premium. 
Mr A says when he went to update his insurance policy with the new car details he was 
surprised at how much his premium increased. He says his new car is a family car with less 
power than the one he replaced. 
Mr A asked Admiral for evidence of why it considered his car to be 12 insurance groupings 
higher than that recommended by the ABI. But Admiral didnt provide this information to Mr 
A. 
Mr A says Admiral arent dealing with him transparently or treating him fairly and as a 
consequence he has been overcharged for his car insurance. So he complained. 
Admiral said it uses many years of claims statistics to inform its pricing structure but it wasnt 
able to disclose further information regarding this since that information is commercially 
sensitive. Admiral said its premiums are priced using its own commercial judgment and so 
the complaint wasnt upheld. 
Mr A wasnt happy with the response from Admiral and so he referred his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things for him. He said he didnt think Admirals 
explanation of the increase in premium was sufficient and so suggested it pay Mr A £75 in 
recognition of this. 
Admiral didnt agree and so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
My provisional decision 
I recently issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the key complaint points 
and how I thought matters might best be resolved. I said: 
Although I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr A, I dont think his complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
I should make clear our role here is to make sure Mr A has been treated fairly and in line 
with how other customers have been treated. Its not for us to tell a business how to price 
their policies; we need to make sure theyre being consistent and not taking advantage of 
any groups of customers. 
When Mr A changed his vehicle Admiral needed to review the new information, in this case 
the car, and decide what it meant for the contract. We are not the regulator and so, as Ive 
explained before, I cant tell Admiral what price it should charge Mr A for his motor 
insurance. Thats for Admiral to decide, based in part on the risk it thinks there is of Mr A 
needing to make a claim, and its wider commercial requirements. 
Insurers constantly update how they rate risk. And their rates continually change so prices 
can go up or down, depending on what it thinks the risks are that year for all of its 
customers. 
When calculating what premium to charge individual policyholders Admiral will take 
numerous different factors into account  these are likely to include, but are not limited to, 
the policyholders postcode, age of the drivers, the value of the vehicles, car security, price 
of parts etc. And different insurers assess risk differently. What is high risk to one may not be 
to another. Individual insurers may also use different data when assessing the risk posed. 
But thats not unusual or unfair. 
Admiral has provided me with confidential business sensitive information to explain how the 
price increase was calculated. Im afraid I cant share that with Mr A because its 
commercially sensitive. But Id like to reassure him that Ive checked it very carefully and, 
having done so, I dont think Admiral has treated him unfairly. 
Admiral told Mr A the additional premium was generated because the new vehicle was a 
higher insurance group and was newer than the old one. And Admiral provided us with 
information about how it calculated the additional premium it charged Mr A. When theres a 
mid-term change to a policy this service expects the insurer to only rate it on the change 
itself. We dont think its fair for an insurer to take the opportunity, when notified by a 
policyholder about a change in circumstances, to recalculate the premium taking all the 
unchanged factors into account. Thats because the contract is agreed at the start of the 
policy year and the terms for the year are offered, and accepted, then. 
Admiral has shown us that it only re-rated Mr As policy mid-term on the changed vehicle. 
The only factors that were affected were those associated with that change such as, vehicle 
age, vehicle value etc. So I think Admiral has treated Mr A fairly here. Mr A had to notify 
Admiral hed changed his vehicle and Admiral was entitled, at that point, to assess the risk of 
taking that new vehicle on. I can see why Mr A thought the extra charge was excessive but it 
reflected Admirals view of the fundamental change in risk it thought it was taking on. So, I 
cant say that was unreasonable. 
I can understand why Mr A may think there had been a mistake in the calculation of his 
premium following the addition of the new car. Especially given the difference in the 
insurance group from what Admiral told him compared to what his own research revealed. 
Mr A has said he doesnt understand how Admiral can change a cars insurance grouping by 
such an extent. Admiral has explained that in addition to using Thatcham groupings when 
grouping vehicles for pricing purposes, it amends the groupings as necessary based on its 
own back catalogue of many years of claim statistics. 
As previously stated we are unable to insist on how an insurer calculates its premiums and 
Admiral does not have to share its methodology. I can only reassure Mr A that he has been 
treated the same way as all other customers. 
After looking in detail at this case and the information provided I dont believe Admiral was 
unfair in its calculation of price for Mr As car at the mid-term adjustment. And I dont think it 
has treated Mr A any differently to its other customers. 
Therefore, it is my intention not to uphold Mr As complaint that he has been treated unfairly 
by Admiral and do not require Admiral to do anything more.I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions. 
Response to my provisional decision 
Neither party raised any additional points or queried my findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of the fact that neither Mr A nor Admiral had anything to add to the findings set out in 
my provisional decision (which Ive reproduced here and which forms part of this final 
decision), Im satisfied it represents an appropriate way to resolve the dispute. For the 
reasons Ive set out above Im not upholding Mr As complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint about 
Admiral Insurance (Gibralter) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman