DRN-2789612
The complaint
Mr G complains that the goods he acquired through a hire purchase agreement financed by 
De Lage Landen Leasing Limited werent of satisfactory quality. He wants the cost of repairs 
to be refunded.
What happened
Mr G tells us that in December 2018 he acquired a telehandler from a business Ill refer to as 
W. He says that in January 2019 he complained to W about problems with the starter 
motor. And that this was replaced. Around October 2019, Mr G says he noticed the vehicle 
was overheating. And upon inspection it was found that there was a leak and engine 
damage. Mr G explains that hes supplied a report and repair invoice from a business Ill 
refer to as R. And that this says the cause of the problem was a shortage of coolant due to 
a leak.
Mr G states that hes also supplied a statement from the previous owner of the vehicle who 
Ill refer to as M. And that M confirms that hed found that the vehicle experienced the same 
issue with loss of coolant. Mr G feels this proves the vehicle had the faults at the time he 
acquired it.
DLL told us that the telehandler had been supplied as a trade sale. And that Mr G had 
signed an exclusion clause agreeing not to make any claims in relation to faults or defects. It 
also said that the vehicle had passed through several hands since M had owned it. And that 
Rs report showed that Mr G had used the vehicle without sufficient coolant. DLL said that it 
felt that this misuse contributed to the damage.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 8 April 2021. I said that I didnt intend to 
uphold the complaint. I indicated that my principal reason for this was that the regulated 
finance agreement was subject to an exclusion clause which provided that DLL wouldnt be 
liable for issues of quality. And that as I thought the terms of the exclusion clause were 
reasonable that was sufficient for me not to uphold the complaint. 
For completeness, and out of courtesy to Mr G, I said that Id considered the issue of 
satisfactory quality even though it didnt directly impact the basis of my decision. But I 
indicated that even if Id felt the exclusion clause shouldnt be considered effective, that I 
didnt think there was enough information to show the goods werent of satisfactory quality 
when supplied.
Since my provisional decision both parties have replied. DLL accepted my provisional 
decision. Mr G asked me to consider a couple of additional points which he raised. 
These related to the issues which led to engine failure not being immediately apparent. Mr G 
explained that he hadnt used the vehicle for longer than 30 minutes at a time. And that it 
was only when he did so for the first time that the problem became apparent. He said that 
the condition of the engine - including what he described as a bodged pipe - wasnt known 
until it had been removed. By which time the damage had occurred.
I thank both parties for their replies. Im happy to accept what Mr G has explained. But as 
this relates to the quality issue  not the exclusion clause  for the reasons I referred to 
earlier it wouldnt cause me to alter my provisional decision. This is largely repeated in my 
final decision which is set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to explain that theres been mention in some of the correspondence to the faults 
diagnosed in October 2019 being more than six months since the vehicle was supplied to Mr 
G. Ive inferred that this is an indirect reference to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
Whilst I dont apply the law  directly  I do have regard for it. So its important that I only 
take relevant legislation into account when reaching my decision. Here, I dont find that Mr G 
is a consumer for the purposes of the CRA. So it doesnt apply here. The relevant part of the 
CRA is:
(3) Consumer means an individual acting for purposes that are wholly or mainly outside 
that individual's trade, business, craft or profession.
Mr G acquired the vehicle wholly or mainly for the purposes of his business.
Issues relating to the quality of the goods, would be considered under earlier legislation 
which is the Supply of Goods (Implied Terms) Act 1973.
The finance agreement which Mr G signed contained certain exclusion clauses. And as this 
was a business to business transaction, its subject to the provisions of the Unfair Contract 
Terms Act 1977 (UCTA). This states that the implied condition relating to satisfactory quality 
of goods can be excluded.
UCTA provides that a party couldnt when in breach of contract exclude or restrict its liability 
for the breach except so far as this satisfied the requirement of reasonableness. The 
reasonableness test is set out in section 11 and schedule 2 of the UCTA. And regard is to 
be had, amongst other things, to:
 what was fair and reasonable in relation to circumstances in the minds of the parties when 
entering into the agreement;
 the relative strength of the parties bargaining positions taking account, amongst other 
things, of alternative means by which the customers requirements could have been met.
Ive been referred to two separate purported exclusion clauses. One is contained in an 
agreement between W and Mr G. The other is contained in the finance agreement.
On the surface, everything that happened prior to supply mightve appeared to be Mr G 
negotiating with W. But the finance which paid for these goods was supplied through a hire 
purchase agreement. And that meant that there was a separate transaction in the 
background.
What in fact happened was that Mr G selected the goods and asked DLL to finance his 
acquisition of them. DLL then purchased the goods from W and supplied them to Mr G under 
the terms of the hire purchase agreement.The initial exclusion clause or disclaimer which Mr G signed was on Ws headed business 
notepaper. I infer that it represents an agreement between Mr G and W. There being no 
mention of other parties. I doubt the effectiveness of this disclaimer as W wasnt the supplier 
of the item to Mr G. So for the purposes of my decision Ill treat it as not being effective.
There are also various terms and conditions in the finance agreement (including exclusion 
clauses) which appear relevant. This includes:
4.1: You are responsible for arranging delivery of the goods from the supplier at your cost 
and you must bear the risk of delay in the delivery of, or failure of the supplier to deliver, the 
goods. You must notify us within five working days of delivery if there is any defect in any 
goods or in any of the specification described in this agreement. Unless you give us written 
notice of rejection within such five working day period, you shall be deemed to have 
conclusively and irrevocably accepted the goods are in good order and repair and properly 
operating, are of satisfactory quality and fit for your intended purposes and are acceptable to 
you in every respect
4.2: You shall, at all times, assume any risk in the goods.
5.1: You hereby acknowledge that:
a. You selected the goods based on your own skill and judgement.
b. We have had no involvement in the selection of any goods.
c. We have not seen any goods prior to delivery to you by the supplier and we have no 
expertise in any goods.
d. but we do not hire the goods to you subject to any condition or warranty expressed or   
implied, and any conditions or warranties which may be implied by law are hereby 
expressly excluded to the maximum extent permitted by law
I need to consider if its fair and reasonable for DLL to rely on these purported exclusions.
Mr G had the benefit of choosing the goods and inspecting them upon delivery. DLL played 
no part in the selecting of the goods. And it relied on Mr Gs judgment in confirming that the 
items were suitable for his needs.
The terms of the finance agreement allowed five days for Mr G to advise DLL if anything was 
wrong with the goods. This was an eight years old, used vehicle so its reasonable to expect 
Mr G to be aware that it might have some issues. And to take that into account before
entering the agreement on these terms.
Im not of the opinion that these exclusion clauses relating to satisfactory quality were 
unreasonable. And I think its fair for DLL to rely upon those exclusion clauses which are set 
out in the finance agreement.
My finding that DLL should be able to rely on the exclusion clauses is sufficient for me to 
reach my decision on this complaint.
And as I explained in my provisional decision, I only went on to consider issues of quality as 
that was the basis on which Mr G brought his complaint to this service. As Im confirming my view that the exclusion clauses within the agreement were reasonable, 
theres no need to repeat what I said about quality issues in my provisional decision. As this 
doesnt directly impact upon my final decision.
I empathise with Mr G at incurring the expense of having to repair the goods. But in the light 
of my findings in relation to the exclusion clauses Im unable to say that DLL should meet the 
costs of those repairs. Accordingly Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman