DRN-1954607
 
The complaint
Ms P says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Ms P had two instalment loans with Mr Lender in October and November 2017. The first loan 
was for £300 and the second loan was for £500.
An adjudicator considered Ms Ps complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Ms P didnt 
agree with the adjudicator, so her complaint was passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms P 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Before it lent to Ms P, Mr Lender asked her to provide some information about her income 
and expenditure. For both loans Ms P said her net monthly income was £2,700. Her 
declared expenditure for the first loan totalled £2,000, increasing to £2,120 at the time of 
loan 2. Based on this information, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr Lender to think the 
largest loan instalments of £203 (loan 1) and £231 (loan 2) were affordable.
Mr Lender hasnt shown us how or even if it carried out a credit history search before lending 
to Ms P. But that doesnt make a difference in this case, as Ms P hasnt provided any 
evidence of having had a poor credit history, or evidence of her general financial situation, 
either. So I cant say if Mr Ps credit history ought to have made a difference to Mr Lenders 
decision to lend.
I was sorry to read of Ms Ps difficult personal circumstances, including what she said about 
her health, when looking at her case. I havent included what she said here to protect her 
privacy. I understand there may still be an outstanding debt in respect of the second loan, so 
I remind Mr Lender of its duty to treat Ms P positively and sympathetically.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
 
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman