DRN-3929363
The complaint
A company which Ill call K complains that Barclays Bank Plc treated them unfairly when the 
bank wouldnt accept a virtual trading address.
The complaint is brought on Ks behalf by their director, Mr K.
What happened
K had a business account with Barclays. In March 2022, K updated their business trading 
address to a virtual office trading address.
K told us:
Barclays said they couldnt accept this type of address in line with its Know Your 
Customer (KYC) regulations but didnt provide any evidence of this.
The bank also said if they couldnt provide an address that was acceptable, it would 
close the companys account. 
They werent happy that Barclays hadnt provided a copy of the terms and conditions 
which say that a virtual office couldnt be used in its complaint response.
Barclays had upheld their complaint about being charged a fee twice and poor 
customer service when theyd closed their account. The bank had paid £25 
compensation for this, but it hadnt awarded compensation for the inconvenience 
theyd been caused regarding the trading address.
Barclays told us:
It asked K to provide address verification as part of its KYC checks so it could comply 
with its regulatory obligations. 
The letter saying that Ks account would be closed if the information wasnt received 
was firm as it needed to convey the importance to K of this information. 
It had explained to K that a virtual address was acceptable as a registered address, 
but a trading address needed to be where the company was trading from i.e. Mr Ks 
home address. So, it had correctly rejected Ks virtual trading address in line with its 
KYC process.
It had only upheld Ks complaint about the duplicate fee and poor customer service. 
As it didnt think it had made an error regarding the trading address, it hadnt offered 
compensation for this part of the complaint.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. She thought Barclays had 
acted in line with its processes which were in place to ensure it could meet its regulatory 
obligations. She said that the bank had a given K a list of documents it could accept as 
address verification, but the virtual address hadnt met any of these. However, she thought 
Barclays could have been clearer with its requirement for trading addresses before K had 
completed the forms it requested.
Barclays accepted the investigators recommendation, but K didnt. They said they had 
provided a trading address, but the bank wouldnt accept it, and hadnt provided a copy of 
the terms which said why this was the case. K said that Barclays hadnt explained where in 
the Anti-Money Laundering regulations it said virtual addresses couldnt be used and that an 
additional £50 wasnt sufficient for the inconvenience they had been caused. As an 
agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it in part. Ill explain why.
K says that Barclays has treated it unfairly as it wouldnt accept a virtual office address as a 
trading address. They say the bank hasnt provided any evidence that this was part of its 
terms and required as part of its regulatory obligations. I recognise that K has found 
Barclays request frustrating, but I dont think the bank has behaved unreasonably. 
I say this because, Barclays has a regulatory obligation to ensure that it has sufficient 
knowledge of its customers, often this can be seen through KYC documentation. In this 
case, Barclays asked K to provide documentation about their trading address, but the bank 
said the documents the company provided werent acceptable and explained that there 
would be consequences for K if the information it required couldnt be provided. I think this 
was reasonable.  
K says that it did provide the trading address documents that Barclays requested, so the 
bank could verify the information they had provided. But Im not persuaded thats the issue 
here. Looking at the evidence from both parties, I can see that Barclays said it could accept 
the virtual address K had provided, but only for the registered address i.e. the one which 
correspondence was sent to. Therefore I think its likely the documents K provided would 
have been sufficient for this address type. However, Barclays said that it couldnt accept a 
virtual address as a trading address, as this address needed to be where the business 
actually traded from  and it wasnt satisfied that was the case for K. I have noted Ks 
comments about their type of business, but I think the banks decision here was reasonable. 
K is also unhappy that Barclays hasnt provided a copy of its terms and conditions or said 
where in the regulations it says that virtual addresses cant be used as a trading address. 
However, Barclays isnt obligated to provide this information to customers if it doesnt wish 
to, often there are internal policies which a bank will rely on that cant be shared due to their 
confidential nature. However, Id like to reassure K that I have seen a copy of Barclays 
internal policy which say that it doesnt accept virtual addresses for trading addresses, so Im 
satisfied that it has acted in line with the terms. Its also worth noting that Barclays has 
discretion on how it complies with its regulatory obligations, it doesnt have to explain why or 
how it has interpreted those obligations. I would only interfere with Barclays interpretation of 
its obligations if I thought it had behaved unfairly or unreasonably  and I dont think it has 
done so here.  
I recognise that K says that their complaint hasnt been resolved fully without this information 
and that it was caused inconvenience by Barclays decision not to accept a virtual address. 
However, as I think that it was reasonable for the bank to decline the address K had used, it 
follows that I dont think further compensation is warranted for this. But I do think that 
Barclays could have been clearer initially about the address documents it required, as it 
wasnt the documents K had provided that werent sufficient, but address type itself. I think 
this caused K inconvenience from having to clarify what the bank required, so Im recommending that Barclays pay a further £50 compensation on top of the £25 already paid 
to put things right.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I instruct Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay 
K a further £50 compensation, bringing the total payable to £75, for the inconvenience 
caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman