DRN-4018717
The complaint
Miss N has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her two life and critical 
illness cover policies in 2004. 
What happened
Miss N had an existing mortgage when she met with a Lloyds advisor in November 2004. 
She was identified as having a shortfall in her financial protection. She was sold two policies. 
The first was mortgage cover which would pay out in the event of Miss Ns death or her 
becoming critically ill. It would also cover her mortgage repayments in the event of her being 
off work due to a long-standing illness. 
The second policy Miss N was sold, was a standalone critical illness cover policy. Lloyds say 
this is because she was identified as have inadequate financial arrangements in place in 
the event Miss N became critically ill. The policies commenced from December 2004. 
In March 2022, Miss N complained to Lloyds. She said that the policies were not required. 
Amongst complaint points, she said she had Death in Service benefit and a good sick pay 
policy from her employer. She also was unhappy with the commission amounts taken as part 
of the sale. 
Lloyds responded to say that whilst a shortfall in protection was identified and they couldnt 
agree that there wasnt a need for the policies, they felt that the mortgage protection policy 
had been sold with too high a sum assured. They said that the outstanding mortgage at the 
time was only approximately £25,000 but that the sum assured of the policy was over 
£45,000. They therefore paid Miss N the difference in what she paid in premiums, to what 
they would have been, from the start of the policy, to when she cancelled it in 2012. With 
interest this came to approximately £1,150. 
Miss N remained unhappy and brought her complaint to our service for an independent 
review. An investigator looked into it. She said that there was a need for cover and Lloyds 
had already done enough to put things right for over insuring Miss N with the mortgage cover 
policy. She also confirmed that whilst we could consider complaint points about the 
commission paid as they had been brough in time(which Lloyds accepted), Lloyds had done 
enough to make commission payments clear to Miss N at the point of sale.   
As no agreement was reached the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the Investigator. Ill explain why. 
Scottish Widows Mortgage and Business Cover (M&BC) *****13
Miss N was identified by the Lloyds advisor as having a need for mortgage protection, other 
than the endowment already in place which protected her initial borrowing. Having reviewed 
the point-of-sale documentation. I think this was fair. Miss Ns father was quoted as living at 
the property. He was named and it was stated that Miss N was worried that if anything 
happened to her and the mortgage was unfulfilled, she was unsure what would happen to 
her father. 
Miss N was recommended a life and critical illness policy. This was meant to be set up to 
mirror the remaining mortgage term and liability, not protected by the endowment. It was for 
20 years and had an initial monthly premium of £17.55 per month. 
However, during the course of investigating this complaint, Lloyds have said that the initial 
sum assured of the policy was too high. It was for approximately £45,500 whereas the 
remaining unprotected mortgage was only approximately £25,300. Lloyds therefore paid 
Miss N the difference in what she paid in premiums to what she should have paid, had the 
correct sum assured been selected. This amount has been paid with 8% interest and I think 
it fairly puts Miss N back in the position she would have been in, had the policy been sold 
correctly. 
Scottish Widows Level Term Assurance (LTA) *****12
At the same time Miss N was recommended mortgage protection, she was identified as 
having a significant shortfall in her critical illness cover. This is a policy designed to pay out a 
lump sum in the event Miss N is diagnosed with a qualifying illness. 
Having reviewed the point-of-sale documentation, I dont think this was an unsuitable 
recommendation. I cant see that Miss N had significant savings or would have been able to 
maintain a standard of living, or make necessary adjustments, had she become seriously ill. 
Whilst I appreciate that Miss Ns mortgage was now protected, I think it was reasonable of 
the adviser to recommend further standalone cover. Miss N was identified as being able to 
afford a further £35 per month for this assurance policy and so a 26-year term policy for a 
sum assured of approximately £71,500 was selected. Less than the amount of protection 
shortfall identified but the maximum for the amount Miss N could afford. 
Miss N has said that she didnt need this cover as she had a good sick pay policy through 
her employment and could also have applied for a government grant for a disability. Whilst I 
am sure that is the case, I havent seen evidence of a policy that would pay out in the event 
she had become critically ill. Further, as individuals can often change employment, it isnt 
unreasonable to recommend separate, individual, standalone cover. And no grant is 
guaranteed. 
Commission payments 
Miss N has also complained that the commission payments received from the sale of these 
policies werent made clear to her and werent fair. 
However, I can see both policies contain a section titled, How much will the advice cost?. 
Within this, for both policies, it states, For arranging this plan, the Scottish Widows and 
Lloyds TSB Marketing Group will provide remuneration to your adviser and will provide 
services and support. These sales costs depend on the size of the payment and the length of the plan term and will be made immediately following the start of your plan. It then details 
the cost, with a total figure for the advice of approximately £700 and £350.
I am satisfied the commission payments were sufficiently disclosed to Miss N. She had the 
required information, and decided to proceed with the policies at that cost.  
Miss N has also said that she doesnt think the fees were fair, in line with the Supreme Court 
Plevin judgement. However, that doesnt apply here. The Unfair Relationship provisions, as 
set out in sections 140A-D of the Consumer Credit Act might apply to certain circumstances 
where policies were sold alongside certain types of credit or loans. 
Neither of these policies were taken out at the same time as Miss Ns mortgage, so sections 
140A-D of the Consumer Credit Act would not apply to each of the policies complained 
about. 
Further to this, any sale of mortgages (and associated policies) after 31 October 2004 is 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Both policies Miss N is complaining 
about were sold in 2004. So, if they were sold alongside her mortgage, the mortgage sale 
would have been regulated by the FCA. The unfair relationship provisions set out in section 
140A-D of the Consumer Credit Act dont apply to regulated mortgage contracts so arent 
relevant when considering Miss Ns complaint about the commission.
In summary, I think Lloyds have already done enough to put things right, compensating Miss 
N the difference to what she should have paid had the correct mortgage cover been sold. I 
dont uphold Miss N complaint about the critical illness policy and I dont conclude the 
commission payments she paid were undisclosed or unfair. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. Lloyds 
Bank PLC have already done enough to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman