DRN-3124097
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as E has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly turned down 
its business interruption insurance claim after it was impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. 
 
E has been helped in bringing its complaint by a representative. However, for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments as being those of E.  
What happened
E held a business interruption insurance policy with Allianz. It contacted Allianz to claim on 
its policy after it was impacted by the Governments actions in response to Covid-19.  
Allianz turned down Es claim, as it said the policy generally covered business interruption 
caused by damage to property and Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to property. 
 
E complained to Allianz. I have set out below each of the policy extensions along with a 
summary of why E thinks they provide cover for the circumstances of its claim. 
 
Accidental damage 
 
E said accidental damage is covered by the policy. So, when applying the natural meaning 
of these terms, it thinks this should apply to its claim because it has suffered loss due to 
something which occurred unexpectedly or by chance.  
 
It added that, as the policys definition of damage didnt refer to physical property, it should 
apply to losses caused by business interruption as a result of Covid-19. E referred to the 
case of MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance Company (2020) to support its view. 
 
E also said that there are no exclusions in the policy which apply to its claim. It added that 
where a policy is ambiguous it should be read in favour of the policyholder. 
 
Suppliers 
 
E said it had been impacted by damage to its suppliers property. It said the key issue was 
that its suppliers had furloughed their staff, leading to supply issues.   
 
Customers 
 
E also said it had been impacted by damage to its customers property. As an example of 
this, it said it had lost a large contract after its customer had been forced to shut its premises 
due to Covid-19.  
 
Contract sites 
 
E said the closure of various sites at which its business was conducted by the Government 
in response to Covid-19 had caused it further losses.  
 
Denial of access 
 
E said that there was no requirement for the hindrance to premises to be physical and, 
therefore, the Governments order for people to stay at home and some businesses to close 
was sufficient to trigger this extension.  
  
Allianz maintained that they had correctly declined the claim. As E was unhappy with 
Allianzs response, it brought its complaint to our service. It said that it had a reasonable 
expectation that its policy would provide cover in these circumstances, particularly given 
the statements made by the Government towards the start of the pandemic. It added 
that it had complied with all the claims conditions in the policy. 
 
Our initial assessment 
 
Our investigator looked into Es complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought the 
parts of the policy E had pointed to required damage, and he didnt think Covid-19 had 
caused damage.  
 
E disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said the policy didnt define that 
there needed to be physical damage and thought the case law it had referred to was 
relevant.  
 
Before reaching a final decision, our investigator let E know that I intended to rely on the 
case law of TKC London Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2020] EWHC 2710 (Comm), Merlin v 
British Nuclear Fuels Plc [1990] 2 QB 557 and Hunter v London Docklands Development 
Corporation [1996] 2 WLR 348. In response, E referred to Concept Group Limited v FM 
Insurance which it thought might be pertinent to its case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on E. But I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
if Allianz has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Es claim. 
 
E has made a number of detailed points; however, I dont intend to address them all and will 
instead comment on what I consider to be the central issues to this complaint. 
 
Accidental damage 
 
The core business interruption section of the policy says: 
 
The Insurer will pay the Insured for Business Interruption by any of the Events 
operative under this Policy and not otherwise excluded occurring during the 
Period of Insurance. 
 
Event is defined as: 
 Damage to Property used by the Insured at the Premises for the purpose of the 
Business 
 
Damage is defined as: 
 
Loss or destruction of or damage 
 
One of the events covered by the policy is accidental damage. However, I dont think this 
would provide cover for Es claim, because I havent seen anything to persuade me that 
Covid-19 caused loss, destruction or damage to property used by E at its premises. 
 
E has referred to MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance Company (2020) which I understand 
has been overturned by the court of appeal. It has also referred to Concept Group Limited v 
FM Insurance, although I understand a decision on this case has not yet been handed 
down by the court. In any event, Ive considered other cases which I think are more relevant 
to the circumstances of this complaint, including TKC London Ltd v Allianz Insurance 
PLC [2020] EWHC 2710 (Comm), Merlin v British Nuclear Fuels Plc [1990] 2 QB 557 
and Hunter v London Docklands Development Corporation [1996] 2 WLR 348. 
 
I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would need to be a physical change or 
altered state to Es property, which made it less valuable. Alternatively, its possible damage 
could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to remove a cause of 
potential damage. 
 
Even if SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) was present at Es premises, the 
Governments guidance on cleaning in non-healthcare settings doesnt recommend any 
cleaning by a specialist. Theres also no evidence of an excessive amount of SARS-CoV-2 
on Es property, and the presence of any particular virus isnt automatically damage. So I 
dont think Covid-19 has damaged Es property.  
 
I understand E thinks that the wording of the policy is ambiguous; however, I dont agree. I 
think its clear that the policy requires loss, destruction of damage to property in order to 
provide cover. I also dont think its relevant that theres not an exclusion for pandemics, as 
there isnt a term that would provide cover for the circumstances of Es claim. 
 
Suppliers, customers and contract sites 
 
The cover provided by the policy is extended through various extensions. The policy says: 
 
Any claim resulting from interruption or interference with the Business in 
consequence of 
a Damage at any Situation or to any Property shown below, or 
b any of the under-noted Contingencies 
 
The Situations E thinks are relevant are: 
 
1 Suppliers (not applicable to any Revenue item) 
The premises of any of the Insureds suppliers, manufacturers or processors of 
components, goods or materials 
 
2 Customers (not applicable to any Revenue item) 
The premises of any of the Insureds customers 
 
3 Contract Sites (not applicable to any Revenue item) Any situation not in the occupation of the Insured where the Insured are carrying 
out a contract 
 
E said that its suppliers and customers properties have been damaged. However, I dont 
think that employees being furloughed, or properties being closed amounts to damage, as 
defined by the policy, for the reasons set out above. I havent seen anything else to 
persuade me Covid-19 caused damage to the premises of Es suppliers, customers 
or contract sites. So I dont think these extensions provide cover for the circumstances of Es 
claim.  
 
Denial of access 
 
The relevant part of this extension covers business interruption or interference in 
consequence of damage at: 
 
Property in the immediate vicinity of the Premises which prevents or hinders the 
use of or access to the Premises, whether the Premises or property in the 
Premises is Damaged or not 
 
This extension would require use of or access to Es premises to have been prevented or 
hindered by damage to property in its immediate vicinity. As I havent seen anything to 
indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to property in the immediate vicinity which prevented 
or hindered access to Es property, I dont believe that this extension provides cover either.  
 
Other factors 
 
Although E might have expected to be covered, or understood from a Government 
announcement that its claim would be covered, whether that is the case would depend on 
the wording within their specific policy. And in this case, I dont think Es policy provides 
cover for its claim. 
 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome E was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Allianz to pay Es claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman