DRN-2716142
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about how Lloyds General Insurance Limited handled and settled a 
claim they made under their household insurance policy for storm damage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G jointly held a household insurance policy with Lloyds, which they took out on 
14 January 2019.
On 9 February 2020 Mr and Mrs G said their roof sustained damage following a storm. They 
said some ridge tiles were missing and mortar had blown out onto the ridge of their roof. 
Fortunately, Mr and Mrs G didnt experience water ingress following this damage. 
On 13 February 2020 Mr and Mrs G contacted Lloyds to report the damage and make a 
claim under their policy. They said they heard an automated message informing them they 
could proceed with repairs without Lloyds prior approval  subject to an upper limit of £750.
Mr and Mrs G said they tried to contact several builders in order to obtain quotes to repair 
their roof. But they were unable to find a builder that was available to undertake a repair 
within a reasonable period of time. They informed Lloyds of their difficulties and it appointed 
a buildings inspector, which Ill refer to as B in this decision, to attend Mr and Mrs Gs 
property in order to validate their claim and determine the cause of damage.
B visited Mr and Mrs Gs property on 25 March 2020 to inspect the damage to their roof. 
Following its inspection, it said it didnt think the damage was a direct result of a one-off 
storm. Instead, it thought it had been caused by a breakdown and deterioration of the 
mortar. And it felt the recent weather conditions had merely highlighted the pre-existing 
defects with the roof.
Lloyds informed Mr and Mrs G that age related wear and tear wasnt covered by their policy 
and it declined their claim on this basis. But they didnt agree with this decision and 
complained. They thought their roof had been in good condition prior to the storm and felt 
the damage had occurred as a result of the February storm. But Lloyds maintained its 
repudiation decision. It thought the photographs B had taken of Mr and Mrs Gs roof showed 
damage consistent with wear and tear. So, it didnt think it had made an error in declining 
their claim.
Mr and Mrs G felt Lloyds decision to decline their claim was unfair. They also felt it was 
unreasonable. They believed that if theyd repaired their roof prior to Bs inspection, this 
would have been covered by Lloyds based on the automated telephone message theyd 
heard when reporting the damage. They therefore referred their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened, but they didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint. He thought Lloyds had acted fairly in declining to cover Mr and Mrs Gs claim for 
damage. So, he didnt think it needed to do anything further. But Mr and Mrs G disagreed 
and asked an ombudsman to review their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr and Mrs G feel very strongly that their claim should be paid. I recognise that 
they feel let down by Lloyds. But, while I have sympathy with Mr and Mrs G, my role is to 
assess whether I think Lloyds made a mistake, or treated them unfairly, such that it needs to 
now put things right.   
Theres no dispute that there was roof damage to Mr and Mrs Gs property. But theres a 
disagreement between Mr and Mrs G and Lloyds about the cause of the damage and the 
correct outcome of this claim.
Mr and Mrs G would like Lloyds to cover the damage to their roof because they feel it was 
caused by adverse weather. Their policy with Lloyds provides cover for damage caused by a 
range of perils that might happen. These are specific one-off events and include storm, for 
example. But, for a storm claim to be successful, the onus is on Mr and Mrs G to show that 
the damage theyre claiming for was the direct result of a single, weather event. 
When considering a claim for damage caused by a storm our service considers three main 
questions:
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
Ive re-assessed Mr and Mrs Gs complaint, and all the evidence, with these three questions 
in mind. All three questions must be answered affirmatively for this service to be able to 
recommend that a storm complaint is upheld.
It isnt in dispute that the weather within Mr and Mrs Gs locality on the date their roof was 
damaged meets Lloyds definition of a storm. So, Im satisfied I can answer question one 
affirmatively. 
As Ive already explained, even if there was a storm, to uphold a claim for storm damage Id 
have to be persuaded that the damage caused was consistent with what our service would 
normally consider storm damage. Id also be to be satisfied that the storm was the 
main/dominant cause of the damage. 
Ive thought about whether the damage Mr and Mrs G reported is consistent with damage a 
storm typically causes. In this case they said that the following the storm some ridge tiles 
were missing and mortar had blown out onto the ridge of their roof. Im satisfied this type of 
damage is something that could be expected following a storm. So, Im able to answer this 
question affirmatively.
Ill turn now to the third question I must address  namely whether the storm was the main 
cause of the damage. 
In this case Lloyds relies on Bs report, which it says shows the damage was caused by age-
related wear and tear. But Mr and Mrs G disagree with this. They say their roof was in good 
condition prior to the storm. Where theres a dispute, as there is here, I must reach a 
determination based on the available evidence as to what I think is most likely to have 
caused the damage Mr and Mrs G reported to Lloyds.In this case Mr and Mrs G havent obtained or provided our service with a cause of damage 
report. Lloyds relies on Bs opinion that the damage was caused gradually. So, Ive carefully 
studied the information B provided Lloyds.
I know Mr and Mrs G refute Bs opinion. But B is a recognised organisation that regularly 
assesses property damage on behalf of insurers. And our service thinks its right for an 
insurer to instruct companies with expertise to inspect a customers property to assist it in 
determining the cause of damage. I therefore dont think Lloyds acted unfairly in relying on 
Bs expertise in assessing Mr and Mrs Gs claim for damage.
Here, B said it observed areas of missing and cracked mortar. It said the mortar appeared to 
have reached the end of its serviceable life. And it thought the damage had happened 
gradually over a period of time. It also took photographs depicting the condition of the roof.
I think the photographs B took of Mr and Mrs Gs roof clearly show extensive mortar 
deterioration. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs G feel this damage was caused by a storm. But 
the photographs show evidence of weathering and deterioration. There are cracks in the 
mortar and areas where its missing  as B stated in its report. And the photographs support 
Bs opinion that the roof is in a poor condition and had been deteriorating for some time. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs G but Im not satisfied that the damage to their roof was 
caused by a one-off storm event as was required under their policy. While it isnt disputed 
there was weather that meets Lloyds definition of a storm, I think the storm highlighted the 
pre-existing condition of Mr and Mrs Gs roof and caused it to worsen. I dont think the roof 
would have suffered the damage it did had it been in good condition. 
Our service wouldnt consider the damage depicted to be consistent with a single storm 
event. We wouldnt expect to see mortar deterioration to the extent depicted in the 
photographs B took. Im persuaded that this deterioration occurred gradually. And I think 
Lloyds had enough evidence to determine that the cause of damage here was wear and 
tear. So, I cant fairly find that Lloyds erred in concluding that this was the cause of the 
damage to Mr and Mrs Gs roof.
Under the terms of Mr and Mrs Gs policy loss or damage caused by wear and tear is 
specifically excluded. This is in common with most home insurance policies because 
insurance is intended to cover the unforeseen, and gradual or age-related loss or damage, 
for example, isnt unforeseen. I therefore cant say Lloyds acted unfairly in relying on this 
exclusion clause. And, as the damage Mr and Mrs G claimed for isnt covered under their 
policy, I cant fairly ask Lloyds to settle their claim
Ill turn now to the complaint point Mr and Mrs G raised about the fact that if theyd got their 
roof repaired prior to Bs visit their claim would have been met by Lloyds.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, Mr and Mrs G told our service that, after 
they reported their claim, they heard an automated message, which explained that if they 
undertook a property repair Lloyds would pay up to £750 towards the cost of that repair.
Lloyds doesnt dispute that Mr and Mrs G would have heard an automated of this nature. It 
said, at the time they reported damage to their property, it was experiencing a surge in the 
number of claims for property damage due to periods of extremely poor weather. And it 
explained that, during these times, it will approve claims without validation to allow a 
policyholder to continue with repairs to their property. This is subject to a maximum repair 
value of £750. And Lloyds stated this process can lead to claims being settled which 
wouldnt ordinarily be covered by the policy terms.In the circumstances of this claim, Mr and Mrs G spent around £700 repairing their roof. Had 
they proceeded with their repairs at the outset of their claim, B wouldnt have been instructed 
to attend their property. And Lloyds would have reimbursed their costs in full on receipt of 
invoices. This would have been irrespective of whether their roof was subsequently found to 
have been damaged as a result of a one-off storm event.  
Mr and Mrs G feel theyve lost out because they were unable to repair their roof prior to 
Lloyds instructing B to attend. But I must consider what happened here. And, as Mr and Mrs 
G didnt repair their roof until after Bs inspection, I cant fairly tell Lloyds to settle a claim 
where the cause of damage was, ultimately, determined to be as a result of wear and tear. 
And I cant find that Lloyds made an error in appointing B to validate Mr and Mrs Gs claim in 
circumstances where they were unable to find a builder to repair their roof. I think Lloyds 
were trying to assist Mr and Mrs G in progressing their claim.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs G will be disappointed with my decision. I know they feel very 
strongly about the issues raised in this complaint. But, while I appreciate the reasons why 
they brought their complaint to our service, Im satisfied Lloyds fairly repudiated their roof 
claim. So, I wont be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman