DRN-1250883
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold by 
HSBC UK Bank Plc.
What happened
Mr K took out the PPI in 2006. He says it was mis-sold to him. HSBC denied mis-selling the 
PPI to Mr K, but offered a refund to reflect the undisclosed commission and profit share that 
was more than 50% of the cost of the policy. 
Our adjudicator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. Mr K disagreed, so the 
complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasn't mis-sold because I think HSBC most likely made it clear that 
Mr K didn't have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand 
why he cant remember this.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr K, so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, he 
wasn't affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have 
had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr K about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve 
been. Based on what Ive seen of him circumstances at the time it doesn't look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means HSBC doesn't have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr K. But HSBC has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because it got a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  so it should have told Mr K about that. 
Because HSBC didn't tell Mr K, that was unfair. To put that right, HSBC has paid back the 
amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I 
think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr K has said. But these points dont change my decision.My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold  so HSBC UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But HSBC UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr K any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman