DRN-4436067
The complaint
Mr Y has complained about his car insurer West Bay Insurance Plc because it hasnt 
adjusted his premium for 2022 following an accident in 2021 and it, in 2022, closing the 
claim allowing his no claims bonus.
What happened
In November 2021, just prior to renewal of his policy in December 2021, Mr Y had an 
accident. He decided not to make a claim himself, but the driver of the other car claimed. 
The other driver said the accident was Mr Ys fault. Mr Y had dashcam footage which he 
provided to West Bay. Mr Y felt it didnt handle that footage properly and complained to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator, in June 2022, felt West Bay should be doing more to view the footage. 
Mr Ys complaint subsequently closed with West Bay agreeing to view the footage and pay 
compensation. 
In August 2022, West Bay still hadnt viewed the footage. But it also hadnt heard from the 
insurer for the other driver for some time. Noting Mr Y hadnt claimed on his policy, West Bay 
decided to close the claim from the other driver. Also allowing Mr Y his no claims bonus. 
West Bay indicated that Mr Ys premium for the year could be adjusted. Mr Y began asking 
West Bay to amend his premium charged in December 2021. But, after a few months, felt 
like he wasnt getting anywhere. So he made a further complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
In January 2023, West Bay reviewed Mr Ys complaint. It also, following contact from the 
other insurer, re-opened the claim on Mr Ys policy. West Bay issued a final response to 
Mr Y. It said it had checked and whilst a return premium of £45.03 had been paid to Mr Ys 
broker, that was incorrect. It said the correct amended sum was £47.12  a difference of 
£2.09. It said it would send Mr Y £10.00.
Mr Y didnt think that made sense. He felt West Bay owed him around £500. He continued 
his complaint with the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator, noting detail West Bay had provided about the refund it had calculated, felt 
that related to the premium charged for the 2020 policy year. So she didnt think it had 
considered Mr Ys request in 2022 to adjust the 2021 premium. She said that is what it 
should do. 
West Bay said the sum of £47.12 took into account the 2021 premium. So it wasnt prepared 
to consider things again. Mr Y said West Bay had asked him to send it the dashcam footage 
again. Regarding the premium, he asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
I reviewed matters. I felt West Bay should pay Mr Y £100 as a premium reimbursement and 
£100 compensation for upset. My provisional findings were:
I think West Bay has had fair opportunity to consider the price charged and the need for any 
amendment due  in my view directing West Bay to further consider or calculate what is 
owed is not fair and reasonable redress.
Its quite usual, when an accident first occurs, for it to be recorded as one of fault. That 
doesnt necessarily mean the policyholder is likely at fault. Rather its that until liability is 
agreed, fault is assumed, or sometimes shown as pending. But either way, that is not no 
fault. Here, with the accident happening so close to Mr Ys renewal, its understandable that 
the pending nature of liability for the loss was recorded on the policy. It seems likely to me 
that the claim and liability status were taken into account when the premium was calculated.
Later though, in summer 2022, West Bay agreed to treat Mr Y as having not been at fault. At 
that point the Financial Ombudsman Service would have expected West Bay to recalculate 
the premium for the year. And I note that West Bay indicated to Mr Y that it would do that. 
But it just didnt. Mr Y chased West Bay on several occasions before finally feeling he had no 
choice but to make another complaint. I think West Bay failed him in this respect  that a 
timely recalculation should have occurred. 
I note West Bay feels its amendment and refund of £47.12 equated to it recalculating Mr Ys 
2021 premium. Im not persuaded that is the case.
When Mr Ys policy renewed in December 2021, it was at a cost of £765.50. He also paid an 
arrangement fee to his broker of £75.00. Making the total cost Mr Y paid £840.50. The policy 
documents show that the claim from November, with liability (or fault) pending, was taken 
into account. 
In 2020, the year before Mr Y had the accident, Mr Ys premium was £645.74. West Bays 
file showed it was a premium of £645.77 that it applied an adjustment to. So Im satisfied that 
the adjustment of £47.12, referenced in the January 2023 final response letter, did not 
answer Mr Ys complaint about the premium he was charged of £765.50 in 2021. 
That detail though also satisfies me that its unlikely the premium in 2021 of £765.50 was 
around £500 more than it would have been based on a confirmed non-fault claim. It seems 
unlikely to me that the 2021 policy would be less costly than the policy was the year before  
even with no claims bonuses being applied, premiums rarely decrease over time. Its fair to 
think the adjustment  had it been done in 2022 when it should have been, would have 
netted no more than £75 to £100 to Mr Y in return premiums. I cant be certain of that. But 
I think its most likely given West Bay made a smaller adjustment against an earlier period of 
cover, subject to a lower premium, and which it told us was made in respect of a previous 
claim record.
I also think its fair to say that, had West Bay completed a timely adjustment in 
summer 2022, when the claim re-opened again in December 2022, its unlikely it would then 
have sought to try and reclaim the adjusted amount from Mr Y. I think  especially in light of 
Mr Y having made a previous complaint about the claim  it would have taken a pragmatic 
view and allowed him to keep that small sum. Which means West Bays poor handling of this 
matter has caused Mr Y a financial loss. I think its fair to require it to put that right by paying 
Mr Y £100  this being what I feel is a fair sum taking the likely adjusted amount as having 
fallen somewhere below £100 and allowing for some interest to be applied. 
I can see that Mr Y spent a lot of time trying, without success, to get West Bay to adjust the 
premium. I can see he was caused a lot of frustration. I think West Bay should also pay Mr Y 
£100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.Im mindful of the outcome of the previous complaint to our service. And that when West Bay 
issued its final response on this complaint, it had just reopened the claim. As far as Im 
aware, to date West Bay hasnt provided any update to Mr Y about the claim, its likely 
outcome or what its view on the dashcam footage is and how that affects the claim. Im 
going to add a direction here requiring West Bay to update Mr Y. If Mr Y is unhappy with 
what it says in that respect or more generally with how the liability issue has progressed, he 
can make a further complaint. 
Mr Y didnt object to my findings. West Bay said it shouldnt have to pay £100 as a premium 
reimbursement because it had calculated what was owed previously and already paid Mr Y 
£45.00 in that respect, where the correct sum should have been £47.12. It said recalculating 
things now meant it was confident the difference would have been £55.00, meaning it 
reasonably only owes Mr Y £10.00, plus interest. But it said it would agree to the 
compensation award and provide a claim update to Mr Y.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note West Bay has agreed the compensation award. It has also said it will update Mr Y 
regarding the claim. I certainly hope it follows up on that promise. 
I note that in West Bays reply it is still saying it previously recalculated the 2021 premium. 
I note its current assessment of costs takes that as read. But as I noted provisionally, West 
Bays file shows that the previous adjustment applied of £47.12 was calculated against the 
2020 premium. Theres no sign that the adjusted sums relate to the 2021 premium. Whilst 
Ive noted that West Bay feels its reasonable for it to just pay Mr Y a further £10.00 plus 
interest, I remain satisfied by my assessment set out provisionally. 
Having considered the objection from West Bay, my views on the complaint have not 
changed. My provisional findings, along with my comments here, are now the findings of this 
my final decision.  
Putting things right
I require West Bay to pay Mr Y:
£100 as a likely premium adjustment, including interest, he would have had the benefit of 
if, in summer 2022, it had properly recalculated the 2021 premium.
£100 as compensation for distress and inconvenience.
I also require West Bay to update Mr Y on the claim from the other party regarding Mr Ys 
liability for the accident.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require West Bay Insurance Plc to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman