DRN-3842005
The complaint
Mr P complains about the advice given by Dobson & Hodge Limited (D&H) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS (the DB pension scheme) from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of 
defined benefit pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was 
closed to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated 
Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if 
risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ps employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
Mr P approached D&H in September 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. He 
was also concerned about the situation about the BSPS.
D&H completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ps circumstances and objectives. 
This showed that he was age 50 and living with his partner, they were due to get married in 
a years time. They had three children that, whilst older, were still financially dependent on 
them. Mr P was employed by Tata Steel. They rented their own home but owned three 
(rental) properties which they intended to sell at retirement, they would then purchase their 
own property. These had a mortgage against them of £20,000. They had cash savings of 
£45,000. 
D&H also carried out an assessment of Mr Ps attitude to risk, which it said was cautious to 
moderate for this transfer. This lower tolerance to risk was partly due to Mr Ps recorded 
lack of investment experience. 
In respect of Mr Ps pension arrangements Mr P had:
Received a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) from the BSPS in September 
2017. This showed that he had 28 years and eight months service. He was entitled to 
a pension of about £17,000 per year at the date of leaving the scheme. The CETV 
was about £427,000. 
Joined his employers new defined contribution (DC) scheme. It was recorded on the 
fact find that he and his employer were contributing a total of 12% of his salary into 
this.  
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the 
BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices 
was 11 December (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
On 22 November 2017 D&H advised Mr P to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
arrangement and invest the proceeds into a portfolio of funds that D&H said matched his 
attitude to risk. The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were: 
He wanted to go part time at age 55 and then retire earlier than the BSPS retirement 
date of 65, possibly at age 60. He wanted £1,200 a month as an income. 
He wanted a flexible income taking varying amounts between ages 55 and 67 and 
the reducing this when the state pension became payable. 
He felt the guaranteed BSPS income would provide more than he needed and would 
be surplus to requirements after his state pension age. 
Mr P complained in 2022 to D&H about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said that it 
was unlikely that the benefits he would receive in the BSPS2 would be matched in the 
personal pension. He didnt think the advice to transfer he was given was suitable for him 
and he thought he may have suffered a financial loss because of it.
D&H didnt properly respond to Mr Ps complaint and as far as I can see it hasnt provided a 
final response letter, as it was required to do. 
Mr P referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An Investigator upheld the 
complaint and recommended that D&H pay compensation. They thought that the BSPS2 
would have met his income needs and so he didnt need to give it up and risk his pension. 
And he didnt need flexibility as he would have his DC scheme and the funds from his 
properties to supplement this income. The investment return required to provide the same 
benefits as those he was giving up from the DB scheme were very high, and so he was likely 
to lose out.  
Whilst D&H disagreed, it didnt provide a full response, or its reasons why. 
Mr Ps representative said that the notional 15% reduction to the redress in relation to the 
tax-free cash our Investigator referred to in their redress recommendation wasnt 
reasonable. It thought this should be calculated after fees and charges had been taken from 
the fund. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
an ombudsman to make a final decision in due course.
Since then, D&H has said that it has performed a loss assessment, and this showed that Mr 
Ps fund had enough value to purchase the benefits that he gave up from the DB scheme. 
D&H first said this in October 2022, but it hasnt provided a copy of any loss assessment it 
may have done. 
And after this the regulator has since developed, and now provides access to, a BSPS-
specific redress calculator. Both parties to the complaint have been informed that Im likely to 
award compensation based on this. 
Ive seen no indication that D&H has performed a loss assessment using this calculator.  I 
understand that D&H may be looking to perform another loss assessment but, again, it 
hasnt provided any detail about this. 
As the complaint isnt resolved, Im now issuing a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of D&H's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, D&H should 
have only considered recommending a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that it was in 
Mr Ps best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
D&H was required to carry out a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report by the 
regulator. This calculated the critical yield, which was how much Mr Ps pension fund 
would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB 
scheme. It showed this was 7.57% to match the full pension hed have been entitled 
to under the scheme at age 65. The same calculations at his age 60 was 9.83%. The 
calculations if Mr P took tax-free cash werent provided. 
To match the full pension the PPF wouldve paid from 65 the critical yield was 4.3% 
and to match the tax-free cash and reduced pension the PPF wouldve offered, it was 
4%. The same calculations at Mr Ps age 60 were 5.24% and 4.88% respectively. 
The PPF did provide lower benefits than the BSPS, but these growth rates are lower 
than I would have expected to see, given the critical yields for the BSPS, Im not sure 
if they are reliable. And despite the fact it was known by the point D&H instructed the TVAS that 
continuing in the BSPS in its existing form wasnt an option for Mr P, the analysis was 
based on the BSPS benefits. And D&H didnt undertake any analysis of the benefits 
hed have been due under the BSPS2, even though details were available. I think it 
shouldve done. In any event, given what we know about the BSPS2, I think the 
critical yields to match the benefits the BSPS2 wouldve provided from age 65 were 
likely to be between those of the BSPS and the PPF.
The discount rate, which represents a reasonable assumption about future growth, 
was 4.2% for 14 years to retirement in this case, when Mr P turned 65. And 3.7% for 
9 years to retirement, his age 60. And given this, and Mr Ps recorded attitude to risk, 
and the regulators lower and middle projection rates of 2% and 5% respectively, I 
think Mr P was always likely to receive pension benefits, of a lower value than those 
hed have been entitled to under the BSPS2 by transferring and investing in line with 
his attitude to risk. This is most apparent at his preferred retirement date of 60. And 
this is by far the most relevant comparison as Mr P did have a realistic opportunity to 
retire at this age, as Ill talk about later. 
This was recognised at the time of sale when the suitability report said that Mr P was 
unlikely to achieve the Critical Yield and therefore on that basis, you are likely to 
receive less income from a private pension than you would otherwise receive from 
the BSPS. And gave warnings that he may not be able to secure the same, or same 
type of income, as the DB scheme would have provided.
Mr P wanted to move to part time work from age 55 and fully retire at 60. He thought 
the flexibility that a personal pension had would help him to do this. This goal was 
recorded in the written recommendation and was clearly one of the main discussion 
points. And its true to say the personal pension could be more flexible, as from the 
DB scheme Mr P would have to take any tax-free cash he wanted at the same time 
as he took an income. He wouldnt have had to do this in the personal pension.
Mr P needed at least £14,000 a year to live off. And the BSPS itself would provide 
this at age 60. This is a fairly low amount and Mr P, and his partner, would likely want 
more than this. But Mr P was building up a fund in his new DC scheme that he could 
use flexibly to increase this income. And he did have some cash savings and three 
properties that he was intending either to use for income or to sell to raise capital. His 
Partner also had some pension provision. 
And the suitability letter said its likely your objectives could be achieved by 
remaining a member of the BSPS or entering the PPF given that your target income 
from the BSPS assets is likely to be paid temporarily between retiring at work and 
reaching your State Pension Age. Furthermore, your [DC scheme] can be used to 
provide the flexibility you seek. I dont think there is any doubt really that Mr Ps 
existing provision met his retirement needs at his age 60. 
Mr P was giving up a guaranteed and increasing income and there was a significant 
risk that he would have lower retirement benefits because of this. I dont think it was 
right to say this lower income wasnt important, or the DB scheme was surplus to 
requirements, due to Mr P and his partners other provisions. They could have used 
this income to fully enjoy their retirement, or saved, or provided for their family in a 
tax efficient way. Im not persuaded it was in his best interests to give up this 
guaranteed income. In my view the BSPS2 was the more appropriate way to meet Mr Ps income needs 
in retirement  which is the primary purpose of a pension. I dont think transferring to 
obtain flexibility in this way was in his best interests.
D&H didnt give any advice about the different death benefits that the personal 
pension had. It did say that the personal pension had more flexibility in the death 
benefits, and they could be higher. Particularly as Mr P was not yet married. But the 
priority here was to advise Mr P about what was best for his retirement. And the 
existing scheme offered death benefits, by way of a spouses pension, that couldve 
been valuable to his family in the event of his death.
While the CETV figure could have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum, the 
sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be different. As well 
as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also been reduced by 
any income Mr P drew in his lifetime.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr P. 
Mr P may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension and the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was D&Hs role to objectively 
address those concerns. At the time of the advice, all signs pointed toward the 
BSPS2 being established. But even if not, the PPF still provided Mr P with a 
guaranteed income and the option of accessing tax-free cash. Mr P was unlikely to 
improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as 
concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about this 
meant that transferring was in his best interest.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ps best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. And I also havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Mr P wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB 
scheme. So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr P received from D&H was 
unsuitable for him.
Our Investigator recommended that D&H also pay Mr P £300 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. Mr P said that finding out that he may be worse off in retirement has 
caused him understandable stress and anxiety. I dont doubt that Mr P has been caused 
concern in relation to his retirement planning, in what was already a difficult time for 
members of the DB scheme. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened but for the 
unsuitable advice. And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator 
recommended is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr P would most 
likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if 
suitable advice had been given. 
D&H must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. D&H should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr P and our Service upon completion of the 
calculation together with supporting evidence of what D&H based the inputs into the 
calculator on.
For clarity, Mr P has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ps 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, D&H should:
calculate and offer Mr P redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr P before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr P receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr P accepts D&Hs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr P for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ps end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr P as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, D&H may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that Mr Ps would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 
25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed 
according to Mr Ps likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a 
notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Mr Ps representative's thinks the 15% deduction from any redress payable, to take into 
account the tax Mr P would've paid had this been taken as income, isnt fair. This is because 
it doesn't account for the charges that would've been deducted from the fund value over that 
time. While I appreciate the representative feels this may unfairly reduce the redress 
payable, I'm mindful that it is not possible to provide exact compensation in these 
circumstances, as the only way to achieve this would be to put Mr P back into the scheme as 
if the transfer out hadn't happened. So, overall, I remain of the view that the redress 
proposed fairly compensates Mr P for the impact of the unsuitable advice he received.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Dobson & Hodge 
Limited to pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Dobson & Hodge Limited pays Mr P the balance.
If Mr P accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Dobson & Hodge 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr P can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman