DRN-4441557
The complaint
Mr D complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) approved an overdraft he didnt apply for 
and allowed transactions to be made from his account that he didnt recognise, which 
theyve held him liable for.
What happened
What Mr D says
Mr D explained that he had his unlocked phone taken from his hand whilst out shopping. 
Subsequently there were a number of frauds carried out on various bank accounts held by 
him. Mr D reported the theft to the police and a couple of days after the loss of his phone, he 
notified Monzo about the theft.
It was discovered that an overdraft had been applied for using Mr Ds Monzo account and 
after being approved, those funds were transferred to another account in Mr Ds name. Mr D 
denied making the application or sending payments to another one of his accounts and 
sought a refund from Monzo, which was declined. Mr D complained to them about the 
handling of his issue and Monzo again looked into what had happened but didnt change 
their position.
What Monzo say
Monzo received Mr Ds request for a refund after telling them his phone had been stolen. 
Monzo looked into what had happened and didnt think anyone else was responsible, so 
they held him liable for the overdraft and the subsequent transactions. Mr D had complained 
about several issues including a lack of refund, the approval of the overdraft, receipt of 
reminder messages about the overdraft repayment and the closure of the account. Monzo 
issued their final response which, in summary said:
They believed the transactions werent fraudulent.
Lending criteria was met which resulted in the overdraft being approved.
Reminder messages concerning the outstanding overdraft were temporarily stopped 
during the investigation into the claim, but theyre a necessary message designed to 
ensure the applicant is aware of the financial situation.
The closure of the account was made based on a commercial decision in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the account. 
The investigation so far
Mr D was left unhappy with Monzos treatment of his situation and brought his complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of 
our investigators who asked both parties for information about the issue.
Mr D explained how his phone was stolen and that hed notified the police about it. He said 
that he was surprised that an overdraft had been approved because he had rarely used the 
account since opening it several years earlier and it had a zero balance at the time. Mr D 
advised that hed now repaid the full amount of the loan, but still wanted a full refund from 
Monzo
Monzo supplied information about the operation of the account, including details of the 
devices (mobile phones) registered on Mr Ds account. This showed that:
Mr Ds account had two devices registered with Monzo. One device was originally 
registered for a short period before being removed from the account. The second 
device had been registered for some years and remained the only device recorded 
by Monzo to use the account.
That device was the one Mr D reported as stolen.
That same device remained active on the account and was used to report the loss by 
Mr D and to communicate with Monzo concerning the ongoing situation.
The overdraft was assessed after an application was made through Mr Ds phone.
The disputed transactions were carried out by the same device reported stolen, that 
was later used by Mr D.
After considering the evidence, Mr Ds complaint wasnt upheld. The investigator commented 
that:
Theres no explanation how a thief could have obtained the necessary login details 
for Mr Ds Monzo account to make the overdraft application and subsequent disputed 
transactions.
Mr D had reported the phone was never returned to him, but he used that same 
phone to report the loss to Monzo.
It was thought unlikely a third party was responsible for continuing to log in to the 
account for a month after the transactions were made.
Overall, the evidence indicated the overdraft application and disputed transactions 
were authorised.
Mr D disagreed with the investigators outcome and said:
Monzo were wrong about the device he used after the theft, because Mr D registered 
an old device to use on the account.
He was a victim of a crime.
Hed already received refunds from other banks who accepted he was victim of a 
crime.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The basic position is that Monzo can hold Mr D liable for the 
disputed payments/overdraft if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he 
made them or authorised them. 
Monzo can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr D authorised the 
transactions/ overdraft application, but Monzo cannot say that the use of the banking app 
conclusively proves that they were authorised. 
Unless Monzo can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment (overdraft) or to debit M Ds account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Mr D, including the overdraft application made from his registered device. Ill now 
need to consider the information provided by both parties to determine whether theres 
sufficient evidence to hold Mr D responsible for the overdraft and subsequent disputed 
transactions or not.
Its not our role to say exactly what happened, but to decide whether Monzo can reasonably 
hold Mr D liable for these transactions or not. In doing so, Ill be considering what is most 
likely on a balance of probabilities.
Mr Ds case is that after his phone was stolen, an application for an overdraft was made and 
once it was approved, the subsequent transactions were sent to an account in his own name 
with another financial merchant, all without his knowledge or approval. Essentially, Mr D 
believes that a thief carried out all these actions.
Monzo dont believe anyone else is responsible, which is why theyve held him liable for the 
overdraft.
The Monzo account operates through an app, usually installed on a mobile phone. Monzo 
have a record of those devices registered on Mr Ds account. Monzo also record various 
pieces of information when the phone interacts with the account through the app.
In order to access the app, the security information known only to Mr D was required. This 
can either be code or Mr Ds biometrics, neither of which were available to the thief who Mr 
D reports stole his phone. I havent seen a plausible explanation how this information could 
have been obtained by anyone else.
If I was to accept that Mr Ds account was somehow bypassed by the thief, it would be 
logical to assume they would be using Mr Ds stolen phone to do it. If a thief had it, it stands 
to reason that Mr D couldnt also possess it. I understand Mr D believes Monzos data is 
incorrect, but having examined it, its consistent, showing the repeated use of Mr Ds second 
device throughout the period he said his phone was stolen and the overdraft applied for, 
followed by the disputed transactions being sent to one of Mr Ds other accounts. So, theres 
no evidence to suggest Mr D registered/used a different (older) device on his Monzo account 
after his other phone was taken. If he did, I would expect the audit data to show that. That 
same device (reported as stolen) continued to be used to communicate with Monzo when Mr 
D was challenging them about the overdraft and seeking a refund. 
The evidence doesnt support Mr Ds version of events here and coupled with a lack of plausible explanation how his security information could have been obtained, I think its more 
likely than not that Mr D was responsible for making the application and subsequent 
transactions to his own account. I think its both fair and reasonable for Monzo to hold him 
liable for the overdraft (which has already been repaid) and the subsequent transactions to.
Mr D didnt specifically raise any other issues regarding his complaint when he asked for it to 
be further reviewed. But, I have considered the additional aspects to his complaint and 
theres nothing that I think warrants any further action from Monzo. Thats because Ive 
made a finding concerning the overdraft and the disputed transactions, which follows that 
any further messages received by Mr D concerning the outstanding balance were an 
appropriate response from Monzo. Monzo did pause them whilst they investigated which is a 
fair way for them to deal with Mr Ds original claim for a refund. 
Once Monzo concluded that a third party couldnt have been responsible, the decision to 
close the account was, I think, a reasonable next step. The terms and conditions of the 
account allow each party to end the relationship, depending on the specific circumstances at 
the time. Monzo followed the terms concerning an immediate closure based on the outcome 
of their investigation and I dont think this was unreasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman