DRN-2938297
The complaint
Mr D complains about an investment he holds which is managed by Henderson Investment 
Funds Limited. He thinks the charges are excessive and have been concealed for a number 
of years.
 
What happened
 Mr D holds an investment managed by Henderson  the TR European Growth Trust Ord 
GBP 0.125. In 2019 he received notification that hed incurred fees of £264.39 on the 
investment. 
He complained to his platform provider and said, in summary, that the annual fees were 
excessive and were automatically deducted in advance without him knowing what they were. 
Hed incurred the excessive fees over a number of years and the platform provider had 
refused to disclose the full amounts deducted over the life of the trust and had also refused 
to refund any of the fees.
The platform provider didnt uphold the complaint, so he brought it to this service where it 
was considered by one of our investigators. The investigator didnt uphold it as she thought 
the platform provider wasnt responsible for the charges.
Mr D then complained to Henderson who didnt uphold his complaint. It was considered by 
one of our investigators who also didnt uphold it. She explained that new regulations in 2018 
meant that investment costs or charges needed to be clearly set out. And this was why Mr D 
received more detailed information about charges in his 2019 statement. 
She appreciated that Mr D wanted more detail on historic charges, but fund managers 
previously didnt have to report charges in the way they were now required to, so the 
information would not be available on an individual level. She didnt this meant Henderson 
did anything wrong before or applied the charges incorrectly. 
She said it wasnt unreasonable for Henderson to be paid for their work and hadnt seen 
anything to show that the fees were excessive. Instead she thought the fees were broadly in 
line with similar funds and couldnt reasonably conclude that Mr D was being treated unfairly 
as he was being charged the same rate as other investors.
Mr D didnt agree with her findings  he said shed failed to fully address all the facts and 
had been biased. He asked to see evidence that the charges were reasonable. The 
investigator further explained her reasoning to Mr D, but he still didnt accept her findings. As 
theres been no agreement the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold this complaint. I will now explain why. I understand 
the points Mr D has made and his strength of feeling about the fees hes incurred. I note the 
points hes made and Ive carefully considered what hes said. But to uphold his complaint I 
would have to be satisfied that Henderson had done something wrong. 
Broadly speaking, Henderson are entitled to set fees for their work in running the investment 
trust, provided they let investors know what the fees are. Generally, fund managers will set 
their fees taking into account several factors, including income theyd receive from charges, 
their costs and the expected profit margin.
Unfortunately, given the passage of time, there isnt any documentation available from when 
Mr D first made his investment, which he says is around 20 years ago. However, I think it is 
more likely than not that there would have been documentation available detailing the fees 
that applied to the trust. Its important to note that Henderson didnt provide him with any 
advice to invest in the trust, instead it was Mr Ds decision to invest based on factors 
relevant to him, including charges.
Ive seen recent Key Investor Information Documents (KIIDs) which detail the charging 
structure of the trust. And from what Ive seen the fees appear to be broadly in line with the 
fees for similar investments. I appreciate Mr D has said the fees equate to 2.3% of the fund 
value but I note this differs to the figure of 1.47% quoted in the statement he received. The 
difference appears to be due to Mr D basing his calculation on the value of the trust at 5 
January 2019 instead of the method quoted in the statement which uses the value of the 
trust at the start of each month over the statement period. Taking everything into account, I 
havent seen anything to suggest that any of the fees are unfair so Im not persuaded I can 
reasonably ask Henderson to refund any fees to Mr D. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has carried out several reviews into 
the matter of fees and charges over the last 15 or so years. They published their thematic 
review on the clarity of fund charges in 2014 and there was also further guidance provided 
by legislation, including the regulation on key information documents for packaged retail and 
insurance based investment products (PRIIPs Regulation) and the revised Markets in 
Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID II). 
The rules and guidance which subsequently came into place had the result of a clearer 
distinction between advice charges, product charges and platform charges. As the 
investigator has said, the changes in 2018 led to investment fees and charges being more 
clearly set out and communicated in annual statements. This led to Mr D being provided in 
2019 with a statement showing the monetary value of the fees he been charged for the 
previous year. 
I understand why Mr D thinks he didnt previously receive enough information about the fees. 
But while I appreciate his points, Im not persuaded that Henderson were acting outside of 
the regulators rules at the time. So, I dont think theres any requirement for them to disclose 
how much Mr D paid precisely in those earlier years. I appreciate that Mr D would like to 
know much he has paid in fees over the course of the investment, but Henderson wasnt 
required to keep this information. So, I dont think it is reasonable for me to ask them to go 
back and provide it now.
In summary, Ive considered Mr Ds view that Henderson have treated him unfairly by 
charging excessive fees and not providing him with historic information. But the fees theyve 
charged him appear to be broadly in line with similar investments and from what Ive seen, 
Henderson have fairly applied them in line with the terms of the trust. The difference in how
this information is now communicated to Mr D was as a result of a change in regulation, so I
dont think Henderson did anything wrong by not using this format sooner. I know that thiswill disappoint Mr D but I dont think Henderson need to do anything further.
My final decision 
For the reasons Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman