DRN-2670571
The complaint
Ms C complains Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly cancelled her contents insurance policy 
following a missed payment.
What happened
Ms C had a contents insurance policy with Aviva. In April 2020, she missed a payment. Ms C 
contacted Aviva in May 2020 to discuss her circumstances. She said she hadnt been able to 
work due to the covid-19 pandemic. She asked if her payments could be deferred. Aviva 
accepted her request. 
In June 2020, Ms C contacted Aviva to defer her next payment, but she found the policy had 
been cancelled, as she hadnt paid her premium in May. 
Ms C complained to Aviva, she was under the impression it had agreed to defer her May 
payment and she didnt need to take anymore action until June 2020. She said she hadnt 
received any letters from Aviva about cancelling her insurance. 
Aviva didnt agree to change its position. It said when Ms C had contacted it in May, it only 
agreed to defer the April payment, and Ms C needed to contact it separately about the May 
payment. As she hadnt, Aviva said it had acted fairly in cancelling the policy.
Unhappy with its response, Ms C brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt think Aviva had treated Ms C fairly. He thought it should remove any record of the 
cancellation from any external databases and provide Ms C with a letter explaining the policy 
had been cancelled incorrectly. He also thought it should pay Ms C £100 compensation for 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused in unfairly cancelling her policy. 
Aviva didnt agree it had cancelled the policy unfairly. And it said if Ms C was worried she 
could have called to discuss the situation further. It said it had followed the correct process 
for cancellation so didnt agree to change its mind.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not satisfied Aviva has treated Ms C fairly, and so Im upholding the 
complaint.
Ms C accepts she missed a payment in April 2020. The confusion is that when Ms C applied 
for a deferral for her May payment, Aviva treated it as a deferral for the April payment which 
shed already missed. So it thought she hadnt applied for a deferral for May, and as she 
didnt respond to its reminder for payment of that months premium, it cancelled her policy. 
Having looked at everything, I dont think Aviva were clear in what it asked Ms C to do, and 
as a result I think it cancelled her policy when it shouldnt have done. Ive explained why 
below.
Ms C called Aviva in May to explain her financial difficulties as a result of the pandemic. Ive 
listened to that call recording. Ms C explains shes missed her April payment, and due to her 
circumstances, will be unable to make the next payment in May, she asks what Aviva can do 
to help.
The adviser explains that Aviva does defer payments but says he doesnt think Ms C will be 
eligible to apply for it. They discuss other ways in which Ms C could lower her payments, 
such as removing some optional extras. But at the end of the call Ms C says shed like to 
apply to defer, so the adviser tells her this is done online and the call ends. 
Ms C did apply and was accepted, but the email Aviva sent wasnt clear. At the top it said 
that the April payment had been deferred, but at the bottom it said:
This request covered your next payment only. If you need financial help for future
payments, you will need to re-apply through our website, please click here to do so.
Presently we can support one month at a time up to a maximum of 3 months.
Ms C took this to mean that her May payment had been deferred, so she didnt take any 
further action until June, when she applied again to defer that payment.
Having read the email, I can see why Ms C was confused. Ms Cs May payment was due 
just a few days after receiving this email. So referring to the next payment made her 
assume shed deferred the May payment. And the adviser shed spoken to didnt make it 
clear in the phone call that shed need to do two deferral requests at the same time to bring 
her account up to date. 
I consider it irrelevant that Aviva followed its cancellation procedure. As Im satisfied that if 
the email had been clearer, Ms C would have applied to defer her May payment. I say this 
because thats the payment she called Aviva to discuss, and she submitted another deferral 
request in June for her next payment. So Im satisfied she was trying to ensure her policy 
wasnt cancelled.
Aviva hasnt provided any evidence that her subsequent deferral requests would have been 
declined. And given her circumstances had remained the same I think its reasonable to 
assume theyd have been successful, and Ms Cs policy wouldnt have been cancelled at 
that stage. And even if Ms C had been refused a deferral in June, I think its likely shed have 
taken action, such as cancelling the policy herself, to avoid a business cancellation on her 
record.
Ive considered that Ms C may have later gone on to cancel her policy, if her circumstances 
hadnt changed after shed benefited from the maximum deferrals. Or she may have decided 
to reduce her level of cover. But because Aviva unfairly cancelled her policy when it did, she 
didnt have the opportunity to do either of those things. And she now has a policy cancelled 
by an insurer on her record.
To put things right Aviva should remove any reference to the cancelled policy by the insurer 
from any external databases. It should also provide Ms C with a letter explaining the policy 
was incorrectly cancelled, should she need this for future insurance policies.
Ms C has said that having her insurance cancelled has caused her additional worry, on top 
of the financial difficulties she was already facing as a result of the pandemic. So I also think 
Aviva should pay £100 compensation to reflect the unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
caused.
My final decision My final decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited needs to:
Remove any notice of cancellation by an insurer from any external databases
Issue a letter to Ms C explaining her policy was incorrectly cancelled
Pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman