DRN-3716275
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy how TSB Bank plc (TSB) handled her request for help to recover money 
following the changes made to her holiday.
What happened
Mrs G booked a weeks holiday for her and her husband in February 2020. She used an 
online agent, who Ill refer to as O. The holiday was scheduled for October 2020. Mrs G 
arranged to pay for the trip in pre-arranged stages, and the first two payments in February 
and March 2020 were paid using a different banks credit card. The third payment she made 
was in April 2020 and was for £351.71. Mrs G used her TSB credit card for this payment. 
In mid-August 2020 Mrs G received an email from O significantly changing the details of her 
scheduled holiday. O told her that the original hotel wasnt available for the dates selected, 
and they had chosen a different hotel on the other side of the island for her. The changes 
werent acceptable to Mrs G and she tried to contact O without success. 
Worried about this, Mrs G contacted TSB and asked them to stop any recurring payments 
being made to O. She was directed online to complete the process. Mrs G also continued to 
try and contact O throughout August to confirm she didnt want to accept the suggested 
changes to her holiday. She has told our service she only received one response from them, 
which was to defer her next payment until early September 2020.
During this time, Mrs G was also trying to contact TSB to ensure the recurring payments had 
been stopped. It was to her dismay that O took a further payment of £629.83 on
3 September 2020. Mrs G was further surprised a few days later when O took the remaining 
balance of £682.76 from her TSB credit card  11 days earlier than it was due. 
At this time, Mrs G raised a complaint with TSB. She was unhappy the payments had been 
taken by O when she had asked for them to be stopped. She was also unhappy as she felt 
TSB had misunderstood her original concerns and hadnt provided the correct information in 
their correspondence with her. TSB apologised to Mrs G and, on 22 September 2020, raised 
a chargeback claim. The three payments from her TSB credit card were credited back to her 
credit card account and an email was sent to Mrs G explaining the process in a bit more 
detail  including what could happen if O disagreed with the chargeback claim. In response 
to her complaint, TSB accepted they had given Mrs G some incorrect information when she 
had first contacted them to talk about the situation, and they credited her account with £50 
compensation.
O did dispute the chargeback claim, and TSB informed Mrs G of this in early 
November 2020. At this point they asked Mrs G for any further comments she wanted to 
make. Mrs G felt the information provided on Os reasons for dispute were incorrect and she 
pointed this out to TSB. She didnt hear anything from TSB for a month. They then emailed 
her to let her know they had defended the chargeback claim against O. They again 
explained to Mrs G the timeframes involved, and that O could disagree again. 
Mrs G wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to our service. During her review of 
the complaint our investigator established that the second representment of the chargeback 
claim had been successful and the three payments hadnt been re-debited from Mrs Gs 
credit card. Whilst our investigator felt this was positive, she did think TSB should pay more 
compensation to Mrs G for the way the initial enquiries had been handled and how some 
incorrect information had been passed onto Mrs G. She asked TSB to pay a further amount 
of £100, bringing the total compensation paid to £150. TSB accepted and credited this 
amount to Mrs Gs account. 
Mrs G originally accepted this too. But on reflection she felt she should be entitled to more 
compensation as she had been caused anxiety throughout the process. 
As Mrs G didnt accept, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G and TSB have confirmed that the chargeback amounts credited to Mrs Gs account in 
September 2020 havent been challenged again by O, and the credits remained on the 
account. As Mrs G has had all the payments made to O credited back, I dont need to 
consider that aspect. TSB have also accepted that they didnt provide Mrs G with the service 
she was entitled to expect, and they have paid Mrs G the total amount of compensation 
recommended by our investigator. All I need to decide on is if the amount of compensation 
paid is fair. And in this case, Im satisfied it is. Ill explain why.
There are different ways that a bank can assist customers who have had issues with goods 
or services not being provided. In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from 
the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment settlement 
disputes are resolved between cardholders and suppliers/merchants. They are dealt with 
under the relevant card scheme rules. In certain circumstances the process provides a way 
for TSB to ask for a payment Mrs G made to be refunded. 
There are no obligations for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for 
one. But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right 
exists and there is a reasonable chance of success. 
When a chargeback is raised, the scheme allows a given period of time  usually around a 
month  for the supplier to reply to say whether or not they agree to the refund. And when a 
supplier does defend a chargeback, this can lead to further representations by the 
cardholders bank. The process then allows for further representations to be made, if parties 
do not agree for the issue to be decided by the scheme in a process known as arbitration. 
Mrs G has said that she has been caused sleepless nights and a lot of anxiety by TSBs 
actions. Im sorry to hear this has been the case. But I have to consider their communication 
with her and whether Im persuaded it was reasonable. And Im satisfied TSB gave Mrs G 
the correct information once the chargeback claim had been raised for her in 
September 2020. TSB explained to her that O may disagree with the chargeback claim, 
which happened in this case. TSB also explained the timeframe involved for O to do this, 
and the timeframe in which their second representment could be challenged. That is 
something I would expect TSB to do to ensure Mrs G was completely aware of what was 
happening. Because of that, I dont think its reasonable for me to suggest TSB should pay 
additional compensation for any anxiety the correct information caused to Mrs G.
TSB have accepted the service given to Mrs G prior to the chargeback claim being raised fell short of what she should have expected. And having looked at the evidence from Mrs G and 
from TSB its clear she tried on many occasions to try and prevent the scheduled recurring 
payments from being taken. TSBs adviser should have also told her that O might still try and 
take the payments, even though Mrs G had advised she didnt want them to go ahead. Once 
the recurring payments in early September 2020 had been taken by O, TSB should have 
credited Mrs G with the amounts, as the payments were unauthorised at that stage. But I 
dont think not crediting Mrs G immediately has led to any financial detriment to her  the 
chargeback claim was raised in the same month the payments were taken and the funds 
have been available since then for Mrs G to make use of. TSB have now paid a total amount 
of £150 compensation for the miscommunication Mrs G received, and Im satisfied that is fair 
for the distress that occurred from when she first spoke to them about the problem until the 
chargeback claim was raised correctly in September 2020. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs G and shed like more compensation to be 
awarded to her. But Ive explained above why I wont be asking TSB to pay more. 
My final decision
TSB Bank plc have already paid £150 to settle the complaint. I think that is fair in the 
circumstances. 
So, my decision is that TSB Bank plc dont need to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman