DRN-1676201
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr H payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a secured loan in 1992. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place about 28 years ago and, not surprisingly, none of the original 
documents from the time are now available. Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall in 
detail everything that happened so long ago, so it can be difficult to know whether its fair to 
rely fully on everything they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on what evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest outcome can be difficult.
Mr H has says he was wrongly told he had to have PPI. However, it wouldnt be fair for me to 
conclude this happened unless there was reasonable supporting evidence of it. This is 
because, where someone has said another person or organisation has done something 
wrong, fairness requires that the person making the allegation should present evidence that 
this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone prove they didnt do 
something wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago. And given how long ago this 
was, I wouldnt know how much I could fairly rely on Mr Hs recollection of the details. 
Without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Mr Hs informed 
consent. 
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply.I think Bank of Scotland probably recommended the PPI to Mr H, and this means it had a 
higher standard to reach during the sales process  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable 
for Mr Hs particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a loan secured 
on your home can lead to significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a 
recommendation would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr Hs 
situation at the time. I say this because: 
Its likely Mr H was eligible for the policy. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr H received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when Mr H would 
need to fall back on any savings or other means he may have had for paying the 
secured loan and other living costs. This all would have put Mr H in a better financial 
position, if hed eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Mr H has said he was on low pay at the time, and could have used the cost of the 
premiums for other things. But I dont think it would be fair to say he clearly couldnt 
afford the premiums  which might have been a reason for saying the 
recommendation of PPI was wrong.  
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr H would 
have been affected by any of these
 
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. 
Its hard to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the costs and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have 
affected whether Mr H took the PPI. I say this because, in his circumstances, its unlikely this 
would have made the PPI seem less useful.
Mr H has pointed out that Bank of Scotland has upheld his other complaints about PPI. I 
dont know the reasons it upheld those and not this one. But I do know there is a whole 
number of factors that can lead to a finding that PPI was mis-sold  and these might vary 
according to things such as evidence relevant to the date of the sale, the terms of the policy 
that then applied, the way it was known to be sold at that date, or the customers exact 
circumstances at that time. 
But my overall conclusion is that, for this particular sale, I dont have enough evidence to tell 
Bank of Scotland it mis-sold the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman