DRN-2958094
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) wouldnt open an account for her.
What happened
Mrs G applied for an account with Starling in February 2021. She was declined.
Mrs G complained. She thought that Starling had declined the account application due to her 
age  and this was discriminatory. She wanted to know the specific reason for being 
declined.
Starling said that Mrs Gs application wasnt declined because of her age. But they wouldnt 
say what the reason was. But the decline decision was made in line with their processes. 
Mrs G brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator said Starling had acted 
reasonably. They provided evidence to show Mrs Gs application was declined in line with 
their internal criteria. It wasnt rejected because of Mrs Gs age. But - she couldnt say what 
the reason was as this was commercially sensitive.
Mrs G asked that an ombudsman looks at her complaint. She considered that she met 
Starlings eligibility criteria as advertised. So  she couldnt see why Starling wouldnt let her 
know the reason for rejection.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G has told us that she doesnt want to open an account with Starling anymore. But shes 
convinced that Starling must have discriminated against her due to her age  as she has a 
completely clean credit record. Ive looked at Mrs Gs application to Starling  including the 
documents provided by Mrs G, and her video sent in. I want Mrs G to know that weve 
challenged Starling several times to ask if we can let Mrs G know why her application was 
declined  but they havent agreed to this.
Starling can set their own acceptance criteria for which customers they accept, or decline. 
Thats part of their commercial decision making. And  because this information is 
commercially sensitive, it cant be disclosed. And  we cant interfere with that. But  to be 
clear, Ive seen that she wasnt declined because of her age.
I can sense Mrs Gs frustration at what has happened, and she will therefore be 
disappointed by my decision, but Im not going to ask Starling to do anymore here.
(continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman