DRN-2247514
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2005. Mr and Mrs P paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr P, in case he was 
off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ps case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
From what Ive seen, Bank of Scotland recommended this policy to Mr and Mrs P  and this 
was only a recommendation, not a requirement. It did say they could choose not to take the 
cover. Bank of Scotland set out the policys cost separately to the cost of the mortgage itself 
 it wasnt part and parcel of the lending. And from what Ive seen of the way these policies 
were sold at the time, in order to get one Mr and Mrs P wouldve needed to actively choose 
it. Ive not seen any wider problems with Bank of Scotlands sales process from the time, nor 
any evidence which shows that it misled or unfairly pressured Mr and Mrs P into having PPI 
here. So I think its most likely that Bank of Scotland offered Mr and Mrs P a choice about 
buying PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if they no 
longer recall doing so after so long.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs P, so it had to check it was right for 
them. And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For 
example, it looks like Mr P was the main earner, was eligible for the cover, and wasnt 
affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.
While Mr P had benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those and offered 
him more comprehensive cover, such as for when his redundancy pay ran out, or his sick 
pay reduced to just a fraction of his normal pay. The PPI also meant he could effectively 
protect any savings he had and use them for other things, instead of potentially having to 
sacrifice one asset to save another. And this mortgage was a very significant, long-term 
commitment  there was no guarantee that Mr P would have the same benefits or savings 
available in the many years to come. Ultimately, if Mr and Mrs P fell behind on their 
mortgage, they couldve lost their home. So the PPI couldve really been useful for them in 
protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs P about PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely 
to have changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mr P wasnt affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for Mr and Mrs P in 
case something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would 
pay out in a claim, and it looks like it wouldve been affordable. And the PPI was paid on a 
rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs P could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, 
I dont think that better information was likely to have put them off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman