DRN-3479340
The complaint
Mr S complains that after voluntarily terminating (VT) his hire purchase agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS), trading as Alphera Financial Services, it 
failed to collect the car despite him trying to arrange this. He says he now has a County 
Court Judgement (CCJ) against him. He would like it set aside and the car collected with no 
outstanding balance to pay.
What happened
In February 2016 Mr S acquired a car financed through a hire purchase agreement with 
BMWFS. Mr S asked to VT the agreement in July 2019 which BMWFS accepted. Mr S said 
he tried to arrange to have the car collected three times but this didnt happen. He said he 
received correspondence from BMWFS solicitor telling him payments are outstanding and 
the car should be returned. Mr S said he now had a CCJ against him and the CCJ 
documents had been sent to him at his old address. 
In its final response BMWFS said termination of Mr Ss agreement was the correct action to 
take. It said Mr S had requested that the agreement be VTd but he had not complied with 
the terms to return the vehicle, so the only option left was to recover the vehicle through a 
Return of Goods Order.
Our investigator concluded that BMWFS shouldve made attempts to collect the vehicle and 
he couldnt see that this had been done. He said to rectify this BMWFS should refund Mr S 
any premiums he paid after the date it was agreed the finance agreement would be VTd. He 
also recommended BMWFS pay Mr S a further £300 for the stress and inconvenience. The 
investigator also said that as a county court had looked at the debt our service couldnt make 
any findings on whether the debt was fair. BMWFS did not agree with these conclusions and 
asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
I issued a provisional decision on 1 April 2022. After requesting evidence of the CCJ I was 
satisfied that at this time Mr S does not have a CCJ entered against him with respect to the 
agreement. BMWFS said the action had been paused during this complaint. So, I was able 
to look at the merits of this complaint.
Recovery of vehicle
I noted that our investigator asked BMWFS to provide call recordings of the calls made to 
recover the car, but it was unable to provide them. I said that while ideally it would be useful 
to have call recordings, I looked at the information BMWFS had provided, and I was satisfied 
BMWFS made reasonable attempts to collect the car. In summary I noted BMWFS had tried 
to make arrangements to collect the car and when this was unsuccessful it had instructed 
recovery agents to do so. BMWFS provided contact records of its attempts and those of the 
recovery agent. The recovery agent was not able to recover the car. 
I also noted that during this time Mr S told both BMWFS and the recovery agent that he 
wanted to keep the car but was told this was no longer possible. 
I said that although the phone calls were not available, I was satisfied the contact notes were 
likely an accurate record of events. And I was satisfied BMWFS and its collection agent 
made reasonable attempts to collect the car. I was also persuaded that Mr S was aware or 
ought reasonably to have been aware he was under an obligation to return the car and I 
couldnt see that he had made a proactive attempt to do so. So, I was satisfied, subject to 
any further information that BMWFS hadnt done anything wrong here.
Default notice
I was also satisfied BMWFS recorded a default against Mr S correctly and fairly. I said that 
having previously received a default notice I was persuaded Mr S was aware of the 
consequences of breaching the agreement.
Return Of Goods CCJ
I noted that BMWFS said it gave Mr S plenty of opportunity for the vehicle to be returned and 
did not instruct solicitors until over a year passed since the VT. As Mr S hadnt responded it 
felt the only option left was to recover the vehicle through a Return Of Goods order. Subject 
to any further information I was satisfied BMWFS hadnt done anything wrong here and I 
was pleased it had halted the Return Of Goods action while this service is considering the 
complaint.
I noted that as Mr S appeared to still be in possession of the car. I thought it sensible for Mr 
S to engage with BMWFS as soon as possible to see if the offer to voluntarily surrender the 
vehicle was still open to him to prevent the Return of Goods CCJ.
Mr S did not accept my provisional decision. He said he was left with a ruined credit file and 
no means to fix it. He said he didnt have the money BMWFS wanted. In addition, he said 
the decision was unfair and he expressed concerns that it was biased towards a corporate 
entity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this is not what Mr S was hoping for but having done so I believe my decision still 
stands. 
Im very sorry to hear Mr S thinks the decision is unfair and biased towards the business. My 
role is to be impartial and to be fair and reasonable to both parties. No further evidence was 
presented by either party, so my final decision relies on the same evidence as my 
provisional one. My conclusion is that Im satisfied BMWFS hasnt done anything wrong, so I 
wont be asking it to do anything further in relation to the complaint. 
With regards to Mr Ss credit file, at the moment it only records a default for this agreement 
and not a CCJ. And as I mentioned in my provisional decision it would be in Mr Ss interest 
to re-engage with BMWFS to see what can be done regarding the outstanding debt and 
vehicle collection. By virtue of this decision BMWFS will now be aware that Mr S may be in 
financial difficulty. BMWFS is required to be sympathetic and positive towards customers 
who are experiencing financial difficulties.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman