DRN-3020542
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B, complains about the way National Westminster Bank 
Plc (NatWest) handled its application for a Bounce Back Loan.
Mr H is Bs director and brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
B banked with NatWest and applied to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan of £30,000 on 
8 June 2020. NatWest approved the application and sent B a loan agreement, which Mr H 
signed to accept on 24 June.
When B didnt receive the loan funds as expected, Mr H chased things up with NatWest. The 
bank explained that it had actually declined Bs application as it had failed its checks  and 
apologised for giving the wrong outcome initially. For the inconvenience caused, NatWest 
paid B compensation of £300.
Mr H remained unhappy. After he referred the matter to us and his MPs office, NatWest 
reversed its position and said the loan could proceed. The £30,000 loan was paid into Bs 
account on 16 October. NatWest paid B a further £350 in compensation.
Although B ultimately received the loan it requested, Mr H said that the delay in doing so 
caused the company losses in the region of £3,700  because it was unable to fulfil orders 
received while the application was still pending. So he asked that we continue to look into 
things.
One of our Investigators reviewed Bs complaint but didnt recommend that NatWest take 
any further action. He didnt think that the information Mr H had provided was sufficient to 
show that B had incurred any losses as a result of the delay in obtaining the Bounce Back 
Loan, noting that some of the orders in question had been received after B had received the 
loan. And he thought that NatWest had already paid fair compensation for the inconvenience 
B had been caused. 
As Mr H didnt accept our Investigators view and asked that an Ombudsman review the 
complaint, so it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is accepted that NatWest made errors which caused the delay in B receiving its Bounce 
Back Loan. The banks initial decision to approve the application was ultimately upheld, 
meaning that the loan ought to have been provided on or around 24 June 2020. But 
mistakes on the banks part meant that B only received the loan funds almost four months 
later, on 16 October 2020.
It is, therefore, fair that NatWest compensates B for the impact of this delay. So Ive carefully 
considered what Mr H has said and provided to us about how the company was affected. 
Having done so, I think the compensation that NatWest has already paid B is fair  so Im 
not requiring the bank to take any further action. Ill explain why.
Our approach to compensation is to put the complainant back in the position that they would 
be in if the financial business hadnt made an error. So Ive thought about the position that B 
wouldve been in if it had received the Bounce Back Loan when it should have, based on the 
information available to me. 
In this respect, I think the actions that B took when it received the loan are instructive. On the 
day the loan was drawn down, B transferred all but £100 of the funds to an account held 
elsewhere. Mr H says this was to partially repay a debt, which  if unpaid  wouldve left the 
company unable to continue trading. So it seems to me that B would always have needed to 
use the loan funds in the manner it did. I think its most likely that if it had received the loan 
earlier, it wouldve repaid the debt in exactly the same way. 
Mr H says that B couldnt fulfil six orders, all received in October, because of the delay in 
getting the loan funds. But as those funds were always going to be used for another 
purpose, I dont think B wouldve been in any better position to fulfil the orders even if it had 
received the loan sooner.
I can also see from Bs account statement that it was processing orders both during the 
period in which it was awaiting the loan and immediately after its receipt. So it is hard to see 
how the delay in receiving the loan funds meant that B couldnt fulfil the six orders received 
between 11 October and 20 October 2020  three of which were received on or after 16 
October, by which time B had received its loan. 
While I cant see that B suffered a financial loss as a result of the delays in obtaining the 
loan, it was evidently put to some inconvenience. Mr H had to chase things up with NatWest 
on a number of occasions and was engaged in further contact and correspondence than 
ought to have been necessary, as a result of both the delays and the bank suggesting that 
the loan wasnt going to proceed. This included the need to raise the matter as a complaint 
and engage his MP, without which it would appear the bank wouldve declined the loan 
altogether. 
All of this took Mr H away from Bs day-to-day operations for much longer than ought to have 
been necessary. NatWest has already acknowledged this, having apologised and paid B 
total compensation of £650. I think that is fair compensation in the circumstances  so Im 
not requiring NatWest to take any further action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman