DRN-2755099
The complaint
Mr L complained that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream acted irresponsibly when 
it gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr L took out two Lending Stream loans as follows:
loan start date date repaidmonthly 
instalmentsloan 
amounthighest instalment 
amount
1 31.5.2019 15.11.2019 6 £200 £108.09*
2 20.9.2019 17.08.2020 6 £450 £111.93
*including combined repayments when loans overlap
Mr L mainly said that Lending Stream had failed to carry out proper affordability checks 
before lending to him. Had it done so, Mr L said Lending Stream wouldve seen he was 
struggling financially and that it was irresponsible to lend to him.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr L and Lending Stream told us about these loans.  
Overall, she thought that given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ls 
circumstances and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate for 
Lending Stream to ask Mr L for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Lending Stream had any information which shouldve prompted it 
to check what Mr L had said in his loan applications. Or that the number of loans Mr L had 
taken out, the amounts hed borrowed or the length of time hed been borrowing from 
Lending Stream shouldve alerted Lending Stream to think he was having money problems. 
So she didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Mr L disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. He told us that his other pay day loans were not taken into consideration and due 
to the high interest rates charged he was put in a cycle of lending to pay the loans.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website and Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Lending Stream provided Mr L with high-interest loans intended for short-term use so it 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Lending Stream was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr L before providing it. Our website sets out what 
we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early 
stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a 
borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
I've taken carefully into account everything that Mr L has told us, including what hes said in 
response to the adjudicators view. I do appreciate that Mr L feels strongly that Lending 
Stream shouldve realised he couldnt afford further loans. But having carefully thought about 
everything Ive seen and been told, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint. Heres why I say this. 
Lending Stream agreed to Mr Ls applications after carrying out affordability checks and it 
relied on information Mr L provided about his monthly income and expenditure and the 
results of credit checks it carried out.  
Keeping in mind everything that Mr L and Lending Stream have said, I've looked at each 
loan in turn. 
loan 1
As this was his first loan with Lending Stream I think Lending Stream was broadly entitled to 
rely on the information Mr L provided  although it did make some adjustments to what hed 
said based on its own independent checks. 
From what I can see, Mr L declared his income as £1400. Lending Stream based its 
affordability calculation on less than this  it allowed for Mr L having £1272.73 take home 
pay. It also boosted the expenses figure hed provided and assumed his regular monthly 
expenses would be £407 (so rather more than the £300 it appears Mr L had said). After 
doing this, it still looked like Mr L should have around £865 disposable income  so he 
should have had ample disposable income left over to cover the cost of the repayments on 
this loan.
At this early stage, Mr L didnt have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Lending Stream to any underlying money problems. 
Ive kept in mind what Mr L has said about his other loans. Its worth remembering that a 
lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some data might be 
missing or anonymised or not up to date. I also understand that not all payday and short 
term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So a lenders credit check might 
not show all the information someone could see (or expect to see) on their own credit file.
Ive seen a summary of Lending Streams credit checks for this loan.
It looks like Lending Streams credit checks didnt show anything adverse that shouldve 
prompted it either to ask Mr L more searching questions about his financial situation or 
check the information hed provided. 
So I havent seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Ls complaint about loan 1.loan 2
Ive taken into account that Mr L took out loan 2 before hed repaid loan 1 - borrowing a 
bigger loan this time. But I dont think Lending Stream wouldve had any reason to think that 
this loan wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr L.
I cant fairly say that, at that stage, Mr L had shown any signs that hed found it hard to pay 
for loan 1. And the figures hed declared when he applied for this loan, and the information 
Lending Stream had collected, seem to support Lending Streams lending decision.
Despite what Mr  L has told me about his actual financial situation, I dont think there was 
anything in the information that Lending Stream had recorded for Mr L, or anything else that 
it shouldve been aware of, which wouldve made Lending Stream think this loan wasnt 
affordable for Mr L when he took it out  even allowing for the fact that his payments for both 
loans overlapped. So thats why Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint about loan 2.
Looked at overall, based on all the information it seems Mr L told Lending Stream and the 
information it recorded for him on each application, it wouldve looked like Mr L had sufficient 
money left after paying his other monthly outgoings to sustainably repay these loans.
I think that Lending Stream gave Mr L fair opportunity to provide relevant information about 
his spending  and if he didnt mention his other credit spending or the fact that he was 
struggling financially at the time I dont think its reasonable to expect Lending Stream to 
have known this. 
The credit checks it carried out didnt reveal anything that shouldve prompted Lending 
Stream to probe more deeply into Mr Ls reasons for borrowing or take steps to verify what 
he was saying. 
And its lending decisions dont seem unreasonable to me looking at the information Lending 
Stream relied on when deciding whether to provide these loans.  
I think Mr L was aware he was taking high cost loans on terms he seemed happy to agree to 
at the time  details are reasonably clearly set out in the loan agreements, including the 
interest rates and the cost of the credit. 
So I cant fairly say that the high cost of this credit is a reason for me to uphold the 
complaint. 
Im very sorry that Mr L found repaying his borrowing difficult. And I accept that in reality 
Mr Ls financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided, 
or the other information Lending Stream obtained. 
But, in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. 
And, in this case, I dont think that Lending Stream did anything wrong in deciding to lend to 
Mr L. 
I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Mr L but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman