DRN-2176497
The complaint
Mr J complains about how Zenith Insurance Plc have settled a claim made on his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
In 2015 Mr M was involved in a collision with a third-party vehicle. He says he was driving 
through a green light, when the third-party vehicle turned right and collided with his vehicle. 
Mr J says he wasnt at fault for the incident and provided Zenith with his account of what 
happened.
The third-party made a claim in respect of the incident. They didnt admit liability for the 
incident and thought Mr J was at fault for the collision.
Zenith agreed to settle the claim on a 50/50 split liability basis. Which means this would have 
been recorded as a fault claim against Mr J. 
Mr J isnt happy with this. He maintains that he wasnt at fault for the incident, and that the 
third-party vehicle proceeded to cross his path while he was driving straight ahead through a 
green light.
Zenith responded to Mr Js complaint and said it didnt think it had done anything wrong 
when settling his claim. It explained that based on all the information it had available, it 
couldnt determine who was responsible for the collision. And in the absence of any 
witnesses, CCTV footage or dashcam footage, it felt it was fair to settle the claim on a 50/50 
liability basis.
Mr J remains unhappy with Zeniths response. He says that to put things right, he would like 
the insurance claim settling as non-fault because he says he didnt cause the collision. The 
50/50 liability was recorded as fault claim against him and has caused an increase in his 
premiums while he is already in financial difficulties.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr J. He didnt uphold Mr Js complaint as he thought 
Zenith had fairly investigated, and settled, the claim made against Mr J. 
Mr J didnt agree with our investigator. He provided us with a copy of a part of the highway 
code which he feels shows he wasnt at fault for the incident. 
Because Mr J didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
It isnt my role to determine who was at fault for the collision; that would be a matter for a 
court of law. What Im deciding is whether Zenith has acted in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of the policy and whether it has dealt with the claim fairly.
In line with most insurers, the policy says that Zenith can take over the settlement of the 
claim. So, it can decide whether to defend a claim or settle it. That might mean Zenith makes 
a decision Mr J disagrees with, as has happened here.
Its for me to decide whether Zenith carried out a fair investigation into the claim made 
against Mr J, and whether it was fair for it to settle the claim in the way it did.
Ive seen a copy of some of the statements and drawings Mr J sent to Zenith. He says that 
he wasnt at fault for the incident and provided Zenith with information about what happened 
at the time. He has also provided Zenith with drawings to show what happened. The 
drawings support Mr Js version of events that he wasnt responsible for the incident.
However, the third-party also claims that they werent at fault for the collision  and has 
given their insurer information as to why they think this is.
It isnt unusual for two parties to disagree on who was liable for a collision. But it is now for 
Zenith to decide how best to settle the claim based on the information it has.
I can see that when Mr J was asked questions about the incident, he told Zenith that there 
werent any witnesses to the collision. So, there wasnt anyone Zenith could contact to get 
an independent account of what happened.
Ive seen a copy of the dashcam footage that Mr J sent to Zenith in 2020, some five years 
after the collision. The dashcam footage only shows the location of the collision. There isnt 
any footage of the collision itself, and so I think Zenith have been fair not to rely on this to 
determine the liability of the incident. 
Mr J has sent in further information from the highway code which supports his view that the 
other driver was liable for the collision. But without any additional information to show what 
happened at the time, like CCTV footage, it would be very difficult for Zenith to be able to 
determine that who was responsible for the incident. So, I cant fairly say that Zenith has 
done anything wrong by agreeing to settle the claim on a 50/50 liability basis.
Because Zenith couldnt recover everything it paid out on the claim, the claim was recorded 
as a fault against Mr J. This will often lead to an increase in premiums. Im sorry to have 
read of Mr Js financial difficulties and that the increase in premiums hes had to pay has had 
an impact on this. But as Ive already explained, I dont think Zenith has done anything 
wrong in the way it chose to settle the claim against him, and so I wont be asking it to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman