DRN-3516940
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with how Leek United Building Society (Leek United) handled 
their request to port their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H held a mortgage with Leek United, which they were tied into until October 
2024. 
Mr and Mrs H met with Leek United in August 2021 to arrange porting their mortgage in 
order to purchase a new home. Unfortunately the property they were interested in fell 
through, so they had to pause their application with Leek United. 
The following month, on 4 September 2021, Mr and Mrs H emailed Leek United to confirm 
they had found a new property. They wanted to port their existing mortgage and apply for 
additional borrowing in order to purchase the new build property. The adviser they were in 
contact with was on holiday at the time, so she didnt see their request until she returned on 
7 September 2021. A meeting was then held on 10 September 2021 to arrange the 
mortgage.
On 15 September 2021, the adviser was informed internally that the property would need a 
valuation report completed before an offer would be made. Mr and Mrs H were updated later 
the same day, but they had concerns about the need for a valuation report and on 
17 September 2021, Mr and Mrs H complained. Specifically, they were worried about how 
long it was going to take and said that they might look to go with another lender. They 
suggested, in the circumstances, Leek United should reduce the early repayment charge of 
£3,000 if that was to happen. 
The adviser acknowledged their concerns but confirmed the valuation was necessary and it 
wouldnt be possible to predict a timescale on how long it would take to secure the mortgage 
offer. She also advised them an offer was not guaranteed. She confirmed they could choose 
to go elsewhere if they wanted, but that they would need to pay the full early repayment 
charge. 
Mr and Mrs H ultimately decided to  take the new mortgage elsewhere and complained to 
Leek United that the process took too long. They said their new lender did not require the 
same lengthy process and as they believe Leek United had caused an unnecessary delay  
they felt the early repayment charge should be waived. 
Leek United looked into Mr and Mrs Hs concerns, but they said they acted in line with their 
own processes and they believe their actions were fairly standard in the circumstances.
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Hs concerns, but they didnt think Leek United had 
done anything wrong. As Mr and Mrs H disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr and Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld, and Ill explain 
why.
Mr and Mrs H met with the adviser within three days of her returning from holiday, so I think 
the meeting took place quickly  I wouldnt have expected them to have been able to meet 
with her much sooner than that. Mr and Mrs H were then updated on the need for a valuation 
report within three working days of the initial meeting  this was the same day that the 
adviser became aware. And there was only one week between Mr and Mrs H meeting with 
Leek United and them raising a formal complaint about unnecessary delays.
All in all, I dont think this is a significant period of time to have waited and while I appreciate 
securing a new home is often very stressful and Mr and Mrs H were keen to get things 
moving  I dont think there were any unreasonable delays caused by Leek United. 
Leek United responded quickly to any correspondence received from Mr and Mrs H and 
proactively shared updates with them. 
Mr and Mrs H say they didnt know Leek United wouldnt lend on non-standard 
constructions. But Leek United never said they wouldnt lend for Mr and Mrs Hs property  
they just confirmed a valuation report was necessary, mainly because the consumers had 
confirmed the construction company intended to use cladding and an aluminium Kingspan 
roof. In 2019, I would expect most lenders would want to do further checks when cladding is 
mentioned, so I dont think this would have been particularly unusual. And Mr and Mrs H 
have since confirmed that their new lender also required a valuation report.  
When the adviser explained that they couldnt give a timescale for when the valuer would 
assess the property, I dont think this meant it wouldnt be done as soon as possible, but 
Mr and Mrs H seem to have interpreted it that way. Having reviewed the email exchanges, it 
seems Leek United didnt want to name a deadline when they didnt know the schedule of 
the valuer yet. As Ive said above, only one week had passed since the initial meeting and it 
would be impossible for Leek United to know when the report would be ready, bearing in 
mind it would be completed by a third party. Leek United wouldnt have been able to control 
how quickly the third party produced it  just as any other lender wouldnt.
The new lender was satisfied with the valuation report they received, and the mortgage was 
offered. But as Leek United didnt get the opportunity to have a valuation report, we cant 
know what the outcome would have been or whether it would have been received sooner or 
later than the new lender. Theres no reason to assume the report or response would have 
turned out differently though. 
Mr and Mrs H say their new lender had no requirements other than for the valuation report to 
be satisfactory before they were given a formal offer. I think its more likely than not that 
other considerations were made by the underwriters, as would be the case for any 
application for a loan on a property. It seems more likely than not the new lender just didnt 
communicate this as openly as Leek United did. Considering everything, I dont think Leek United did anything wrong. Mr and Mrs H were 
aware they would have to pay an early repayment charge if they didnt port their mortgage, 
so I havent seen any reason Leek United should refund the charge. Mr and Mrs H think they 
should at least be awarded some compensation for the delay and attitude of Leek United if 
they dont get back the £3,000 early repayment charge. But, as Ive said above, I dont think 
there were any unreasonable delays and all of Mr and Mrs Hs correspondence was 
responded to promptly. 
I also didnt see any evidence of a poor attitude from Leek United  the decisions they made 
were legitimate business decisions and these were communicated clearly by their adviser on 
each occasion. The adviser answered all of the queries put to her and left it up to Mr and 
Mrs H to decide how they wanted to progress, so I dont think any award of compensation is 
necessary in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman