DRN-3760006
The complaint
Ms W complains NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles wont refund her for transactions she didnt 
make.
What happened
Ms W allowed her grandson to buy some in game currency for an online game using her 
Marbles card on two occasions, each for £7.99. When Ms W received her statement, she 
saw there was over £800 of further purchases a few days after the second, agreed one.
Ms W explained to Marbles she hadnt authorised the payments, and Marbles asked her to 
contact a disputes team. It doesnt seem Ms W did this for a while, and when she did 
Marbles started a section 75 claim. Marbles declined this claim.
Marbles explained the transactions were less than £100 each, so it couldnt refund any 
under section 75. Marbles refunded two months interest on Ms Ws credit card, as a gesture 
of goodwill, and advised her to take things up with the online retailer.
Unhappy with this response, Ms W brought her complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into things and thought Ms Ws complaint should be upheld.
The investigator thought Ms W hadnt made or authorised the payments, so it was unfair for 
Marbles to hold her liable. The investigator thought Marbles should refund all the disputed 
payments and refund any associated interest.
Marbles responded to say there were no section 75 rights, no breach of contract as Ms Ws 
grandson made the purchases, Ms W could attempt a fraud claim but Marbles thought this 
was a civil matter between her and the online retailer.
Marbles asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a general rule, its fair for Marbles to hold Ms W liable for payments where the evidence 
suggests she made or authorised them. And its generally unfair for Marbles to hold Ms W 
liable for payments where the evidence suggests she didnt make or authorise them.
Ms W has told this service she let her grandson, whos quite young, purchase a small 
amount of virtual currency for an online game, using her credit card. Ms W hasnt disputed 
these two £7.99 purchases.
A few days after her last, agreed purchase, lots of purchases to the same retailer came out. 
Its likely Ms Ws credit card had been stored at the retailer, but I dont think Ms W knew this.
Ms Ws grandson doesnt live with her, and the games console the online retailer is attached 
to is registered to her grandsons stepfather. Ms W doesnt have an account with the online 
retailer and email confirmations after each purchase werent going to Ms W.
In the circumstances, I dont think Ms W would have agreed to have her card details stored.
Ive considered the previous, authorised payments to the same retailer. But previous use of 
the same retailer doesnt mean Ms W must have authorised all the future purchases. I have 
to determine whether Ms W made or authorised these further transactions, after the two she 
did authorise.
Ms W has been consistent in her testimony and has tried to sort things out with her 
grandsons guardians and the online retailer. I dont believe Ms W would have gone to these 
lengths if shed authorised the payments.
Its much more likely Ms Ws grandson clicked on purchases, and these were immediately 
debited from Ms Ws stored credit card details. This means I dont think Ms W made or 
authorised the payments, so it would be unfair for Marbles to hold Ms W liable for them.
Marbles agrees Ms Ws grandson made the payments, but says this is a civil matter between 
Ms W and the online retailer. But Ms W can also dispute the payments with Marbles, which 
she has, and I dont believe Marbles can hold her liable for them. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles must:
refund all the transactions on Ms Ws credit card that debited on 2 July 2020
refund all the associated interest on these purchases
if these refunds place Ms Ws credit card in a credit balance, pay 8% interest on this 
credit balance from the date the credit arose to the date of settlement*
*if NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles deducts tax from any interest payment it must supply 
Ms W with a tax certificate if she requests one
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman