DRN-2348264
The complaint
Mr K complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund disputed transactions he says 
he didnt make or authorise.
What happened
Mr K says that four transactions totalling just over £1,800 were made from his account using 
his bank card without his consent.
I wont be listing all the disputed transactions as both parties are aware of which transactions 
are in dispute. But in summary Mr K is disputing one ATM withdrawal and three payments 
made at two different retailers all within an hour.
Mr K says on 20 May 2019, he went to a cash machine to withdraw £40 from his account. 
He put his bank card in the machine, but hes said the screen went blank and the machine 
retained his card. So, Mr K decided to put a second card in the machine followed by a third, 
but both the cards were also retained. Mr K says he stood by the machine for about twenty 
minutes to make sure no money was dispensed. But the machine didnt dispense any money 
or return his cards. 
 
Mr K says he tried to report what had happened to Nationwide using his banking app but 
couldnt do so. Following this he used a different phone to try and contact Nationwide, but he 
couldnt get through. Mr K says he finally managed to get through to the bank using his own 
phone and reported what had happened. Mr K says Nationwide told him it would send out a 
new bank card to him.
 
Mr K says he checked his online banking app the following day and discovered a number of 
transactions had been made. So, he reported the transactions to Nationwide and asked the 
bank to refund him the money.
Nationwide investigated Mr Ks fraud claim and decided not to refund the disputed 
transactions. It said Mr K had most likely either made the transactions himself or allowed 
someone else to make them. In summary the bank said:
Mr Ks genuine card and PIN were used to make each transaction
The timescales of the disputed transactions didnt match Mr Ks version of events
Mr Ks bank card wasnt retained by a cash machine until 7.33pm on 20 May 2019 at 
a different machine to the one Mr K had said had taken his card
The disputed transactions were made via Chip & PIN, so if it wasnt Mr K making the 
payments, someone obtained Mr Ks card and PIN. And there is no plausible 
explanation for how this could have occurred
Nationwide contacted the bank which owned and operated the cash machine used 
by Mr K on 20 May 2019, and the technical evidence from the cash machine showed 
Mr Ks bank card entered the machine at 6:06:16pm, a balance request was made at 
6:06:27pm and at 6.06:38pm £500 was requested, which was dispensed at 
6:06:59pm
Upon checking the cash machine there were no discrepancies, which confirms the 
notes were dispensed
No bank cards were found to have been retained by the machine
The first disputed transaction happened 20 seconds after Mr K used the cash 
machine. So, its not possible that someone could have taken Mr Ks card from the 
cash machine, especially whilst Mr K was stood at the machine
Unhappy with this response Mr K brought his complaint to us where one of our investigators 
looked into his complaint. She said based on the evidence, Mr K had most likely given his 
card and PIN to a third party to carry out the transactions. Mr K disagreed. He said he had 
not carried out the transactions and CCTV would support this. He also said that it was likely 
his bank card had been deliberately trapped in the cash machine and retrieved by 
fraudsters.
 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, the transactions, and the 
evidence. Mr K and Nationwide have read the investigators view. So, I wont repeat every 
detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. However, I can assure Mr K that 
Ive read the file, including Mr Ks comments and evidence.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr K, but Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr K authorised the 
payments, Nationwide is entitled to hold him liable. The relevant regulations, to this effect, 
are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). Mr K says he didnt make the 
disputed transactions, so my primary concern is to come to a view about whether or not I 
think Mr K authorised the transactions by either making them himself or allowing a third party 
to do so.
Having reviewed Nationwide technical evidence, Im satisfied that Mr Ks genuine card 
details were used to make the disputed transactions and that they were authenticated. But, 
the regulations relevant to this case, say that this is not on its own enough to enable 
Nationwide to hold Mr K liable for them. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that Mr K consented to the transactions being made or 
whether he is the victim of fraud as hes alleged.
 
Mr K has said the value of the disputed transactions are out of character for his usual 
spending pattern. And Ive also taken on board what hes told us about how he thinks his 
card might have been taken from the cash machine by fraudsters using a card trap device or 
tweezers.
 
Mr K has also, not unreasonably, said that if CCTV footage had been obtained by the bank 
at the time  its long since gone now  that would have shown who actually made the 
transactions. That is possible, although much would depend on the quality of the footage. 
But whilst it might have shown who was responsible for the disputed transactions, it wouldnt 
necessarily have helped answer the question about whether Mr K had authorised someone 
else to make the transactions. Ive noted Mr Ks strength of feeling about his complaint about having been the victim of 
fraud and that he did not make the transactions himself. But I have to reach my decision 
based on the information that is available to me and I think there are a number of pointers 
which show it is more likely than not that the disputed transactions were either made by K or 
someone known to him. 
Firstly, Ill deal with the disputed £500 cash machine transaction. When someone tells us, 
they didnt get the money they requested from a cash machine, we look at the evidence the 
bank provides. This includes information about whether the cash machine  where the 
disputed transaction took place  had the money it was expected to have in it at the end of 
the period under review. Essentially did it balance or was there more money in it than 
expected. If the latter is the case, this could suggest a customer didnt get the money they 
requested. 
The cash machine which was used by Mr K wasnt owned by Nationwide, it was owned by 
another bank, which I will refer to as bank B. The investigator contacted bank B for more 
information, and it has provided evidence to show that the machine Mr K used balanced and 
there were no discrepancies. If there had been a malfunction with Mr Ks withdrawal as hes 
suggested, Id have expected there to be considerably more in the machine. But there wasnt 
a surplus which I would expect to see if the money hadnt been dispensed properly.
Its not in dispute that Mr K put his bank card into the machine. What is in dispute is what 
happened after he did so. Mr K says that when he tried to withdraw cash from the machine, 
he requested £40 and then the screen went blank. And the machine kept his card. So, Ive 
reviewed the journal roll of the cash machine Mr K used which provides details of Mr Ks use 
of the machine and whether there were any errors. Having done so, I have some bad news 
for Mr K. This does not show Mr K requested £40. Instead the evidence shows that at 
6.06:16pm Mr K put his card in the machine and asked for a balance of his account, around 
10 seconds later a request for £500 was made which was dispensed twenty seconds later at 
6.06.38pm. So, all in all the whole transaction took less than a minute. There is nothing to 
show the cash machine wasnt operating correctly at the time Mr K used it as hes 
suggested. So, Im satisfied that Mr K requested £500 and it was dispensed. 
I also find it unlikely that Mr K would attempt to use the same cash machine on a second and 
third occasion with different bank cards  if as hes said the machine didnt dispense any 
cash to him. And had retained the first bank card he put into the machine after the screen 
went blank, which wouldve suggested to him that the machine wasnt working properly. 
Ive thought about what Mr K has said about how a fraudster couldve gained possession of 
his card from the cash machine. Whilst I am aware of techniques and devices fraudsters use 
on cash machines, Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that a third party had interfered 
with the machine in anyway at the time Mr K used it. Ive also kept in mind that Mr K has told 
us and Nationwide that he stayed close to the machine for at least 20 minutes after hed first 
used it to make sure his card or money didnt come out of the machine. And from listening to 
the call Mr K made to the bank at 6.55pm to report the transactions he told the bank that he 
was still in the vicinity of the cash machine keeping an eye on it. So, I think its likely, that if a 
fraudster was going to attempt to remove Mr Ks card with some tweezers, as Mr K has 
suggested, he wouldve noticed. 
I also think the timings of the transactions makes Mr Ks suggestion that an unknown third 
party got hold of his card and used it to make the disputed transactions unlikely. I say this 
because the first disputed transaction took place less than a minute after Mr K put his card 
in the machine, whilst Mr K says he was standing close by keeping watch. But I can see 
from the journal roll that Mr K put his other bank cards into the machine at 6.07pm and 
6.09pm. No one else used the machine in between Mr K putting his three cards into it, which means he wouldve been at the machine when it dispensed £500. So, I dont think 
the scenario put forward by Mr K is likely and Im not persuaded that this is what happened 
here.
Having reached this conclusion and looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that its more 
likely than not that Mr K did consent to the transactions he is disputing. I say this because:
Nationwides technical records show the transactions were made using Mr Ks 
genuine card and PIN
Mr K has said he hasnt disclosed his PIN to anyone. And he hasnt mentioned that 
anyone was close to him when he used the cash machine. So, Ive ruled out the 
possibility that he was shoulder surfed. So, theres no plausible explanation for how 
an unknown third party would be able to gain possession of Mr Ks PIN
the technical evidence doesnt support Mr Ks version of events  this shows Mr Ks 
card wasnt retained by the cash machine and was used to make the subsequent 
disputed transactions at 6.11pm. 6.19pm and 6.53pm before being retained in a cash 
machine at 7.33pm. So, theres no plausible explanation for how an unknown third 
party was able to gain possession of Mr Ks bank card
the technical evidence shows that its likely Mr K was still using the cash machine 
when the £500 was dispensed 
theres no evidence that Mr K attempted to contact the bank after the £500 disputed 
transaction as hes suggested. The evidence shows Mr K didnt report the disputed 
transactions until two minutes after the final disputed transaction had been made on 
20 May 2019. And it shows he didnt log onto his banking app until 6.48pm, which 
was more than half an hour after the first disputed transaction
Mr Ks card was retained at a different machine to the one Mr K said had taken his 
card, and his account activity shows he made regular withdrawals of £500
No further disputed spending was attempted after Mr K called the bank to report what 
had occurred, even though further funds remained in Mr Ks account and could have 
been taken. This all indicates that whoever made the transactions not only had 
access to Mr Ks card and PIN, but was also aware Mr K had contacted the bank
So, when I weigh everything up, Im not satisfied theres evidence of fraud here. Like the 
investigator, I believe it is more likely that whoever made the withdrawal and subsequent 
transactions, if not Mr K himself, was someone known to him.  So, in the circumstances it 
wouldnt be fair for me to ask Nationwide to refund Mr K the disputed transactions. 
Mr Ks also unhappy about the service he received when he rung the bank on 3 June 2019 
about the transactions. He says the staff accused him of making the transactions himself 
which made him feel like a criminal. Having listened to the call, I dont think Nationwide 
implied Mr K had made the transactions. Banks have to investigate matters where a 
customer is claiming a debit transaction on their account wasnt made by them and they are 
expecting the bank to refund the transaction. So, I dont think I can reasonably say 
Nationwide did anything wrong when it asked Mr K questions about the disputed 
transactions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman