DRN-2159040
The complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about how Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) applied his 
payments to his account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and concluded in summary:
Mr R took out balance transfers when they had promotional rates and repaid these 
when the promotional rates expired. The terms of his account set out how payments 
would be allocated, and this information was also included in the statements. The 
information said We use your payments to pay off balances charged at the highest 
interest rate first and so on down to balances with the lowest interest rates. This 
means that the more expensive balances are always paid off first. Mr R made 
payments after the expiry of his promotional rates, but his payments werent 
allocated to the lower interest rate balances.
Halifax said that Mr Rs change in interest rate occurred in a statement period and 
the allocation was based on the rates recorded on the previous statement. However, 
the information Halifax provided consistently said that payments would be allocated 
to the highest interest rate first and I couldnt see that it was made clear that the 
assessment of the highest interest rate would be taken from the previous statement.
I thought Mr R lost out because his payments werent allocated as he reasonably 
believed they would be. I noted Halifax refunded Mr R the interest and charges and 
so, as far as I was aware, no financial loss occurred due to the issue.
Mr R was caused distress and inconvenience because of this issue. He contacted 
Halifax about the issue and was told his understanding was correct and so he 
continued to act based on his understanding of the payment allocation process 
causing further inconvenience.
I noted Mr Rs comments about wanting all interest on his account refunded but I 
didnt think this was reasonable in this case. Halifax put Mr R back in the position he 
would have been had the issue not occurred by refunding the interest. It also paid 
him £50 compensation.
While I didnt think that Mr Rs request for a full refund of interest was reasonable I 
also didnt think that Halifaxs payment of £50 compensation was enough to reflect 
the inconvenience Mr R was caused by both the allocation of the payment and the 
information he was then provided about this. I thought a payment of a further £100 
(bringing total compensation to £150) was reasonable.
Halifax accepted my provisional decision. Mr R thought that higher amount of compensation 
was justified given the issue was repeated and the lack of clarity he was given when dealing 
with the issue. He also wanted to know if Halifax would be changing its wording to provide 
clarity for customers going forward.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. Halifax information about 
how payments would be allocated consistently said that the highest rate of interest would be 
repaid first, and I didnt find anything to show it was made clear that this assessment was 
based on the interest rates set out in the previous statement. Mr Rs payments werent 
allocated in a way he had reasonably believed they would be.
Mr R has already been refunded the interest and charges and I have no further evidence to 
show he has suffered a financial loss because of this issue. He did suffer distress and 
inconvenience both by the payments not being allocated as he expected and by not being 
provided with a clear explanation when he first raised the issue. He has asked if Halifax will 
be changing its wording to provide clarity about payment allocations. I appreciate his 
concerns, but it general it is not my role to tell Halifax how to carry out its operations 
although given this complaint we would expect this issue to have been noted. 
I understand that Mr R thinks a higher amount of compensation should be awarded. 
However, my role isnt to punish Halifax but, where a mistake has been made, to put the 
consumer back in the position they would have been had this not happened (which the 
refund of interest and charges did) and, where appropriate award compensation. In this case 
I have considered the actions taken by Halifax when Mr R raised his concerns and that he 
had to raise the issue more than once and while I appreciate his comments about 
compensation, I find that paying a further £100 (giving a total of £150) is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr R's complaint about Bank of Scotland plc and require it 
to pay him a further £100 (bringing the total compensation to £150) for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its actions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman