DRN-3673299
The complaint and what happened
Mr W complains Nationwide Building Society wont reimburse around £55,000 that he lost 
when he fell victim to a scam. 
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide was the point of loss, as Mr W had transferred the 
money from Nationwide to a crytpo wallet with Crypto.com, which was in his full control, 
before transferring the crypto assets to a further wallet with Coinbase (which the scammer 
had access to). Mr W didnt agree and employed the services of a CMC to represent him in 
his complaint. It said Nationwide was the point of loss, but also said an intervention call 
which took place on the final payment wasnt a sufficient intervention. 
Our investigator reiterated that he didnt think Nationwide was the point of loss. But found 
that as Mr W hadnt been honest about what was happening, further or better questioning 
during the intervention call wouldnt have uncovered the scam. The matter has been referred 
to me for review and determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only summarised the background above, I have read and considered whats 
been provided. Having done so, I broadly agree with the outcome reached by the 
investigator and I wont be upholding the complaint for the following reasons:
Mr W initially attempted some small payments to Coinbase which were returned. He 
then successfully transferred £200 to Coinbase on 8 December. This showed as a 
payment to himself on his statement. On 9 December he sent £5,000 to Crypto.com 
and the following day four separate payments of £10,000. He attempted a further 
payment of £10,000 on 11 December, which Nationwide questioned him about 
before releasing it. 
There is no dispute he authorised the payments. Whilst he didnt intend to get 
scammed, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. And there doesnt 
appear to be any dispute he has been the victim of a scam. The payments were 
made at the behest of someone he met online, who proceeded to withdraw all of the 
crypto assets from his Coinbase wallet without his knowledge.  
Nationwide is aware of our approach of expecting it to have been monitoring 
accounts to counter various risks, have systems in place to identify unusual 
transactions or other indicators that its customers were at risk of fraud; and in some 
situations, make additional checks before processing payments or declined them 
altogether to protect customers from possible financial harm from fraud or scams.
I accept that Mr W did have control of the first wallet payments were made to.  
However, this was opened at the behest of the scammer, around the same time the 
Coinbase wallet was opened. And it was all part of the same scam. So I do take and 
accept the CMCs point about Nationwide being the point of loss. 
I also accept its point about Nationwide only intervening on the final payment, but not 
the four separate payments of £10,000 each made to the same destination only the 
day before.  Multiple high-value transactions in one day to a new payee (set up one 
day prior), was a significant departure from the usual operation of the account. So I 
agree with the CMC, and I would have expected an intervention then. But Im not 
persuaded that means the complaint ought to be upheld. 
When Nationwide did intervene, Mr W was told of the importance of being honest 
when answering its questions. But when asked if a broker or someone else was 
helping him, and whether hed been told to invest all of his money, he said no. But 
that wasnt true. Not only did the scammer introduce the investment opportunity and 
provide step by step guidance on how to complete transactions, they also suggested 
he invest ever increasing, substantial sums. Had Mr W been truthful  and he admits 
he wasnt  and told Nationwide the investment was being made as a result of 
meeting someone online, Im satisfied it would have likely recognised the hallmarks 
of a scam, and asked further questions which could have unravelled it, preventing 
further loss. But Mr W presented himself as an experienced crypto investor, who had 
been investing on his own for some time and who recognised the risks, even though 
he wasnt coached into saying that. Despite Nationwide being clear that it was trying 
to ensure he wasnt being scammed, Mr W didnt help it to help him. So even had 
Nationwide intervened the day before, I dont think Mr W would have said anything 
differently, given the transactions were only a day apart. And Im not persuaded Mr W 
would have opened up and been truthful if it had asked more or different questions. 
Despite my natural sympathy for the situation Mr W finds himself in, and recognising 
he has lost a lot of money, Im not persuaded Nationwide taking different or more 
steps would have prevented the loss; that is Im satisfied Mr W wouldnt have been 
forthcoming and he still would have made the payments he did.
    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman