DRN-3263572
The complaint
Miss W says Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) irresponsibly 
lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Moneyboat provided to Miss W in May 2021. 
The loan for £400 was to be repaid in six monthly instalments, with the highest being 
£121.66. From what I can see, Miss W struggled to repay her loan and an amount remains 
outstanding. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Miss Ws complaint should be upheld. Miss W 
disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss W could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Moneyboat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Moneyboat was required to establish 
Miss W could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ws complaint.
Moneyboat asked Miss W for information about her monthly income and outgoings and it 
carried out a credit check. Miss W said her monthly income was £1,500 and her outgoings 
totalled £470, which Moneyboat increased to £800. So it looked as if Miss W had sufficient 
disposable income to repay her loan sustainably. 
The credit check Moneyboat made found that Miss W had some recent defaults and other 
loans. I think this was a concern, but I think this wasnt sufficiently concerning so as to then 
prompt Moneyboat to carry out further checks. 
I can see that Miss W thought that Moneyboat should have made better checks before 
approving the loan. I accept that Miss Ws actual circumstances werent reflected either in 
the information she provided, or the other information Moneyboat obtained. And Miss Ws 
actual financial position might well have been apparent if further information  such as bank 
statements  had been obtained. 
But Moneyboat could only make its decision based on the information it had available at the 
time. And as it was in the early stages of a lending relationship with Miss W, I dont think it 
had reached the stage where there was a greater risk of the loan being unsustainable for 
Miss W. In these circumstances, I dont think Moneyboat needed to take further steps to 
verify the information provided. 
Equally Im only able to uphold a complaint where I can safely say that a lender has done 
something wrong. And, in this case, I think Moneyboat carried out reasonable checks even 
though it looks like the information it was provided wasnt reflective of Miss Ws actual 
financial position. 
Moneyboat relied on the information it was provided with and given the amount of the 
repayment involved, together with Miss Ws declared income and Miss W only taking one 
loan, I think that this wasnt unreasonable. As this is the case, Im not upholding Miss Ws 
complaint. 
Miss W also raised concerns about how Moneyboat responded when she told it of her 
financial difficulties. In such circumstances, we expect a business to respond in a positive 
and sympathetic manner. 
Ans, although I can understand Miss Ws frustration with the circumstances in which she 
finds herself, Im satisfied that Moneyboat did this. It tried to set up affordable repayment 
plans. I dont think it harassed Miss W for repayments as it limited the number of times it 
tried to contact her. I dont think asking Miss W to make repayments constitutes harassment. 
And, when Miss W was upset, I think it responded sympathetically. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman