DRN-1882954
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the refusal of American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) to 
give her a full refund.
What happened
Mrs P has a serious medical condition, due to this her husband often does tasks for her. In 
particular, if she wants to buy items online that will need someone to come to the door to 
sign for or collect them, then her husband sets up the purchase, so the invoice is in his name 
to avoid Mrs P having to come to the door to sign and or take delivery.
In January 2019 Mrs Ps husband used her credit card account to purchase a pair of brand-
new high-end designer shoes on her behalf from an online retailer I will call M. Mrs P 
wanted the shoes as a pick-me-up to cheer her up after having had some recent 
diagnostics about her medical condition. Mrs P wore the shoes only twice. But, within 30 
days of the purchase Mrs P says some of the studs on the shoes began to become loose 
and some actually fell off. So, Mrs Ps husband also within 30 days contacted M wanting to 
reject the shoes on Mrs Ps behalf on the basis that the shoes were not of satisfactory 
quality.
According to Mrs P, M refused to accept the rejection of the shoes. Instead M insisted on 
being given the opportunity to repair the shoes. Mrs Ps husband, acting for Mrs P, declined 
this solution and returned the shoes to M expecting a refund. Therefore, Mrs P and her 
husband were confounded when M not only returned the shoes, but no repair had been 
done.
Mrs P asked AESEL for its help with the dispute. As I have already mentioned, her credit 
card account had been used to make the purchase. On that basis Mrs P thought she had 
rights under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75), and she wanted to 
rely on these rights. Initially AESEL refunded the money to Mrs Ps account. It did this using 
a process called chargeback. This process does not rely on Mrs P having rights under 
Section 75. Rather it is a procedure that the bodies who run credit card schemes allow 
businesses to use where there is a dispute about a product brought using its systems. 
However, when M sent AESEL information to show it had sent the shoes back to Mrs P it 
changed its mind and reversed the refund.
AESEL didnt agree that Mrs P had any rights under Section 75. It said that one of the 
conditions for a successful claim under this provision is that there must be a valid debtor-
creditor-supplier relationship in place. For this to exist it said there needs to be a contractual 
relationship between the supplier here M and Mrs P. Its stance was there was no such 
contractual relationship because although Mrs Ps credit card account was used to buy the 
shoes the invoice from M was in her husbands name. This it suggested meant he, not she, 
had a contractual relationship with M. On this basis it declined to meet her claim.
Mrs P was dissatisfied with AESELs response and came to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ps complaint. She recommended upholding it. She 
made this recommendation because, in short, she was satisfied that the true construction of 
the nature of the relationship between Mrs P and M was that there was a contractual 
relationship between them. Mrs Ps husband had merely acted as her agent. It followed 
therefore that the required debtor-creditor-relationship did exist.
Further, our investigator pointed out that it was an implied term of the contract between 
Mrs P and M that the shoes had to be of satisfactory quality. In the circumstances, our 
investigator found on balance the shoes were not of satisfactory quality and this was a 
breach of contact. Section 75 means that AESEL can be held liable for such a breach of 
contract on the part of the supplier. That being so when our investigator thought about what 
was fair and reasonable she took into account relevant law which includes Section 75. And 
for these reasons it was fair and reasonable for AESEL to be held to account, and our 
investigator decided that meant it should arrange to collect the shoes at no cost to Mrs P. It 
should also rework Mrs Ps credit card account as if the purchase had never been made. If 
this resulted in a credit balance she should get 8% interest on this. Further she asked it to 
write off any interest and charges that it might have applied in relation to the purchase.
Mrs P accepted our investigators recommendation, AESEL did not. In summary, it 
responded to say, it had concerns about the validity of Mrs Ps account of events. 
Specifically, it highlighted a practice whereby, consumers buy something, use it, and then 
having used the goods for a short-term purpose then make up a reason to return the goods 
within 30 days.
Further, AESEL had concerns that whatever use Mrs P had put the shoes to had caused the 
problem or it could have been lack of care on her part that led to some of the studs falling off 
and others becoming loose. It also wanted photos to show that the shoes had not been 
repaired. It also suggested it was curious that Mrs P had bought aspirational footwear and 
then decided she wanted a refund rather than a repair. It didnt agree that the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 (CRA) the law that says goods have to be of satisfactory quality was 
relevant to this complaint. Finally, it suggested the high fashion shoes Mrs P had bought 
were not designed with durability in mind.
Our investigator responded that whilst she accepted that some consumers might take the 
approach that AESEL had told us about she didnt have anything that persuaded her that in 
these very specific individual circumstances that Mrs Ps complaint was without merit. She 
didnt find it persuasive that it was misuse by Mrs P that caused the problem. Rather she 
found it more likely that the shoes that Mrs P had only had for weeks were not of satisfactory 
quality. She didnt find it surprising that Mrs P lost faith in M and wanted a refund not a 
repair. She sent AESEL the photos it had asked for.
As far as I am aware we have received no further response from AESEL. 
Mrs P let us know she was reaching the point where she thought she might want to take 
AESEL to court. But as far as I am aware she has not issued any proceedings yet. In the 
meantime, Mrs P asked that an ombudsman review her complaint.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not ideal that we have had no further response from AESEL, but I am satisfied that even 
in the current circumstances, AESEL has had a fair opportunity to respond. I am going to 
uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Please let me explain why.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mrs P relies on her rights under Section 75. Section 75 says, amongst other things, that in 
certain circumstances if the debtor has, in relation to a transaction financed by a credit 
agreement, any claim against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or a breach of 
contract, then she has a like claim against the credit provider. 
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mrs Ps complaint, I have to take 
account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law. Therefore, Ive 
taken it into account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for 
example, a court might reach if Mrs P pursued a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract. Our service is an informal alternative to the courts.
It seems that AESEL has accepted that there is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship 
here. But in case Im mistaken about this Ive looked at this point. Mrs P describes why her 
husband was involved in this transaction. Given her circumstances, which no one is 
disputing, I find it likely that Mrs P and her husband living together as they do in the same 
house, with Mrs Ps illness sometimes meaning she cannot easily get around, make 
purchases in some way that suits them and that one operates as the agent for the other for 
all purposes. That being so I find it likely that the contracting party in relation to the purchase 
of the shoes was Mrs P. It follows that there is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship 
here. 
Our investigator has already explained in great detail how we take Section 75 into account 
and why the CRA is also relevant law. But since AESEL asked about this I think it is correct 
to run through this again.
As I mention above Section 75 applies if the debtor, (here Mrs P) has, in relation to a 
transaction financed by a credit agreement, (here the credit card transaction) any claim 
against the supplier, (here this is M), in respect of a breach of contract, then she has a like 
claim against the credit provider, (here this is AESEL). The law says that goods supplied by a business to a consumer must be of satisfactory quality. So, this term was implied into the 
contract between M and Mrs P.
To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The quality of the goods includes 
their general state and condition and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance 
and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of 
goods.
Mrs P had the shoes for a matter of weeks. I accept it is possible that the studs fell off 
because of something Mrs P did. But I dont find that scenario likely, she had not really had 
them long enough to mistreat the shoes. Rather I find it far more likely that the damage 
happened because the shoes were just not up to the job, that is that they were not fit for 
purpose. Moreover, I dont agree with AESEL that these types of shoes are not built for 
durability all shoes are built to last to some extent, in that they are designed to be worn. 
Certainly, they were not work boots or heavy-duty footwear meant for rough terrain, but they 
ought to have been capable of standing up to being worn in normal circumstances. The fact 
that the studs fell off in such a short space of time satisfies me that the shoes did not have 
the level of durability that a reasonable person would expect.
These shoes cost hundreds of pounds part of the cost I accept is down to the prestige of the 
brand who makes the shoes, but part of the cost reflects the quality of the materials used. I 
think any reasonable person would expect shoes that cost close to a grand to last for more 
than a few weeks. For this reason, too, I think that the shoes were not of satisfactory quality 
when I have regard to their price.
I accept there are indeed, customers who act in bad faith. They order goods, wear them with 
no intention of paying for them ultimately and then return them. AESEL suggests Mrs P 
might fall into this category but it does not back up this version of events with anything 
persuasive. Its suggestion seems to be that Mrs P ought to be considered to have behaved 
like this because other people do, thats not enough to satisfy me here. The studs falling off 
and becoming loose dont fit into this scenario. In fact, it works against it, as Ms returns 
policy was invalidated if the goods were retuned damaged. 
For all of these reasons I find on balance the shoes were not of satisfactory quality when 
supplied. It follows it is fair and reasonable that AESEL must give Mrs P a full refund.
Mrs P talks about her postage costs. I think she should get back the money she spent on 
posting the shoes back to M, as she only incurred these costs because the shoes were not 
of satisfactory quality. Mrs P needs to send us her postage costs if she has not already done 
so, and we will tell AESEL what these are. I also think AESEL must refund Mrs P for any 
delivery charge that M charged to Mrs P when it delivered the shoes the first time.
Mrs P has also asked for a payment to reflect the time she spent on this complaint, but I 
dont think that is appropriate. I would have expected her to have to spend some time on 
making her case to AESEL. And I have no basis for asking AESEL compensate her for the 
time she spent chasing M for a solution when there is no fair and reasonable grounds on 
which I can make AESEL take responsibility for Ms poor customer service.
Mrs P suggests that AESEL have made her ill, Im not sure how precisely this is shes not 
explained. In any event, Ive seen no evidence of this, and I have no fair and reasonable 
basis for saying AESEL has caused her personal injury or for asking it to compensate her for 
this.Ive not looked at the chargeback point as I have already said AESEL must give Mrs P a full 
refund which is the only remedy I would be able to give Mrs P for this part of her complaint.
Mrs P does not have to accept this decision if she rejects it will not be binding. She has 
talked about going to court instead. However, in closing, I am simply required to add - albeit 
maybe mainly for the sake of completeness - that if she rejects my decision it does not affect 
any possible rights she may have to take legal action against AESEL, should she wish to do 
so.
My final decision
My final decision is that American Express Services Europe Limited must:
Arrange to collect the shoes at no cost to Mrs P.
Rework Mrs Ps credit card account as if the purchase had never been made. If this 
results in a credit balance it needs to pay her interest on this at the rate of 8% simple 
per year the interest to run from the date the credit balance occurred until the date of 
settlement. *
Pay the postal costs Mrs P paid when she returned the shoes to M and any postal 
costs AESEL charged Mrs P to deliver the shoes to her.
Ask the credit reference agencies to remove any adverse information it has asked 
them to register on Mrs Ps credit file in relation to the non or late payment of the 
money for the shoes.
*If AESEL considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs P how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs P a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman