DRN-3418663
The complaint
Mr N complains that Motors Insurance Company Limited unfairly turned down a claim on his 
mechanical breakdown insurance policy. 
What happened
The clutch on Mr Ns car failed so he took it to a garage for repair. The garage called Motors 
to claim for the fault but were told it wasnt covered as Mr Ns policy doesnt cover wear and 
tear. Mr N didnt think this was fair and complained, he said the clutch had only done around 
20,000 miles and so didnt think it should have failed due to wear and tear. 
Motors reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. They said the garage hadnt called back 
to confirm the details of the fault and so didnt think it had been unfairly declined. Motors 
then called the garage who said they hadnt called back as theyd been told if the clutch had 
failed due to wear and tear then it wouldnt be covered and as it had worn out they hadnt 
called back. Because of this Motors said Mr Ns claim wasnt covered as it was excluded due 
to wear and tear. Mr N didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into this complaint and recommended it be upheld. He found that the 
garage hadnt called back as theyd been told if the clutch had worn then it wouldnt be 
covered. However, as the clutch had only done around 20,000 miles when it failed he didnt 
think Motors had shown it was fair and reasonable to rely on the wear and tear exclusion, 
unless the clutch had reached the end of its normal working life. 
As Motors hadnt shown why it was fair and reasonable to turn down Mr Ns claim for a 
clutch which had failed prematurely, our investigator recommended Motors pay Mr N the 
£1,569 he paid for the repair, minus any policy excess. He also recommended Motors adds 
8% simple interest per year to the amount they pay. Motors didnt agree, they said the clutch 
had worn out as diagnosed by the garage so didnt think theyd done anything wrong in 
turning down the claim. 
As Motors disagreed the complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ns policy say they will cover mechanical or electrical failure. 
They define this as:
Mechanical or electrical failure is the sudden and unexpected failure of a
component which is covered by the warranty and which requires immediate
repair or replacement. Wear and tear or normal deterioration is not covered
under the definition of mechanical or electrical failure. 
Mr Ns policy covers the clutch but says it excludes damage due to wear and tear, 
which is the reason Motors have declined this claim. Within the section of the policy 
where it says what isnt covered it says:
Gradual reduction in operating performance (wear and tear) consistent 
with the age and mileage of the vehicle. Components that may be subject 
to wear include, but are not limited to, brake discs, drums and frictional 
materials, suspension and steering components, clutch pressure plates, 
bearings and frictional material.
As its not in dispute that Mr Ns car has suffered a mechanical or electrical fault of a 
covered part. Ive focused on whether Motors is applying the wear and tear 
exclusion correctly and in a fair and reasonable way. 
The term above says the policy doesnt cover wear and tear which is consistent with 
the age and mileage of Mr Ns car. At the time of failure Mr N said his clutch had 
done around 20,000 miles. Motors have provided information to say clutches last 
around 60,000 miles with some needing replacing sooner and others lasting longer. 
Theyve also said this can be dependent on a variety of things, with driving style 
being one of them. 
Considering Mr Ns clutch failed at around 20,000 miles, Im not persuaded Motors 
have applied this term fairly. I say that because Motors havent shown why Mr Ns 
clutch failed after only around 20,000 miles. Ive considered Motors point about the 
garage not calling back, however, Im not persuaded that makes a difference here. I 
say that because the garage only didnt call back as theyd been told if the clutch 
fails due to wear and tear then its not covered. 
So as Motors havent shown why its fair and reasonable to apply this exclusion to 
Mr Ns claim, to put things right it should pay Mr N what he paid for repairs. Mr N 
said the repair cost him £1,569. Therefore, Motors should pay Mr N this amount, 
minus any applicable policy excess. To compensate Mr N for not having this money 
Motors should also add 8% simple interest per year to the amount they pay, 
calculated from the date Mr N paid for the repair to the date settlement is made. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Motors Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr N £1,569, minus any applicable policy excess. 
Motors Insurance Company Limited also needs to add 8% simple interest per year to the 
amount they pay, calculated from the date Mr N paid for the repair until the date settlement 
is made. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman