DRN-3018575
The complaint
Miss C complains Everyday Lending trading as GeorgeBanco.com acted unfairly after it had 
agreed to a settlement of her previous complaint with it.
What happened
Miss C is unhappy with Everyday Lendings actions following the agreement both parties 
reached in relation to a separate irresponsible and unaffordable lending complaint. In 
essence Miss Cs complaint is that Everyday Lending failed to carry out the agreed 
settlement, and that it continued to send information to both her and Miss Cs former 
guarantor. Miss C says this continued contact was excessive and caused her significant 
distress and inconvenience. Miss C also complains Everyday Lending sent incorrect 
information regarding the status of the loan.
Everyday Lending considered Miss Cs complaint and acknowledge there had been failings 
on its part. It acknowledged that some of the information sent to Miss C via letter had 
incorrect information on it. It also acknowledged the removal of information from Miss Cs 
credit file had been slower than expected. It also recognised that a message had been sent 
incorrectly to Miss Cs former guarantor. In order to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the above it offered Miss C £75 as a gesture of goodwill.
Whilst making this offer Everyday Loans also noted that Miss C had not engaged with it 
regarding the rescheduling of the accounts. It also highlighted that it had amended its 
systems to ensure no further communications would be sent to Miss Cs former guarantor.
Our investigator felt Everyday Loans had done enough to put things right in this instance. 
She highlighted that Everyday Loans had made numerous attempts to amend Miss Cs 
credit file in line with the previously agreed settlement; and had attempted to contact Miss C 
to discuss the necessary rescheduling of her payments. Our investigator felt the £75 offered 
was sufficient to cover the distress caused by the incorrect information being sent to Miss C. 
In relation to the impact of the messages sent to Miss Cs former guarantor; our investigator 
explained this was not a matter which could be considered under this complaint. This was 
because the former guarantor would need to raise these matters with Everyday Lending in 
the first instance.
Miss C remained unhappy with this outcome. She felt our investigator had not considered 
the level of contact Everyday Lending had had with her; and the impact this had on her 
wellbeing. She also maintained the impact Everyday Lendings actions had on her 
relationship with her former guarantor had caused significant distress and inconvenience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all of the information on file Im satisfied that Everyday Lending does not 
need to do anything further in relation to this complaint. I appreciate Miss C will be unhappy 
with this outcome; but I can assure her Ive carefully considered all of the information she 
has provided and taken into account all of the points she has raised.
It is right that I cannot consider the impact Everyday Lendings actions have had on Miss Cs 
guarantor. As our investigator has explained before, Miss Cs former guarantor will need to 
bring this complaint to Everyday Lending directly themselves; should they so wish to.
With that being said I am able to consider if Everyday Lendings actions with Miss Cs former 
guarantor had an impact on Miss C. So, Ive considered Miss Cs information in relation to 
this. And whilst I accept there is no doubt a deterioration in the relationship between Miss C 
and her former guarantor and this has caused Miss C understandable distress; Im not 
satisfied that this is a result oof anything Everyday Lending did wrong. Everyday Lending is 
entitled to communicate with all relevant parties concerning the management of the account. 
Ive not seen evidence which suggests this communication was unreasonably excessive. It 
has offered some compensation for the message, which was sent in error, and confirmed the 
actions it took to resolve this issue. So, Im persuaded Everyday Lending doesnt need to do 
anything further in respect to this aspect of Miss Cs complaint. 
Miss C says Everyday Lendings contact with her was excessive; and this led to a significant 
level of distress and inconvenience to her. Ive reviewed the timeline of events; and the 
contact that Everyday Lending and Miss C have had. Having done so Im not persuaded that 
this level of contact amounts to excessive or unreasonable behaviour from Everyday 
Lending. The settlement which both parties had agreed to previously still required Miss C to 
make payments to her outstanding capital amount. The communication that existed between 
her and Everyday Lending centres on this. Miss C has said she stopped payments in 
January 2021 because of the behaviour of Everyday Lending, which in turn prompted further 
contact from it. Having reviewed the notes; Im satisfied that Everyday Lending acted 
reasonably in this instance; and was contacting Miss C in a manner I would expect in similar 
circumstances. 
In relation to the incorrect information which was sent to Miss C; Everyday Lending 
explained the circumstances surrounding this in its final response to Miss C. That is to say it 
apologised for the incorrect information contained in that letter; but explained it was in part 
due to Miss C not engaging with it in regard to the rescheduling of the necessary payments. 
As I mentioned above, Miss C has told our service she stopped making payments in January 
2021 in part because of the level of contact she had from Everyday Lending. Ive already set 
out that I dont agree this contact was outside of what I would expect. So taking this into 
consideration; and the fact Everyday Lending has apologised for this error (and offered 
some compensation, in part to recognise this); Im satisfied that it doesnt need to do 
anything further in relation to this aspect of Miss Cs complaint.
Miss C says Everyday Lending did not remove the necessary information from her credit file, 
as had been agreed to previously. Our investigator set out to Miss C that Everyday Lending 
had demonstrated it had made the necessary requests; and had followed this up. Everyday 
Lending had also acknowledged the timeline of this action. Im satisfied that our investigator 
explained this situation correctly to Miss C. Im satisfied that Everyday Lending made 
reasonable attempts to complete this action; and from what all parties have said this now 
seems to have been completed. I should point out that in some instances negative details of 
loans wont be completed until all balances have been settled; which in this instance does 
not yet seem to be the case.Miss C in her initial complaint to us said she felt Everyday Lending had breached her data. 
Whilst she doesnt seem to mention this in response to our investigators assessment; Ive 
also considered this aspect for completeness. Having done so; Ive not seen anything which 
suggests that Everyday Lending sent information which breached Miss Cs personal data. 
Everyday Lending has acknowledged a message was sent incorrectly; and it corrected this 
mistake when it was brought to its attention. This was also factored into the existing 
compensation offer from Everyday Lending. And Im satisfied again this is sufficient 
recognition in this instance.
So overall; whilst I appreciate the strength of Miss Cs feeling on this matter; Im satisfied 
that the apology and compensation which Everyday Lending has agreed to is sufficient in 
this instance. It therefore does not need to do anything further to put things right. 
My final decision
Everyday Lending has already made an offer to pay £75 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Everyday Lending Limited trading as GeorgeBanco.com should pay 
£75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman