DRN-4235942
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) declined a 
claim he made under his employers group income protection policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. In summary Mr F became 
absent from work in June 2022 (although his symptoms had started some months earlier). In 
August 2022 he made a claim for income protection benefit under his employers policy. He 
wrote that he was suffering from depression, insomnia, stress and anxiety.
L&G assessed Mr Fs claim, appropriately seeking medical input from its Chief Medical 
Officer (CMO), but it didnt find that he met the policy definition on incapacity. It said that the 
disability definition was one of suited occupation, therefore the policy criteria require the 
member to have a physical or mental health condition of sufficient severity to preclude them 
from working in their own or suited occupation. It added that the policy focus was on 
functional ability, rather than medical diagnosis /diagnoses.
Our investigator sent L&G a further report from an Occupational Health Physician - Dr JM - 
in order to comment. L&G didnt find the report provided medical evidence material to the 
time of the claim, so didnt change its original conclusion.
When our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld, Mr F appealed. I 
issued a provisional decision on 26 June 2023. I explained the reasons why I was minded to 
come to a different conclusion to our investigator. These were: 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, 
amongst other things, the terms of the insurance contract and all the available 
medical evidence, to decide whether I think L&G treated Mr F fairly.
The onus is on Mr F to show that he meets the policy definitions for his claim to be 
payable. His policy has a deferred period of 26 weeks  that means that he needs to 
show he met the policy definition of incapacity for that period and beyond in order for 
benefit to be payable.
Having carefully considered all the evidence Im provisionally satisfied that the 
medical evidence does show that Mr F met the policy definition of incapacity during 
the deferred period and until and including January 2023. I havent disregarded the 
input from L&Gs CMO. I didnt find it was partial  as Mr F has suggested. I 
appreciate too that that the case is finely balanced. Nevertheless, Im minded to find 
that the medical evidence, including the Occupational Health Report dated 27 
January 2023, does tip the evidence in his favour.
I appreciate that L&G is of the opinion that Mr Fs depression fell into the less severe 
category  whilst Mr F believes it should be categorised as severe. Mr F is 
supported in this by his psychiatrist at the Community Mental Health Team who 
confirms that Mr F is having treatment for the management of one of the major 
mental disorders, having been referred in October 2022. But as the policy focuses on 
functional ability rather than diagnosis (or categorisation) I find that the evidence 
regarding functional ability is of greater importance than categorisation. I say this as 
the fact that Mr F was suffering with a mental illness is not in dispute. His GP also 
confirmed he was treated for a persistent episode of depression and anxiety. So I 
have carefully considered the evidence regarding Mr Fs functional ability during the 
relevant period.
Mr F himself reported sleeping for only 2-3 hours per night, a feeling of anxiousness, 
exhaustion and poor concentration. The trigger was work related stress but Mr F was 
signed off work, prescribed medication and referred for therapy. I dont accept that 
because Mr F did engage in some social activities this supports a conclusion that he 
was able to engage in his own or a suited occupation.
L&G concluded that Mr Fs treatment had been effective  it does appear that this is 
so to some degree and the prognosis is positive. But Im not provisionally minded 
that to agree this meant Mr Fs absence from work was due to difficulties in the 
workplace. I say this as the impact on his functional ability was ongoing. This is clear 
from the evidence of his GP, with whom Mr F was engaging on a regular basis and 
who didnt consider he was fit to work. I note too the evidence of the psychiatrist Mr F 
saw in November 2022 having been referred by his GP. I dont find that this was at 
odds with the treatment given by Mr Fs GP and the conclusion that he reached.
In reaching this provisional decision I should make clear that I have not disregarded 
the assessment of the of the Vocational Clinical Specialist in August 2022 which 
concluded that Mr F was fit to return to his own or a suited role. But I dont find that 
the weight of all the evidence supports this early conclusion. Likewise I note the 
CMOs opinion that the symptoms of clinical depression triggered by work related 
stress should settle once the person isnt at work. In this case however although Mr F 
wasnt at work the medical evidence doesnt support the conclusion that his 
symptoms abated to the extent that he was able to return to a work environment.
In their Occupational Health Report dated 27 January 2023, Dr JM found that Mr F 
was unfit for work and would require another 8-10 weeks sickness absence. They did 
not believe that Mr F had the concentration to be able to render reliable and 
sustainable service and attendance at that time but felt that he had an excellent 
prognosis and it was just a matter of time  they anticipated three months or so.
In all the circumstances therefore, I am minded to conclude that Mr F did meet the 
policy definition of incapacity  and was unable to work even in a suited occupation 
for the duration of the deferred period and beyond. I recognise that in similar cases it 
will be possible for someone to return to work whilst on appropriate medication and 
undergoing therapy. Although, like his GP, Im not minded to find that was the case 
here or that Mr F could have continued working with the symptoms he was 
experiencing.
I am not able to say however if or when Mr F would have been ready to return to a   
suited occupation. And although L&G has commented on Dr JMs report, it hasnt 
had the opportunity to assess the claim following this. Accordingly, Im provisionally 
minded to require L&G to admit the claim paying benefit until end January 2023 and 
assess whether benefit was still payable after that date.
For completeness I would say that Mr F had complained about a breach of 
confidentiality. Our investigator didnt recommend that this was upheld  she didnt find that L&G had done anything wrong by writing to Mr Fs employer  the 
policyholder. I agree. As Mr F accepted the investigators findings I wont comment 
further as this aspect of his complaint is resolved.
For these reasons my provisional decision was that I intended to require L&G to admit Mr Fs 
claim and pay benefit in line with the policy terms until the end of January 2023, adding 
interest. I intended to require it to then assess Mr Fs claim from end January 2023. 
Both parties responded. Mr F accepted the provisional decision. He attached further 
evidence regarding his ongoing incapacity from January 2023. Additionally he asked that 
consideration be given to the stress caused by the claim not being met when it should have 
been. In summary he said that this exacerbated his condition and severely impacted his 
financial circumstances. Finally he said that he had been caused embarrassment by L&G 
sharing information with his employer, which led to his employer trying to force him back to 
work too early and against his doctors advice. He felt L&G had caused him reputational 
damage by sharing information with his employer  he referenced in particular a 
communication sent in August 2022.
L&G strongly disagreed with my provisional decision and highlighted a number of concerns. 
In summary these included: 
The term major mental disorder is non specific and L&G would expect clear 
justification that it can be evidenced from a treating psychiatrist to dispute its CMOs 
medical opinion. Without such specialist information it asked how the categorisation 
highlighted by its CMO can be justified. 
It didnt consider that objective satisfactory evidence had been demonstrated by Mr 
F in order to prove his claim.
It felt that the recommendation to stop benefits in January 2023 indicated that the 
medical evidence was unclear/finely balanced. But it felt that my provisional 
recommendation to assess this further demonstrated that there was insufficient 
satisfactory evidence to prove that the claim was valid. It reiterated that it was from 
Mr F to prove the claim was valid and not L&G. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not persuaded to change my provisional findings, which I adopt here. Ill 
explain why.
There is clearly a medical disagreement about how Mr Fs mental health condition should be 
categorised. I referenced this in my provisional findings. I said: But as the policy focuses on 
functional ability rather than diagnosis (or categorisation) I find that the evidence regarding 
functional ability is of greater importance than categorisation. I say this as the fact that Mr F 
was suffering with a mental illness is not in dispute. I didnt find that it was helpful in the 
circumstances here to reach any firm conclusion on this categorisation point. As I said I took 
into account the CMOs opinion as well as that of Mr Fs treating physicians. I preferred to 
look at all the evidence holistically and, as I said, focus on Mr Fs functional ability. There is 
no doubt that this was impaired. I was satisfied by the evidence, and remain so, that the 
impairment was such that he was unable to work in his own or any suited occupation. I found 
that the evidence that I had referenced allowed me to draw this conclusion.That said, I did consider, and have reconsidered, all the evidence and I recognise that when 
L&G first declined the claim in August 2022 it was on the basis of the evidence it had at that 
time. I understand that Mr F feels that it shouldnt have written to his employer at that time 
setting out its findings. His employer is the policyholder, and I dont find that it erred in 
corresponding with his employer in the way it did when it did. 
Mr F feels his claim should have been admitted earlier and so compensation is due. I fully 
accept that he has experienced a very difficult time both emotionally and financially. But Im 
satisfied that there was persuasive evidence on both sides  some coming in at a later 
stage. In these circumstances I dont require L&G to compensate Mr F, other than to pay his 
claim with interest, as I direct below.
I didnt feel that L&G had the opportunity to assess the evidence submitted Mr Fs claim post 
the report of January 2023. I reached the conclusion that there was sufficient satisfactory 
evidence prior to that date  and therefore that Mr F had proved his claim to the required 
standard. Mr F has submitted further new evidence  and Im pleased to note that he hopes 
to be back at work soon  but he will need to submit that evidence to L&G for its 
consideration of his ongoing claim. For completeness I would say it is for him to show he 
continued/continues to meet the policy definition of incapacity.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Legal and General Assurance 
Society Limited to:
Admit Mr Fs claim and pay benefit in line with the policy terms until the end of 
January 2023.
Add interest to the settlement at the annual rate of 8% simple from the date the 
benefit payment was due until the date of settlement.
Assess Mr Fs claim from end January 2023.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman