DRN-2692975
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy about the way that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited has handled the 
collection of an outstanding debt in his name.
What happened
In 2013, a business that I will call B assigned a debt in the name of Mr L to a business that 
I will call D. B and D sent Mr L notices of assignment in 2013. D appointed Link to manage 
the account on its behalf.
Mr L is unhappy about the way in which Link has undertaken the collection process. He has 
raised concerns about Link trying to contact him using a mobile number that belongs to his 
son and a family email address.  Mr L says Link misled him about how it came to have these 
details. He says that his son was very distressed to hear from Link
Mr L complained to Link in 2016. It said that B had supplied the mobile number and that as it 
couldnt get a reply, Link traced an email address.
Mr L complained again in 2019 as he wasnt satisfied that B gave his sons mobile number to 
Link. B had confirmed to Mr L that it didnt give Link the mobile number. Link said that tracing 
software found the mobile number. Link had already removed the number and email from its 
database in 2016 after Mr L said the mobile number wasnt his and the email address was 
used by the family. Link offered Mr L £100 to apologise but he didnt accept.
Mr L was also unhappy that a default remained on his credit file for too long. He said that B 
applied the default in 2013 so it should have dropped off Mr Ls credit file in 2019. 
Mr L says the reporting of the default has negatively affected him.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ls complaint be upheld. She explained that the 
default had been applied to Mr Ls account in December 2014 so should now have been 
removed. The investigator was satisfied that Links offer to pay £100 was reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can only consider Mr Ls complaint as it relates to Link and not to the actions of B or D. One 
of Mr Ls key concerns is that he thinks Link lied to him about how it obtained his sons 
mobile number. Mr L says that Link must have breached its code of conduct in some way. 
And he regards it as a breach of the Data Protection Act 2018.
I understand Mr Ls strength of feeling about the alleged data breach, but this service isnt a 
regulator. I need to look at whether Link made a mistake and if it did, what should happen to 
put things right. I cant fine Link or tell it how to run its business. 
To try and understand what has happened, Ive reviewed Links call records. As far as I can 
see, Link used the mobile number for Mr Ls son around five times in early 2016. It looks as 
though when Mr Ls son answered the last call made, he told Link the number belonged to 
him and not Mr L.
I understand that Mr Ls son was upset to be contacted by Link. But I need to consider the 
impact of Links mistake on Mr L and not his son. I also note that once Link was made aware 
of the problem, it removed the mobile number from its records.
At the time that Mr L raised his concerns about the mobile number in May 2016, Links notes 
indicate that it told him the number was found through its trace team. I agree that its 
unfortunate that Link also told Mr L in writing that B had given it the number. This must have 
been confusing and led Mr L to have to follow up with B. However, Im satisfied that Links 
apology and offer to pay £100 is reasonable in the circumstances.
The investigator explained to Mr L that the default was applied in late 2014 rather than 2013. 
From the evidence Ive seen, Link sent Mr L a notice of default in November 2014 and then 
applied the default a month later. 
The default will have remained on Mr Ls credit file for 6 years so it should have dropped off 
his record by now. I leave it with Mr L to check whether this has happened. If the default is 
still being reported, he can follow this up with Link and the relevant credit reference 
agencies.
Im sorry that my decision is likely to disappoint Mr L, but I dont require Link to do more than 
it already has done to put things right.
 My final decision
Link Financial Outsourcing Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. My decision is that Link should 
pay Mr L £100 if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman