DRN-3989437
The complaint
Miss J and Mr M complain HL Partnership Limited trading as Fidenti Mortgages & Protection 
(Fidenti) caused them to incur an early repayment charge (ERC).
What happened
Miss J and Mr M approached Fidenti, a broker, on 7 May 2021 for advice on purchasing a 
new home. At the time, they were tied into a fixed rate of 2.29% with their existing lender 
until 31 January 2023. The outstanding balance on their existing mortgage was around 
£114,526.
Fidenti told them they could either take a mortgage with a new lender and forfeit the ERC, 
port their existing mortgage product and apply for the additional loan they required or apply 
for a whole new mortgage with their existing lender. If they stayed with the same lender, they 
could claim back the ERC. Miss J and Mr M say they followed the advisers recommendation 
to stay with the same lender even though they could have got a cheaper rate elsewhere.
Miss J and Mr M say they were told that as long as they completed on their new property 
within 90 days of moving out of their old property, they would qualify for the refund. But 
Miss J and Mr M say when they contacted their lender to request the refund, they were 
informed they didnt qualify because their broker had applied for a new product rather than to 
port their existing mortgage. Miss J and Mr M say the lender confirmed they would have 
been eligible for the refund if the application had been completed correctly. So, Miss J and 
Mr M think Fidenti should refund the ERC which has cost them £3,428. 
Fidenti looked into Miss J and Mr Ms concerns, but it didnt agree it hadnt processed their 
application correctly. It said that Miss J and Mr M had told the adviser they were going to sell 
their home and live in temporary accommodation for around one month before they moved 
into the new build property they were purchasing. This would have made them eligible to 
claim the refund, but Miss J and Mr M completed on their new property at the same time. 
This meant they no longer qualified to port their mortgage. 
Fidenti said its possible the adviser should have contacted Miss J and Mr M again around 
August 2021 to confirm everything was still on track as discussed, but it also felt Miss J and 
Mr M ought to have contacted the adviser to let them know their plans had changed. The 
adviser would then have been able to inform them of the implications of this. As a gesture of 
good will, Fidenti offered Miss J and Mr M £500, but it didnt accept it was responsible for the 
ERC.
Our investigator reviewed Miss J and Mr Ms concerns, but they didnt think Fidenti had done 
anything wrong. As Miss J and Mr M disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Miss J and Mr Ms complaint should be upheld and Ill explain 
why.
The adviser produced a fact find on 7 May 2021. They confirmed Miss J and Mr M would be 
subject to an ERC of around £3,428 if they left their existing mortgage agreement, so this 
was factored into their advice. The adviser confirmed there were cheaper rates available 
with other lenders, and Ive seen a list of mortgage comparisons which shows a number of 
rates for different providers, including Miss J and Mr Ms existing lender. 
While cheaper rates were available over the two-year period Miss J and Mr M wanted, the 
lower rates wouldnt have saved them enough to make up for the ERC they would have to 
pay. It was for this reason, staying with the same lender was the preferred option. And after 
a discussion about the various products on offer from that lender, it was decided a two-year 
fixed rate at 2.03% with a £999 fee was the preferred rate. 
The adviser explained that if Miss J and Mr M ported or took a new mortgage with the same 
lender on a non-simultaneous basis they could request a refund, providing they complete on 
the new property within three months of the old propertys completion date. I think the word 
non-simultaneous is particularly important here. This meant the properties could not be held 
at the same time, so the new purchase would need to complete after the sale of their 
existing home  at least one day later. So, as long as Miss J and Mr M moved out of their 
existing home before completing on their new home, and completed on their new home 
within three months, they would be eligible to have their ERC refunded. 
The adviser recommended Miss J and Mr M do this rather than port their existing mortgage 
and apply for a top up loan for the additional sum required. While its not explicitly explained 
why they recommended this, there is an emphasis on Miss J and Mr M wanting the lowest 
interest rate possible. So, as it would have been cheaper for Miss J and Mr M to apply for a 
whole new mortgage, instead of keeping their old mortgage which was on a higher rate, I 
think this is why the adviser recommended this option. 
The notes confirm Miss J and Mr M explained they planned to move out of their current 
home in August and move into the new home in September  subject to the building being 
ready. Given it was a new build, and wasnt ready yet, I dont think the adviser had any 
reason to doubt the information theyd been given. Their advice was based on Miss J and 
Mr M completing on their existing property approximately one month prior to completing on 
their new property. And based on this, Miss J and Mr M met the criteria to obtain an ERC 
refund. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think the adviser had any reason to think Miss J and 
Mr M would complete on both properties simultaneously.
On 9 May 2021, I can see the adviser double checked the proposed completion day with 
Mr M via WhatsApp. Mr M confirmed it was still planned to go ahead in September. The 
adviser asked Mr M to confirm what their plans for moving out of their current home were. 
Mr M responded and confirmed they hadnt had a precise date, but they understood it would 
be in August. Mr M said he would confirm this with his solicitor, but that they could move into 
his Mums for a few weeks if necessary. 
So, again, I think this gave the adviser the impression Miss J and Mr M would be out of their 
old home prior to completing on the new property. The adviser then reminded Mr M they had 
to complete within three months, which seemed to be the greater concern at the time given 
Mr M confirmed he may need to move into his Mums in the interim. The adviser explained 
they would have to pay the ERC when they completed and then they could claim it back 
afterwards. I note the lender issued a decision in principle for the full sum required, for the 
whole mortgage, on the same day. On 24 May 2021, the adviser contacted Mr M via WhatsApp again and asked him to 
reconfirm his move out date and intended move in date. Mr M confirmed the same dates but 
said he still hadnt had any specific target dates from his solicitor. He said he would try to 
speak to them tomorrow and that hed let the adviser know. As nothing had changed, the 
adviser repeated the need to complete on the old property and complete on the new 
property within three months. Ive no reason to believe the adviser wouldnt have reminded 
Mr M about the completion dates needing to be non-simultaneous if there had been any 
suggestion this might happen. 
A mortgage illustration was then produced on 26 May 2021, showing that Miss J and Mr M 
were applying for a mortgage for £295,995 plus a £999 fee. 
The adviser issued a letter on 1 June 2021, confirming their recommendations and reasons 
why based on the information gathered in the fact find. The adviser noted that Miss J and 
Mr M wanted to purchase a property for £369,995, so they required a mortgage of £295,996. 
This made it clear it was a whole new mortgage rather than just the additional sum they 
required. 
The adviser reconfirmed the information recorded in the fact find. Specifically, that Miss J 
and Mr M would be subject to an ERC on their existing mortgage, but they could either port it 
to the new property or take a new mortgage with the same lender and ask for a refund. That 
the completions would need to be non-simultaneous. It also highlighted that Miss J and Mr M 
planned to move out of their existing home in August and planned to move into the new 
home in September. Based on this, they had recommended a new repayment mortgage with 
a two-year fixed rate at 2.03% with Miss J and Mr Ms existing lender. 
On 9 June 2021, Miss J and Mr M received an offer from their lender. All of the details of the 
offer are consistent with what was agreed in the fact find and recommendation letter. 
There was a lot of back and forth between the adviser and Mr M on WhatsApp over the next 
few days, but I cant see that Mr M ever confirmed hed spoken to his solicitor and obtained 
more specific completion dates. So, on 11 August 2021, the adviser messaged Mr M again 
to ask if there was any word on exchange of contracts. At this point, Mr M confirmed hed 
received the paperwork and would return it the next day. 
On 20 September 2021, Mr M confirmed it looked like they would be exchanging early that 
week for a completion date of 30 September 2021. Then on 26 September 2021, Mr M 
confirmed the move date would be 30 September 2021. But I dont think it would have been 
clear to the adviser that Miss J and Mr Ms plans had changed. Based on what was said, its 
possible the adviser thought Miss J and Mr M had already completed on their previous home 
and were just waiting to complete on their new home. The adviser wouldnt have been privy 
to this information unless Miss J and Mr M shared that with them. And again, I havent seen 
anything to make me think the adviser wouldnt have reminded Miss J and Mr M of the need 
for the completions to be non-simultaneous if they had any reason to suspect the plans had 
changed. 
After this, Miss J and Mr M completed on both properties simultaneously. This meant they 
wouldnt qualify for a refund of their ERC. I can see their lender informed them a different 
application would have been required to port the mortgage and that they would have needed 
a new application for the additional borrowing only. But that isnt really relevant. Miss J and 
Mr M could have taken this option if they wanted to, but they also could have obtained a 
refund the way the adviser recommended. And the advisers recommendation was cheaper 
overall due to the lower interest rate available to them. If they had chosen to do it the way the lender is suggesting, this would have been more 
expensive because it would have meant paying a higher interest rate than they needed to for 
the remainder of their existing mortgage  up to 31 January 2023. 
Mr M has since told the adviser he understood they were going to have two accounts. But I 
dont think he had any reason to think this. All of the communication Ive seen was very clear 
in showing Miss J and Mr M were applying for a whole new mortgage, including the offer 
Miss J and Mr M accepted from their lender. There was no reference to Miss J and Mr M 
keeping their existing mortgage product and only taking a new one for the additional sum 
other than the fact find and recommendation letter, which both confirmed this option had 
been ruled out. 
It seems Miss J and Mr M may not of appreciated the significance of the completion dates 
being non-simultaneous, but the adviser says they explained this to them at the time and it 
was documented in the letters they received. I think Miss J and Mr M should have informed 
the adviser that their plans changed as soon as they became aware because the adviser 
wouldnt have had any reason to have known otherwise. And the adviser did ask Mr M to 
confirm the relevant dates a few times during the process. Mr M eventually provided this 
information, but it wasnt clear that both properties were now going to complete around the 
same time. 
Fidenti has offered Miss J and Mr M £500 as a gesture of goodwill, recognising that Miss J 
and Mr M have lost their ERC and that the adviser could have checked more thoroughly 
closer to the completion date. Ive thought about this carefully and while I empathise with the 
situation Miss J and Mr M find themselves in, I think Fidentis offer is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances as I dont think the adviser did anything wrong. 
If Miss J and Mr M now wish to accept Fidentis offer they can sign and return the attached 
form. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Miss J and Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman