DRN-3407675
The complaint
Mr M complains about HSBC UK Bank Plcs (HSBC) handling of his accounts.
 
What happened
In December 2020, Mr M logged into his online banking. He realised he couldnt see a 
foreign currency account. He contacted HSBC who told him this would be resolved in a few 
days, but when Mr M later tried to log in to his online banking, he wasnt able to access the 
account at all. Mr M tried to resolve this matter over the phone with HSBC, but says he 
wasnt able to answer the security questions as he opened the account a number of years 
ago. 
Mr M was based abroad at the time and was able to attend a HSBC branch. But they werent 
able to help him despite what Mr M said were a number of offers to do so. Mr M explained 
he wasnt able to rely on the postal system for a security reset pack to be sent to him and 
made a complaint to HSBC.
HSBC responded to Mr M. It said it put a block on accounts which had been dormant for 
more than a year. And they hadnt been able to clarify this when Mr M phoned because they 
hadnt been able to verify his identity. HSBC told Mr M how he could reset his telephone 
banking access. 
Mr M says to put things right, he wants access to his account reinstated, along with his 
online and telephone banking. He also wanted to be financially compensated for what he 
says represents the difference in value if he was to convert the money to another currency 
now, rather than when he wanted to. 
Since Mr M referred his complaint to us, hes confirmed that hes been able to access his 
account and move his funds away from HSBC. One of our investigators considered Mr Ms 
complaint and said she thought HSBC had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account, and that reasonable attempts had been made to help Mr M. As Mr M didnt agree, 
this matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like our investigator, Ive considered the terms and conditions of the account. These say: 
If you're not using all of your accounts, we may restrict payments in or out to protect 
against fraud, but we'll let you know first. We'll do this after 12 months.
Neither Mr M nor HSBC have suggested it had been less than 12 months since Mr M made 
a transfer from the account. Im satisfied that according to the policy terms, HSBC was able 
to restrict access to Mr Ms account on the basis there hadnt been a transfer for more than 
12 months. I dont think HSBC acted incorrectly in restricting the account.
Ill turn now to Mr Ms attempts to reinstate his online and telephone banking access. I dont 
doubt this was made more challenging for him, not only for being abroad at the time, but the 
impact the time difference had, along with the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Whilst HSBCs phone lines were open 8am  8pm, Mr M says this equated to 4pm  4am 
where he was at the time. And not only was he unable to access his account, his options for 
phoning HSBC were very limited. 
Based on the information Ive seen about HSBCs internal security processes; its agents 
took all the steps they were able to try and reinstate Mr Ms access. But this needed to 
happen at a local branch  which Mr M tried to do but was unable to do so because of the 
time difference impacting the phone lines. HSBC wouldnt have been able to accept the 
email from the adviser at the branch he visited who offered to help Mr M. The only other 
option was for a security reset pack to be sent by post  but this wasnt possible either at the 
time.
While I do understand the very difficult situation Mr M was in, Im not persuaded, based on 
what Ive seen, that HSBC acted outside of its recorded procedures. Im satisfied it did all it 
could to try and put things right for him, but the fact this didnt happen wasnt as a result of 
any wrongdoing by HSBC. Im not going to ask HSBC to compensate Mr M as hes asked. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman