DRN-1868408
The complaint
Miss P complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited declined to cover a claim she 
made on her motor insurance policy after her car was stolen.
What happened
On the day of the theft in November 2019, Miss P says she started the cars engine, then left 
the key in her car whilst she returned to the front door of her home to collect her belongings. 
She says she only moved eight steps away from the car, yet whilst at the door she heard a 
noise and saw a man drive the car away at speed. She didnt think it was fair for Advantage 
to decline the claim, as it hadnt highlighted the keys in car exclusion when she bought the 
policy in 2015, or at its renewals.
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Ps complaint. He pointed out that section two of the 
policy says a claim wont be covered if the keys are left in or on the car whilst its unattended 
with the engine running. He said Miss P was advised to read the policy documents. He didnt 
think it would have made a difference had the exclusion been highlighted. Miss P repeated 
that in her view she hadnt been given adequate policy information.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems Miss P accepts that Advantage could fairly have declined the claim had it brought 
the exclusion to her attention when she bought the policy, or at renewal. Although she hasnt 
said so explicitly, the implication is that had she been told about the exclusion, she wouldnt 
have left the key in the car whilst it was unattended, with the engine running. 
The policy document from 2015 isnt available, but Advantage says the exclusion was set 
out in that document. I think thats probably the case, as most (if not all) motor policies have 
long contained a theft exclusion if a key is left in an unattended car. Since then, the policy 
document has been available online at renewal. The exclusion is set out clearly in it, and in 
the renewal cover letters, Miss P was advised to read the policy. I dont think it was 
unreasonable to expect her to do that, or at least to review the policy exclusions.
There are two references to the keys in car exclusion in the policy, in addition to the one in 
section two. Its set out in the general exclusions section  and the general conditions 
section (under Caring for your car) states that a consumer must protect it from damage or 
loss by ensuring its locked and secure when unattended. But in my opinion the keys in car 
exclusion is a significant one (although its not unusual). That means wed expect to see it 
highlighted in a key facts document, or something similar, as well. 
As the exclusion wasnt highlighted, I must consider whether Miss P would have acted 
differently had she known about it, taking into account all the circumstances. 
Miss P only left the car unattended for a few seconds, and she only moved a very short 
distance away from it. I dont think its possible to say for sure whether shed have done that 
had she been aware of the exclusion. So its a matter of deciding whats most likely to have 
happened in those particular circumstances.
I dont think Miss P thought the car was at risk, given that she only left it briefly and only 
moved a very short distance away from it. It isnt unusual for consumers to act similarly in 
similar circumstances - even if they have been made aware of the keys in car exclusion. 
Having thought about it carefully, in my opinion its more likely than not that Miss P wouldnt 
have acted any differently that day had the exclusion been highlighted, either initially or at 
renewal several months earlier. 
I appreciate that the theft of the car has had a substantial impact on Miss P, and I 
sympathise greatly with the position shes found herself in. But as I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Advantage to decline the claim, I cant uphold Miss Ps complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 December 2020. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman