DRN-3567423
The complaint
Mr C complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with his request to close his account.
What happened
Mr C says he asked HSBC to close his credit card account in June 2021, but it didnt do so. 
He says he cancelled the direct debit linked to the account and says HSBC didnt tell him 
that the account hadnt been closed. Mr C says he used the account card in August 2021 by 
mistake and was unaware a payment was due. Mr C says he didnt receive any letters about 
the debt at either his new or old address but did receive a text message in November 2021. 
He would like a refund of the late payment fees of £36. He says he has a record of an online 
conversation in which he told HSBC to close his account
HSBC says it updated Mr Cs address on 13 September 2021 and wrote to him at that 
address telling him about the missed payments. It says Mr C used online banking and the 
information would have been visible to him. HSBC says it has record of an online 
conversation in June 2021 in which Mr C asked it to close the account, but it said that it 
couldnt close his account and he needed to speak to a certain team. HSBC says the late 
payment fees were correctly applied in line with account terms and conditions.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the full online conversation ended with HSBC telling Mr C that to close the account 
he needed to call it, and that it likely Mr C had updated HSBC with his new address which 
corresponded with the statement address being changed. The investigator also thought Mr C 
used online banking and could have noticed the account still active and that a payment was 
due.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and says in summary he is not paid to check all his accounts. 
He says he didnt receive HSBCs letters and says it is unreasonable for him to chase up the 
request to close his account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr C will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at the records of the online conversation between Mr C and HSBC in 
June 2021. I have no doubt Mr C wanted his account closed but equally I can see that HSBC 
at the end of the conversation told Mr C that he needed to call it before the account could be 
closed. I think it likely Mr C assumed the account would be closed and have no doubt that is 
why he cancelled the direct debit set up to pay HSBC. But I cant fairly hold HSBC 
responsible for what Mr C thought had happened and am satisfied it told him the account 
couldnt be closed until he called it.
There is no dispute that Mr C then used his account card. I accept that Mr C may have made 
a mistake in doing so but I cant see how HSBC could have known that was a mistake and 
think it correctly asked Mr C to repay the balance. I dont think the position is entirely clear 
about Mr Cs address details. I appreciate Mr C says he was residing in Switzerland at the 
time, but I can see on HSBCs records that Mr Cs address was changed from his address in 
Switzerland to an address in London on 13 September 2021. I cant see how HSBC would 
have had details of the two addresses unless Mr C told it about them and think it unlikely 
HSBC would have changed the address unless instructed to do so.
The effect of the address change was that statements were addressed to the London 
address as were letters about the arrears. I appreciate Mr C says he didnt receive those 
letters. But Im satisfied the letters were correctly addressed and cant fairly hold HSBC 
responsible for the safe delivery of mail. In any event Im satisfied that Mr C had online 
access to his accounts and ought reasonably to have noticed that the credit card account 
was still active, which closer inspection would have revealed an outstanding balance which I 
find was made up of late account fees correctly applied in line with account terms and 
conditions when a payment was missed. I appreciate Mr C says he is not paid to monitor 
accounts, but I think this was his account and his responsibility to manage it.
Overall, I find that HSBC didnt act unfairly or make a mistake and so it would be unfair to 
order it to refund the late payment fees or pay compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman