DRN-3348622
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the amount of compensation Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) has 
paid following an error it made when it unnecessarily amended his personal details
What happened
Mr M was named on a mortgage application that was submitted to Barclays via a broker. His 
Christian name was spelled incorrectly on the application. When Barclays received the 
application, it noted the different spelling, so it changed the spelling of his name on its 
system to reflect what was on the mortgage application form. 
Because of the anomaly with his name, Mr M says a number of online transactions he tried 
to make were declined. He says this meant he had to pay using a different card. He says this 
was embarrassing and he cant understand how such an important amendment to his 
personal details could be made without his permission. Mr M says the amendment left him 
exposed to fraudulent activity and what happened is a serious breach of trust and security. 
Mr M wants assurances that Barclays has the relevant checks and controls in place to 
assure him this wont happen again. He says the time it took Barclays to rectify this (10 
days) was too long, and £250 is not enough compensation to cover the distress and 
inconvenience hes suffered.
An investigator looked at the complaint and said Barclays had done enough to put things 
right for Mr M. 
Mr M doesnt agree, and hes asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
As a service we'll consider whether compensation is appropriate in each case. Well ask 
about what happened, and the impact it had on a consumers life. We're all inconvenienced 
at times in our day-to-day lives  and a certain level of frustration and minor annoyance is 
expected. For us to make an award we'd need to see that the impact of a business's mistake 
was more than someone would expect to experience as part of everyday life.
If an error or a single mistake has caused more than the levels of frustration and annoyance 
you might reasonably expect from day-to-day life, and the impact has been more than just 
minimal, requiring a reasonable effort or a few weeks to sort out, then an award between 
£100 and £300 might be fair.. An award of over £300 might be fair where the impact of a 
mistake has caused considerable distress, and/or significant inconvenience or if a mistake 
has a serious short-term impact.
Barclays admit it made an error here and once this was highlighted the error was rectified, 
although it took 10 days to do so. Barclays says it shouldve confirmed the correct spelling of 
the name with Mr M and it shouldnt have made any amendments without checking first. 
Barclays has apologised twice (letters 14 April 2021 and 4 May 2021) and its acknowledged 
Mr Ms dissatisfaction and frustration by awarding compensation. 
But Mr M has a number of concerns. He says Barclays has acted in a cavalier fashion and 
that weve given Barclays conclusions to what happened here a higher moral value. Hes 
concerned that Barclays has allowed a broker to have the final say in what his personal 
details should be, and he says that what happened makes a mockery of checks and 
regulation. Mr M says Barclays couldve changed the name to anything it wanted, without his 
say. He says the level of compensation offered doesnt reflect the time and energy he spent 
resolving this, in particular the distress hes suffered because he couldnt use his card and 
the multiple calls he made to Barclays in an effort to resolve this..  
Its not in dispute that Barclays made an error. Barclays changed Mr Ms name on its system 
on 8 March 2021. Mr M was notified immediately via text. I can see Mr M contacted Barclays 
immediately and its clear from the file notes he was very upset. He had concerns about 
fraudulent activity on his account and he had concerns about the effect the error would have 
on the mortgage application. 
In its letter to our service Barclays says the error was amended by 18 March 2021. Again, 
the amendment was notified to Mr M via text. Mr M had already complained to Barclays at 
this point and on 19 March 2021 Barclays told Mr M it was continuing to deal with the issues 
hed raised. 
Barclays carried out an investigation and gave Mr M a final response which recommended 
£150 in compensation for its error. But when Mr M complained again Barclays 
acknowledged it couldve made things a lot clearer and given him a better explanation as to 
what happened. It offered Mr M a further £100 in compensation.
I know Mr M wants further compensation for what happened. I acknowledge all his concerns 
and I can see why he was distressed, worried and frustrated. But Im not a regulator. I dont 
have the power to investigate the way Barclays operates on a day to day basis. And its not 
within my remit to punish Barclays, or any individual employee. My job is to consider the 
evidence provided by both parties, without taking sides, and decide what I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome, in all of the circumstances of a particular complaint.
In order to decide if Barclays acted fairly here, Ive thought about what happened and how 
Barclays dealt with it. I agree Barclays shouldve been clearer about what had happened, 
and I agree that Mr M has been caused distress and inconvenience. But this is a single 
mistake that has taken a few weeks to sort out. And even though Mr M was inconvenienced 
and worried and did have to complain, this type of error would usually equate to a 
compensation amount of between £100 to £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
In this instance Barclays has awarded Mr M £250 for what happened. And even though I 
know Mr M will be disappointed by this, Im satisfied this was a single error and the 
compensation awarded is fair and reasonable. As such Im not upholding this complaint and 
I wont be asking Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman