DRN-3499583
The complaint
Mr K complains that Starling Bank Limited refused to cash his cheque.
What happened
Mr K says he tried pay a cheque for £100 into his account by uploading a copy of it on 17 
March 2022. He says Starlings systems rejected the cheque and delayed the money being 
paid into his account which he needed for food. Mr K says the cheque was uploaded 
correctly and would like compensation. He has provided a copy of the image of the cheque 
he uploaded and says the corners are in place.
Starling says Mr K contacted it on 17 March 2022 about the cheque and says it told him that 
the cheque image wasnt clear enough. It says it advised Mr K to upload it again, but he 
refused. Starling says Mr K did so the following day when the cheque was approved and 
says it told Mr K what the issue was on 17 March 2022.
Mr K brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought the first cheque image wasnt clear and didnt have all four corners 
visible. The investigator didnt think the image Mr K provided us was the actual image 
uploaded on 17 March 2022 and thought Starling was entitled to reject an image in line with 
account terms and conditions.
Mr K doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have looked at the online chat record between Mr K and Starling after Mr K tried to upload 
the cheque image. Im satisfied Mr K was told that Starlings systems had rejected the image 
and why. And that Mr K was clearly given information about how to take a new image of the 
cheque. I can see that Mr K refused to do so and so Im satisfied it was Mr Ks choice not to 
take a new image which would have meant the cheque could have been processed that day. 
I find that the delay was due to Mr Ks refusal to take a new image which I think would have 
taken a matter of seconds.
I appreciate Mr K says the image was clear. I dont think its our role to decide upon such 
matters as I think the important issue is that Starlings systems rejected the image which I 
think it was entitled to do in line with agreed account terms and conditions. And Im satisfied 
that Starling tried fairly to help and assist Mr K shortly after he attempted to upload the 
cheque. I dont think it clear why Mr K didnt follow that advice or attempt to upload again. I 
can see that Starling accepted the cheque the following day and that any delay was minimal 
in any event.
Overall, I dont think Starling acted unfairly or made a mistake when its systems rejected an 
image of Mr Ks cheque and I would have expected him to have followed Starlings advice 
about the cheque if he urgently needed the money. I have made clear that Im satisfied that it 
was Mr Ks choice not to retry uploading the cheque following Starlings advice. It follows 
that I cant fairly order Starling to pay compensation in these circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman