DRN-4019354
The complaint
Mr M complains HSBC Bank UK Plc trading as first direct failed to give him the information 
he wanted about a payment into his account.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 24 February 2023. I will summarise very 
briefly the background leading to the complaint before outlining what I said in that provisional 
decision:
Mr M and his ex-wife had a joint account with first direct which was frozen when Mr M 
notified the bank of their separation. Later, Mr M noticed a payment come into the 
account with no details of who it was from, and he rang the bank and eventually was 
told it was from his ex-wife.
Mr M had concerns that his wife had been concealing matrimonial assets because he 
had found financial documents in a shredder. He therefore wanted to know from first 
direct which account details had been used to make the payment. The bank refused 
to provide this information, citing data protection concerns.
A complaint followed, and first direct said it would not change its position regarding 
the provision of the account details, but it did accept it had made a couple of 
mistakes. Specifically, it had given Mr M incorrect information when he first called, 
and hadnt properly frozen the account, meaning Mr M had been able to make 
transfers into it outside of the banks procedures for dealing with disputed joint 
accounts. The bank paid £100 compensation for these mistakes. 
The complaint ended up with the Financial Ombudsman Service and was subsequently 
passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision to give both parties an opportunity to 
comment before I made my decision final.
Summary of provisional decision
In my provisional decision I noted that the primary question I had to answer was whether first 
direct, in refusing to disclose the sort code and account number Mr Ms ex-wife had used to 
make a payment into the joint account, had acted fairly and reasonably. I also needed to 
consider the question of the changing explanations Mr M had apparently been given by the 
bank, and whether he had been treated differently when he had made a payment into the 
joint account.
I considered what first direct had said about its policy on such matters. This was to freeze a 
disputed joint account, making it impossible for it to be seen on online banking or to be used 
by the disputing parties. In order to make a payment into the account, a special team at the 
bank needed to be contacted by phone, and they would arrange for the sending account 
details to be hidden so they couldnt be seen by the other disputing party.
Fundamentally, I thought first direct had put in place a sensible policy for when joint 
accounts fell into dispute. I noted that disputes between joint account holders could be 
complex and acrimonious, and that the bank would not know the precise nature and detail of 
the issues between the parties. I thought it was reasonable for first direct to take a cautious 
approach, especially as a sort code and account number could potentially be used for 
malicious purposes, either by themselves or combined with other information. While I had no 
reason to believe that Mr Ms purposes were anything other than legitimate, I considered the 
point stood that the potential for harm meant it was sensible for a bank to have relevant 
policies in place.
Turning to the terms and conditions of Mr Ms account with first direct, I was unconvinced 
that they unequivocally entitled him to his ex-wifes sort code and account number as he had 
argued. I noted that the terms said the bank would give information about payments into an 
account, but that they didnt say that this would include the payers sort code and account 
number. I didnt think the terms and conditions specifically entitled him to the information he 
was seeking.
I then turned to other points Mr M had made about failing to disclose the information being 
against FCA or banking rules. I considered that a page on the FCAs website which he had 
referred to was really just a summary of relevant information from the Payment Service 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). 
The summary on the FCAs website only said that a bank would provide details of who a 
payment was from (not necessarily the account details), but the PSRs themselves 
suggested that in fact first direct should have provided this information to Mr M. This was 
because the PSRs said that financial institutions needed to provide a payee with information 
transferred with the payment transaction, and while what this meant this was not defined in 
the PSRs, I could see from related regulations that it ought to include the sending sort code 
and account number. 
However, I noted both parties to the complaint had used the issue of data protection to 
advance their own arguments, and this was something else I needed to consider. The bank 
had said it wouldnt reveal the account details without a court order, for reasons of data 
protection. Mr M, on the other hand, had argued that he had a legitimate interest in obtaining 
the details and so they should be provided to him.
I consulted guidance published by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) and, 
having done so, I was not convinced that Mr Ms interest in the account details, which were 
personal data, meant first direct should share them with him. The guidance indicated that a 
company processing personal data, such as first direct, needed to carefully weigh up 
whether to disclose data on the basis of a third partys legitimate interests. The ICO had said 
that important factors weighing against disclosing information would include whether the 
person whose information was being disclosed would:
Reasonably expect the information to be disclosed.
Object to the information being disclosed.
Experience a significant impact as a result of the information being disclosed. 
I thought that first direct would reasonably have thought some or all of these factors would 
have been relevant. Bearing in mind the conclusion Id already made earlier: that it was 
reasonable for a bank, in the context of a dispute between parties over a joint account, to 
take a cautious approach, I concluded it wasnt unreasonable of first direct to cite data 
protection concerns as a reason for not disclosing Mr Ms ex-wifes account details to him.I recognised that arguments could be made, on the basis of relevant law or regulations, to 
support either disclosing or not disclosing to Mr M the information he sought. At this point I 
reminded myself that my role is to decide what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case and, importantly, that while I did need to take into account 
relevant laws and regulations, these were not the only factors in deciding what is fair and 
reasonable.
Concluding, I said:
I think first directs approach to the joint account dispute has been sensible and 
reasonable in view of the fact that it doesnt know the precise details of the dispute or what 
the consequences of disclosure could be. And whether or not first direct was obliged to 
disclose the account details of the inbound payment (which as Ive said appears to be 
arguable either way), ultimately Mr Ms ex-wife would have been under a duty to provide full 
disclosure during their divorce. The appropriate way for Mr M to resolve his concerns about 
whether full disclosure was in fact given would be for him to take it up with her, rather than 
seeking a direction from the Financial Ombudsman Service for his bank to provide further 
details of the account she made a payment from.
In light of the above, I am minded to conclude first direct acted reasonably in declining to 
provide to Mr M the account details of the account Mr Ms ex-wife used to make a payment 
to their disputed joint account.
I then went on to consider Mr Ms other points of complaint, namely that he had been treated 
differently by the bank when he had made a transfer into the joint account, and been given 
changing explanations of the situation.
I didnt think first direct had intentionally treated Mr M differently. I could see that Mr M and 
his ex-wife had been sent a letter by first direct with instructions on what to do if they wanted 
to make a payment into the account. Mr Ms ex-wife had followed those instructions to pay 
off half of the overdraft debt on the account, meaning she had spoken to the specialist team 
and they had hidden her sending account details. Mr M had made a payment in the usual 
way (without speaking to the team), meaning the details appeared as normal with his sort 
code and account number displayed. 
Mr M would not have been able to make a payment in this way had it not been for an error 
by first direct in failing to freeze the account properly. But there was no suggestion that 
Mr Ms account details being revealed had caused him any detriment or that his ex-wife had 
even seen them. In any event, evidence from the joint account bank statements showed it 
was an account Mr Ms ex-wife would have been familiar with.
I did consider Mr M had been given changing explanations of the situation by first direct and 
could see why this would have made him feel like the bank was hiding something from him. 
But ultimately there was a benign reason for him having been given conflicting and 
incomplete information, which was that the person he spoke to at first direct was unfamiliar 
with the background or the banks procedures for dealing with disputed joint accounts. It had 
only been after theyd spoken to a manager and the specialist team, that theyd been able to 
give a partial explanation to Mr M. I considered the banks error in not freezing the account 
properly had probably compounded this issue. But I thought the £100 already paid to Mr M 
was sufficient compensation to reflect the annoyance and frustration caused by the banks 
information failings.
The replies to the provisional decision
first direct didnt comment on my provisional decision but provided more detailed information about its policies and procedures for when joint accounts are in dispute. Mr M disagreed with 
the provisional decision and made a number of comments which Ive summarised below:
It had now been established that first direct had a legal obligation to make available 
to him the sort code and account number associated with the payment from his ex-
wife, due to the PSRs.
He maintained that his contract with first direct (i.e. the terms and conditions) obliged 
the bank to provide him any information about the joint account. His ex-wife had 
agreed to the same conditions and had consented under these for the information he 
was requesting to be provided. Mr M did not think I was familiar enough with the 
wording of the terms and conditions  he said any information meant one, some, 
every or all, without specification. So therefore he was entitled to whatever 
information about the account he asked for.
Whatever first directs policy was, or any issue of legitimate interest, was trumped by 
the banks obligation contractually or legally to provide the information. It wasnt 
necessary to consider fairness or reasonableness.
He hadnt in fact had access to the account on his online banking so the account 
freeze had happened.
I had been overly speculative as to what reasoning first direct may have had in mind 
if it had considered his legitimate interest in his ex-wifes account details was 
overridden by other factors. Mr M also provided some more analysis on the question 
of legitimate interests and the ICOs factors against disclosing information.
That if it was true that data protection considerations outweighed the PSRs and the 
account terms and conditions, he had been mis-sold the account because hed been 
led to believe that he would be able to rely on the law or the terms and conditions 
when operating it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr M for his detailed and considered submissions following my provisional decision. 
If I do not specifically address each point he has made this is not meant as a discourtesy to 
him, or mean I have not taken it into account. It is because I have focused my final decision 
on what I consider to be the most relevant points.
In his submissions Mr M has sought to dismiss any test of fairness or reasonableness as 
unnecessary in the face of what he considers to be a breach of contract by first direct. 
However, the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, section 228(2), requires me to 
decide complaints in the following way:
A complaint is to be determined by reference to what is, in the opinion of the ombudsman, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
As I stated in my provisional decision, this means that although I need to take into account 
the relevant laws and regulations (as outlined in section DISP 3.6.4 R of the FCA 
Handbook), they are not the only factor in deciding what is fair and reasonable. I need to 
have regard for all the circumstances of the case.Regarding first directs terms and conditions, I do not recognise the specific wording Mr M 
has quoted and I suspect it is from an earlier version of the account terms and conditions. 
first direct updated its account terms and conditions in November 2021 and they no longer 
contain the wording Mr M has quoted. 
I have no reason to believe that this change would not have applied to joint accounts in 
dispute, but even if it hadnt, I think any information about the joint account is somewhat 
open to interpretation. It does not obviously include the details of someone elses account, 
which is what Mr M is in fact seeking. I dont see how the wording means first direct would 
have been contractually obliged to provide Mr Ms ex-wifes account details to him, or how it 
assists his case in any other way. And Mr Ms point, that his ex-wifes agreement to the 
terms and conditions and first directs privacy notice meant she had consented to her 
account details being disclosed, is not persuasive. I say this because the terms and the 
notice relate to information about the joint account, not whatever account she used to make 
a payment from.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I think it is arguable that first direct were required 
under the PSRs to provide information transferred with the payment transaction, and that 
this information would include the sort code and account number of the payer. It is worth me 
mentioning here that if it is correct that this is a legal requirement then first direct may have 
avoided it due to the way it structured the transaction.1 Additionally, the regulations related to 
the PSRs which I had referred to in my provisional decision2 note that data such as the 
account details of a payer, are to be processed under the regulations for the purposes of the 
prevention of money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism, and further that 
the confidentiality of the data processed is respected. Disclosing the account details to Mr M 
would not have been consistent with this purpose. 
Mr M has raised several points regarding data protection law. In my provisional decision I 
concluded it hadnt been unreasonable of first direct to cite data protection concerns when 
explaining why they would not disclose to Mr M his ex-wifes account details. Mr M is correct 
to say that first direct has not been specific about its data protection concerns, and I 
understand part of his point here may be that he considers it its not for me to make the 
banks arguments for it, but I am not restricted to considering only the points put forward by 
either party. As a consequence, I referred in my provisional decision to some of the factors 
the ICOs guidance had said an organisation would have needed to weigh up when deciding 
whether to disclose information. 
Mr M has said that because it was standard practice for account details to appear on the 
bank statement for inbound transfers, and first direct hadnt indicated otherwise, and the 
terms and conditions said the details would be communicated to payment recipients, his ex-
wife would have reasonably expected the account details to be disclosed. Hes also 
suggested she couldnt have objected to the details being disclosed as she had already 
consented by agreeing to the terms and conditions. 
As Ive already noted above, the terms and conditions refer to information being disclosed 
about the joint account, not an account which has been used to make a payment into the 
joint account. So Mr M cannot rely on these in the way he has stated. Additionally, having 
read the procedures first directs staff are expected to follow when processing payments 
1 The immediate source of the payment into the disputed joint account was an internal suspense 
account at the bank. This means in a technical sense first direct was the payer and its own account 
details would have formed part of the information transferred with the payment transaction.
2 Regulation (EU) 2015/847 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on 
information accompanying transfers of funds and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1781/2006 (Text with 
EEA relevance) (Retained EU Legislation), also known as the UK Revised Wire Transfer Regulationsover the telephone into a disputed joint account, I think its very likely a payer would have 
been informed that their payment would be made in a way which ensured their account 
details would not appear. For this reason I dont think Mr Ms ex-wife would have expected 
these details to be disclosed. And in view of this, ultimately I remain of the opinion that it 
wasnt unreasonable of first direct to cite data protection concerns as a reason for not 
disclosing to Mr M his ex-wifes account details.
This brings me back to what I think is a central and very important aspect of the 
circumstances surrounding this complaint  which is the fact that a dispute existed, and 
appears to be ongoing  between Mr M and his ex-wife. As I said in my provisional decision, 
first direct doesnt know the details of the dispute or what the potential consequences could 
be if they were to disclose information to the disputing parties. Taking a cautious approach 
and not disclosing information is in my opinion reasonable in those circumstances. While 
there are potential arguments that the bank should have provided certain information to 
Mr M in order to comply with its regulatory obligations, I must come to a decision on the 
basis of what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And I 
remain of the view, that in not disclosing to Mr M his ex-wifes sort code and account 
number, first direct acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances.
Mr M has not sought to challenge my provisional findings on the other aspects of his 
complaint. He has however made the point that he was unable to see the joint account on 
his online banking, meaning it was frozen. That may be the case, but nothing turns on it. The 
point is that Mr M would have been unable to make a transfer into the account in the usual 
way had first direct set up the account freeze properly. It instead put in place a partial or 
incomplete freeze, and this was the cause of Mr M being treated differently when he made a 
payment into it. This did not cause Mr M any detriment. Neither party has commented on my 
findings on the question of why Mr M was given changing explanations by the bank. It 
follows that I see no reason to depart from those findings.
Finally, regarding Mr Ms last point, that the account has been mis-sold, I need to clarify that 
I am not making a finding that data protection considerations take precedence over the 
account terms and conditions or the PSRs. To restate what I have said earlier in this final 
decision and in my provisional decision, I have taken into account the relevant laws and 
having done so I can see arguments both for and against disclosing the account details to 
Mr M. But ultimately, I have made my decision on the basis of what is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. Mr M does not have to accept my decision 
and there are potentially other avenues open to him to pursue the matter further if he is 
inclined to do so. This could include taking the matter to the ICO, or through the courts. Mr M 
has referred to his ex-wife having completed a Form E, indicating the existence of legal 
proceedings relating to the financial aspects of their separation. I do not know if Mr M has 
had the benefit of legal advice in respect of this, but if he is concerned that a frank disclosure 
was not given then this is something he may wish to seek legal advice about.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, and in the summarised version of my provisional decision, 
I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman