DRN-3397031
The complaint
Mrs B complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited refused to allow her to choose which 
garage should repair her car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
Our investigator has set out in some detail the background and reasoning as to why the car 
was faulty at the point of sale. It is accepted by all parties that the car was faulty at the point 
of acquisition so I will not review that element of the complaint again. Mrs B has also decided 
she does not wish to reject the car. The dealer has said that it has offered this option on 
several occasions and Mrs B chose to keep the car.
However, she has made it clear that she wishes it to be repaired, but she wants to choose 
the garage which undertakes the work. MotoNovo has said the dealer has asked to be 
allowed to carry out the repair. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 affords a consumer the right to require the trader to repair 
the goods. Mrs B wishes to exercise that right and MotoNovo has agreed. What the law does 
not do is give Mrs B the right to choose who carries out the repair. She can require the 
dealer to do it, but it does not allow her to determine who does the work. 
The dealer has offered to collect the car at a time suitable to Mrs B and I cannot see why this 
should cause her any significant difficulties. It seems the dealer has given a very reasonable 
response to the problem.
I have noted she said that she has obtained quotes from other garages which suggest that 
the dealer would not be able to do the work as it is not authorised by the manufacturer. I 
cannot say if that is true, but if it is unable to effect the repair it can contract the work out to a 
suitably qualified garage. The car is outside the warranty period and so that would be no 
barrier to an independent garage carrying out the work.
Mrs B has also said that the dealer could damage the car out of spite. I have seen nothing in 
the material I have received from Mrs B, MotoNovo or the dealer that lends credence to that 
claim. Mrs B may have taken against the dealer, but I dont believe that is sufficient for me to 
overrule consumer law and deny the dealer the right to repair. My role is to be fair and 
reasonable to both parties.
MotoNovo has also agreed to pay for the cost of a hire car while the car is being repaired. I 
think that is also very fair. There has been some discussion about the potential cost and it is 
only right that I apply an upper limit. I think MotoNovo should pay for a hire car of a similar 
type, not necessarily identical and the cost should be capped at £30 a day. 
MotoNovo have already paid Mrs B compensation for distress and inconvenience of £150 
and £17.94 for repairs to a tyre. That simply leaves the matter of the repair of the car.
Putting things right
MotoNovo should arrange for the dealer to repair the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct MotoNovo Finance Limited to 
arrange for the collection, repair and return the car to Mrs B at no cost to her
pay for the provision of a hire car for Mrs B for the period her car is way being 
repaired subject to a maximum of £30. Payment is to be made subject to the 
submission of evidence of the cost incurred by Mrs B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman