DRN-3605511
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) lent to
her irresponsibly and didnt help her when she was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mrs C applied online for a credit card in July 2016  she asked for a balance transfer of
£800. Tesco agreed the card and gave her a limit of £8,600. In April 2017, Tesco 
increased the limit to £9,600. In March 2017, Tesco gave Mrs C a loan of £10,000 payable 
over 62 months for debt consolidation.
Mrs C complained. She said that Tesco didnt complete sufficient checks when giving her 
the card and when increasing the limit. She went over both limits and this should have been 
a warning to Tesco that she couldnt afford the borrowing. She said she had a significant 
gambling habit and therefore Tesco shouldve stopped her borrowing on the card. She 
wasnt aware that gambling transactions were treated as cash and therefore attracted a fee. 
Over time, this was very expensive. She said Tesco should refund all interest and charges, 
plus gambling transaction charges.
Tesco said that Mrs C passed their credit checks when she applied for the card, and when 
the increase in limit was offered. If Mrs C didnt want the increased limit, she couldve 
opted out but she didnt. Tesco provided monthly statements so Mrs C could see her limit 
and balance. On the matter of overlimit positions, Tesco said they didnt always have the 
option to decline transactions given that some merchants didnt have to refer certain 
payments to Tesco for authorisation. On Mrs Cs gambling, Tesco said gambling 
transactions were allowed on the card. Her last gambling payment on the card was in 
October 2019. And then, from 2020, gambling transactions werent allowed on credit cards 
 following new guidance from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Mrs C brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Tesco hadnt acted fairly. She felt 
that the initial issue of the card in July 2016 was acceptable, given what she saw in Tesco
records. Up until February 2017, Mrs C maintained her balance within the limit. But at the 
time when Tesco offered to increase the limit to £9,600 in April 2017, they shouldve carried 
out more checks. By then, Mrs C was over her limit and had been using the account for a 
lot of gambling payments. She saw that Mrs C called Tesco in October 2017 to say she 
was in difficulty  and Tesco shouldve then have helped Mrs C by looking at her income 
and expenditure and supported her. Later, she could see that Tesco supported Mrs C by 
freezing interest for six months in December 2018  so that was helpful. On the matter of 
fees on gambling payments  she thought these were fair, as most credit card providers 
charged them and they were shown on Mrs Cs statements. But she said they should be 
refunded after October 2017  when Mrs C had said to Tesco that she needed help. Our 
investigator said that Tesco should refund all interest on the increased borrowing with effect 
from April 2017; remove any adverse information reported to credit reference agencies 
from that time; refund fees on gambling transactions from October 2017; and pay 
compensation of £300.
Tesco didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at Mrs Cs complaint. Tesco said 
the increase of £1,000 in April 2017 was modest and there wasnt any evidence to say 
that Mrs Cs financial circumstances had changed since the card was issued. She had 
exceeded her limit before the increase but was making the minimum monthly payments. 
On gambling, she was entitled to use the card in that way. And when she called Tesco in 
October 2017, she didnt mention anything about gambling  so it wasnt realistic for them 
to have done anything about it then. Tesco said that the payment of compensation of £3 
fair  as the problems were caused by Mrs Cs gambling, not the actions of Tesco.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
There are two pieces of guidance from the FCA which are relevant to Mrs Cs complaint. 
Firstly, all lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We must check whether 
Tesco acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness 
assessment as set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must 
undertake a reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of 
the customer not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being 
able to make repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a 
fair lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the 
lender knew about the borrowers circumstances?
And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
othe lower a customers income, and the higher amount to be repaid.
othe greater the number of loans and frequency of loans.
othe longer the term of the loans
Its important to note that the checks must be proportionate to the amount being lent  so 
the higher the amount, the greater the checks must be, and the lower the amount, then 
fewer checks can be made.
In the context of Mrs Cs complaint, I think its fair to say that her limits were quite high, 
and therefore the obligations on Tesco were more than for a lower limit.
Secondly, Mrs C was in financial difficulty and businesses have an obligation to treat such 
customers sympathetically. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) says that businesses 
like Tesco should treat customers in difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. 
For example, a business might suspend or waive interest, accept lower payments, or defer 
them, and allow customers more time to repay their debt.
When Mrs C applied for the card in July 2016  she was given a limit of £8,600. That 
seems high to me  for a new customer. But I can see that she declared an annual income 
of £25,000. She had other unsecured debt of £13,000 (and nine other lenders) and a 
mortgage of £44,000. Tesco worked out that Mrs C had monthly disposable income of 
£210 after making her repayments and paying living expenses. So that looked reasonable. 
And so, I can see why Tesco gave her the card and limit.
From then on, Mrs C maintained her account within the limit and paid the monthly 
instalments. But then  in March 2017, Mrs C went over her limit of £8,600  the balance 
was £10,015. In April 2017, the balance was £9,488. It was at that point that Tesco offered 
to increase the limit to £9,600. Tesco argue that Mrs C passed their checks at that time  and there wasnt any need to get any more information from Mrs C as it was less than a 
year since she provided that with the original application for the card.
But I take a different view  Mrs C was a new customer to Tesco only nine months before 
and had gone over her limit  and by a significant amount. And if Tesco had looked at how 
she used her account - it was almost entirely used for gambling payments. Our service 
makes no judgement on the rights and wrongs of gambling  we say that its up to 
customers how they spend their money. But  as the payments were treated as cash 
withdrawals  this shouldve been a warning sign. I say that as traditionally, cash 
withdrawals are a warning sign of difficulty (as opposed to normal retail or shop 
purchases). So  that shouldve caused Tesco to ask more questions.
We also noticed that Mrs C had a personal loan from Tesco. So, we asked them about 
that. They told us it was for £10,000 and was agreed and drawn on March 2017  just 
before the limit increase on the card. And the purpose of the loan was for debt 
consolidation. So, by the time of the limit increase in April 2017  Mrs C was borrowing 
£19,600 from Tesco. That was high  given that Mrs Cs gross annual salary was £25,000. 
And as the loan was for debt consolidation, it was clear to me that Tesco should then have 
asked more questions about Mrs Cs overall position  for example, what her debts and 
repayments were, plus an income and expenditure analysis. And as the loan was for debt 
consolidation, a reasonable question wouldve been  which debts were to be repaid, 
including the Tesco credit card  but I cant see that happened. If the Tesco card was to 
be repaid or reduced  to stabilise Mrs Cs finances, it wouldve been sensible for Tesco to 
follow that up and ensure it was done. I can see that Mrs C reduced the Tesco card debt 
later, in October 2017  she told us that she did that by borrowing money from other 
lenders and her family. So  it appears that it wasnt repaid by using the Tesco loan. The 
Tesco card debt was then redrawn between January 2018 and June 2018 with balance 
transfers. And so  I think Tesco shouldve done more checks before increasing Mrs Cs 
limit in April/ May 2017.
Mrs C called Tesco in October 2017  and she said she was struggling and wanted interest 
stopped. Tesco told her to call a debt charity. By that time and given that Mrs C was 
borrowing £19,600 from Tesco  I think they shouldve been alerted to Mrs Cs situation 
and looked at her overall circumstances. That wouldve been in line with the FCAs 
guidance. And if necessary, agreed some sort of forbearance or interest relief  depending 
on what they found out. But they didnt. And so  Mrs C was left to struggle with her debts. 
This must have caused her some considerable stress and anxiety.
Mrs C has said that she wasnt aware of the fees charged for gambling transactions, and 
they should be refunded. I wanted to be clear about what Mrs C paid for these and asked 
Tesco some more questions. And they explained that gambling transactions were allowed 
on the card and showed us the terms and conditions to confirm that. So  Im not going to 
say that Tesco were wrong to charge the fees as they did, as they were covered by the 
terms and conditions. But  we take the view that where the transaction fees were 
charged after the time at which we believe Tesco shouldnt have increased the limit 
without asking more questions  April 2017  then they should be refunded in the same 
way as other fees.
We asked Mrs C about her other debts. She told us that she borrowed money from 
payday lenders to keep afloat and to meet the Tesco payments. She showed us her credit 
file which showed shed had loans from ten other lenders at the time  but she couldnt 
give the amounts. But Im persuaded that she did have to take high interest credit from 
other sources in the way she says. I think its a reasonable assumption to make that Tesco could have seen there were other lenders involved with Mrs C when they increased the 
lending in April 2017.
In summary, Tesco shouldve made more inquiries before increasing Mrs Cs limit to £9,600 
in April 2017, particularly in the light of the debt consolidation loan of £10,000 given the 
month before. And when Mrs C contacted Tesco in October 2017, they shouldve dealt with 
her proactively and in line with their obligations to support customers in financial difficulty  
but they didnt. As a result, Mrs C had to struggle with her debts over a long period of time, 
and without support. She says that caused her a huge impact on her life and she had to 
fight hard to get herself straight - which she says she is now doing. But for this I think it is 
reasonable that Tesco pays some compensation of £300  which is in line with what our 
service would recommend for what happened here.
My view is that Tesco shouldnt have increased Mrs Cs limit to £9,600 in April 2017  and 
so the other remedies I propose date from then. Tesco should re-work Mrs Cs account to 
remove interest and charges paid on Mrs Cs borrowing over £8,600 from April 2017; and 
also refund the gambling transaction fees charged after the date of that limit increase. If the 
rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mrs C along with 8% simple 
interest per year calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. If 
a credit balance results, Tesco should also remove all adverse information from Cs credit 
file.
Or, if after the rework an outstanding balance still outstands, Tesco should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Mrs C for the remaining amount. Once Mrs C has cleared 
the outstanding balance, any adverse information should be removed from her credit file.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mrs C accepted the findings, and Tesco had no further comments to make.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs C accepted the findings, and Tesco had no further comments, I wont be departing from the 
provisional decision. And so, my final decision is the same.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank must:
Re-work Mrs Cs account to remove interest, charges, and transaction fees 
(including those relating to gambling transactions) paid on Mrs Cs borrowing 
over £8,600 from April 2017.If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mrs C along 
with 8% simple interest per year calculated from the date of each overpayment to 
the date of settlement. If a credit balance results, Tesco should also remove all 
adverse information from Mrs Cs credit file.
If after the rework an outstanding balance still outstands, Tesco should arrange 
an affordable repayment plan with Mrs C for the remaining amount. Once Mrs C 
has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information should be 
removed from her credit file.
Pay compensation of £300 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman