DRN-3118344
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc cancelled its 
application for a feeder account  which meant it couldnt then apply for a Bounce Back 
Loan. 
The complaint has been brought to the service by Bs director, Mr F.
What happened
Mr F held a personal account with HSBC, but B didnt hold its business account with the 
bank. In May 2020, B decided it wanted to apply for a loan under the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme, so it applied to HSBC. However, HSBC required borrowers applying under the 
Scheme to have a business relationship and said B would need to apply for a business 
feeder account before it could apply for a loan. 
So in July, B made an application to the bank for a feeder account with the aim of applying 
for a Bounce Back Loan. HSBC said it required further information from B to progress the 
application, but when the bank couldnt contact Mr F to clarify what was needed, the 
application expired.
In September, HSBC emailed Mr F and explained Bs application had expired and asked 
whether he wanted to continue with the application. Mr F said hed been trying to contact the 
bank to get an update on Bs application but due to the long wait times hadnt been 
successful. He confirmed he still wanted to go ahead with Bs application  but didnt provide 
any further information to the bank. 
In November, Mr F complained to HSBC as he said hed not had any updates on Bs 
application, and this had caused inconvenience for B.
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. The bank said although theyd accepted Bs application, 
this didnt mean theyd agreed to open the account as they hadnt yet completed their 
account opening checks. HSBC said theyd tried to contact Mr F several times before 
cancelling Bs application. But when they werent able to confirm the information needed for 
the application, theyd correctly cancelled it and now werent accepting any new applications. 
Mr F didnt think this was fair and asked this service to look into Bs complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said Mr F had confirmed B 
received a Bounce Back Loan from another lender in August. And as a borrower could only 
have one loan under the Scheme, B wouldnt have been eligible for the loan with HSBC 
when Mr F had spoken to the bank in September. 
She also said it was fair that HSBC had asked B to open a feeder account, and it was 
reasonable for the bank to ask B for information so it could complete its account opening 
checks. The investigator said shed seen HSBCs notes showing theyd unsuccessfully tried 
to contact Mr F twice and as they couldnt progress Bs application further, theyd cancelled it 
 and within what she thought was a reasonable timescale. 
HSBC agreed with the investigators view, but Mr F didnt. He said it didnt matter that B had 
received a Bounce Back Loan from another lender, he felt B had been treated badly by the 
bank. So he asked for an ombudsman to look into Bs complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Although the Bounce Back Loan Scheme is a government backed scheme, lenders had 
some discretion to decide how they would accept applications, both from new and existing 
customers. And while it was not a requirement of the Scheme that customers applying for a 
loan had a business relationship, lenders were entitled to require one. So it was reasonable 
for HSBC to require B to open a feeder account before it would consider an application from 
it for a Bounce Back Loan.
HSBC have explained that they needed to confirm Bs turnover which had been declared on 
the account opening application, and also speak to Mr F about his role as a director on a 
dissolved company. Ive seen evidence on HSBCs case notes that show they tried to call Mr 
F on the number hed declared on the application form and followed this up by email but 
were unsuccessful. I think these were reasonable enquiries for the bank to raise before 
agreeing to open a new account for B.
The bank has also confirmed that their process is to chase for the information twice  in this 
case they attempted to contact Mr F three times  and then an application is held until the 
information is received. HSBC have told us their process is that an application will drop from 
their system after 90 days due to inactivity.
I recognise Mr F said he told the bank in September that he wanted to proceed with Bs 
application. Mr F also told us hed tried to contact the bank on numerous occasions by 
phone. But Ive seen evidence from the bank that no calls were received from Mr B from July 
2020 until July 2021. Mr F also hasnt provided any evidence that he attempted to contact 
the bank about Bs application until late October 2020 when he emailed them  by which 
point Bs application had already dropped off the banks system. 
So because Mr F didnt provide the information HSBC requested within the required 
timescale, the bank wasnt able to process Bs application. Therefore, I dont think the bank 
behaved unreasonably as they couldnt leave the application outstanding for longer than 
their system would allow before it was automatically removed.
In addition, the Scheme rules say a business is only entitled to one Bounce Back Loan. Mr F 
told us B received a Bounce Back Loan from another lender in August, before the application 
with HSBC was cancelled. So I cant fairly say B was impacted by the application with HSBC 
not progressing, as B would never have been eligible for a second loan with the bank by that 
point.
I acknowledge Mr F said B was caused inconvenience from HSBCs delay in processing its 
application, but as Ive explained, I think HSBC made sufficient attempts to contact Mr F and 
it couldnt progress Bs application without the additional information. And by the time the 
bank was able to speak with Mr F, hed already been successful in applying for a Bounce 
Back Loan elsewhere, so by that stage B was no longer eligible. 
I recognise there were some delays in HSBC looking at Bs application, but I think this was 
reasonable due to the amount of applications the bank received under the Scheme. Ive 
seen once HSBC started looking at Bs application it was progressed in a reasonable 
manner until the bank needed further information, which wasnt received. 
Mr F has said hes unhappy at the way hes been treated by the bank. But this complaint has 
been brought on Bs behalf, so B is the eligible complainant. This means that I cant look at 
any distress or inconvenience caused to Mr F in a personal capacity  only in his capacity as a director of B. I recognise Mr F told us hes spent time chasing HSBC for an update, but as 
a service, wed expect some aspects of this as part of Mr Fs role as a director. 
I recognise that Mr F feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my decision. But 
based on everything Ive seen, I think HSBC have acted reasonably. So, I wont be asking 
them to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman