DRN-3118563
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a cancellation claim they 
made under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B booked a package holiday abroad in July 2019. The travel dates were 
between 26 March and 8 April 2020. Mr and Mrs B bought an annual multi-trip travel 
insurance policy in September 2019 which covered them between 23 October 2019 and 
22 October 2020. The insurer was Great Lakes. Mr and Mrs B declared a number of pre-
existing medical conditions which Great Lakes agreed to cover.
Mr B visited his GP on 9 March 2020 who advised him to cancel his planned holiday. This 
was given Mr Bs comorbid medical conditions and the Covid-19 global pandemic. The GP 
didnt think it would be sensible for Mr B to fly to an at risk area.
Following the advice from the GP, Mr and Mrs B cancelled their holiday. They got a 10% 
refund from their travel provider. They made a claim on their travel insurance policy for the 
remaining costs.
Great Lakes declined Mr and Mrs Bs claim. It said the policy didnt cover claims due to a 
precautionary cancellation due to fear of becoming infected with Covid-19.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She accepted the cancellation 
section didnt cover Mr and Mrs Bs specific circumstances. But she noted that the policy 
terms specifically excluded cover if a policyholder travelled against medical advice. This 
meant that whatever Mr and Mrs B did in their situation, they werent covered under the 
policy. So, our investigator thought it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to 
consider Mr and Mrs Bs claim.
Great Lakes didnt agree with our investigators findings. It reiterated that the reason why 
Mr and Mrs B cancelled their holiday wasnt covered under the relevant section of the policy. 
Great Lakes also acknowledged the exclusion the investigator had referred to and said that 
no policy would cover every unforeseen eventuality or risk.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued my 
provisional decision on the complaint in September 2021. Heres what I said:
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Principles for Business say that a firm must pay 
due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
The industry rules set by the FCA also require insurers to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its customers. These rules also say 
insurers must handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Ive taken these rules, other industry guidance, and the relevant law into account when 
deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint. 
Did Great Lakes act fairly when it declined Mr and Mrs Bs claim?
Mr and Mrs B cancelled their holiday because of the advice they were given by Mr Bs GP on 
9 March 2020. The GP said, amongst other things, that they advised [Mr B] not to travel [] 
because of his comorbid medical conditions and the current Coronavirus crisis. The GP also 
referred to Mr Bs age and his specific ongoing medical conditions, as well as previous 
cancer. The GP didnt think it would be sensible for Mr B to fly to an at risk area. Following 
the advice, Mr and Mrs B cancelled their holiday on 10 March 2020.
Having considered the timeline of events and what Mr Bs GP said about his specific 
situation, I think Mr and Mrs B acted reasonably when they cancelled their holiday.
The cancellation section of the policy terms and conditions say the following:
What is covered:
We will pay up to a maximum of £500 for Basic cover of £5,000 for Comprehensive cover 
[] per insured person for your non-refundable deposits and amounts you have paid (or you 
are contracted to pay), for your travel and accommodation (including pre-paid excursions 
[]) which you do not use because of the following:
a) you, a close relative, travelling companion or any person with whom you have 
arranged to stay during the trip suffers unforeseen illness, injury or, death.
b) you abandon your trip following a delay of more than 12 hours to the departure of 
your outward trip that is covered within Section 5 Travel Delay.
c) you or any person with whom you plan to travel being called for Jury Service or being 
summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a professional or advisory 
capacity).
d) you being made redundant, provided you qualify for a redundancy payment under 
current United Kingdom legislation.
e) your presence is required by the Police because of accidental damage, burglary, 
flooding or fire which has affected your home, and has occurred within 48 hours 
before the start of your trip, when the damage is in excess of £1,500.
f) the Foreign and Commonwealth Office issue a directive advising against all, or all but 
essential travel to your trip destination because of an earthquake, fire, floor or 
hurricane.
Having looked at the policy terms, cancellation due to a medical practitioner advising against 
travel isnt something the policy covers. So, on a strict interpretation of the policy terms, 
Mr and Mrs Bs claim isnt covered.
But Ive also thought about whats fair and reasonable in Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances. 
I can see that the policy also includes a Medical Declaration section. This says that To be 
covered, you must be fit and able to undertake your planned trip, and: you are NOT 
travelling against the advice of a doctor (or would be travelling against the advice of a doctor 
had you sought his/her advice). I can also see that the Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID) highlights that there is no cover if a policyholder travels against medical 
advice.So, had Mr and Mrs B travelled, they wouldve done so against Mr Bs GPs advice. This 
means their policy wouldve been invalidated and they wouldnt have been entitled to cover 
at all under the policy, under any section. In effect, Mr and Mrs B were left in a situation 
where they werent covered if they travelled, and they werent covered if they cancelled their 
holiday. I dont think its fair or reasonable for Mr and Mrs B to have no cover when they 
were left with no option but to cancel their trip following Mr Bs GPs advice not to travel.
Taking everything into account, I think the fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances 
of this complaint is for Great Lakes to pay Mr and Mrs Bs claim, in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy.
Are all of Mr and Mrs Bs losses irrecoverable?
I note that Mr and Mrs B have been offered a £4,000 voucher by their travel provider. The 
travel agent has said this voucher can be used on any holiday with the provider to any value, 
the voucher is non-transferrable, and the provider hasnt specified an expiration date for the 
voucher.
In common with most, if not all, travel insurance policies on the market, Mr and Mrs Bs 
policy doesnt cover costs recoverable elsewhere. I think the voucher Mr and Mrs B have 
been offered is a recoverable loss as theyre able to use the voucher towards a new holiday. 
I dont think the terms of the voucher are so restrictive that it would be unfair for Mr and 
Mrs B to accept it. So, I think that the value of the voucher is something Great Lakes can 
deduct from any claim payment because this isnt an irrecoverable loss.
Mr and Mrs B responded to my provisional decision and said that they had hoped they 
wouldnt need to use the voucher, as they feel theyre being compelled to take a limited 
choice holiday that they wouldnt otherwise have done. They also feel the insurance for this 
will be extremely expensive.
Mr and Mrs B also pointed out that they only used six days of their annual insurance and 
want this to be taken into consideration.
Great Lakes didnt respond to my provisional decision, and the deadline to do so has now 
passed. So, Im issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs B have said about the voucher. But generally, unless the 
terms of a voucher are unreasonably restrictive and/or the policyholder has exceptional 
circumstances, Id consider a voucher to mean the policyholder has recovered their costs 
from elsewhere. And for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think the 
terms of the voucher are unreasonably restrictive. 
Having also considered what Mr and Mrs B have said about the voucher, Im not persuaded 
that their circumstances are so exceptional that it would be unreasonable for them to accept 
the voucher. Overall, I still think that its fair and reasonable that Great Lakes can deduct the 
value of the voucher from any claim payment because this isnt an irrecoverable loss.Mr and Mrs Bs annual policy started on 23 October 2019, so thats when cancellation cover 
started. And they cancelled their holiday in March 2020. So, unlike Mr and Mrs B have said, 
they did benefit from the policy between that time. And in any event, Mr and Mrs B made a 
successful claim on their policy. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for Great 
Lakes to refund any premiums.
Taking everything into account, Ive reached the same conclusions I did in my provisional 
decision, and for the same reasons. I think the fair and reasonable outcome in the 
circumstances of this complaint is for Great Lakes to pay Mr and Mrs Bs claim, in line with 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, and it can deduct the value of the voucher 
from any claim payment.
Putting things right
I think Great Lakes:
should pay Mr and Mrs Bs cancellation claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy;
can deduct the value of the voucher from the settlement payment;
should add interest to this payment at 8% simple per annum from the date of the 
claim until the date of settlement.
If Great Lakes considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give 
them a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint in part. I direct Great 
Lakes Insurance SE to put things right in the way that Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman