DRN-3519011
The complaint
Mr M and Miss R complain that AWP P&C SA (AWP) has unfairly declined their travel
insurance claim.
Any reference to AWP also includes its agents.
What happened
Mr M and Miss R booked a multi destination trip abroad, travelling on 11 March 2020 and
returning to the UK on 9 April 2020. They travelled out as planned. They held an annual
travel insurance policy, insured with AWP.
On 17 March 2020 the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO 
formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel
abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Subsequently, on 23 March 2020, the FCDO
instructed all UK citizens travelling abroad to return home. Around the same time, the airline
cancelled their return flights home.
Mr M and Miss R decided to try to return home. They made several bookings with numerous
providers to try to get back to the UK but on each occasion their flights were cancelled. They
finally managed to obtain seats on a government repatriation flight to the UK, returning back
home on 10 April 2020.
Mr M and Miss R made a claim to AWP for the additional flights they had paid for and the
unused return flights. AWP refused the claim and said there wasnt coverage for the
circumstances they encountered. AWP said they should attempt to recover the costs of the
flights from the relevant airlines. 
Unhappy with this outcome Mr M and Miss R complained to AWP and subsequently brought
their complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the matter and thought that the
complaint should be upheld. He said that the claim should be considered under the
curtailment section of the policy, which provided cover if you had to cut short your trip 
because the FCDO advised against travel. He felt that, even though Mr M and Miss R didnt
actually come home early, a claim should be considered under this section as they had
attempted to come home early.
He noted that the policy stated it wouldnt cover the cost of any unused return travel tickets
but would put the value towards the cost of extra transport costs AWP had to pay for
repatriation. So he said that, even though AWP didnt arrange the repatriation itself, he
thought it was fair and reasonable for AWP to pay the difference in costs between the new
flights Mr M and Miss R incurred to return home and their originally booked return tickets.
AWP didnt respond to our investigators opinion and therefore as no agreement was
reached, the matter was passed to me to decide.
On 17 May 2022, I issue my provisional decision. In it I said the following:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms and conditions
The policy Mr M and Miss R held includes terms and conditions relating to the cover
provided. On page 69 of the policy wording, under the heading Section 1 - Cancellation or
Curtailment Charges the policy says it will provide cover for curtailment which it describes
as You cut Your Journey short (curtail) after it has begun. It says it will provide the following
cover:
We will pay up to the amount shown in Your summary of cover in total (including
excursions), for Your part of unused personal accommodation, transport charges and
other travel expenses which have been paid or where there is a contract to pay that
cannot be recovered from anywhere else.
The policy includes a list of reasons for which it will provide this cover and this list includes
claims where The Foreign and Commonwealth Office have advised against travel to Your
Journey destination, for the dates You are due to travel.
This section also has a note detailing how it will settle claims for curtailment under the policy.
In this note it states:
We will calculate curtailment claims from the date it is necessary for You to return to
Your Home country or the date You are hospitalised as an in-patient, for the rest of
Your Journey. We will pay unused personal accommodation and other travel
expenses based on each 24-hour period You have lost. If You need to be repatriated,
We will not refund the cost of Your unused return travel tickets. We will put the value
of these tickets towards the extra transport costs We have to pay.
In addition, the policy includes specific exclusions relating to curtailment. And here it
includes the following in the list of what it doesnt provide cover for:
Cutting short Your Journey unless We have agreed
The cost of any of Your remaining pre-booked tickets if You have not used them and 
We have paid extra transport costs for You to return to Your Home country earlier 
than planned.
Has the claim been declined fairly?
Mr M and Miss R had to make alternative arrangements to travel back to the UK, following 
the change in the FCDO advice which caused their airline to cancel their original return 
flights. The policy does provide cover for curtailment, or cutting short your trip, if this is as a 
result of the FCDO advising against travel to that destination, which is what happened to Mr 
M and Miss R.
However, Mr M and Miss R didnt cut short their trip  in fact they returned back to the UK 
two days later than originally planned. The policy is clear that cover is only for those who cut 
short their journey. And it goes further to explain that it will only pay a claim for the unused 
accommodation and travel expenses from the date it was necessary to return home  there 
isnt any mention of cover for situations where additional costs are incurred by coming home 
after the original return date.Im aware that Mr M and Miss R made a number of attempts to come back earlier, booking 
several flights which, due to the unfolding situation, were also cancelled. But whilst it may 
have been their intention to get back sooner, this didnt happen. And as detailed above, this 
section of the policy doesnt include cover for expenses incurred due to the extension of a 
trip, only those situations where a trip is cut short. Im not persuaded it would be fair and 
reasonable to instruct AWP to pay the claim under this section.
As our investigator explained, the policy doesnt provide cover for the unused return travel 
tickets  as this is a cost Mr M and Miss R would always have been expecting to pay. And as 
the original flight was cancelled by the airline, it is likely this cost will be recoverable from the 
original booking agent or airline directly. So even if I was to accept that a claim should be 
considered under this section, Im not persuaded that there would be any unused costs to
reimburse.
Having checked the remaining policy terms and conditions, it doesnt appear that there is
any cover available under this insurance policy for the situation which Mr M and Miss R
found themselves in. And so, Im satisfied that AWP have acted fairly when declining this
claim.
Ive seen from the information provided by Mr M and Miss R that this appears to have been
an incredibly stressful time for them and Im in no doubt that what happened was entirely
outside their control. However, no insurance policy can cover every eventuality, and on this
occasion, Im persuaded that there is no cover for Mr M and Miss Rs claim. I therefore dont
require AWP to do anything more.
AWP didnt respond to the provisional decision, but Mr M and Miss R did. Ive summarised 
their comments below:
They didnt leave the UK before the government advised against travel.
Upset that the ombudsman thinks they had their whole holiday. It was terrifying and 
frightening. 
They were supposed to be repatriated earlier but due to local riots they were unable 
to do so. And they didnt return two days after they should have, but it was one day 
before.
Feels that the ombudsman is suggesting they didnt try hard enough to come home 
earlier.
They havent received any refunds from the airlines for the flights, except for one 
from one provider, which took 20 months. She still owes the government for the 
repatriation flights.
Ms R has lost thousands of pounds in savings. And she has lost her confidence and 
was terrified by the whole experience. She believes she has a claim against the 
insurance company, and she has been treated unfairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to thank Mr M and Miss R for their additional comments. Whilst I have only 
provided a short summary above, I would reassure them that I have read everything in full 
and I have carefully considered everything they have said.I accept that they didnt travel abroad against the advice of the UK government. The UK 
government didnt advise against foreign travel until 17 March 2020  Mr M and Miss R had 
already left the UK several days before this as I made clear in my provisional decision. 
Having checked the records, I can see that Mr M and Miss R did in fact return home one day 
later than planned, not two as I mentioned before. From the information Ive been provided 
they were originally due to arrive home on 9 April but didnt actually return until the following 
day. Im sorry that this was incorrectly noted previously.
Mr M and Miss R have made several points about not having a holiday and explained in 
detail the situation with which they were faced whilst abroad, along with providing news 
articles from that time. Im in no doubt that this was an incredibly stressful and terrifying 
situation for them, and it is clear that they were trying all possible avenues to get home. But 
as I mentioned previously, no insurance policy can cover every eventuality and the Covid-19 
global pandemic was a completely unprecedented event. So, whilst I fully appreciate what 
happened was entirely outside of their control and they have incurred costs as a result of this 
incident, as the policy doesnt provide cover for the scenario faced by Mr M and Miss R, Im 
satisfied that the decision to decline the claim was fair.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman