DRN-3486298
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nelson Insurance Company Ltd (Nelson) unfairly declined a claim on 
his commercial motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S had a private and public hire policy with Nelson. In December 2016 Mr S was 
unfortunately involved in an incident and notified his insurer. The third party involved 
disputed liability  and, after reviewing pictures of the damage to both vehicles, Nelson 
decided it would need to cover the claim. That meant it would be recorded as a fault claim 
against Mr Ss policy  and Nelson wrote out in January 2017 to let him know.
In July 2017 Mr S called Nelson with a representative, from a credit hire firm Ill call X, also 
on the line. They said there was evidence they wanted to send Nelson in relation to liability. 
The insurer says it never received anything from X or Mr S  so it closed the file on the claim 
in January 2018. 
In June 2018 Mr S called Nelson to say he wanted to claim on his policy. The insurer 
emailed him following that call to say it would need to see the repairs estimate, invoice and 
proof of parts purchased for the work before it could progress with the claim. Nelson says it 
didnt receive anything from Mr S, so again closed its file.
In February 2019 Mr S contacted Nelson to ask the insurer to cover his outlay for the repairs. 
Nelson wanted to inspect the vehicle, but Mr S said hed sold it by that point. The insurer 
asked for evidence of the cost of the repairs from the garage that carried out the work. Mr S 
sent in a damage assessment report (dated December 2016) and an invoice from X (dated 
February 2017). He also sent in proof hed paid X a different amount to the one quoted on 
the invoice. Nelson didnt accept those documents as evidence of the cost of the repairs, as 
none came from the repairing garage. The insurer wrote out to Mr S to say it would need to 
see invoices for the parts purchased.
Mr S contacted Nelson again in 2021, but the insurer referred to its previous letter which said 
the claim wouldnt be settled until further supporting evidence was received. A complaint was 
raised, and Nelson maintained its position. Unhappy with the insurers response, Mr S 
referred the complaint to our service for review. 
An investigator here asked Mr S to contact the credit hire firm, X, for the outstanding parts 
invoices, as he hadnt done that previously. Mr S then forwarded on a response from X 
which said it wouldnt be willing to provide proof of the parts purchased. He also explained 
the difference in the amount hed paid and the invoice from X, by showing the investigator 
there was an extra cost for new tyres when the repairs were done. 
The investigator said Nelson appeared to accept Mr Ss vehicle had been damaged and that 
repairs had likely been carried out. So, in light of that, he asked if the insurer would consider 
making an offer based on its approved repair rate  using images of the damage and its own 
engineers report. Nelson agreed to that resolution, but Mr S didnt  saying the insurer 
should cover all of his outlay and some consequential losses. 
Nelsons engineer didnt think all of the repairs on the original damage assessment report 
could be justified based on the photographs  so valued the claim at £1,971.73 (less the 
excess). Mr S made a counteroffer to Nelson for settlement excluding the £500 excess for 
£2,950. Both Nelson and our service interpreted that to mean £2,950 less the excess of 
£500, and the insurer agreed to pay that amount as a goodwill gesture. When Mr S realised 
the excess had been deducted from the settlement payment, he explained hed intended his 
counteroffer to mean he'd receive £2,950 after the excess was taken off the total. He asked 
if Nelson would pay an additional £500 in settlement of the claim, but the insurer said it 
wasnt willing to  as it considered the amount previously offered as a goodwill gesture to be 
more than fair. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision on 
the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im also upholding Mr Ss complaint  and Ive decided Nelsons recent 
offer to settle the claim is a fair one. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr S, 
who I know feels very strongly that hes owed more. But I hope the below is helpful in 
explaining how I reached my decision.
Mr S doesnt believe the claim should be recorded against his policy, as he feels the third 
party was at fault in what happened. Hes also mentioned trying to take legal action against 
the third-party insurer but said that wasnt successful. Nelson reviewed Mr Ss description of 
the incident, along with pictures of the damage caused and where it happened  as a 
recording of the incident wasnt available. The insurer said it would have expected to see 
damage on the inside of the passenger door if it was already open (as had been alleged by 
Mr S) when it hit the third-party vehicle. But Nelson said the damage looked more like it was 
caused by the door being opened into another vehicle, as the damage was on the outside. 
Having considered the evidence myself, I agree with the insurers assessment  so I find 
Nelson acted reasonably when it told Mr S it would have to deal with the claim. The terms of 
the agreement also gave Nelson full discretion in deciding how best to settle, so it didnt 
need Mr Ss permission before accepting liability.
This claim has been ongoing for a long time but having considered the timeline of events I 
havent seen that Nelson caused any delays. Initially it wasnt clear if Mr S wanted to claim 
on the policy, as he was disputing liability. Subsequently, there were long periods where the 
insurer was expecting to hear from Mr S, but didnt  and so (I think reasonably) closed 
down its file on the claim. As I dont consider Nelson is responsible for the delay in settling 
the claim, Im not holding the insurer responsible for any consequential losses arising from 
Mr S not receiving payment sooner.
Mr S is adamant the insurer should cover his outlay to X  but the terms of his policy said the 
insurer would need to approve any estimate before work commenced, and Nelson wasnt 
given that opportunity. The terms also said if Nelson thought the estimate was unreasonable, 
or costs couldnt be agreed upon, it would either arrange for the vehicle to be moved to a different repairer or pay up to what its approved repairer would charge. So, having not been 
involved in that process, I think it was reasonable that Nelson wanted to see supporting 
information from Mr S regarding the cost of repairs before agreeing to settle.
Nelson says it didnt receive evidence of the repairs carried out until 2019. Having reviewed 
that evidence, I find Nelson acted fairly at that point by asking Mr S for further information. I 
agree the repair estimate and invoice seemed high, based on the damage evident in the 
photographs Nelson had seen. Mr S had also since sold the vehicle, so Nelson wasnt able 
to carry out its own assessment of the repairs completed. Ive not been able to find anything 
online about the company that compiled the damage assessment report, so I can 
understand why Nelson had trouble establishing their credentials. The repairs invoice was 
also from X, who arent a garage  so wouldnt have carried out the work. The invoice didnt 
have a breakdown of how the total cost was arrived at either  and it differed from the 
amount Mr S paid to X. Bearing in mind all of the above, I find Nelsons request for the parts 
purchased invoices to have been a reasonable one. That information was needed to 
establish the repairs that had taken place and corroborate the amount being sought. Without 
those parts invoices, I dont find the December 2016 damage assessment or Xs invoice on 
their own to be reliable evidence for determining the value of the claim.
Since coming to us, Mr S has explained why there was a difference between what he paid X 
and the invoice  and has shown that hes unable to get the parts invoices. Im satisfied hes 
now done all he can to support his claim, but the issues with the evidence previously 
supplied remain. Nelson accepts Mr Ss car was damaged, and that repairs were likely 
carried out. So all thats left to decide is how a fair settlement figure should be now 
calculated, bearing in mind the terms I outlined earlier. 
Ive reviewed the report compiled by Nelsons engineer. It has highlighted that some of the 
costs in the original damage assessment dont appear to be justified or supported by the 
photographs of the damage. Ive found its reasoning for disagreeing with the initial estimate 
to be detailed and persuasive. So, on that basis, and in the absence of any available 
evidence from the repairing garage to corroborate what repairs actually took place, I dont 
think Nelson needs to cover what Mr S paid to X. The amount most recently offered (and 
since paid) by the insurer is above what its engineer assessed the value of the claim to be  
so I find it to be a fair settlement offer in the circumstances. I dont think that offer could have 
been made before it was confirmed the parts invoices werent available or the discrepancy in 
the amount Mr S paid X was explained. So Im not directing Nelson to pay any interest on 
the settlement amount or any of the consequential losses claimed.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Ss complaint about Nelson Insurance Company Ltd, but I 
consider the amount now paid to Mr S in settlement of the claim to be fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman