DRN-2032819
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the handling of a claim made under their Halifax Home 
Insurance Ultimate policy, underwritten Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds).
What happened
Mr and Mrs M made a claim on their home insurance cover after Mrs M accidentally dropped 
a hammer in their bathroom wash basin and made a hole in in it.  
Lloyds concluded that the basin could not be repaired. It asked Mr M to source a 
replacement, but Mr M said he was unable to find one that was the same colour as the 
damaged basin. 
An agent of Lloyds (B), visited Mr and Mrs Ms home and calculated the replacement costs 
to be £375.52. B also gave Mr M the name of a company that specialised in discontinued 
bathroom furniture. Mr M contacted this company and it sent him a sample of a basin that it 
could supply to him. Mr and Mrs M provided B with photos of this sample pictured alongside 
the damaged basin and their bath. They said they didnt think the sample was a close 
enough match in colour to the damaged basin. B said it felt the match to be good enough. It 
said that the basin wasnt near to any other items of bathroom furniture so the slight change 
in colour would not be visible. Mr M disagreed - he said that the basin was situated near to 
other bathroom furniture items and that he and Mrs M would be able to see the difference in 
colour. Mr M told Lloyds that because he and Mrs M were unhappy with the suggested 
replacement, it should cover the replacement of other items in the bathroom suite. Lloyds 
gave Mr M the option of a cash settlement for the basin but then also said it cant discuss 
details of cash settlements because the surveyors determine the amounts. 
Mr M called Lloyds and complained. He said he and Mrs M were unhappy that the cash 
settlement offered was only for the damaged basin and not for the replacement of any other 
part of the suite. They were also unhappy that Lloyds told them that B decides the settlement 
costs but that when they spoke to B, B said that Lloyds decide whether to offer cash 
settlements. During the call, Lloyds explained to Mr M that B validate and manage claims, 
but that B refers back to Lloyds for clarification about policy terms. 
Whilst Lloyds was investigating Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, Mr M told it that when he and Mrs 
M took out the policy two years ago, theyd understood that if something happened to a set, 
then a replacement of the whole set would be made. Mr M said they werent told that 
replacement of the set wouldnt happen if there was a reasonable match for a damaged 
item. Mr M said the cash settlement wasnt enough because the costs worked out to be over 
£400.
Lloyds issued its final response. It did not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. It said that the 
suggested replacement was a reasonable match and so, under the terms of the policy, 
matching of items cover wouldnt apply. It apologised for the information Mr M felt he had 
been given about cash settlements. Lloyds said that if Mr and Mrs M wished to opt for a cash 
settlement, it would be based on the reasonable match found. It also said that Mr and Mrs M 
could still ask B to replace the basin. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with this outcome and referred 
the complaint to us. 
Mr and Mrs M told us the suggested replacement offered by Lloyds didnt match the rest of 
the bathroom. They said the difference in colour would make the replacement basin stand 
out from the bath. They felt the cost to them to replace the basin, would be more than what 
Lloyds had offered them because the basin wasnt white and the delivery costs of around 
£35 hadnt been taken into account by Lloyds. They said they didnt know how much it would 
cost to replace other items in the suite. Mr and Mrs M said that water from the basin had also 
damaged the cabinet around the basin. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. She said that:
It was clear from Mr and Mrs Ms policy documents that Lloyds would only replace 
the whole suite where a reasonable match could not be found and that what had 
been found was a reasonable match.  
When Mr and Mrs M took out the policy it would have been their responsibility to 
check that the cover was suitable for their needs and its reasonable that Lloyds 
didnt highlight all exclusions at the time the policy was taken out. 
Lloyds apology was enough for the information Mr and Mrs M say they were given 
about cash settlements during the claim process. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept this view. 
They said the sample sent out by the company recommended by B did not exactly 
match the basin.
They felt that Lloyds should have pointed out the small print concerning the 
replacement of sets cover because Mr M asked about it.
They said they didnt get the paperwork until after they took out the policy and that 
they didnt check the paperwork or the small print.
Our investigator contacted Mr and Mrs M. She explained that an example of an 
unreasonable match would be a basin of a different colour and that what had been offered 
was a reasonable match. Mr and Mrs M were still unhappy with this view. They said that 
when they raised the claim and asked if other items in the matching set would be covered, 
they were told they would be. They asked for an ombudsmans decision and the complaint 
was referred to me. 
I asked Lloyds to provide details of the matching sets cover Mr and Mrs M had when they 
first took out their cover with Lloyds (at inception).
I asked Mr and Mrs M what they would consider a fair cash settlement to be and to provide 
any quotes by way of support. Mr and Mrs M didnt provide an amount or any quotes. 
Instead they said Lloyds should cover replacement of the bath. Mr and Mrs M also said later 
that theyd contacted the supplier of the replacement basin and it was no longer available. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I shall not be upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and 
Mrs M were hoping for, so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Its not in dispute that Mr and Mrs Ms basin is beyond repair. What is in dispute is whether 
the replacement Lloyds offered was in line with the policys terms and whether, after Mr and 
Mrs M rejected the replacement, the cash settlement offered was fair.Mr and Mrs Ms renewal documentation clearly states in more than one place that they 
should read their policy documentation and check the cover is right for their needs. For 
example, under the Before you renew sub-heading of their renewal letter it says:
Check the cover is still right for your needs by reviewing the enclosed policy schedule.
The policy schedule then says:
For complete pre-contractual and contractual information about the product please see your 
policy booklet together with your policy schedule. 
But Mr and Mrs M told us that they didnt read their documentation.
The terms of Mr and Mrs Ms buildings cover when they made their claim clearly sets out 
that Lloyds would only replace other items in a matching set where a reasonable match for 
the damaged item couldnt be found. For example, on page 2 of the Policy Booklet under the 
Cover Explained section under the Buildings Insurance sub-heading it says:
We will replace or change any undamaged item that forms part of a matching set or suite 
that is lost or damaged where a reasonable match cannot be obtained. By reasonable 
match we mean this may be similar but not an exact match. By matching set or suite we 
mean, for example, a matching bathroom suite or matching kitchen units. 
So Im satisfied that the policy shows that Lloyds would only replace undamaged items in a 
matching set if a reasonable - rather than an exact - match for the basin couldnt be found. 
The policy states that it was Mr and Mrs Ms responsibility - and not Lloyds - to check that 
the cover was suitable for them. 
Mr and Mrs M say when they made the claim, they were told that the rest of the matching set 
would be covered. But from the information noted on Lloyds systems about Mr and Mrs Ms 
claim, I cant find any evidence of them being told this. Given this and the clarity of the policy 
documentation, I think on balance it would be unlikely for Lloyds to have told them this. 
Mr and Mrs M told Lloyds that when they first took out their home insurance cover two years 
before making their claim, it told them that if something happened to an item in a set, then 
the whole set would be replaced. But when a consumer renews a policy, they enter into a 
new and separate insurance contract to that entered into at inception. So the terms that 
would apply to Mr and Mrs Ms claim, are the terms of the policy at renewal and not the 
terms at inception. Also - at renewal - Lloyds told Mr and Mrs M that if they wanted their 
replacement of sets cover to continue, theyd need to upgrade to Home Insurance Ultimate, 
which is what they did. By upgrading their policy there was - in effect  no change to the 
terms of their replacement of sets cover from inception to when they claimed.
Mr and Mrs M say the replacement found wasnt a reasonable match because it was a 
different colour. Mr and Mrs M provided us with two photos - one with the sample of the 
replacement next to the damaged basin and one with the sample next to the bath. Ive 
reviewed the photos to see if the sample of the suggested replacement differs enough in 
colour to mean that Mr and Mrs M would have suffered a loss of match. 
The colour of the suggested replacement appears to be the same as the damaged basin. I 
can see there is a very slight difference in shade between the colour of the replacement 
basin and Mr and Mrs Ms bath. But given the extent of the samples match with the 
damaged basin compared with the extent of its match with the bath, I think its reasonable. I 
can also see that the bath and damaged basin dont appear to be exactly the same colour 
either.From photos of the layout of Mr and Mrs Ms bathroom, I can see the basin is next to the 
bath, but is surrounded by a white cabinet. So, given the small extent of the difference in 
shade between the bath and replacement basin, I dont think the slight difference in colour 
would be noticeable enough to say Mr and Mrs M have suffered a loss of match. 
 
Because I think the replacement is a reasonable match I dont think Lloyds should cover the 
replacement of the bath as well as the basin.
Mr and Mrs M rejected the suggested replacement and Lloyds offered them a cash 
settlement of £375.52 instead. Mr and Mrs M felt this amount wasnt enough. They said it 
would cost about £435 to replace the basin, but havent provided any evidence in support of 
this. But I am satisfied that £375.52 is a fair and reasonable amount. Ill explain why. 
Insurers tend to negotiate discounted rates with providers and suppliers they use to carry out 
work and supply goods to settle claims. This often means that the cost to the insurer of 
settling a claim would be less than the cost to a consumer replacing any damaged items 
themselves. Because of this, and because Lloyds first offered to settle the claim in line with 
the policy terms by replacing the basin with a reasonable match, I dont think its necessarily 
unfair that Lloyds cash settlement is less than what it would cost Mr and Mrs M to replace 
the basin. 
Mr and Mrs M told us that they felt Lloyds cash settlement didnt account for the basin not 
being white. But I can see from the breakdown provided by Lloyds that the replacement 
basin is listed as non standard and that Lloyds amount also included postage. 
For the reasons set out above, I am satisfied that the cash settlement offered to Mr and Mrs 
M is fair, reasonable and an accurate reflection of what it would have cost Lloyds to replace 
the basin. So I wont be asking Lloyds to increase the cash settlement amount. 
 
Mr and Mrs M have told us that the replacement they were offered is now no longer available 
from the supplier B recommended to them. Whilst this is unfortunate, I dont think this means 
Lloyds should cover more than just the damaged basin. When Mr and Mrs M made their 
claim, Lloyds offered them a reasonably matched replacement in line with the policys terms 
and then a fair cash settlement. So Lloyds did what Id have expected it to. I dont think it 
would be fair for me to require Lloyds to cover replacement of any undamaged part of Mr 
and Mrs Ms bathroom suite because the replacement offered is no longer available. I 
recommend that Mr and Mrs M accept Lloyds offer of settlement of their claim of £375.52.
Mr and Mrs M say they were given conflicting information by Lloyds and B about how cash 
settlements are decided. Lloyds have apologised for this. And I think this is reasonable given 
that what they say they were told would have had very little impact on Mr and Mrs M, so I 
wont be asking Lloyds to do anymore about this. 
Mr and Mrs M mentioned to us that the hole in the basin has caused water damage to the 
cupboard housing the basin. I havent considered this as part of this complaint as this hasnt 
been raised with Lloyds. If this is something Mr and Mr M want to pursue, they should 
contact Lloyds.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman