DRN-3852586
The complaint
Mr K has complained about A A Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AAUICL)s 
decision to cancel his motor insurance policy for failing to pay an additional premium. 
AAUICL discovered incidents Mr K hadnt disclosed when he applied for the policy which 
meant Mr K had paid less for his insurance. 
What happened
Mr K was insured with AAUICL for a number of years until February 2020 when his policy 
lapsed at renewal. 
In February 2021 Mr K bought a new policy with AAUICL. AAUICL asked Mr K to disclose 
any incidents irrespective of whether a claim had been made from the previous five years. 
Mr K didnt disclose any incidents.  
The broker discovered an incident from April 2018 and this resulted in Mr K paying an 
additional premium. AAUICL updated Mr Ks policy in 2021. 
At renewal in February 2022 AAUICL included the April 2018 incident under Mr Ks history. 
However, shortly after renewal in February 2022, AAUICL carried out a search and 
discovered two windscreen claims from 2018 and a non fault incident from September 2019 
which Mr K had also failed to disclose. 
AAUICL asked Mr K by email to pay an additional premium. Mr K didnt agree. On 11 March 
2022 he replied and said he didnt accept that AAUICL was entitled to charge an additional 
premium. 
On 14 March 2022 AAUICL replied to Mr K by email. It referred to the April 2018 incident - 
which it said it had correctly recorded. It said that Mr K correctly owed the additional 
premium by 28 March 2022.
Mr K didnt reply and so on 29 March 2022 AAUICL sent Mr K a seven day cancellation 
notice by email and letter.
As Mr K didnt respond or pay the additional premium, AAUICL cancelled his policy a week 
later. 
Mr K complained to AAUICL .But it said it had correctly cancelled his policy. So Mr K asked 
us to look at things for him. He said the cancellation notice by email went to a spam folder so 
he didnt see it. He believes the cancellation letter wasnt sent until it was too late. 
Mr K says the additional premium request was unfounded. He said its important to note that 
this was a renewed policy. He didnt agree he needed to notify AAUICL of windscreen claims 
as they have no effect on the premium. Mr K says AAUICL didnt mention the September 
2019 incident until after it had cancelled the policy. 
Mr K says AAUICLs handling of the September 2019 incident is the subject of a previous 
complaint referred to this service. Mr K wanted AAUICL to reinstate his policy.
Our Investigator thought AAUICL had acted reasonably when it cancelled Mr Ks policy. 
Mr K didnt agree. In summary he says:
The claim AAUICL said he hadnt advised them of was a claim it was aware of. 
AAUICL referred to the September 2019 incident only after it cancelled his policy, 
having previously referred to windscreen claims. 
AAUICL didnt meet Mr Ks claim in September 2019 which he complained to us 
about but it wasnt properly investigated. 
So Mr K wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 2020 Mr K brought a complaint to this service about the claim in September 2019. An 
Investigator issued a view and gave a deadline for both parties to respond before closing the 
case. As Mr K asked for an ombudsmans decision after the deadline, the case remained 
closed. So I cannot comment further on Mr Ks previous complaint.
Ive looked at whether AAUICLs decision to cancel Mr Ks policy was fair. 
Mr Ks policy with AAUICL says it can decide to cancel the policy due to non-payment of 
premiums. 
When Mr Ks broker contacted him in February 2022 about non disclosed claims, Mr K 
replied on the same day by email and advised that it was aware of all of his previous claims. 
In an email to Mr K dated 22 February 2022, his broker wrote:
In regards to your policy which has been active since the 22nd of February 2021 till 
now with your renewal on the 22nd of February 2022.
When the policy was first incepted for the 22nd of February 2021, there werent any 
claims included on the policy at that time. Until the 26th of February 2021 when we 
added the incident in April 2018 which incurred an additional premium of £35.74.
Then when your policy has renewed this year, your underwriter AA Underwriting 
Insurance Company have done a CUE database check and it has arisen of the 
incidents of the non-fault incident on 20/09/2019 and also the 2 windscreen incidents 
from 13/08/2018 and 20/06/2018.
When they have been included in your policy it does create an additional premium of 
£83.28. If these had been included originally, this additional premium would have 
been included in your original policy premium.
This additional premium is still due for your policy by the 8th of March 2022
Mr K responded to this email. So Im satisfied that Mr K was aware that AAUICL included the 
September 2019 incident when calculating an additional premium before it cancelled his 
policy. 
Mr K responded by email to say he didnt accept that he owed an additional premium. 
Mr Ks broker replied on 14 March 2022 by email:
We have contacted the claims department in regards to the incident from 
13/08/2018, reported on your previous policy (claim number inserted here), we were 
advised that this was information purposes only, and recorded as a non-fault 
incident.A non-fault incident could be an accident caused by a third party or an incident that 
you reported to your insurer that didnt lead to an insurance claim. Both examples 
would be recorded on the shared claims database as non-fault and need to be 
declared as such for insurance purposes.
As a result we have updated your policy and the additional premium required is now 
£74.16, and due by 28/03/2022
Mr K says he didnt need to disclose the windscreen claims. Some insurers charge a 
premium for previous windscreen claims. Some dont. My role is to look at whether AAUICL 
acted reasonably and treated Mr K as it would any other customer in the same 
circumstances. 
When Mr K applied for the policy in February 2021 - which was renewed in February 2022 - 
AAUICL sent Mr K policy documents. They included a Statement of Insurance which 
confirmed the details Mr K provided when he applied for the policy. The following question 
was asked and set out under the Statement:
Have you or any person who will drive been involved in any accident or suffered any 
loss (whether to blame or not) involving a motor vehicle - whether or not the subject 
of an insurance claim - in the last five years?
Mr K replied no. 
I think the question was clear - that any accidents or loss(es) in the last five years should be 
disclosed even if it wasnt the subject of a claim. 
The cover letter from the broker attaching the policy documents read:
Check your details and your cover
Please check the enclosed Statement of Insurance and Certificate of Insurance and 
let us know as soon as possible if you need to make a change to your cover or if your 
details are incorrect or missing. Failure to do so may result in your insurance being 
cancelled or a claim not being paid. 
The broker identified the incident from April 2018 in February 2021. The underwriter 
identified the incidents from September 2019 and the windscreen claims in February 2022. 
Ultimately it was for Mr K to disclose all of the incidents when he applied for a new policy in 
February 2021. And I think he was given a further opportunity to check the information and 
make changes when he renewed his policy in February 2022.
I understand Mr K says he didnt receive the cancellation notice email. But AAUICL also 
wrote to Mr K by letter giving him notice. I cant hold AAUICL responsible for any postal 
delays. I think it took reasonable steps to communicate with Mr K of the intention to cancel 
the policy if it didnt receive the additional premium. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr K. But from the information Ive seen, I dont think AAUICL 
unreasonably cancelled his policy. So Im not asking AAUICL to reinstate it. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman