DRN-2036696
The complaint
Miss B complains that Metro Bank PLC has registered a marker at CIFAS, the national fraud 
database.
What happened
Miss B had an account with Metro Bank. It told her in January 2019 that it was closing it. She 
later found it had registered the marker and complained.
Metro Bank said that three payments that Miss B had received into her account on 1 
February 2018 totalling £940 were reported as fraudulently made in January 2019. Miss B 
had made payments on from her account using this money. It said it had a duty to report 
this.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Miss B disputed these 
payments as being fraudulent and had said she didnt know who the person sending the 
money to her was. Miss B said she thought her ex-partner had arranged for the money to be 
sent to he as he didnt have a bank account. He then asked her to make payments on his 
behalf. Miss B now thought that a partner of his, who shed sent money to, had maliciously 
caused this issue.
Our investigator said that Metro Bank had received information from the sender's bank that 
established that the payments to Miss B werent authorised. The account holder hadnt been 
available to report this until January 2019. Metro Bank had to take this seriously and could 
show that Miss B had authorised payments using this money. She hadnt reported any 
issues with her account or say with her card being lost. Alongside bank transfers her card 
had been used to take out cash and make payments. There was no evidence that a false 
report had been made by the person Miss B described. Our investigator considered Metro 
Bank had met the standard necessary to add a CIFAS marker and it could decide as here to 
close her account. The investigator said that it might have been helpful if Miss B could have 
provided her credit record and any other evidence about what happened and the impact it 
was having on her.
Miss B didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She described the impact the 
marker was having on her health and her ability to work. She said she didnt commit any 
fraud and didnt know the source of the money was fraudulent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened here and Ill be thinking about what is most 
likely. I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Metro 
Bank needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable 
grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that 
the evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
Miss Bs account was opened at Metro Bank on 19 January 2018. The first payments into 
the account were the disputed ones - and these were all marked as being from the same 
sender who she says she didnt know. Miss B accepts she made a number of payments of 
this money starting as soon as it was received. She explains that this wasnt her main 
account and that she had accounts with other financial businesses. 
The payments into her account werent obviously from the name of the person she says was 
her partner. Shes nothing to substantiate him asking her to use her account or of him 
providing details of the accounts to send the money onto. And as has been set out some 
payments were made with her card. This included for example payments to supermarkets 
and there was a small cash withdrawal. 
Ive listened to recordings of calls Metro Bank had with Miss B. She called it several times 
when she was told on 18 January 2019 that her account was going to be closed. And it said 
she needed to write in about this as it couldnt be dealt with in branch or in the contact 
centre. She accepts that she didnt do so, and it was only when her other accounts were 
closed, and she came to believe this was connected to Metro Bank that she raised a 
complaint. When she spoke to Metro Bank in July 2019, she said that she didnt know who 
the sender of the money was, hadnt used the account actively and thought the issue might 
be something to do with a car theft shed reported. 
Miss B hasnt provided any other evidence to support what she says happened. Or to 
explain why if what she says is right the person sending the money would have reported this 
as not authorised. I need to weigh up all the evidence about what happened. The senders 
bank established the payments werent authorised by the account holder. Miss B received 
the money from someone she didnt know shortly after her account was opened. She paid 
the money out herself and had made calls to Metro Bank to make the faster payments. And 
the only record of a first payment to the person she names as someone who might make a 
malicious report didnt come until 3 March 2018 and was for £60. There is no evidence that 
person was connected to the original credits.
Our investigator asked Miss B to provide any contact with her ex-partner about the payments 
- for example any text messages and her full credit record. Miss B hasnt provided anything 
else. I need to decide what it most likely here and Im afraid I dont have evidence to find that 
it was other than Miss B involved in these payments and controlling how the money was 
used. Given this I consider she used money she received which she reasonably knew wasnt 
hers. She didnt report this to Metro Bank at the time and Im afraid I find there was a 
sufficient basis for Metro Bank as a result to report this to CIFAS.
I appreciate how Miss B has said this has affected her. I wont be establishing in this 
complaint exactly how other financial business have dealt with this marker. But as it was 
fairly recorded, I wouldnt be able to hold Metro Bank responsible for that.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman