DRN-3771230
The complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) delayed paying him a dividend when it 
had no authority to hold on to his money. 
What happened
Mr R had an HSBC InvestDirect Plus account - an execution only share dealing account 
with HSBC. 
29 June 2022  one of Mr Rs holdings paid a dividend. 
7 July 2022 - Mr R sent a secure message via HSBC's InvestDirect website asking why he 
had not received the dividend. 
8 July 2022  HSBC responded by way of secure message. Mr R was dissatisfied with 
HSBCs response and complained, asking why he had not received the dividend and 
when it would be paid. 
11 July 2022  the dividend was paid to Mr R. 
30 August 2022  HSBC didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. It said it classed this dividend 
payment as 'non-contractual' and it had been paid to Mr R within 10 working days in line 
with the terms of its service level agreement with customers.
Mr R was unhappy with this response and brought his complaint to us. He said HSBC was 
contractually obliged to pay the dividends it received on behalf of customers and could not 
keep the money for itself. He felt that HSBC should treat dividend payments as 
contractual and that it should pay customers within 2 days of receiving the funds on behalf 
of those customers.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he 
said HSBC had paid the dividend to Mr R within the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCAs) 10 day timescale and it was entitled to classify dividend payments as non-
contractual and hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr R didnt agree. In response to the investigators view, he put things this way:
HSBC has not claimed that it received the dividend late or set out its normal timeframe for 
the payment of dividends. HSBC claims it is the custodian ..I therefore disagree with the 
investigation outcome that, following clarification, is based on the presumption that HSBC 
received the dividend late and HSBC is not the custodian.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at this complaint afresh, Ive reached the same conclusions as our 
investigator for broadly the same reasons and Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint about 
HSBC. Ill explain my reasons. 
Ive summarised this complaint in my own words and focussed on what I think are the key 
issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, thats 
only because Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be 
able to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome.
The background facts are not disputed so Im concentrating in my decision on Mr Rs 
particular concerns about the time it took for him to receive the dividend. 
When HSBC responded on 8 July 2022 to Mr Rs secure message asking it to look into why 
he didnt appear to have received a dividend payment payable on 29 June 2022, it said:
Thank you for your message dated 07 July 2022 Although we will attempt to pay all 
dividends received in cash on the payment date, there may be a delay. This could be due to 
the number of customers entitled to the same dividend. Delays can also be caused by 
non receipt of the payment from our custodians or the registrars. If the dividend is received 
with any discrepancies, this has to be corrected before we can distribute it to any 
customers.
I can understand why this generic response didnt satisfy Mr R and HSBC has apologised 
for not addressing the specifics he wanted to know. Keeping in mind that 3 days later Mr R 
received the dividend, I think this apology adequately addresses this shortcoming in HSBCs 
service on this occasion. So this isnt enough of a reason for me to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R said that FCA rules do not limit customers' rights against financial institutions so he still 
expected the dividend to be paid promptly notwithstanding the FCA is unable to take 
regulatory action against HSBC because there is no breach of its rulebook.
But I cant fairly say that HSBC made any error when it paid the dividend to Mr R within the 
time frame set out in the FCA handbook under CASS.7.10.21. The relevant part of the 
regulation says: 
Where a firm receives money ():
(1)  it should be able to account to all of its clients for sums held for them at all 
times; and
(2) that money should, pursuant to Principle 10, be allocated to the 
relevant client promptly. This should be done no later than ten business days after 
the firm has received the money.
In this instance, HSBC paid the dividend to Mr R within 9 working days of the dividend 
payment date, so comfortably inside the regulatory timeframe for making payment.
Whilst I appreciate that Mr R feels he was entitled to receive his dividend within 2 days, 
theres nothing in the account terms and conditions that he would have signed up to when 
he opened his HSBC InvestDirect Plus account that says this would happen. So I dont find 
that he had reasonable grounds to expect HSBC to pay the dividend payment to him sooner 
 or that it was required to do so.I agree with the investigator that HSBC was entitled to choose to class dividend payments 
as non-contractual. To be clear, this doesnt mean that HSBC is saying it isnt contractually 
obliged to pay the dividend to Mr R or that the investigators view (or mine) is based on 
the presumption that HSBC received the dividend late and HSBC is not the custodian. 
Where HSBCs view is that it cannot guarantee having the cash available on the payment 
date, it classifies these as non-contractual payments, which includes this dividend 
payment. That seems reasonable to me since HSBC couldnt always be certain it would 
receive and be able to pay individual customers their dividend payments necessarily on the 
due payment date. 
HSBC pays non-contractual payments only after receipt of actual funds in its account. This 
is in contrast to a contractual payment (as defined by HSBC) where HSBC is satisfied it 
can rely on an assurance from its custodian that the money will definitely be received that 
day, when HSBC will make payments in advance of receiving the cash. 
Mr R is aware that how businesses choose to operate is a matter that comes under the 
oversight of the regulator - the FCA. But I hope this explanation helps clarify that the 
distinction between contractual and non-contractual payments simply reflects funding 
implications for HSBC. I dont think its unreasonable that HSBC makes this distinction as it 
helps to ensure its daily balance sheet is as accurate as possible and it hasnt paid out 
money it hasnt itself received.
In order to uphold Mr Rs complaint I would have to find that HSBC made an error or acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. After having taken into account everything that Mr R and HSBC 
have told me, I havent seen enough to show that HSBC did anything wrong or that it treated 
Mr R in a way that wasnt fair and reasonable. So I cant uphold this complaint. I hope that setting things out as I've done helps Mr R to understand how I've reached my 
conclusions and even though this isnt the outcome he hoped for, he will at least feel that his 
complaint has been fully considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman