DRN-2863532
The complaint
Mr Bs unhappy that Santander UK Plc recorded a missed payment on his credit file for a 
loan hed taken out. And hed like this removed. 
What happened
Mr B took out a loan with Santander on the 5 November 2020. 
On the 22 January 2021 Mr B phoned Santander and asked the bank to change his direct 
debit payment from the first of the month to the 20th. 
Santander agreed, however they explained that due to the date Mr B had called it was too 
late to alter the next payment date  the 1 February 2021. So they made arrangements to 
cancel his direct debit, and explained to Mr B hed need to make a manual payment on the 
1 February 2021 along with his direct debit payment on the 20 February 2021  therefore 
hed be making two payments in February. 
On the 1 February 2021 Mr B phoned up the bank and explained that it wasnt affordable
for him to make a payment today. He asked to make two payments on the 
20 February 2021. However the bank explained if he didnt make his next payment until the 
20 February 2021, theyd record a missed payment on his credit file. The advisor explained 
that because his loan was taken out on the 5 November 2020, they couldnt move his next 
payment to the 20 February because theyd need to take all of his loan payments within the 
agreed term of the loan. 
Mr B made two payments on the 19 and 22 February 2021 to bring his loan account up to 
date, however the bank recorded a missed payment on his credit file in February 2021. Mr B 
wasnt happy with Santanders actions, so complained to the bank.
The bank didnt uphold his complaint  and explained that theyd followed their procedure, 
and couldnt alter Mr Bs payments because it would extend the loan term. Plus he agreed to 
make a payment on the 1 February 2021.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with the banks response, so complained to our service. He explained 
that hes never missed a payment or been in arrears on any other credit agreements. And he 
suffers with anxiety and depression which has been negatively impacted by the banks 
actions. Mr B also highlighted that he paid both instalments in February as he said he would 
do. 
I understand that Mr B was disappointed however our investigator concluded that the bank 
didnt act unfairly in recording the missed payment. And she didnt think they needed to do 
anything further here. 
Mr B didnt accept our investigators conclusions. In summary he said:
- He called 11 days before his direct debit was due and industry practice says you can 
change a direct debit up to 10 days beforehand.
- There was a government directive to help customers who were in distress during the 
Coronavirus pandemic. 
- He could have taken a payment holiday, which Santander should have allowed him 
to do.
- His credit file says he didnt make a payment in February when he actually made two.
- The bank acted unprofessionally by asking him to cancel and reinstate his direct 
debit.
- He didnt receive an arrears notice.
As Mr B didnt accept our investigators conclusion its been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the calls provided by Santander which took place on the 22 January and
1 February 2021. Both parties are generally in agreement about what took place on the 
phone calls  however Mr B disputes that Santander did what they should have done in 
helping him change the date of his direct debit to repay his loan. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing to Mr B, however Im afraid I dont agree. And Ill 
explain why below.
Ive listened to the call Mr B had with Santander on the 22 January 2021  during this call 
the advisor explains to Mr B that hell need to make two payments in February, he explains 
its too late to make the change. During the call Mr B agrees with the payment schedule, 
however he later challenges it on the 1 February 2021. The advisor Mr B speaks to on the 
1 February 2021 explains in more detail why its not possible for two payments to be made 
on the 20 February 2020  namely because this would extend the term of the loan period. 
Mr Bs main complaint point is that Santander recorded a missed payment on his credit file in 
February 2021  when in fact he made two payments, and hed also asked for his direct 
debit to be moved to the 20 February 2021. Which is around the time he made the two 
payments. I appreciate that Mr Bs frustrated by Santanders actions, but Im satisfied theyve 
acted fairly. And Ill explain why. Firstly as Ive already explained during the call on the 
22 January 2021 Mr B agreed to make a manual payment on the 1 February 2021  which 
he unfortunately failed to do. 
The bank has provided a copy of their policy when moving payment dates which explains 
that moving a loan end date by more than 59 days would be in violation of the credit 
agreement. The policy also explains that if a customer wishes to change their collection 
date, they may need to make two payments close together.  
Ive thought about what this means in Mr Bs case. From the information provided by 
Santander I can see Mr Bs loan was taken out on the 5 November 2020  and his first 
payment taken on the 1 January 2021  this is 57 days later. If Santander agreed for Mr Bs 
next payment to be scheduled on the 20 February 2021 this would take him over the 59 day 
window. And potentially extend his loan beyond the length of the credit agreement. 
Mr Bs raised a number of points in response to our investigators view, including that 
Santanders own policy says its possible to rearrange a direct debit within ten days of it 
being due. The direct debit guarantee states that a customer should be given ten working days notice before a date is amended by the organisation  I assume this is what Mr B is 
referring to here. But, the question I need to consider is whether it was fair for the bank to 
ask Mr B to make a payment on the 1 February 2021 and 20 February 2021 and for the 
reasons Ive outlined above I think it is. I do however accept his point that Santander could 
have done more when rearranging his direct debit  Id have expected the advisor on the 
first call to rearrange Mr Bs direct debit to the 20th of the month as requested. However, this 
doesnt change my overall conclusions  considering Mr B was still aware of the need to 
make two payments in February on the agreed dates. 
I also understand Mr Bs argument that he made two payments in February, but his credit file 
shows a missed payment. However, he didnt make the first payment at the agreed time  on 
the 1 February 2021. His made this payment some 19 days later. 
Mr Bs also mentioned the coronavirus pandemic and the expectations on banks to treat 
customers positively and sympathetically if they were struggling to repay credit or need a 
payment holiday. I agree with Mr Bs point here  however he didnt request a payment 
holiday at any point or indicate to the bank hed been unable to make two payments in 
February. In fact in the first call Mr B agrees to make the payments on the 1 and 
20 February 2021. 
Lastly, Mr Bs explained that he didnt receive an arrears notice  and Ive not seen anything 
which shows he was sent a notice. But, as its clear Mr B was fully aware of the payments 
required  considering he had at least two conversations about the payments in January and 
February 2021  I cant say this contributed to him missing the payment. Its also the case 
than an arrears notice would be sent after a missed payment, and therefore a bank would 
have a responsibility to accurately report the missed payment to a credit reference agency. 
Overall, for the reasons Ive outlined above I wont be asking Santander to do anything 
further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman