DRN-3471068
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as F complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly closed its 
business accounts and recalled its Bounce Back Loan (BBL) facility. 
The complaint is brought on Fs behalf by its director, Mr V.
What happened
Mr V told us: 
Santander told him they were cancelling Fs BBL and closing its accounts without 
telling him why. 
The bank said the turnover through Fs account didnt match what the company had 
declared on the BBL application  but hed explained why there was a difference and 
provided supporting documentation  so he thought F was eligible for the loan it had 
received through the BBL Scheme.
 
Santander said the BBL funds hadnt been used for Fs business purposes - but hed 
explained they had.
 
F cant afford to repay the full amount of the BBL immediately.
 
Santander told us: 
They didnt think F met the eligibility criteria for the BBL.
They had made a commercial decision in line with their terms and conditions to 
terminate their relationship with F.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld because: 
Santander had reviewed Fs accounts as part of their legal and regulatory 
obligations, and she was satisfied the banks actions were in line with what was 
expected of them to comply with these obligations.
The terms of the BBL agreement allowed Santander to cancel the loan and demand 
immediate repayment in certain circumstances. And she thought it had been 
reasonable for Santander to do so here, having reviewed the basis of the banks 
decision.
The accounts had been closed in line with the terms and conditions.
Mr V didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review Fs complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Under the rules of the BBL Scheme, there were specific eligibility criteria that a business 
needed to meet to obtain a BBL. These included that the amount being borrowed was no 
more than 25% of the applicants turnover to a maximum of £50,000. It was also a 
requirement that the loan funds be used only for the business purposes of the applicant. 
Under the Scheme rules, a potential borrower would self-declare that they met the eligibility 
criteria, confirming they had applied for the loan amount they were entitled to receive and 
that the funds would be used in the requisite manner. Lenders were entitled to rely on the 
information declared within the application.
F obtained a loan of £50,000. So to be eligible for this, it needed to have had a turnover of 
£200,000 during the calendar year 2019. F declared a figure of £215,000 in its application.
After F had received the BBL, Santander carried out a review on Fs application to verify the 
information it had provided to show it was eligible for the BBL. The bank wasnt satisfied that 
F had met the Scheme eligibility criteria for the loan it had obtained. So they wrote to F on 22 
January 2021, explaining that they thought - based on the turnover through Fs bank account 
for the period required by the Scheme  that Fs turnover was less than half the £215,000 it 
had declared in its application. 
The bank also thought that the BBL funds hadnt been used for business purposes as the 
money had been transferred to Mr Vs personal account. The bank asked F for further 
information to verify the higher turnover and what the BBL funds had been spent on. As they 
werent satisfied with Mr Vs response, Santander terminated the BBL with immediate effect.
Santander have provided us with the information on which their decision was based. Our 
investigator also asked Mr V to provide copies of Fs tax return, accountant statements, or a 
bank statement showing a debit for Fs tax payment  in an effort to verify the turnover figure 
that had been declared in Fs application. Mr V provided some information including a copy 
of Fs accounts and tax return, but these werent sufficient to verify the difference in turnover 
and Mr V didnt show how the BBL funds had been spent on F or the invoices for the 
outstanding income which he said F was due. Therefore, having reviewed all the evidence 
available, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for the bank to withdraw the BBL funds in line 
with the terms of the loan agreement.
Mr V is also unhappy that Fs accounts were closed as he says the bank hasnt told him the 
reason for this. Santander has told us Fs accounts were also closed as they had undertaken 
a review and it had failed the banks checks. In certain circumstances, the bank is able to 
immediately close an account without giving notice. Santander has provided us with the 
information on which its decision was based, which included Fs BBL application and not 
being provided with the additional information it requested. And having reviewed this, Im 
satisfied that it was reasonable for the bank to take this action. 
I recognise that Mr V feels strongly about this, and hell be disappointed with my decision. 
But based on everything Ive seen, I think Santander acted reasonably in closing Fs 
accounts and withdrawing its BBL facility, so, I wont be asking them to do anything more. Mr V has told us that F is unable to repay the BBL as requested by the bank, so I would 
encourage him to contact Santander about this directly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman