DRN-3205925
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs A have complained that changes National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
made to its charging structure for overdrafts were unfair. They also feel that NatWest didnt 
help them with their financial difficulties and that the continued application of charges and 
interest to their account exacerbated their financial difficulties.
What happened
 Mr and Mrs A contacted NatWest in March 2020, they said they had visited their local 
branch recently to ask for help with managing their account given the planned changes to 
NatWests overdraft charging structure. Theyd had some major life events which meant they 
were struggling financially and were concerned that the changes would exacerbate those 
difficulties. They were unhappy that the branch hadnt been able to offer them any 
assistance and so wanted to raise a complaint.
NatWest responded to say that it felt the change to its charging structure was fair, and to 
suggest that Mr and Mrs A contact its financial assistance team or lending team if they 
needed help with their finances. Mr and Mrs A remained unhappy and so referred their 
complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that NatWest hadnt done 
anything wrong. He explained that the changes to NatWests charging structure were a 
commercial decision and so not something we could consider. He went on to explain that he 
didnt think there was enough to suggest to NatWest that Mr and Mrs A were in financial 
difficulties and so he didnt think it needed to have done anything more. Mr and Mrs A 
disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for review. 
I issued my provision decision on this complaint on 10 November 2021. NatWest didnt have 
any new comments to make following that provisional decision. Mr and Mrs A set out why 
they felt the redress I had detailed should be changed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In my provisional decision I explained the following:
NatWest will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
provisional decision. 
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think NatWest acted unfairly when it 
continued adding interest and associated fees and charges to Mr and Mrs As overdraft from 
March 2020. 
This is when Mr and Mrs A say they visited the branch to explain their financial difficulties 
and to ask for help. NatWest has said it has no record of this meeting at the branch, but the 
complaint notes show that Mr and Mrs A called NatWest the next day to complain about 
what had happened at the meeting, so Im satisfied that its more likely than not that the 
branch meeting did take place. And Ive not seen anything to make me doubt that Mr and 
Mrs As recollections of what they discussed at that meeting are likely to be incorrect given 
that they detailed their concerns about the meeting to NatWests complaints department the 
very next day. In any case, when they called NatWest to complain Mr and Mrs A again set 
out their particular financial difficulties at the time. So I dont think there can be any dispute 
that NatWest was aware of Mr and Mrs As financial difficulties in March 2020. 
And once a lender is told a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty wed expect it to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration, in line with its regulatory obligations. Ultimately, 
wed expect a lender to listen to a borrower, get an understanding of their circumstances and 
assess the most appropriate way to move forward. In its final response letter from March 
2020 NatWest gave contact details for its financial assistance team and lending team, but I 
dont think this was enough given that Mr and Mrs A say they had already been told in the 
branch that they would not be able to get further lending and that there was no other help 
that NatWest could offer them to avoid the charges on their overdraft. I can understand why 
they would therefore feel that there was no benefit to them contacting the departments 
detailed in the final response letter.
Im also mindful that by this stage Mr and Mrs As account hadnt seen a credit balance for 
several months and there had been a significant reduction in the credits to the account. All of 
this means that I think NatWest was aware that Mr and Mrs A were experiencing financial 
difficulty and so shouldnt have continued offering their overdraft on the same terms. And I 
think NatWest should have taken proactive steps to ensure that their financial situation didnt 
continue to deteriorate, rather than leaving it to them to make contact when they had already 
been led to believe that there was little help that NatWest could offer. 
As NatWest didnt react to Mr and Mrs As overdraft usage or act decisively enough in March 
2020 and instead continued applying charges and interest to their overdraft, I think it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably towards them. 
Mr and Mrs A ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on their overdraft at a 
time when they were already experiencing difficulty. So, Im intending to say that Mr and 
Mrs A lost out because of what NatWest did wrong and that it should put things right.
In summary, my recommendation was that NatWest reduce the outstanding balance on Mr 
and Mrs As account by refunding the fees and charges applied from March 2020. I set out 
that NatWest should then ensure that an affordable repayment plan is in place for the 
remaining debt and amend Mr and Mrs As credit files to reflect what would have happened if 
it had started taking action in March 2020.
Mr and Mrs A have said they think it would be fair for NatWest to also cover additional costs 
they say they incurred  a missed half days work for Mr A, the costs of extending their 
mortgage to allow them to go into a debt management plan, and the cost to Mrs A of the 
negative information recorded on her credit file. Mr and Mrs A have also said that they think 
any record of the debt should be removed from Mrs As credit file and should only be 
recorded on Mr As credit file.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs A feel the way they do, but I dont agree that I can fairly 
hold NatWest responsible for the additional costs they have detailed. I appreciate that Mr A 
feels the visit to branch was wasted, but it was his choice to take leave to visit the branch, 
there were other options for contacting the bank which would not have required him to miss work. And I think it is difficult to say that it is solely this account and NatWests failure to stop 
charges and interest in March 2020 that caused Mr and Mrs A to need to enter a debt 
management plan and extend their mortgage, particularly as they have confirmed the debt 
management plan includes other debts. I also dont think it would be reasonable to ask 
NatWest to remove any record of this debt from Mrs As credit file as this was a joint 
account. I know Mr and Mrs A say they asked for Mrs A to be removed from the account, but 
when an account is in debit I think it is reasonable for the bank to refuse to remove someone 
who is party to the account and therefore jointly responsible for repaying the debt.
Mr and Mrs A have also suggested that the refund of charges should be split between all 
their creditors, but I think it is fair for NatWest to reduce the outstanding balance as set out in 
my provisional decision. The charges and fees form part of the outstanding balance and so it 
is reasonable that they should be used to reduce that balance.
I also note Mr and Mrs As comment about not wishing to change or stop the debt 
management plan they are currently in, which includes this account. And I agree that there is 
no reason why that debt management plan would need to be changed as long as it is still 
affordable and is working for all the parties involved.
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs As complaint for NatWest to put things right by:
Reworking Mr and Mrs As current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from March 2020 onwards are removed. 
AND
It is my understanding that an outstanding balance will remain on the overdraft once 
these adjustments have been made, and that Mr and Mrs A are currently in a debt 
management plan which includes this overdraft. There is no reason why the monthly 
payments agreed under that debt management plan should not continue as they are. 
But as with any repayment plan it is reasonable for it to be regularly reviewed to 
ensure it is still affordable and appropriate in Mr and Mrs As circumstances.
AND
If NatWest considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr and Mrs As 
credit files, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process 
of taking corrective action on the account from March 2020.
OR
If circumstances have changed and there is no longer any outstanding balance on Mr 
and Mrs As account once the charges and fees have been refunded, then any extra 
should be treated as overpayments and returned to Mr and Mrs A along with 8% 
simple interest on the overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) 
until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments 
have been made, then NatWest should remove any adverse information from Mr and 
Mrs As credit files. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NatWest to take off tax from this interest. NatWest must 
give Mr and Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr and Mrs As complaint and National 
Westminster Bank Plc should put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman