DRN-3289381
The complaint
Mr J complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited, trading as Lloyds Bank Direct 
Investments (LBDI), failed to provide him with an accurate share price.
What happened
Mr J has an execution only share dealing account with LBDI. He has a holding of shares, 
which Ill refer to as L. In July 2020, LBDI contacted Mr J to tell him that L shares, which 
had been listed on the US NASDAQ market, had had its listing cancelled. As such, it could 
only be traded over the counter (OTC).
LBDI said OTC shares werent eligible for its service. But it said it would allow Mr J to 
continue to hold the shares and that they could be sold through its platform.
Mr J complains that the share price was showing relatively accurately on LBDIs systems 
until around February 2021. He says the price was then showing at around half the actual 
previous close price. He says LBDI told him the price it showed wasnt accurate or updated. 
Mr J says this means LBDI is providing him with misleading information and hes lost 
confidence that he would be given an accurate price if he wanted to sell L shares. 
LBDI said it does not receive regular up to date prices for OTC shares and that all its prices 
quoted online are indicative.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said LBDI relied 
on third parties to provide prices, but for OTC shares these werent updated regularly and 
couldnt be guaranteed. She thought LBDI had acted in line with its terms and conditions and 
hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr J didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
LBDI had failed in its duty of care to him. Its terms and conditions should be changed so 
that it cant misreport.
It should have a duty to check any third party it uses to provide prices to check they are 
competent.
He put LBDI on notice that it wasnt showing an accurate price, but it failed to act.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before going any further, its also important to understand the ombudsman service isnt the 
industry regulator. That means we dont set the rules for financial businesses or police the 
industry to make sure those rules are followed. And we dont have the power to fine or 
punish businesses. These are all issues dealt with by the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). My role is instead to consider individual disputes and reach an outcome 
I think is fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of each.
Having considered everything here, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the 
investigator for the following reasons:
LBDI provide indicative prices on its website. For OTC shares, these prices are less likely to 
be accurate or up to date because of the nature of the OTC market. For example, prices are 
likely to be more volatile because there is less liquidity; and prices are not as transparent 
because trading takes place off-exchange.
LBDI is reliant on a third-party supplier for pricing information. And it makes it reasonably 
clear on its website that prices are indicative.
I appreciate Mr Js concern that the price appeared to be relatively accurate and then 
suddenly stopped being updated. But I dont find this was because of anything LBDI did or 
didnt do. As Ive already said, its reliant on a third-party price feed.
In any event, I dont find the inaccuracy of the pricing information has led to Mr J incurring a 
financial loss for which he should be compensated. 
LBDI has reminded Mr J that his account is execution only  LBDI does not provide advice. 
And its suggested he carries out his own research, including checking the price of OTC 
shares, before deciding whether to trade. I dont find this is unreasonable, particular for a 
share which isnt eligible for LBDIs service.
I dont find LBDI has failed in any duty towards Mr J  in the sense that I dont find it has 
acted in breach of the agreed terms and conditions, or that it has treated him unfairly 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman