DRN-3778676
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE will only pay £125 plus VAT per hour 
for their solicitors costs under their legal expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to Great Lakes, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers for 
which it takes responsibility.
As this is Mr Cs claim, Ill refer only to him in my decision. 
What happened
Mr C made a claim under his legal expenses insurance policy to pursue an employment 
dispute. Great Lakes accepted the claim and agreed Mr C could use a solicitor of his own 
choice, but it said the policy will only cover £125 plus VAT per hour. 
Mr C wasnt happy with this and raised a complaint. He said his solicitor believes his claim is 
complex and high value which requires a senior solicitor. So he thinks Great Lakes should 
use its discretion and increase the amount its prepared to pay. But Great Lakes maintained 
its position, so Mr C brought his complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he was satisfied Great Lakes had applied the 
policy terms correctly and fairly. As Mr C didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the legal expenses insurance policy say:
If you do select to appoint your own non-panel solicitor, this insurance will not cover 
expenses over and above the costs that our panel would charge in equivalent 
circumstances. For your information, this means that we would take into account the 
seriousness of the claim and the location and class of non-panel solicitor that you 
choose. The hourly rate is currently set at £125 + VAT. We reserve the right to 
assess each case on its merits, and may agree to pay additional fees if we feel the 
situation warrants it. This will remain entirely at our discretion.
As the insurer that will be paying the legal costs, its reasonable for Great Lakes to have a 
say in the amount of legal costs its willing to pay. So, the starting point is that this is what the 
policyholder can expect. 
Great Lakes has given Mr C the option to use two different panel firms of solicitors who 
would deal with the claim under the standard terms of appointment at no cost to him. And 
Ive seen no evidence that this claim is too complex or unusual that it would need to be dealt 
with outside of the standard hourly rate. So Im satisfied Great Lakes has applied the policy 
term correctly to Mr Cs claim and that its decision was fair in the circumstances.
Insurers must provide information thats clear, fair, and not misleading. Where theres a 
significant limit on cover, such as an hourly rate lower than the amount the policyholder 
might pay their own solicitors, the insurer needs to make this clear; policyholders should 
know at the outset what cover theyre getting. Im satisfied the policy is clear that the rate 
Great Lakes will normally pay is £125 plus VAT per hour. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman