DRN-3614266
The complaint
Miss Ps complaint is about Studio Retail Limiteds handling of a refund on her catalogue
shopping account.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
The complaint was passed to me and I issued my provisional findings on 11 July 2022 where 
I said I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. Ive repeated an extract below:
Having listened to Miss Ps call on 7 December, its not in dispute that she paid for
the dolls house using her debit card. And so, I can understand why Miss P was keen
to get her cancellation refund applied to her debit card account.
But the agent on the same call says, I will see if I can raise a request to see if we
can refund it back into your account. This is because Miss P had an open credit
account with Studio Retail when she called to cancel the dolls house.
In most circumstances, our service would consider it reasonable for Studio Retail to
refund Miss P the money into her debit card account, plus interest for the time she
was without the funds. However, in the circumstances of this case, I dont think this
would be reasonable. Ill explain why below.
Studio Retail has said it refunded the dolls house, and a total of £85 compensation
to Miss Ps catalogue shopping account. Miss P continued to make purchases on this
account whilst the refund was being disputed. Studio Retail says that this means
Miss P avoided paying any interest between September 2021 and November 2021,
on orders amounting to around £800, because the refund of the dolls house and
compensation payments were used to offset against these charges.
I cannot conclude on what mightve happened had Miss P not made further
purchases on her account  its likely in those circumstances she wouldve been
entitled to an interest award for the time without the money. I can only consider what
actually happened here.
So, considering Miss P didnt pay any interest on her additional purchases for the
period stated above, now has a zero balance on the account, and has been given a
total of £85 compensation linked to the out of stock dolls house, I conclude that she
is back in a similar position to the one she wouldve been in, had the money been
credited to her debit account only.
I acknowledge Miss Ps point about making several calls to Studio Retail to sort the
problem. Ive considered that not all the calls she made were specifically about the
dolls house  which is the item at the crux of this complaint. Having taken this into
account, I find Studio Retails offer of £85 compensation total is reasonable in the
circumstances.
For these reasons, I intend to not uphold this complaint.
Developments
Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any new evidence or arguments Ive reached the same conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Studio Retail Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman