DRN-3550180
The complaint
Mr M complains Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) unfairly terminated his 
car finance agreement. 
What happened
In December 2018, Mr M entered into a 48 month personal contract purchase agreement for 
a new car. He was required to pay monthly instalments of £227 followed by an optional final 
payment of £7,335.
Mr M said he experienced financial difficulty in 2021 meaning he wasnt able to pay the 
instalments. He said around September 2021 he requested a payment deferral via VWFS 
online customer portal.
Payments for June, August and October 2021 were missed and communication about the 
arrears were sent to Mr M. A default notice was issued in November 2021 and as no 
payment was received, VWFS decided to terminate the agreement in January 2022.
Mr M was contacted by VWFS agents who told him the agreement had been terminated and 
the car would be repossessed. Mr M said he was unaware of this as he hadnt heard from 
VWFS and he believed a payment deferral had been agreed. Mr M said he had moved 
address so he didnt receive the letters and he had been told by a VWFS approved 
dealership that they would update his contact details with VWFS. He complained. 
VWFS said the dealership wouldnt have had the ability to update his address details as they 
are a separate entity and it was Mr Ms responsibility to let them know about a change in his 
details. They said they had no record of a request for a payment deferral via the customer 
portal. They outlined their various attempts to contact Mr M without success and said 
because the account was in arrears with no communication from him, they terminated the 
agreement.
Unhappy with their response, Mr M referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case wasnt upheld. They believed VWFS acted fairly by terminating the 
agreement. Mr M disagreed.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
The terms of the agreement say:
Missing payments could have severe consequences and make obtaining credit more 
difficult. It may lead to us serving a default notice on you, on the expiry of which we may 
terminate the agreement
In this case, VWFS said the instalments for June, August and October 2021 werent paid 
resulting in arrears of £781 and having considered the account statement I can see this is 
what happened. 
Ive carefully considered Mr Ms comments and Im sorry to hear he was suffering financial 
difficulty in 2021, I appreciate this wouldve been a difficult time for him. In such 
circumstances, the CONC guidance which can be found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) handbook says the financial business should treat the consumer with forbearance and 
due consideration. Theres not a defined list as to what steps should be taken but it may 
include measures such as payment deferrals, temporarily freezing the interest, agreeing to 
accept reduced payments, etc.
Mr M said he made VWFS aware of his financial hardship and applied for a payment deferral 
via the customer portal. VWFS said they have no record of such a request and having 
considered their contact notes I agree there is no evidence of this request. Mr M has referred 
to an email of 7 September 2021 from VWFS which he said shows the request was 
received. However having read it, I disagree. Im not satisfied this was an acknowledgement 
or a response to a request for a payment deferral. I say this because the content of the email 
explains the impact of a payment deferral on an individuals credit file. Based on the contact 
notes this was sent in response to Mr Ms enquiry about his credit file and how it had been 
impacted by a previous payment deferral during the Covid-19 pandemic. Based on this 
evidence, Im not persuaded Mr M told VWFS about his financial difficulty or asked for a 
payment deferral so I cant say VWFS acted unfairly by not putting supportive measures in 
place. 
Having looked at the history of the account, I can see Mr M previously required support 
during other times of financial difficulty and measures such as payment deferrals were 
agreed and confirmed in writing by VWFS so I find Mr M was aware such support was 
available. Even if I was to accept Mr M did contact VWFS and they hadnt responded, I think 
it wouldve been reasonable for him to contact them again to chase it up. In any event, for 
the reasons explained above Im not convinced Mr M made VWFS aware. 
VWFS records show they sent letters to Mr Ms address about the arrears and termination 
but I understand these werent received because he had changed address and this didnt 
come to light until after the agreement was terminated.
 
The terms of the agreement say its Mr Ms responsibility to let VWFS know of updated 
address or contact details. In this case, there is no evidence Mr M done this prior to the 
agreement being terminated. 
VWFS contact notes between August 2021 and January 2021 show they tried to contact Mr 
M by various means including post, text message and email and a phone call. While I accept 
Mr M wouldnt have received the post as he had moved, Im satisfied the text messages, 
emails and calls wouldve been sent to his correct contact details as there is no suggestion 
these details had changed so on balance I believe they were received by Mr M. Im satisfied 
VWFS acted fairly by trying to contact Mr M by different means and over a reasonable 
amount of time before deciding to terminate the agreement. 
Ive thought about Mr Ms comments that he was told by a dealership on more than one 
occasion that they would let VWFS know of his change of address. He has provided 
evidence of a new proposed agreement with VWFS in March 2020 and I can see it shows his updated contact details. Because of this, he believes VWFS ought to have been aware of 
his new address. However I havent seen any evidence that VWFS were made aware of the 
new address, by Mr M or the dealership so I cant fairly say theyve done anything wrong by 
not updating it. Based on the terms of the agreement, I find it was Mr Ms responsibility to 
make sure VWFS had his correct contact details.
While I accept Mr M didnt receive the letters about the default and termination as he 
changed address, if he wasnt making payments as and when he should, I find he would 
have known his account was in arrears and needed to be repaid but there is no evidence he 
spoke to VWFS about this or an arrangement to pay or payment deferral was set up. 
I know Mr M is of the impression that as hes paid more than half of the total agreement 
amount, VWFS must provide an arrangement to pay to settle the arrears but based on the 
terms of the agreement there is no such term. 
Taking into account the agreement was in arrears, a default notice was sent which wasnt
satisfied and VWFS hadnt received any contact from Mr M regarding the account, Im 
satisfied VWFS acted fairly and in line with the terms in deciding to terminate the agreement 
and record a default. Therefore I wont be asking them to remove or reverse this. 
Lastly, if Mr M is still suffering financial difficulty I wish to remind VWFS that they should 
demonstrate forbearance and due consideration in regard to him paying the outstanding 
balance. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman