DRN-1657111
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) was irresponsible to lend 
to him.
What happened
Mr G had two loans from Mr Lender between August 2013 and March 2014 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Due Repaid
1 23 Aug 2013 £300 34d £405.00 27 Sep 20138 Oct 2013
1 rollover
2 3 Mar 2014 £600 24d £780.00 28 Mar 201427 Feb 2015 
3 rollovers
Payment plan
Mr G says Mr Lender didnt carry out proper affordability checks and, had it done so it would 
have seen he had multiple short-term loans. Mr G says he was using one loan to repay 
another, had no money for priority bills and was in a debt spiral.
Mr Lender says it is not obliged to investigate loan 1 as it was taken more than six years 
prior to Mr Gs complaint. It says it considers it carried out proportionate checks for the 
loans, including asking Mr G about his income and getting information from credit reference 
agencies. It says the loans met its responsible lending criteria. Mr Lender did, however, offer 
Mr G a £25 voucher as a goodwill gesture.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld in part. She found that the 
repayment on loan 2 was a significant proportion of Mr Gs income and so, she said, it was 
unlikely hed be able to sustainably meet the repayments. Our adjudicator recommended Mr 
Lender should refund interest and charges on loan 2 (plus 8% statutory interest) and remove 
any associated adverse information from Mr Gs credit file.
Mr Lender responded to say, in summary, that the loans affordability should be based upon 
the disposable income and its calculations showed the repayment was affordable on that 
basis. In addition, it says that there had been almost five months between the two loans, 
which is evidence Mr G was not reliant on the lending.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender was required to lend responsibly. It should have made checks to make sure Mr G 
could afford to repay the loans before it lent to him. Those checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr G was borrowing, and his lending history. But 
there was no set list of checks Mr Lender had to do.
Loan 1
Im satisfied Mr Lender did enough checks when it assessed loan 1 and there was nothing in 
the available information to indicate the repayment was unaffordable.
Loan 2
When Mr G applied for loan 2, the repayment due on the loan was over half of his declared 
income. I accept Mr Lender says affordability should be based on disposable income, but 
even based on Mr Gs declared figures, he was only left with £80 per month which is not 
enough to cover any unforeseen expenses.
Given the circumstances, I dont consider Mr Lenders checks went far enough and, as a 
minimum, it should also have asked Mr G specific questions about other short-term loans. 
Had it done so, Mr Lender is likely to have found that Mr G had at least eight other short-
term loans at the time, with scheduled repayments totalling over £750. As Mr G had only 
declared £250 as his loan repayments when he applied for loan 2, the revised figure meant 
he actually had negative disposable income.
So I find it was irresponsible for Mr Lender to have approved loan 2.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) 
should:
Refund all interest and charges that Mr G paid on loan 2;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
Remove any negative information about loan 2 from Mr Gs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman