DRN-3400415
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) wont allow her to take a tax-
free lump sum from her pension plans because shed reached age 76. Despite her decision 
to take the benefits being delayed whilst a complaint about the same plans was being 
considered by our service. 
What happened
In the months before Mrs Ls 75th birthday in January 2020, Aviva wrote to her about her 
retirement options under her pension plans. It asked that she provide instructions before age 
75 or various options would be lost. Mrs L said she contacted Aviva and told it she wanted to 
take the benefits as a one-off lump sum. But Aviva said Mrs L hadnt contacted it until after 
her 75th birthday and the lump sum option was no longer available. 
Mrs L made a complaint which Aviva rejected. It said the options now available on her plans 
were limited to taking 25% tax-free cash and purchasing an annuity. But it said the tax-free 
cash option was only available before age 76. Mrs L referred this complaint to our service in 
April 2020. An ombudsman decided not to uphold it and issued his final decision in October 
2021, which Mrs L accepted.
Mrs L then asked Aviva to pay her benefits as a tax-free cash sum and annuity. It said tax-
free cash was no longer payable as she had passed her 76th birthday, and the only option 
was to set up an annuity with income payments backdated to her 75th birthday. Mrs L 
complained, saying she hadnt placed instructions to take the tax-free cash sum because her 
original complaint was being considered by our service. And said she didnt know about the 
age 76 requirement. 
Aviva rejected her complaint. It said referring the first complaint to our service hadnt 
prevented Mrs L from taking the benefits from her pension. Because any decision in her 
favour made by our service would be adhered to and applied retrospectively. Aviva said the 
only option available was annuity purchase.
Mrs L referred this complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it, but he didnt 
uphold it. 
Initially our investigator said it was fair that Aviva should make the tax-free cash payment 
available. Because he didnt think it had explicitly told Mrs L she could take her benefits, with 
any decision in her favour by our service being retrospectively applied. 
Aviva disagreed. It said our service had already decided that Mrs L hadnt provided 
instructions about her benefits before she reached age 75. It said the information it had sent 
about her options and the need to act before age 75 and 76 was very clear. It said it was 
following its normal business practices and the terms and conditions (T&Cs) of the policy. It 
said any delays were due to the time our service had taken to consider the first complaint.
Our investigator reconsidered his view. He said Aviva was following its normal business 
practices which our service couldnt dictate. He said it had clearly informed Mrs L about her 
options and that these would change as she aged, and it hadnt treated her unfairly. He said 
it was unfortunate that Mrs L had already reached aged 76 before her first complaint had 
been allocated for investigation. But that the timeframe for complaints to be allocated were 
set out on our services website. 
As Mrs L doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
I understand Mrs Ls frustration. But I dont think Aviva has made an error or treated her 
unfairly. That means I cant tell it not to follow the T&Cs of the plans. I think its argument that 
there was no reason for her not to provide instructions in time is reasonable. Because I think 
Aviva did make it clear there was a deadline for her to give instructions if she wanted the tax-
free cash option. 
In its final response letter of 3 April 202, rejecting Mrs Ls complaint Aviva had said:
There for (sic) the only option post 75 is to purchase the annuity and tax-free cash 
sum (which must be paid before age 76 is attained) or an annuity only.
This was nine months before Mrs Ls 76th birthday and she referred her complaint to our 
service. Unfortunately, due to the number of complaints being referred to us and the impact 
of Covid it was taking longer than usual for complaints to be looked at. And when it was, Mrs 
L had already reached age 76. 
Whilst Aviva didnt tell Mrs L in its final response letter that any decision made in her favour 
by our service would be retrospectively applied, it equally didnt tell her that referring her 
complaint would extend the decision-making period. Instead, it restated the age 76 deadline 
that applied. Mrs L had already brought a complaint about deadlines and the options 
available to her reducing. I think she would be focused on these issues and be mindful of 
timeframes. So, I think its reasonable that she should have queried the position with Aviva 
before she reached age 76. 
This is particularly so as there was no guarantee that our service would uphold Mrs Ls 
original complaint in her favour. And ultimately, we didnt uphold that complaint. 
The terms of Mrs Ls plans dont provide for the payment of a tax-free sum beyond age 76. I 
think Aviva made her aware of this in good time for her to act. And I dont think it made an 
error or treated her unfairly or unreasonably. So, whilst I sympathise with Mrs L I must be fair 
to both parties, and it wouldnt be reasonable for me to tell Aviva it cant follow its normal 
business practices. That means I cant uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman