DRN-3130500
The complaint
Mr W complains because AWP P&C SA (AWP) hasnt paid his travel insurance claim for a 
trip which was cut short. 
All references to AWP include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr W held an annual travel insurance policy, provided by AWP. 
Mr W travelled to a country which Ill call F on 14 March 2020. From later the same day, the 
government in F began to introduce restrictions due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. These included the closure of non-essential establishments, the reduction of public 
transport and the closure of ski resorts. 
On 16 March 2020, Mr W was told that he needed to leave his hotel accommodation in F the 
following day. Mr W therefore cut his holiday short and paid for a new flight back to the UK, 
departing on 17 March 2020. Also, on 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & 
Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) 
advised against all but essential international travel abroad. 
Mr W made a claim under his policy with AWP for his additional travel and unused holiday 
costs. AWP said Mr Ws policy didnt provide cover for the circumstances he found himself 
in. 
Unhappy, Mr W complained to AWP before bringing his complaint to the attention of our 
service.  
Our investigator looked into what had happened but said she didnt think AWP had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably by declining Mr Ws claim. Mr W didnt agree with our investigators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ws 
complaint. 
I understand the situation which Mr W found himself in was completely unprecedented and 
outside of his control, and there were no travel restrictions in place (either set out by the 
FCDO or by the government in F) when he left the UK. I also understand Mr W had little 
other choice but to return to the UK and when his insurance policy was purchased in 
January 2020, the circumstances that unfolded surrounding Covid-19 couldnt have been 
foreseen by either consumers or insurers. 
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide 
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. AWPs 
obligations under its contract with Mr W are limited by the terms, conditions and exclusions 
which are set out in the policy. 
Mr Ws policy provides for AWP to pay for a policyholders unused costs and/or additional 
travelling costs if a holiday is cut short because of one of a list of specific insured events. 
The Cancellation, Curtailment and Trip Interruption section of Mr Ws policy, at page 7, says 
AWP will pay for certain costs if a trip is cut short for one of the following reasons:
1. the death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a close 
relative or any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during your trip; or 
2. you being called for jury service or as a witness in a court of law (but not as an 
expert witness or where your employment would normally require you to attend 
court); or 
3. your redundancy, provided that you were working at your current place of 
employment for a minimum of 2 continuous years and that you were not aware of any 
impending redundancy at the time this policy was issued or the trip was booked; or 
4. your home being made uninhabitable due to accidental damage, burglary, flooding 
or fire; 
5. the police requesting your presence following burglary or attempted burglary at 
your home; or 
6. your passport, or the passport of any person you were intending to travel with, 
being stolen during the 7 days before the start date of your booked trip; or 
7. you, or any person you intended to travel with, who is a member of the Armed 
Forces, emergency service, the nursing profession or a government employee being 
ordered to return to duty.
Mr Ws trip wasnt cut short for any of the above reasons. This means his claim isnt covered 
under the Cancellation, Curtailment and Trip Interruption section of his policy. 
Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of Mr Ws insurance policy, but I dont think he 
held any cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances he found himself in. 
Our investigator correctly pointed out that Mr Ws policy contains a general exclusion for 
travelling against FCDO advice. However, Mr W wasnt travelling against FCDO advice at 
the time he went to F and the FCDO didnt recommend for all British travellers to return to 
the UK until 23 March 2020, by which time Mr Ws original trip was due to have ended. So, I 
dont think the presence of an exclusion relating to travelling against FCDO advice in Mr Ws 
policy makes any different to the outcome of his claim. 
However, there are two other exclusions in the terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy which I 
think are relevant to his claim. Section 1 of the policy (Cancellation, Curtailment and Trip Interruption) contains a specific 
exclusion which says:
What you are NOT covered for 
7. claims arising from the prohibitive regulations by the government of any country;
The General Exclusions, at page 15 say:
We will not pay anything directly or indirectly caused by: 
17. any epidemic or pandemic.
The World Health Organisation declared the Covid-19 outbreak to be a pandemic on 11 
March 2020. I think Mr Ws claim arose from the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent 
imposition of restrictions by the government in F arising from this. 
So, not only are the reasons why Mr Ws holiday was cut short not covered as listed, insured 
events under his policy, I think the exclusions Ive quoted above apply to the circumstances 
of his claim anyway. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W. I understand he says he has renewed his policy with AWP for 
several years. However, Mr Ws policy simply doesnt cover the circumstances he found 
himself in  even though these circumstances were outside of his control. Overall, there 
arent any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask AWP to pay Mr Ws claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman