DRN-3049149
The complaint
Mrs S complains Lloyds Bank PLC has not refunded money she transferred to a fraudster.
What happened
On 9 August 2021 I issued my provisional decision on this complaint. I wanted to give both 
parties a chance to respond with further submissions before I gave my final decision. That 
provisional decision forms part of my final decision and is copied below.
What happened
Mrs S received a message from her cousin on a popular social media websites messaging 
service. Unfortunately for Mrs S, the message was actually from a fraudster.
The fraudster said theyd received a grant of £30,000 from the foundation of a famous 
businessman and philanthropist and that Mrs S could receive one as well. Though Mrs S no 
longer has records of the conversation, she recalls that it began have you heard about my 
breakthrough? She remembers thinking that this didnt sound like her cousin.
Mrs S says she didnt question this or carry out any checks  she just clicked a link. The link 
took her to a conversation with someone claiming to be a representative of the foundation. 
She was asked for a number of personal details by the representative, who told her Im not 
here to play games or hurt anyone. He also told Mrs S not to tell anyone about the 
arrangement.
Mrs S told Lloyds she did think this was odd  but wanted the money. She doesnt recall 
what, if anything, made her eligible for the grant.
The representative asked her to make a series of payments. A first payment on 2 August 
2019 of £700 was made in order to receive the grant, then, on 5 August 2019, £300 was 
required as a charitable donation, followed the next day by a payment of £1,500 to top up 
the grant to £50,000 and finally on 12 August 2019, a payment of £100 was required 
because the representative was in prison. Its not clear what this final payment was for. All 
of the payments were made in her local branch and both sides agree that there was no 
conversation between Mrs S and branch staff prior to them being made.
Further requests for payments followed  including instructing Mrs S to purchase gift cards. 
Mrs S found this increasingly suspicious and stopped making the payments.
She contacted the bank on 29 August 2019 to report that she hadnt received the promised 
money and was concerned about whether shed been the victim of a scam. It appears that, 
at this point and during a subsequent call with the bank, she still seemed to believe that she
had been communicating with her cousin and that hed received a grant.
Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the 
CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. Lloyds said that Mrs S ought to have done more checks before going ahead 
with the payment, so one of the exceptions applied  that she didnt have a reasonable basis 
for belief in making the payments. It was, however, able to recover £100 from the firm which 
received the money, which was returned to Mrs S.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They felt that Mrs S had a reasonable 
basis of belief in making the payments and also thought that Lloyds could and should have 
done more to prevent the scam when Mrs S visited the branch.
Lloyds disagreed. It said the value of the payments would not have caused them to have any 
concerns about their legitimacy and Mrs S failed to carry out any checks on what was, on the 
face of it, a fairly implausible scam.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Service 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer 
even though they authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Lloyds 
should have reimbursed Mrs S under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it ought 
to have done more to protect Mrs S from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Theres no dispute here that Mrs S was tricked into making the payment. She thought she 
would receive a grant and did not, but that doesnt necessarily mean Lloyds is obliged to 
reimburse her losses  the CRM Code places a level of care on Mrs S too.
Its clear this was a cruel scam and I dont doubt the impact on Mrs S from losing this money 
but, in this case, I think Lloyds has been able to establish that it may choose not to 
reimburse her under the terms of the CRM Code. Im persuaded one of the listed exceptions 
to reimbursement applies in the circumstances of this case, namely that Mrs S made the 
payments without a reasonable basis of belief.
As a starting point, I have to say Im troubled by the very premise of this scam. It was 
suggested that a charitable foundation would give out a significant amount of money to 
private individuals  seemingly without any eligibility criteria, application or reasons. This 
was not an investment nor a prize  it was simply a gift. I dont think its unfair to suggest 
that, even if Mrs S might not understand how charitable foundations or grants work (and Idont think she did)  shes likely familiar with the notion that if something sounds too good to 
be true, it probably is.
Also troubling is that Mrs S admits that the fraudsters opening message did not sound like 
something her cousin would say, yet she didnt question this. And, she acknowledges that 
the fraudsters comments about people not getting hurt and their request for her not to tell 
anyone about the grant were odd. When asked why she proceeded regardless, Mrs S 
replied that she thought shed give it a try and, simply, wanted the money.
The combination of what the fraudster told her being implausible and her doubts about how 
the fraudster sounded ought reasonably to have put her on alert that something may not 
have been right. Once it was clear that shed have to make a payment to receive the grant, I 
think Mrs S ought to have stopped, thought about what she was being asked to do and 
made some further enquiries.
I accept it would have been persuasive for Mrs S that the contact she received had come 
from her cousins genuine social media account. She doesnt appear to have appreciated 
that social media accounts could be hacked in this way and its clear that she continued to 
hold the belief shed been talking to her cousin for a significant amount of time after the 
payments were made. I also understand that there were difficulties that might have 
hampered a telephone conversation between the two and, without the knowledge that social 
media accounts could be hacked, she doesnt appear to have thought about contacting her 
cousin in another way. But, I think the entire scenario ought to have seemed suspicious to 
her even if shed been speaking to her actual cousin.
Im also not aware there was any particular pressing need to go ahead with the first payment 
there and then. It strikes me that Mrs S would have had time to consider (and make her own 
enquiries) about what she was being asked to do over the ten or so days the payments were 
made. Im concerned that, even at the point she spoke to the bank about what had 
happened weeks after the payments, she still hadnt made any independent enquiries about 
the authenticity of the person she was speaking to or the existence of the grants.
I note Mrs S comments that she needed the money to pay off a loan and, I think that played 
a role in her decision making here and that Mrs S may have wanted what her cousin told 
her to be true more than it was reasonable for her to hold such a belief. And, having heard 
her conversations with Lloyds and our service, I dont think its unfair to say that Mrs S went 
ahead with the payments without fully understanding or thinking about what she was being 
asked to do.
Overall Im satisfied that Mrs S went ahead with the first payment without holding a 
reasonable basis for believing the recipient to be genuine. Im also not persuaded the 
fraudsters increasingly far-fetched reasons for requiring further payments could have given 
Mrs S a reasonable belief for the subsequent payments either. It follows that Lloyds can rely 
on the relevant exception under the CRM Code not to reimburse Mrs S.
Should Lloyds have done more to protect Mrs S from financial harm
Ive thought about whether Lloyds did enough to protect Mrs S from financial harm.
The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, they 
should provide Effective Warnings to their customers. The Code also says that the 
assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of 
whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the 
scam.I am also mindful that when Mrs S made this payment, Lloyds should fairly and reasonably 
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things).
I know this will be disappointing for Mrs S but I dont think its reasonable, in accordance with 
Lloyds obligations, to expect them to have questioned the payments Mrs S made. Though 
the £700 and £1,500 payments were larger than those Mrs S normally made, they are of a 
relatively modest size and, without any other indication that Mrs S was at risk of financial 
harm, unlikely to cause concern to Lloyds staff. So, I wouldnt expect Lloyds to have 
identified a scam risk here, intervened or asked further questions about the payments.
Im also satisfied no action by Lloyds could have led to the recovery of Mrs S money. Ive 
seen evidence from the firm which received the money. It appears to show that all of Mrs S 
money had left the recipients account by the time she reported the scam. While its unclear 
why £100 was returned to Mrs S, Im satisfied that it was and that Lloyds couldnt have done 
anything further.
Overall, I know this will be very disappointing for Mrs S, but I dont think Lloyds have acted 
unfairly by refusing to refund her under the terms of the Code. Neither do I think there was 
enough of an indication that Mrs S was at risk of financial harm that Lloyds ought to have 
intervened and questioned the payments she made.
My provisional decision
For the reasons explained, Im currently not minded to uphold this complaint against Lloyds 
Bank PLC.
Lloyds didnt respond to my provisional decision and Mrs S said she had nothing further to 
add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision and, therefore, I continue to be of the view that this complaint should not 
be upheld.   
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman