DRN-3764623
The complaint
Mrs J complains about West Bay Insurance Plc trading as Zenith Insurance (Zenith) 
declining a claim under her pet insurance policy for treatment of her dog.
References to Zenith include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
In March 2022 there was an issue with Mrs Js dog, so she took him to a vet to be examined. 
The vet diagnosed Brachycephalic Obstructive Airway Syndrome1 (BOAS) and the dog 
needed surgery. Mrs J contacted Zenith to tell them about the dogs condition and make a 
claim for the cost of treatment. 
However, Zenith said they wouldnt accept the claim (and wouldnt pre-authorise the surgery) 
as they considered the issue to be a pre-existing condition. They said from the information 
provided about the dogs medical history, there were signs and indications of the presence of 
BOAS dating back to October 2020 and January 2001 (prior to the inception of Mrs Js 
policy). As such, it was excluded from cover under the policy terms and conditions. However, 
Zenith said they would review their decision if Mrs J could obtain confirmation from her vet 
BOAS wasnt present before the examination that determined the need for surgery.
However, Mrs Js vet said they wouldnt be able to provide confirmation as the dog had been 
treated for BOAS-related problems several times between October 2020 and March 2022. 
Mrs J was unhappy about Zeniths decline of her claim, as she didnt think the need for 
surgery had been evident before the examination. And the examination in January 2021 (a 
check-up) only discussed the possibility of the need for surgery in the future and wasnt 
necessary at that time as the dogs airways were adequate. So, she thought Zenith should 
accept her claim.
Zenith didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they said as symptoms of BOAS 
were noted before the inception of Mrs Js policy (April 2021) they wouldnt cover the costs 
of treatment (surgery) for the condition. They re-stated their position they would review the 
decision if Mrs J could provide support for the condition not being present before the policy 
inception (and evidence to back up any such vet support).
Mrs J then complained to this service. She said her dog had related issues prior to the visit 
to the vet, but the need for surgery hadnt previously been confirmed. Shed had to pay for 
the examination and the pending surgery, which had impacted her financially. She thought 
she would be covered under the policy and wanted Zenith to accept her dog didnt require 
surgery prior to being examined and cover the cost of the examination and treatment.
1 BOAS is a condition that affects air movement through a dogs upper airways (nose, mouth, voice box) and 
trachea (windpipe) resulting from brachycephalic head conformation (short muzzle and flattened face dogs). It 
is usually found in certain breeds of dogs and not all dogs within a breed will be affected. Research suggests 
the condition is found in a significant proportion of English bulldogs, French bulldogs, and Pugs. (Source: 
Willows veterinary centre and referral service)
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Js complaint, concluding Zenith hadnt acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. The 
investigator noted the medical history of the dog indicated issues linked to BOAS had 
occurred prior to the policy start date, and this was confirmed by the vet. The investigator 
concluded there were clinical signs of the condition before policy inception, so Zenith hadnt 
applied the policy terms and conditions unfairly.
Mrs J disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. In disagreeing, she said not all dogs of the breed concerned were required to 
have surgery for the issues that arose prior to the policy inception, and she wasnt aware her 
dog would need surgery for BOAS prior to the visit to the vet in March 2022. So, she 
believed the policy would cover the surgery for BOAS.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Zenith have acted fairly towards Mrs J. 
The main issue in Mrs Js complaint is whether Zenith acted fairly in declining her claim for 
surgery on her dog for the BOAS condition, on the grounds that the dogs clinical history 
indicated it had previously had indications of the presence of BOAS before the examination 
in March 2022. So, it was a pre-existing condition excluded under the policy. Mrs J says the 
need for surgery wasnt evident before the examination, so Zenith should accept her claim.
On the main issue of the decline of the claim because of the exclusion for a pre-existing 
condition Ive considered both views carefully, including the relevant terms and conditions of 
the policy (particularly those referred to by Zenith in their final response) together with the 
supporting information and evidence, including the vets notes and the clinical history of Mrs 
Js dog. Looking at the policy terms and conditions, under the Your Cover part of the policy, 
Section 1: Veterinary Fees, theres a sub-heading What is not covered? that includes the 
following:
Any illness arising prior to or within the first 14 days of the inception date 
of the policy.
Ive also considered the Statement of Fact issued as part of the policy documents when the 
policy was taken out. It includes the following statement, which Mrs J answered yes:
You accept and understand that medical conditions or diseases that show clinical 
signs prior to the policy inception date, or within the waiting period, will not be 
covered (applies to new business only). 
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) issued when the policy was taken out 
also makes it clear that a condition that occurred or existed in any form prior to the start date 
of the policy would not be insured.
I think this makes it clear that if there are signs of a condition before the policy inception, 
they wont be covered. 
Ive then considered the question of whether the dog did have a pre-existing condition, 
specifically BOAS (the condition for which the need for surgery was identified). Ive 
considered the vets opinion  when asked for confirmation the dog didnt have any history of BOAS or related conditions  they couldnt provide confirmation. The vet notes several 
occasions on which the dog was seen for conditions related to BOAS. While the need for 
surgery wasnt identified on those occasions, the indications are that surgery was likely to be 
needed in the future (as happened when the dog was examined in March 2022).
Ive also considered Mrs Js response to our investigators view, first that not all dogs of the 
breed concerned required surgery for the issues that arose prior to the policy inception. I 
accept (as the footnote earlier sets out) that not all dogs of the breeds most affected by 
BOAS will develop the condition (or need surgery). But the issue here is whether Mrs Js dog 
displayed clinical signs of BOAS before the policy started. Based on the evidence available, 
the dogs medical history and the vets opinion, Ive concluded there were. 
The same conclusion would also be relevant to Mrs Js second point, that she wasnt aware 
her dog would need surgery for BOAS prior to the visit to the vet in March 2022. So, she 
believed the policy would cover the surgery for BOAS. 
Taking these points into account, Ive concluded the evidence supports the view that the dog 
had displayed clinical signs of BOAS before the examination in March 2022, and before Mrs 
J took out her policy. As such, I think it reasonable to conclude the dog had a pre-existing 
condition (BOAS) or clinical signs of the condition before the policy inception and Zenith 
acted fairly and reasonably in declining to cover the cost of surgery because of the exclusion 
in the policy for pre-existing conditions
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman