DRN-3548639
The complaint
Mr P complains HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse funds he lost when he fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
Mr P received a cold call from a trading company called Get Financial. After several days of 
calls and a sales pitch, Mr P was persuaded to invest with them as he had been promised 
huge returns. Mr P started small with an investment of £250 on 7 November 2018, he then 
made further transactions over the next two weeks. He was provided access to an online 
account which showed his investments were doing well.
Mr P also took out two loans through his bank to make further investments. But on 22 
November 2018, Mr P contacted his bank as he thought he might have been scammed; he 
had tried making withdrawals without success, as although he thought he had funds in his 
investment account, he was being told his available balance was zero. So he asked his bank 
to raise a chargeback claim for the funds. Ultimately, the chargeback wasnt successful and 
so Mr P asked us to look into the matter.
The transactions were as set out below:
Date Merchant Method Amount
7 November 2018 FXPlace.Trade Debit card £250
12 November 2018 FXPlace.Trade Debit card £2,700
12 November 2018 FXPlace.Trade Debit card £1,150
14 November 2018 Finproduct.Trade Debit card £9,000
14 November 2018 Finproduct.Trade Debit card £6,500
20 November 2018 Finproduct.Trade Debit card £3,000
21 November 2018 Finproduct.Trade Debit card £1,100
21 November 2018 Finproduct.Trade Credit card £1,100
Total £24,800
Our investigator considered the complaint and upheld it. They were satisfied the payment of 
£9,000 ought to have triggered HSBCs fraud alert systems; and had it intervened they were 
satisfied the scam would have unravelled. They also found that had HSBC intervened at that 
stage its likely Mr P could have obtained the evidence needed to successfully chargeback 
the earlier transactions.
HSBC disagreed with the outcome reached. In summary it has said:
It disagrees that it ought to have intervened at the fourth payment. But 
even if it had it doesnt believe the opinion an intervention from it would 
have made Mr P pause and considers this bare speculation.
Although the opinion says Mr P wasnt willing to take high-risks this is 
directly contradicted by the fact he paid money after being cold-called 
and undertaking no research.
It doesnt believe an intervention would have resulted in earlier 
payments being recovered.
It doesnt believe the investigator fully considered whether Mr 
P ought to be contributory negligent.
It doesnt believe 8% interest is fair on the debit card payments as 
they didnt cause Mr P to incur interest or charges and he wasnt 
accruing that in the account.
While waiting for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman, the investigator wrote to Mr P 
to explain that he was no longer of the view HSBC ought to refund the earlier transactions, 
prior to the £9,000 payment, unless he could provide evidence of a balance available for 
withdrawal from 14 November 2018, or within a couple of days. Mr P couldnt provide that 
evidence.
The matter was referred to me and I noted that Mr P had taken out loans to fund the 
investment. Via the investigator, I asked questions about the loans and what research Mr P 
had carried out prior to investing.
Mr P has told us:
When applying for both loans he told the lender he was buying 
goods and also investing.
He didnt find getting a cold call unusual as he got these all the 
time, for insurance and the like.
He didnt carry out any research but was directed by Get Financial to 
some positive reviews; conversely, he also said he carried out some 
basic research but didnt see anything negative.
He says the bank alerted him to the possibility this was a scam and 
wouldnt have thought to search for Get Financial and Scam before it 
was suggested to him. He didnt have a response when the investigator 
pointed out such a search wasnt necessary to obtain that information  
simply searching Get Financial brought up an FCA warning from May 
2018.
On 4 May 2022 I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint. I found that HSBC 
ought to have intervened in the first payment made on 14 November 2018 and had it done 
so the scam would have unravelled. But I also said that Mr P was contributory negligent as I 
considered it likely he hadnt been entirely honest when making the loan applications and he 
hadnt carried out sufficient due diligence before investing.
HSBC responded and made us aware that when applying for the loans he had said the first 
was for home improvements and the second for holidays, without any indication of investing. 
It provided evidence that Mr P attempted to apply for a third loan, a day later, and also gave 
holidays as the reason  that loan application was declined for affordability reasons. HSBC also provided us with a screen shot of information that a borrower is shown, that sets out 
HSBC doesnt lend for investment purposes.
We asked Mr P about that, given his response to our earlier questions wasnt the same as 
what he told the bank at the time. The below are the enquires we made:
Q. Why Mr P wasnt honest with HSBC when applying for the loans?
Q. Why he didnt take note that HSBC didnt lend for investment purposes?
Q. Why he continued applying for the loans despite knowing HSBC 
didnt lend for investment purposes?
Q. Why Mr P wasnt honest when explaining to us the purpose he gave 
for the loans.
Mr P said he was honest when applying for the loans as the original intention of them were 
for the purposes provided. However, due to the pressure tactics of the scammers he 
invested the loan proceeds instead. He also explained that he didnt see the information 
about HSBC not lending for investment purposes. And in explaining the response he gave to 
our queries he said he couldnt really remember and didnt really know what reason he had 
provided and had struggled to provide an answer to the investigator.
We made further enquiries of Mr P as it was noted he had started investing before taking out 
the loans, and the loan proceeds had been paid away to the scam within a day of borrowing 
and we thought that a very quick change in direction for the money. He stood by the answer 
he gave previously about the loans, that the scammers had been persuasive, and it had 
happened as quickly as indicated. He also elaborated that he hadnt told his wife hed used 
the money for trading and thats why he needed to take out a second loan as he was already 
being questioned about why home furnishings werent being bought. He further says he 
continued to be pushed by the scammers which resulted in him investing loan proceeds 
further.
I issued a second provisional decision on 28 May 2022 explaining why I was no longer 
minded to uphold the complaint either in part, or at all. I asked for responses from the parties 
by 11 June 2022. HSBC hasnt replied and so I assume it has nothing further to add. Mr P 
confirmed receipt of the provisional decision and asked for a couple more days to provide 
submissions. He was given until 16 June 2022. However, Mr P didnt provide anything 
further for consideration and its now appropriate to move to this final stage. 
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for my consideration, I see 
no reason to depart from the provisional findings communicated on 28 May 2022. I therefore 
make them final below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks and 
building societies should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay.
The starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if 
they were duped into doing so, for example as part of an investment scam.
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customers as a result.
The payments made by Mr P were made predominantly with his debit card, with the final 
payment being made by credit card. I therefore conclude these were authorised payments - 
for which Mr P is liable, unless there is evidence HSBC could and should have done more to 
protect him, which issue I now turn to.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that Mr P has fallen victim to a scam. The FCA 
published a warning in May 2018 that Get Financial was operating in the UK without the 
requisite authority to do so. There are also several reports about Get Financial and scams, 
and we have seen a number of complaints from others about being scammed by this 
particular business.
HSBC is aware of our general approach to its safeguarding and due-diligence duties to 
protect customers. As well as decisions being published on our website setting out these 
principles and which quote the relevant rules and regulations, HSBC itself has also had a 
number of decisions setting out our position.
We are required, and as provided for in the DISP rules, to take into account a regulators 
rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice, as well as the law, when reaching a decision. And were tasked with 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome in all of the circumstances of the complaint. In doing 
so, were satisfied our approach isnt inconsistent with the law.
Mr P made a number of payments. But none of them were directly to Get Financial; they 
were made to other parties. HSBC wouldnt have known of the final destination of the funds 
and so I dont think it ought to have automatically blocked them  it wouldnt have known 
they were ultimately going to a party that the FCA had published a warning about.
But that doesnt mean it shouldnt have intervened at all. I do agree with the investigator that 
there was nothing particularly unusual about the first three transactions. They were all of an 
amount similar to if not smaller than other transactions Mr P had made from the account in 
recent months, albeit they were international. But the payment for £9,000 was a substantial 
increase on the payments Mr P usually made. So there was a change to the operation of Mr 
Ps account. And not only was this a substantial increase but was international and to 
another new payee  the second new international payee within a week.
I had previously found that HSBC ought to have intervened and had it done so, I had no 
reason to doubt that Mr P would have explained what he was doing. And it was on this basis 
I found HSBC ought to have asked questions and provided a warning such that I thought the 
scam could have been discovered and it unravel. Because of this, I found the proximate 
cause of Mr Ps losses was the lack of intervention of HSBC in the fourth transaction. And it 
was on that basis I upheld the complaint, in part.
But given the information I have now been provided with I am no longer persuaded Mr P 
would have divulged what he was doing to HSBC, had it asked him questions about the 
transaction.
I say this because Mr Ps version of events has changed, and on more than one occasion. 
We now know that Mr P didnt given a true account of what the loan purposes were when we 
asked. I fully accept and understand he might not have been expecting such questions.
However, at any point in the conversation he could have asked for time to think back, or 
come back to us at a later date, to ensure he was giving the truest picture possible. I have 
listened to Mr Ps call with our investigator and on several occasions, he was asked to confirm the investigators understanding  that he had said the purpose of the loans for 
goods and for investing. There had even been a misunderstanding that it might have been 
one loan for investing and one loan for goods, but Mr P himself clarified that both loans had 
been for both purposes. I think he was fairly clear about that.
We also now know that Mr P didnt tell HSBC the loan was for goods and investing, rather 
the loan reasons were given as home improvements and holidays. Mr P is asking us to 
accept that when he applied for the loans he was honest in the purpose provided but that, 
rather coincidentally in my view, the scammers happened to call either the same or the 
following day and persuade Mr P to invest the loan proceeds instead. I find that hard to 
accept and find it more likely that he always fully intended to use the loans for investing.
But even if Im wrong about that, and accept what Mr P has told us, he was still keeping 
matters from his wife and didnt tell her hed been trading as she wouldnt have been happy 
about that. And in order to cover his tracks, as she was starting to ask questions about the 
lack of progress on home improvements, rather than explain what had happened, he 
borrowed further. Yet again though, Mr P invested those funds. It seems to me Mr P was so 
far under the scammers spell, that he went to such lengths to make those investments, even 
if it meant keeping matters from his wife, or not being straight with the bank. In such 
circumstances, I am no longer persuaded he would have told the bank what he was doing 
had he been asked; that is, I now have reason to doubt he would have explained the 
investment opportunity he had been given.
Given Mr Ps differing version of events, its now difficult to find him a credible witness or 
place any reliance on what he is telling us, such that I could now reasonably find he would 
have told HSBC what he was doing, had it intervened. I think its more likely that Mr P would 
have come up with a story about what the money was being used for such that it wouldnt 
have given HSBC cause for concern. That means I dont think HSBC would have been able 
to uncover that he was at risk of being scammed and therefore it wouldnt have needed to 
provide any warnings. This means I no longer find HSBC responsible for Mr Ps losses, as I 
dont think any intervention would have resulted in Mr P honestly telling HSBC what he was 
doing such that the scam would have ultimately unravelled.
And thats important. If I dont think an intervention by HSBC would have resulted in Mr P 
acting any differently, then he would have continued investing and still experienced the 
losses he did.
It follows that dont uphold this complaint or make any award.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman