DRN-3395960
The complaint
Mr P says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Mr P between June 
2013 and July 2013. Mr P brought his complaint to us outside the timescale that usually 
applies under the rules that govern us. But Lending Stream has given us its explicit consent 
to consider his complaint. 
Mr Ps lending history is as follows:
Loan Date Date Repaid Amount Instalments Highest 
Instalment
1 18/06/2013 31/12/2013 £515 6 £257.50
2 21/07/2013 31/12/2013 £90 6 £45.00
Lending Stream upheld Mr Ps complaint about loan two and refunded the interest and 
charges hed paid, with interest, and removed any adverse information from his credit file. 
But Mr P said he thought loan one shouldnt have been provided. He said his credit score 
was very poor at the time, he had a number of other loans, he had a number of defaults and 
he was fully utilising his overdraft.  
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. Mr P disagreed 
and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr P could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Lending Stream asked Mr P for information about his income and outgoings and it carried 
out a credit check. Mr P said his monthly income was £2,812. He said his monthly outgoings 
totalled £1,200. 
From what I can see, the credit check that Lending Stream made showed that Mr P had 
defaults and late payments on his record, but the most recent of these was over two years 
prior to his loans. A low credit score is not enough by itself to indicate that lending would be 
unaffordable. So Im satisfied the results of the credit check werent significant enough to 
prevent Lending Stream from lending to Mr P. 
Lending Stream has already agreed that it should have asked further questions before 
approving loan two because it was taken out so soon after loan one. And it has provided the 
redress I would have required if I had upheld this loan. So I wont consider this loan further 
here.
For loan one, I think Lending Streams affordability checks were sufficient and proportionate. 
From these checks, it looked as though Mr P had sufficient disposable income to repay his 
loan sustainably. 
I accept that Mr Ps actual circumstances werent reflected either in the information he 
provided, or the other information Lending Stream obtained. And Mr Ps actual financial 
position might well have been apparent if further information  such as bank statements  
had been obtained. 
But Lending Stream could only make its decision based on the information it had available at 
the time. And as it was in the early stages of a lending relationship with Mr P, I dont think it 
had reached the stage where there was a greater risk of the loan being unsustainable for 
him. In these circumstances, I dont think Lending Stream needed to take further steps to 
verify the information provided. 
Equally Im only able to uphold a complaint where I can safely say that a lender has done 
something wrong. And, in this case, I think Lending Stream carried out reasonable checks 
even though it looks like the information it was provided wasnt reflective of Mr Ps actual 
financial position. Lending Stream relied on the information it was provided with and given the amount of the 
repayment involved, together with Mr Ps declared income and Mr P only taking one loan at 
this stage, I think that this wasnt unreasonable. As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Ps 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman