DRN-4077344
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as P, complain that First Data Europe Limited (First Data) 
treated it unfairly when they withheld funds that belonged to P. 
In bringing this complaint P is represented by its director who Ill refer to as Ms D.
What happened
The background to this case is well known to the parties so, I wont repeat it in detail. 
Briefly:
In June 2022, First Data were unable to collect by direct debit, payments that were 
due from P comprising fees and charges of £237.71 and £65.57. 
According to First Data, Ps bank declined their request saying Ps direct debit 
mandate was inactive. 
As a result of this Ps payments fell into arrears. First Data, therefore, diverted 
£827.08 from payments that were due to P to help clear those arrears and guard 
against possible future non-payment.
On 5 August 2022, after Ps direct debit was reinstated, First Data made the 
deductions of payments they were owed for June 2022. They also withheld £ 205.45 
to cover Julys service charge as that payment was also unsuccessful. First Data 
returned the balance that was then due to P of £ 318.35.
P didnt think First Data had treated it fairly. It said their actions had an adverse impact on its 
business - including being unable to pay the wages of its staff. 
First Data on the other hand, didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They said because Ps 
direct debit wasnt operating, that meant they were unable to take payment from P via an 
agreed payment method. In light of this, they said they acted in line with their terms and 
conditions which allow them to divert funds in circumstances where the agreed payment 
method fails.  
As the complaint remained unresolved, it was referred to our service to look into. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that First Data had provided 
evidence showing that when they attempted to collect the direct debit payments in June and 
July 2022, they received notification that Ps direct debit had been cancelled by the payer. 
He said generally, this could have meant either by the customer or by their bank. 
In any case, he was also satisfied that when First Data diverted the £827.08, due to P, they 
were allowed to do so under section 17 of First Datas terms and conditions - which says 
under Payments:
"You agree that we may deduct all amounts due to us from amounts due to you in 
Settlement of Transaction including fees, charges, costs and Chargebacks due and 
payable pursuant to your Merchant Agreement or as set out in your Merchant 
Statement".
P didnt accept the investigators conclusions. On its behalf Ms D said she sent the direct 
debit forms back to First Data multiple times. She believed therefore, that the difficulties they 
experienced when attempting to collect the June and July payments were caused by First 
Data. So, Ms D has asked for an ombudsman to review Ps complaint and it has been 
passed to me to do so.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive (as indeed some of it is here) I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
It isnt disputed that First Data were unable to collect June and July 2022 payments from P 
and this led to arrears. And Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that the reason the 
payments failed was because Ps direct debit mandate wasnt in place to enable First Data 
to collect those payments. 
Given those circumstances, First Data in effect withheld funds that were due to P in order to 
settle those arrears. Like the investigator, in light of section 17 of the terms and conditions of 
Ps agreement with First Data, as noted above, Im satisfied First Data were entitled to take 
the action they did. 
I am also satisfied that the balance returned to P in August 2022 of £318.35 was that which it 
was due after the deductions of the amounts First Data were properly owed. 
But Ive thought about Ms Ds further representations, that in effect First Data were 
responsible for the issues faced regarding Ps direct debit. 
Ms D has told us that she sent Ps direct debit mandate forms to First Data on a number of 
occasions. 
First Data acknowledged they received such forms on 16 June 2022. But the evidence 
suggest it was around this date direct debit payments were generally collected. This suggest 
the possibility that in any event there wouldnt have been sufficient time for the direct debit to 
be put in place in time for Junes payment. 
It is First Datas case that they sent the direct debit forms to Ps bank, and I have no reason 
to doubt that. In doing so, however, First Data acknowledge they would have used the 
references on the previous mandates. They didnt believe, however, that this was likely to 
have caused a problem because they said, they were only aware of one other bank where 
that approach led to difficulties getting the new mandate set up.  The bank they identified 
was not the bank with whom P did its banking. 
In light of that acknowledgement, I note our investigator did try to look into this further. He 
asked Ms D for details of Ps bank in the hope of establishing from it whether they felt First Data may have done anything wrong in connection with the mandate forms that led to the 
direct debit problems experienced in June and July. 
Although Ms D has told us she believed First Data were the true cause of those problems, 
she was nonetheless unprepared to provide details of Ps bank as the investigator 
requested. 
I appreciate Ms D is not obliged to provide that information. And in particular, if as she 
explained shes uncomfortable sharing such sensitive information.
I note of course there were attempts to fix the problem in July 2022 with fresh mandate 
forms being completed by Ms D. But it seems Ps bank werent satisfied the signature on the 
forms matched its records. 
Considering the circumstances overall, it is difficult on balance to conclude that First Data 
were at fault for Ps direct debit mandate not being in place in June and July 2022. It follows 
therefore, that Ive not been persuaded it was as a result of First Datas action that they were 
unable to collect Ps payments in both these months. 
In light of this, and although anticipating this will come as disappointing news to P, I do not 
find that First Data acted unfairly when they withheld the funds they did, to help settle the 
arrears caused by Ps failed June and July 2022 payments. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman