DRN-4354806
The complaint
Mr C complains about a debt owed under a hire purchase agreement, which Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited are holding him responsible for.
What happened
In November 2017, Mr C took out a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes to get a brand 
new car, which Ill call car one. As part of the agreement, Mr C paid a deposit to Mercedes 
of around £21,500. Just under two years later, Mr Cs son became the keeper of the car. 
However, the agreement remained in Mr Cs name and the repayments continued to be 
taken from Mr Cs account. 
In late 2020, Mr C says his son ended the hire purchase agreement for car one and began a 
hire purchase agreement with Mercedes for a different, brand new car, which Ill call car 
two. The agreement for car two was also in Mr Cs name. But, Mr C says he didnt give his 
son authority to do that. Similar to what happened with car one, Mr Cs son became car 
twos keeper after the agreement was taken out. 
Car two was taken back by Mercedes in the summer of 2021 and the proceeds of the sale 
was used to reduce the outstanding balance owed under the agreement. Consequently, 
Mercedes then made contact with Mr C about the repayment of that balance. 
But, Mr C didnt think that was fair. He said he didnt know about the finance taken out in his 
name for car two. So, he raised a complaint with Mercedes and said they shouldnt hold him 
responsible for the outstanding debt. 
In their final response to Mr C, Mercedes said the dealership had told them that Mr C had 
been present when car one was returned. They also said Mr C needed to answer security 
questions when the agreement for car two was sent to his email address. And Mercedes told 
Mr C that he could still report the matter to the police. 
Mr C didnt accept Mercedes response and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Cs case and concluded that Mercedes had treated Mr C fairly. 
He found that Mr C had received a welcome email containing the agreement for car two and 
was persuaded that Mr C had given his son authority to act on his behalf. So, the 
investigator said it was fair for Mercedes to hold Mr C responsible for the outstanding 
balance. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators findings and provided proof that the repayments 
made towards the agreement for car two, didnt come from a bank account in his name. 
Mr C also said its likely he deleted the welcome email without looking at it. And that his son 
was able to answer any security questions Mercedes asked, to access and sign the hire 
purchase agreement. Mr C also explained that that the relationship with his son had broken 
down. 
The investigator didnt change his conclusions and Mr Cs complaint has now been passed 
to me to make a final decision.
I sent Mr C and Mercedes my provisional decision on this case, on 25 July 2023. I explained 
why I think Mercedes have treated Mr C fairly. A copy of my provisional findings is included 
below:
Firstly, Im very aware Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has 
been provided, and largely in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think is at the heart of the matter here. Namely, did Mercedes treat Mr C 
fairly when the hire purchase agreement for car two was put into place? 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, then I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on 
every individual detail. Ive focussed on those that are central to me reaching what I think is 
the right outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. 
The hire purchase agreement for car one 
This case is about a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes for car two, which is in Mr Cs 
name. This is a regulated financial product. As such, we are able to consider complaints 
about it. 
During my review, Ive also thought about the agreement Mr C took out for car one. Ive done 
this because I think what happened to car one and the end of that agreement is relevant, 
when trying to decide if Mercedes have treated Mr C fairly. 
Mr C has told us that when he took out the hire purchase agreement for car one, he paid a 
deposit to Mercedes. Ive looked at the loan agreement forms for car one and I can see a 
deposit of £20,000 was paid by Mr C. I can also see that the keeper of the car was changed 
with the DVLA, to Mr Cs son, shortly after the agreement was signed. And Mr C has told us 
his son made monthly payments to him, equal to the repayments required under the hire 
purchase agreement. 
I accept that Mr C intended for car one to be used by his son. I say this in light of the change 
of keeper of the car and the payments made to Mr Cs account. However, I think Mr C still 
had a responsibility to Mercedes, as the contract for car one remained in his name. So, I 
think Mr C was still responsible for the monthly repayments and the other terms related to 
the cars use and condition. 
The repayments towards the agreement for car one stopped when the agreement for car two 
started in October 2020. I can see from the records Mercedes has sent to us that Mr C was 
paying £290.76 a month for car one and those repayments were scheduled to end in 
September 2022. I can also see that Mr C didnt make contact with Mercedes when the 
repayments for car one stopped, nearly two years before he could have expected them to. 
Mr C says he didnt make contact with Mercedes, as he thought the agreement for car one 
had come to its natural end. But, given what Ive found about the length of the agreement for 
car one and the monthly cost to Mr C, I think there was an onus on Mr C to have made 
enquiries with Mercedes, when the payments stopped being taken from his bank account.
Additionally, Ive said that Mr C paid a deposit of £20,000 towards the agreement for car one 
in September 2019. The cash price of car one was around £53,000. So, I think Mr C paid a 
significant deposit towards that vehicle. 
Car one was given back to Mercedes around a year later. We dont have a record of the 
settlement figure used by Mercedes when that agreement was ended. Also, neither party 
has been able to tell us if Mr C received any money when car one was returned. But, I can see from the loan agreement forms for car two, that a subsequent deposit or part exchange 
deal wasnt used. 
Considering the scale of the deposit paid by Mr C, I think it would have been reasonable for 
him to have maintained an interest in car one. Overall, I cannot see from what Mr C, or 
Mercedes have told us, that any contact was made with them regarding the fate of car one. 
On balance, I think the evidence supports that Mr C was comfortable with the ending of the 
agreement for car one. So, Im persuaded Mr C was aware that the car he allowed his son to 
use, was to be returned to Mercedes. 
The hire purchase agreement for car two 
I recognise that it isnt uncommon for an arrangement to exist whereby one party may use a 
car, but the finance to be in the name of someone else, like a partner or a family member. 
So, to support what Mr C says, I must be able to say that he didnt give his authority, or 
apparent authority for the agreement to have been taken out in his name. 
In order to consider this further, Ive looked at the start of the agreement for car two and 
what was sent to Mr C. 
During our investigation, we spoke to the dealership accredited by Mercedes, that provided 
car two. The dealer explained that Mr C has taken several cars over the last ten years, 
exchanging them every three years. This is supported by what Mr C has told us about his 
relationship with that dealership. 
The dealer says the agreement for car two was organised remotely and to sign the 
application, the applicant would need to answer several security questions. Mercedes have 
told us that these questions relate to the applicants existing external borrowing, their 
address and date of birth. 
Mr C has explained that his son was able to answer any of the security questions Mercedes 
had in place. I accept that its possible for Mr Cs son to have completed and signed the 
application in Mr Cs name, provided he knew the answers to Mercedes security questions. 
But, Ive said that I need to decide if Im persuaded whether or not Mr C had given his 
authority for his son to do so. 
Shortly after the agreement for car two was signed, I can see from Mercedes records that 
they sent a welcome letter to Mr Cs email address. The email address used is the same as 
the address Mr C uses to communicate with us. So, I think Mercedes sent the welcome letter 
to the correct address. However, Mr C says that its possible he deleted Mercedes welcome 
email, as he wasnt expecting news of a new car or agreement. 
While I acknowledge that Mr C may have deleted the welcome email, I think the title of the 
email suggested it required action. I also think that had the information within the email taken 
Mr C by surprise, its reasonable that he would have made contact with Mercedes when the 
email was sent in November 2020. And Ive not seen that Mr C raised his concerns about 
fraudulent activity with Mercedes, until the debt was pursued the summer of 2021. 
Mr C has shown us where the repayments for car two came from an account held in his 
sons name. I accept what Mr C says here. But, I think this supports my findings that Mr C 
was aware that his agreement for car one came to an end, by way of a different amount, 
being taken from another persons account. 
Ive also thought about Mr Cs actions, when he says he became aware his son had acquired car two. Given all the circumstances, I think it was unusual for Mr C not to have 
raised questions with Mercedes, or his son about the ending of the agreement for car one. 
Or how his son was able to get car two. 
Without any evidence to support what he says here, Im not persuaded that Mr C didnt give 
his authority for the agreement to start. 
Im aware of Mr C comments about his current relationship with his son. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Mr C has reported his son to the police about the agreement he 
says was taken out without his consent. I empathise with Mr C here, as it may not be an 
option hes prepared to take. 
But, I do consider that reporting a crime to the police is a reasonable step to take. I think by 
not doing so, it adds weight to Mercedes argument that he gave his authority for the 
agreement to start. 
Summary 
Overall, Ive thought about the start and the ending of the agreement for car one, the 
information available to Mr C at the start of the agreement for car two and what happened 
when Mr C became aware of car two. 
On balance, Im persuaded that Mr C was aware of the hire purchase agreement for car two 
and that he gave his authority, or apparent authority for Mercedes to start that agreement. 
It then follows that I think its fair and reasonable for Mercedes to hold Mr C responsible for 
the repayment of the remaining balance due under the hire purchase agreement. 
I realise that my conclusions mean there will still be an outstanding balance owed by Mr C to 
Mercedes. Im also very sorry to hear of the very difficult circumstances of a close family 
member, which Mr C is dealing with. It must be a very troubling time and I hope things 
improve for everyone concerned. 
So, I remind Mercedes of their responsibility to treat Mr Cs financial circumstances with due 
consideration and forbearance. This will mean looking at Mr Cs income and expenditure 
details to talk about the options they are able to offer to him.
Mercedes responded to the provisional decision and accepted it. Mr C responded to the 
provisional decision and in summary he said:
The car I had referred to as car one was taken out using a hire purchase agreement 
in November 2017 and not September 2019. 
The car he got in September 2019 is unrelated to this complaint.
Mercedes should provide CCTV footage of him at the dealership when the 
agreement for car two was signed.
He reported what had happened to the police in September 2021.
To get clarity about when the contract for car one was signed, I asked both Mr C and 
Mercedes for further evidence. Mercedes provided a copy of the contract from November 
2017, for the car where Mr Cs son was made the keeper. They also provided a statement 
showing all the payments made under that agreement and confirmed that the dealership 
purchased the car, when it was returned in October 2020.I thought further about the car one, but while I acknowledged it was different to the car 
acquired by Mr C in 2019, I still came to the same conclusion. I said: 
Despite Mr Cs son being made the keeper of car one, I still thought Mr C was 
responsible for the hire purchase agreement with Mercedes. So, Mr C was 
responsible for car ones return at the end of the term.
It remains that Mercedes contacted Mr C with the details of the hire purchase 
agreement for car two and it was signed by someone successfully passing Mercedes 
security checks.
Mr C responded to my further provisional findings and in summary, he said:
Car one was transferred to his son in September 2019 and in doing so, his son 
assumed responsibility for it.
He didnt receive any information about the return of car one from the dealership.
The dealer should have sought his permission before going ahead with the 
agreement for car two. And a contract of that size should not have been completed 
remotely.
He already had a car, so didnt need another.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, I acknowledge what Mr C has said about the time, effort and expense he has 
gone to gone to support his side of the dispute. However, even after considering the 
additional information provided both parties, I still think Mercedes have treated Mr C fairly.
Mr C says that he transferred the ownership of car one to his son in September 2019. I can 
see from the DVLA paperwork Mr C has sent to us that his son was made the keeper of car 
one, around two years after the hire purchase agreement was taken out. But, I dont think 
this changed things with his agreement with Mercedes. 
I say this because the hire purchase agreement continued in Mr Cs name, up until car one 
was returned to the dealership in 2020. And this is supported further because the payments 
due under the agreement, were maintained by Mr C. 
It then follows that Mr C remained responsible for car one and retained an interest in it. So, 
Im persuaded Mr C was aware of the ending of the contract for car one and the 
responsibilities surrounding the cars return.
Mercedes have shown us that welcome correspondence was sent to Mr C, which contained 
details about car two, in November 2020. Furthermore, Mercedes have told us that the 
agreement for car two was signed electronically, using a system where a customer needs to 
provide specific information to confirm their identity. 
Ive also considered that Mr C didnt raise his concerns with Mercedes, until the summer of 
2021, around six months after the agreement for car two was taken out. This was despite 
knowing that car one had been returned and that at the same time, his son acquired another 
brand new car. Had Mr C been the victim of a fraud here, I think he would have noticed and asked questions of his son, or Mercedes straight away.
On balance, I still think the evidence shows that Mr C was made aware by Mercedes that an 
application for the finance for car two had been made and they sought his authorisation for it 
to proceed. I also still think that Mr C was made aware of the agreement, when the finance 
was put into place. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr Cs comments that Mercedes should not have completed the 
agreement for car two remotely. Its common for lenders to offer finance contracts 
electronically, for consumers to complete away from a dealership. Ive not found in Mr Cs 
case that Mercedes have breached any duty owed to him, by completing the hire purchase 
agreement in this way.
During our investigation, Mr C has said that CCTV from the dealership will prove he wasnt 
there when the agreement was signed. Ive explained that the agreement was signed 
remotely, so I dont think any CCTV footage will change my findings, if it was available.
Mr C says that he already had a car, so didnt need another. But, Ive seen that he has 
previously had two hire purchase agreements running at the same time. And that during this 
period, he allowed his son to use one of those cars. So, I dont think this adds weight to his 
argument here.
I also acknowledge that Mr C contacted the police a few months after he raised his concerns 
with Mercedes. But, I cannot see that the police have taken any action against his son, or a 
third party. Consequently, this doesnt lead me to conclude that someone else took out the 
agreement for car two without Mr Cs knowledge or authority.
In all the circumstances, on balance, Im still persuaded that Mr C gave his authority or 
apparent authority for the hire purchase agreement for car two to start. So, I think Mercedes 
have treated Mr C fairly, by holding him responsible for the remaining balance due under the 
agreement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman