DRN-4125377
The complaint
Miss H complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited hasnt offered a fair settlement 
for the total loss of her vehicle after a claim was made on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
In 2022, Miss H was involved in a car accident. She made a claim to Admiral under her 
motor insurance policy, and her car was deemed a total loss. Admiral made an offer of 
£15,600 for the market value of the car. But Miss H considered this to be too low, so she 
raised a complaint. 
Admiral said its offer was in line with the valuations obtained through the motor trade 
guides. As this is the industrys approach to establishing the market value of vehicles, it was 
satisfied its offer was fair. Miss H didnt agree; she says she cant purchase a like for like car 
for the amount offered. She brought her complaint to our Service. 
Our Investigator obtained her own valuations through the motor trade guides and she 
concluded that Admirals offer was slightly too low. She recommended an offer of £15,815 
was fair in the circumstances. 
Admiral accepted the increased settlement, but Miss H remains of the opinion that its too 
low. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For clarity, its not my role to work out the exact value of Miss Hs car. What I need to decide 
is whether Admiral has applied the terms of the policy correctly and valued the vehicle fairly. 
Miss Hs policy says that Admiral will pay the market value of the car, in the event of a total 
loss. The policy defines the market value as 
The cost of replacing your vehicle with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage 
and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of 
the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. The value is based on 
research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
Assessing the value of a used car isnt an exact science. However, like most insurers our 
Service often finds the motor trade guides persuasive. This is because their valuations are 
based on nationwide research, and they show likely selling prices at the month of loss. The 
guides also allow for the specifications of most cars to be taking into consideration including 
any extras. This is particularly helpful, as factors such as the age and mileage of a car can 
have a big impact on its value. We also think motor trade guides are generally more reliable 
than car adverts as asking prices in adverts tend to be inflated to allow room for downward 
negotiation.
Ive reviewed the trade guide valuations provided by Admiral, as well as the ones obtained 
by our Investigator which were slightly higher, as follows: £14,910, £15,550, £16,364 and 
£16,436. I can confirm all these values were based on the correct specification for Miss Hs 
car and the correct month of loss. Wed usually expect an insurer to provide a value that falls 
within the range of values suggested by the guides. There is no requirement for them to offer 
the highest amount, so I think the average of these figures  which is £15,815  as 
suggested by our Investigator, is fair in the circumstances. 
I appreciate Miss H says she cant purchase a like for like car for this amount, but as Ive 
explained, the policy covers her for the market value of her car and the motor trade guides 
are the industrys process in determining what that value is  which is a process we consider 
to be a fair consideration of the market. 
As such, taking into account the individual circumstances of this complaint, I see no reason 
to direct Admiral to deviate from this process.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to pay Miss H the claim settlement of £15,815, minus any payment its 
already made towards the total loss.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman