DRN-4414175
The complaint
Mr R complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) trading as 
American Express treated him unfairly when he asked for a credit balance to be returned to 
him from his credit card.
What happened
Mr R held an AESEL credit card which accrued cashback when he made transactions. The 
cashback is applied to the account annually. Around March 2023 AESEL withdrew Mr Rs 
credit facilities and closed the account following a credit review.
The terms and conditions of the AESEL card say:
What happens if we close your Card Account
If we close you Card Account in accordance with the Card Account agreement, you 
will lose the cashback that has been earned but not yet applied to your Card Account 
as an annual credit.
AESEL did not pay Mr R the cashback that had been accruing on but hadnt yet been 
credited to his account.
Following the closure of his account Mr R had various refunds from merchants to his card 
resulting in him having a credit balance of over £300. At the beginning of April, he asked for 
this balance to be sent to him by cheque, which AESEL agreed to, however it didnt send Mr 
R a cheque. So, Mr R complained to AESEL about the above points. 
AESEL said once it had completed its checks on the balance it realised it needed further 
information in order to process the payment. It said it wrote to Mr R on 19 April asking for the 
information it needed but hadnt received a response. It went on to say when Mr R called up 
it should have raised a complaint sooner and offered a gesture of goodwill of £25 to 
recognise this.
AESEL felt that it had been right to retain the cashback balance that Mr H had been accruing 
on his account as it had acted inline with the terms and conditions of the account.
Mr R remained unhappy and so brought his complaint to this service. After initially rejecting 
the complaint our Investigator partially upheld Mr Rs complaint, in summary he said:
AESEL had acted fairly in asking Mr R for the extra information it needed regarding the 
credit balance as this was in line with its Anti Money Laundering (AML) policy. He was 
satisfied that AESEL had sent Mr R a letter asking for the information it needed but accepted 
that Mr R probably hadnt received it He felt AESEL could have been clearer in its 
communications with Mr R about this matter and asked it to pay Mr R a further £75 to reflect 
this.
He felt that AESEL had acted inline with the terms and conditions when it had withheld the 
cashback that had been accruing on Mr Rs account.
AESEL agreed with the investigators findings. Mr R didnt. when responding to the findings, 
he did provide the information AESEL needed to process the refund. However, he said he 
feels that AESEL is hiding behind small print and that to keep his annual fee and the 
cashback is unfair. He feels this term should be highlighted to consumers before they take 
out the card.
He also feels that AESEL caused him unnecessary hardship when it didnt send him the 
cheque as he was relying on those funds to pay his expenses. He also thinks AESEL 
shouldnt have expected him to invest so much time and effort into getting his own money 
back. And that they used inaccurate information during this process. He would like AESEL to 
pay £5,000 to resolve matters.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me. Ill address each point in turn 
Cashback
I understand that Mr R feels AESELs reliance on the terms and conditions here is unfair and 
that the term itself is unfair, but I dont agree. The terms and conditions of the account are 
clear and not misleading and when Mr R took the account, he would have been provided a 
copy of these. 
Cashback is a benefit of the particular account Mr R had with AESEL. Having looked at the 
terms and conditions I can see cashback is paid annually and if the account is closed by 
either party before the cashback is paid, it is lost. So, I cant say AESEL acted unfairly when 
it didnt pay Mr R the cashback he had been accruing, which I can see that up until his April 
2023 statement had been around £81.
Mr R has also argued that he paid an annual fee of £25 to have this cashback card and so 
AESEL shouldnt be allowed to keep the fee and the cashback. Having looked at the benefits 
of the card I can see that enhanced cashback is only one of the benefits that is provided for 
the £25 fee. So I dont agree that AESEL shouldnt be allowed to keep the fee as Mr R had 
use of the other benefits for the time, he had the card. So, Im not upholding this aspect of 
his complaint. 
Credit balance refund
There appears to have been a lot of confusion between Mr R and AESEL about what 
information was needed to return the funds to him and why it was needed, so I think it might 
be helpful to set that out clearly here.
AESEL has explained to this service, when there is a credit balance on an account, as part 
of its internal process and its obligations under AML it has to return the funds to the original 
source. In Mr Rs case the reason for the credit balance was multiple refunds from merchants (retailers) as a result of him returning goods he had purchased. So, in instances 
like this AESEL then returns the funds to the account from which the original transactions 
were paid. This means the account the funds came from when Mr R paid for the transactions 
when they originally showed on his AESEL bill.
In this case AESEL noticed that Mr had made payments to his account, for some of the 
original transactions from an account he wasnt named on. It was this that caused AESEL to 
need the further information and that is why it asked Mr R to complete a third-party form. 
Mr R says he didnt receive any letter from AESEL, and I accept that, but I have seen a copy 
of the letter and a system note showing it was sent on 19 April 2023. Because of this Im 
satisfied it was sent, and I cant fairly hold AESEL responsible for failings in the postal 
system, so it follows I cant say its done anything wrong here.
However, Ive thought about what Mr R has said about being reliant on the funds. And I 
appreciate that may have been the case, but Mr R knew in May 2023 when AESEL issued 
its final response to his complaint, that he needed to provide more information for the 
payment to be processed. But he still didnt provide this information until August 2023 and so 
I think he could have done more to mitigate this delay. Because of this and the fact Im 
satisfied AESEL did write to Mr R on 19 April 2023 I dont consider AESEL are responsible 
for any significant delays in the payment.
Im content that AESEL needed the extra information to be able to process the payment and 
acted fairly in asking for it before doing so. Having said that I do think AESEL could have 
communicated better with Mr R, explaining properly why it needed the information. As well 
as letting him know when he called that the cheque was not being processed and why. So, 
for this I think it should compensate him. And I think the £75 suggested by the Investigator in 
addition to the £25 initially offered by AESEL, is appropriate and in line with what Id expect 
in the circumstances.
I know this isnt the answer Mr R wanted and he will be disappointed with this outcome. But 
my decision ends what we  in trying to resolve his dispute with AESEL can do for him.
Putting things right
AESEL should pay Mr R a total of £100 to compensate him. It is entitled to deduct any 
amount already paid to him under this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I currently uphold this complaint and I require American 
Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL)  trading as American Express to carry out the 
actions as set out under the Putting things right section of this decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman