DRN-2240608
The complaint
Its been agreed AXA France IARD should accept responsibility for this complaint. To keep 
things simpler, Ill refer to AXA as the seller of the PPI in my decision.
Mrs C says AXA mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In November 2000 Mrs C took out a store card with PPI whilst she was out shopping. 
Among other things, Mrs C said she had a health problem when she took out the PPI.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Cs complaint upheld it. She didnt think Mrs C wouldve 
taken out the insurance if AXA had made her aware that the policy wouldnt have covered 
accident and sickness claims for any health problem Mrs C had when she bought it.
AXA has responded to our adjudicators view to say it considers the condition mentioned by 
Mrs C as a medical incident (like a broken bone) and it doesnt appear that the condition had 
a prolonged effect on Mrs Cs ability to work, only after the initial operation.
Mrs Cs complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA needed to give Mrs C enough clear information about the PPI for her to be able to 
make an informed choice about whether it was right for her. 
I dont know exactly what was said when the policy was sold to Mrs C.
And Mrs C has given us some contradictory information about her circumstances at the time. 
But shes now provided us with a lot more detail about her circumstances at the time and I've 
no reason to doubt that she has now remembered things correctly. 
I say this because some significant memorable events happened around the time she took 
out the PPI  so I think the circumstances shes now recalled and the dates shes given us 
are likely to be reliable. 
 
Mrs C says her health condition led to her having to stop work sometime after moving away 
from where her job was based in 1997 and definitely before she took out the policy in 2000. 
Shes very clear that by November 2000 shed given up work altogether due to her health 
condition and she was a full time carer. And shes certain of the dates and her situation at 
the time because someone close to her that she was a carer for died just a few weeks after 
she took out the PPI.
It looks like the policy Mrs C bought didn't cover claims resulting from any sickness, disease, 
condition or injury which she knew about, or should have known about, or for which she 
received advice, treatment or counselling from any doctor during the 12 months before the 
policy start date.
So I think its likely that the policy wording wouldve excluded cover for accident and 
sickness claims for Mrs Cs health problems. 
I think the limitation on cover for health conditions is likely to have mattered to Mrs C. I say 
this because I think that her condition was relatively serious and it had already had an 
impact on her being able to do her previous job. I think Mrs C might reasonably have 
expected that her health condition could potentially have a significant impact on her day to 
day life and lead to her needing to take time off work.
But I cant see how or if AXA drew this information to her attention, as it shouldve done. 
And, if it had, I think its likely that Mrs C wouldnt have bought the policy. 
Ive taken carefully into account what AXA has said in response to our adjudicators opinion. 
But this doesn't affect my overall view. Based on all the information I've seen, I think Mrs C 
has lost out because of what AXA did wrong and it should put things right. 
In my decision, I havent considered Mrs Cs employment status at the time and the impact 
this had on the issue of Mrs Cs eligibility for the policy because Im upholding the complaint 
on other grounds. So I dont need say any more about this.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs C in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
I understand that Mrs Cs account has been closed and the PPI policy cancelled already, so:
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs C would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs C owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs C would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs C would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs C 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs C paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs C 
wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D. AXA should tell Mrs C what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs C that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and AXA France IARD should put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman