DRN-3079206
The complaint
Mrs S complains Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) trading as Audi 
Financial Services misled her about an incentive available for a new car.
What happened
Mrs S is represented in her complaint by Mr S, but for ease I will refer to Mrs S throughout 
my decision.
In September 2020, Mrs S entered into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS for a brand-
new car priced at £42,954.84. The agreement was set to run over a period of 36 months.
Mrs S says she visited an Audi dealership with the intention of purchasing a new car. She 
found a car she wanted and was informed by the dealership of a current incentive scheme 
entitled 3 months on us. She says the dealership explained that the first three months of 
the finance would be paid for by VWFS. She says this was one of the key reasons she 
entered into the agreement.
When Mrs S received the terms of the proposed finance agreement, she noticed the deal
was referred to as three months payment holiday, rather than being three months free but 
she says the dealership re-iterated the payments would be made by VWFS.  Mrs S says she 
wasnt convinced and so requested a breakdown of the monthly payments. The dealership 
told her this wasnt possible until the agreement had been signed.
After signing the agreement, Mrs S received the breakdown and her understanding of what 
she received meant VWFS werent paying the first three months, but the interest was to 
accumulate to be paid at a later date. Mrs S then exercised her right to withdraw from the 
agreement and paid a lump sum to fully settle. 
Mrs S says she felt misled and so complained to VWFS.
On 12 January VWFS issued its final response. It didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mrs S 
had received the advertised incentive, the three months on us was applied by reducing the 
overall interest rate on the agreement.
Dissatisfied Mrs S brought her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mrs S. He found the advertised deal was applied by 
way of reducing the interest payments on the agreement and had Mrs S continued with her 
agreement she would have benefitted from that reduction. He accepted the dealership may 
not have explained the way in which the incentive was applied very well but he didnt find 
VWFS had acted unfairly and so he didnt ask it to do anything further.
Mrs S disagreed. She felt deceived and misled into signing the agreement and so she asked 
for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im reached the same outcome as the investigator. I appreciate this will 
come as a disappointment to Mrs S, Ill explain why.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
But, I would like to reassure Mrs S that I have received her email dated 15 October 2021 and 
taken into account the additional points she raised. Namely, that the dealership led her to 
understand the 3 months on us to be in addition to the reduced interest rate and that she 
was actually looking for a second hand, it was this incentive that induced her to purchase a 
new car. She also wasnt aware she could return the car rather than make payment in full, as 
this also wasnt explained by the dealership.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I take account of the relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I 
consider having been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
The hire purchase agreement in this case, is a regulated consumer credit agreement  
therefore this service can consider a complaint relating to it. There are various rules and 
protections about how hire purchase agreements operate, including those set out in the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) The CCA is therefore relevant law in this complaint. 
I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended to regulate 
or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a 
business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong, we would look to see if the 
business has been fair and reasonable in putting things right for the consumer.
Ive thought about whether a misrepresentation has occurred in this case. In order to find 
that theres been a misrepresentation, I would need to be satisfied that the supplying dealer 
made an untrue statement of fact which induced Mrs S to enter into the contract, which is the 
crux of Mrs Ss complaint.
There arent any notes of the discussions between Mrs S and the dealer. Because I wasnt 
present, I cant be certain of what was said. In circumstances like this, I need to look at the 
contemporaneous documents and decided whats most likely to have happened.
With regard to the 3 months on us incentive, the product information is very clear in that it 
is a discount that is applied to the interest rate applied to the agreement. It works by VWFS 
starting with its standard interest rate of 5.4%, but when it came to set up the finance, the 
lower interest rate under the three months on us campaign of 3.6% is used.
Having said that, I can understand why this could have caused confusion and dependent on 
the dealership, the way in which it was explained. The cash price of the vehicle didnt 
change, and I can see why Mrs S may have thought VWFS were going to be repaying partof the capital themselves. But, from just looking at the account statement, as Mrs S did, it 
wouldnt have shown VWFS actually contributed to the amount payable. But it did through a 
reduction in interest rate.
I think its entirely possible here that the dealership didnt explain this incentive as well as it 
could of. But to uphold this complaint, Id need to be satisfied that Mrs S wouldve acted
differently had she been given clearer guidance. In other words, she was getting something 
different, and I dont think she was, even though it seems not to have been explained very 
well to her. In terms of amount payable, she was getting a reduction in the amount she
would usually have paid, to the amount of three-monthly payments. So, I cant say Mrs S 
wouldnt have entered into the agreement had it been explained differently as she was still 
getting the same thing. She was still getting three months free, but the saving was spread 
over the term of the agreement.
In all the literature I looked at there wasnt anything to suggest the three months on us was 
in addition to an interest rate reduction, so I cant find anything to support that 
understanding.
I also looked carefully at the agreement Mrs S signed. The Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives 
a consumer the right to withdraw from a relevant credit agreement (which includes the hire 
purchase agreement here) within 14 days. That was reflected in the hire purchase 
agreement itself on page 3, clause 6. Where a consumer wants to withdraw under this 
provision, however, they must then repay the amount borrowed within 30 days, together with 
any interest accrued. The lender must then transfer ownership of the hired goods to the 
customer. So, I dont think Mrs S could have handed the car back without making the 
payment.
I dont doubt Mrs S testimony or that the dealership may not have explained this incentive as 
well as it could, but equally Mrs S should have read all the available documentation to 
ensure she was happy with how the incentive worked and this suited her needs. She did get 
the deal as advertised and she could have continued with it, but she chose to exit the 
agreement and repay the balance in full, which was also her right. But Im afraid I cant say 
VWFS has done anything wrong here and so Im unable to uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman