DRN-4340380
The complaint
Mr And Mrs K complain about how AXA Insurance UK Plc settled their claim on their home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K had a home insurance policy with AXA. In September 2021 their home was 
burgled and they made a claim. AXA accepted the claim and paid out for some of the stolen 
items. However it declined some items as it said Mr and Mrs K hadnt provided enough 
substantiation for these. In particular it declined:
Some bedding and items of furniture that Mr and Mrs K disposed of before it had a 
chance to inspect.
An expensive branded watch, as they couldnt provide a receipt or serial number.
A number of items of jewellery as proof of purchase couldnt be provided. 
Mr and Mrs K reported to the police that £200 cash had been stolen but claimed 
more than this as part of the claim, so AXA declined this part of the claim.
Mr and Mrs K had claimed for a Bluetooth device and work laptop but were unhappy 
with the replacement offered. 
Mr and Mrs K were unhappy with this and made a complaint. AXA maintained its position so 
they brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought AXA had acted fairly by not paying for the items that had been 
disposed off and the branded watch. She also thought the replacement offered for the 
Bluetooth device was fair and that AXA should only pay the £200 cash reported to the police. 
However she thought it was reasonable that Mr and Mrs K didnt have proof of purchase for 
all their items of jewellery and thought AXA should settle these items based on photos and 
the valuations provided by its agent. She also thought that some work equipment Mr K used 
for his job as a mechanic should be covered under the business equipment cover. 
AXA didnt agree with our investigators outcome. It said the claim for the jewellery hadnt 
been substantiated as Mr and Mrs K couldnt provide enough information about the items to 
determine what they were made of, in order to accurately value them. It also said that the 
business equipment cover was intended only for clerical equipment. And as the items being 
claimed for were used only in relation to vehicles, this wouldnt fall under this category. AXA 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there are a number of items in dispute, I will address those left outstanding in turn.
Items that were disposed of
The burglary happened during the Covid-19 pandemic. And Mr and Mrs K have explained 
that they were worried about potential contamination of some of the items that the burglars 
may have come into contact with. Due to this they disposed of items straight away to avoid 
these issues. 
While I understand why they may have felt this was necessary at that time, I dont think its 
reasonable to ask AXA to cover these items. Firstly, there isnt any evidence that they were 
lost or damaged as a result of the incident. So Mr and Mrs K havent shown that they are 
covered under the policy. And additionally, AXA hasnt had the opportunity to inspect the 
items in order to determine this. So I think AXA has acted fairly by not covering the items Mr 
and Mrs K disposed of.
Branded watch
Mr and Mrs K have said that an expensive branded watch was stolen as part of the burglary. 
However theyve not been able to provide any proof of ownership of the watch. The brand of 
watch they are claiming for comes with a serial number and can be traced back through the 
company in order to prove authenticity. Mr and Mrs K have said the thieves stole the box 
and receipt for the item at the same time, so theyre unable to provide these. And while I 
dont dispute this, I dont think it would be fair to ask AXA to pay this part of the claim without 
this. 
The brand of watch is one that is often replicated, and without any proof of the serial number 
or a receipt, it isnt possible to know if it was a real branded item or a replica. And the 
difference in value is significant. 
For this reason I think AXA has made a fair decision to decline this part of the claim due to 
the fact it cant be substantiated. 
Other jewellery items 
Mr and Mrs K have claimed for a number of other jewellery items that they havent been able 
to provide receipts for. While I agree that AXA has to be able to validate items as part of a 
claim, it isnt unreasonable that Mr and Mrs K have some items that were given to them as 
presents and they dont have any proof of value. Its also reasonable that they may not know 
exactly what the items are made of.
While Mr and Mrs K havent been able to provide receipts for the items, they have provided 
photos of them before the theft. And from these and the descriptions given AXAs agent has 
been able to estimate a value. 
AXA has accepted there has been an insured peril  a theft  and it has accepted a number 
of items as part of it. And as Mr and Mrs K have been able to provide some proof of 
ownership of the items, by providing photos, I think its reasonable that AXA pays their claim 
for these items based on its agents valuations. This should only be where Mr and Mrs K are 
able to provide a clear photo of the item.
Cash
Mr and Mrs K originally reported that £200 cash was stolen from their home. However this 
amount has changed as the claim went on. I understand it can be difficult to identify straight away what has been taken after a burglary, 
and this may only become apparent after a bit of time. However as stolen cash is difficult to 
substantiate, I think it reasonable that AXA base their settlement on the amount that was 
initially reported to the police. I therefore think its reasonable for it to settle this part of the 
claim at £200. 
Bluetooth device and work laptop
Mr and Mrs K have claimed for a Bluetooth device and a work laptop but are unhappy with 
the replacement value offered. Under the policy, AXA is required to replace items with a 
similar alternative, but wouldnt be obliged to pay for improved models or items with 
additional features. If Mr and Mrs K can provide evidence to show that the replacements or 
value offered arent equivalent to those that were stolen, then they should provide this to 
AXA to consider. But based on the evidence, I think AXA has settled these items fairly. 
Mechanic equipment
Mr K has claimed for two items of equipment that he uses for his work as a mechanic. These 
are handheld computers that are used to test vehicles. 
AXA has said that these items wouldnt be covered under the policy. The policy covers for 
business equipment which is defined as follows:
Equipment used solely for business use for example computers, tablets, e-readers, mobile 
phones, monitors, printers, word processing equipment and computer aided design 
equipment, photocopiers, telecommunication equipment and office furniture. This does not 
include any property held as trade stock
AXA has said that this description refers only to clerical equipment, so items used solely for 
testing vehicles wouldnt fall into this definition. 
Ive considered this and I dont agree this is a fair application of the policy terms. The main 
definition of business equipment is: Equipment used solely for business use. Everything 
that follows is just an example of this  rather than an exhaustive list of whats included. 
Mr K uses the items claimed for, solely for his work as a mechanic. So I think this meets the 
initial definition of business use. And, while it isnt listed explicitly, the devices are similar to a 
computer or a tablet  as they are handheld electronic devices. 
AXA has said that the items dont meet the traditional definition of a computer, that a 
reasonable person would consider that word to mean. And I agree. However I consider the 
devices to be close enough to the examples given to mean they would be fairly covered 
under business equipment. And as the definition provides only examples, rather than a list of 
only the items covered, I think its fair for it to be considered under this cover. 
I understand it was AXAs intention only to cover clerical equipment, however I need to 
consider what the terms of the policy say and what a reasonable interpretation of these is. 
Rather than what it intended to cover. And I dont think the term is clear that only clerical 
equipment would be covered. 
Ive also considered the exclusions to this cover. AXA has said that the items would be 
excluded due to the following listed exclusions:
Property mainly used for business, trade, profession or employment purposes other than 
business equipment.And
Parts, spares and accessories (including keys and key fobs) for any of the items described 
in the boxes above and left. 
(the box to the left includes: Electrically or mechanically propelled or assisted vehicles)
The first one only applies to items other that business equipment. As Ive explained, I 
consider the items to reasonably meet the definition of business equipment so dont agree 
this exclusion would fairly apply.
The second exclusion relates to parts and accessories of a motor vehicle. However the item 
in question is used to test vehicles. It isnt something that is bought alongside a vehicle or 
that is linked to one specific vehicle. Instead its used for work on a range of different 
vehicles to provide a diagnosis. Therefore I dont agree it could be reasonably described as 
a part or accessory. 
For these reasons, I think the items Mr K used for his business as a mechanic would 
reasonably covered by under the policy. I therefore think AXA should pay Mr Ks claim for 
these items based on the invoices provided.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint in part. I direct AXA Insurance 
UK Plc to:
Pay Mr and Mrs Ks claim for jewellery items that they can substantiate with a clear 
photo, based on the valuation provided by its agent.
Pay Mr and Mrs Ks claim for £200 cash, if it hasnt done so already.
Pay Mr and Mrs Ks claim for the items of equipment Mr K uses for his work as a 
mechanic, based on the invoices provided.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman