DRN-3085633
The complaint
Mrs B, through her representative Mr B, is complaining about the advice she was given in 
2017 by Killik & Co LLP (Killik) to invest part of her individual savings account (ISA) into the 
Woodford Equity Income Fund (WEIF). She has said the WEIF was unsuitable for her given 
she only had a low tolerance for risk. Shes also complained that Killik didnt assess her 
needs and also didnt communicate with her about what was happening with the fund 
leading up to its suspension. As a result, she has suffered significant financial loss as the 
fund has now collapsed.
What happened
Mrs B had been a client of Killik since 2006. Mrs B has confirmed that Mr B made many of 
the investment decisions on her behalf but always with her authority.
In 2017 Mr B contacted Killik to explain he wanted to change some of the assets within 
Mrs Bs ISA due to underperformance. He stated the objective was for wealth preservation 
and some income and asked Killik for recommendations. One of the funds put forward was 
the WEIF. After conducting his own research Mr B, with the agreement of Mrs B, agreed to 
invest in WEIF. The total portfolio invested in WEIF was 30% at this point in time.
The WEIF was suspended in June 2019 and was closed down a few months later. As a 
result many investors including Mrs B found their investments in the WEIF frozen or at best 
significantly reduced in value.
On Mrs Bs behalf Mr B has said that Mrs B only wanted to invest in long term relatively low 
risk investments She didnt want a fund with large volatility and wanted to make some growth 
over the years. Hes said Killik didnt assess Mrs Bs needs when it gave advice in 2017 to 
invest in the WEIF. Killik described the fund as defensive and high quality but it was later 
found to contain unlisted securities so it cant have been suitable for Mrs B at the outset.
He has also said that Killik didnt inform Mrs B of the problems the fund experienced in the 
lead up to its suspension. Overall, he feels Killik has been negligent in its duty to Mrs B.
Killik investigated the complaint but concluded that it hadnt done anything wrong. Mr B 
therefore brought the complaint to this Service where it was assessed by one of our 
investigators. She was of the view the complaint couldnt be upheld. She was satisfied the 
advice was suitable for Mrs B at the time and ultimately given the relationship held with Killik 
it was Mrs Bs responsibility to make the decisions about whether to invest or not and to 
ensure the portfolio remained suitable thereafter. She also was satisfied that Mr B was the 
designated manager of Mrs Bs ISA.
Mr B didnt agree with the assessment. He remained of the view the WEIF was not suitable 
for Mrs B from the outset and that Killik had failed in its duty to her. He was also adamant 
that he was not and never had been the designated manager of Mrs Bs ISA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
Much information has been provided by the parties of this complaint along with many points 
of argument. However it seems to me that the crux of the matter is whether the advice Mrs B 
was given to invest into WEIF was suitable and whether Killik fulfilled its duty to her in its 
commutations about the fund up to the point of its suspension. So if Ive not mentioned a 
particular point, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive focussed on what 
I believe to be the key issues in this case.
However, having said this, while I dont feel this point is relevant to my decision, I think it 
would be prudent to clarify the point of the designated manager, a point Mr B has concerns 
over.
I can see that Killik wrote to Mrs B on 2 February 2016 explaining what the role of a 
designated manager was. It wrote again in March 2016 setting out that Mr B was named as 
the designated fund manager on Mrs Bs account. The letter invited Mrs B to tell Killik if this 
should be changed via her broker. Mrs B nor Mr B contacted their broker or even Killik about 
this so as stated Mr B remained as the designated fund manager. If this wasnt what either of 
the wanted, they had the opportunity to change this. 
Also, even though Mr B says those letters were never received by them the addresses on 
them are correct and I have no reason to think they werent sent, and they werent received. 
Therefore, despite what Mr B is currently arguing, given this information it seems reasonable 
that Killik thought Mr B was Mrs Bs designated fund manager.
But as I have said, this isnt relevant to my findings because while its clear to me that Mr B 
was the one doing most of the liaising with Killik on Mrs Bs behalf and contemplating the 
investments, whether he was a designated manager or not Mrs B was present when the final 
discussion about the WEIF was had and she gave her authority to make the investment.
Turning now to the issue of the suitability of the advice, I see nothing wrong with WEIF being 
recommended to Mrs B in 2017. Contrary to what Mrs B has said at that point in time it 
wasnt a high risk or volatile fund. It had been a very popular and successful income 
producing fund which didnt contain a high proportion of unlisted securities in 2017. It was 
used in many portfolios of clients wanting an income producing fund and for those who were 
happy to take a low to medium level of risk. So at the time of advice, in my view it fitted with 
Mrs Bs risk appetite. Furthermore, in 2017 there was no reason to think the fund would 
encounter such significant problems as it did from around 2018 onwards.
In addition to this, Mrs B didnt invest solely in the WEIF  her portfolio contained other 
investments and the WEIF made up only 30%. The rest of her portfolio contained further UK 
based equities and cash. When a portfolio is involved the assets within it must be looked at 
as a whole when assessing the risk level of the portfolio. There will always be assets which 
are more towards the medium risk end of the risk spectrum but these would be balanced out 
by those more towards the low/no risk end of the spectrum. And from what I have seen of 
Mrs Bs portfolio in 2017 this appears to be the case. 
Its also worth noting that in order to provide the income Mrs B stated she wanted equities 
had to form part of her portfolio therefore under Killiks way of doing business an 
unrestricted approach was required. The terms and conditions define three different risk 
levels that Killik used:
Restricted lower risk  the advice will normally be restricted to the lower risk investments including cash, cash equivalent and short dated gilts, and to the 
collective investment vehicles that invest in those instruments. You must accept this 
may mean the opportunity to seek enhanced returns can be reduced. It also doesnt 
mean no risk.
Restricted medium risk  will normally be restricted to medium and lower risk 
investments including medium and long dated gilts, investment grade bonds and 
certain collective investment vehicles investing predominantly in these securities. 
This category is only appropriate if you accept there may be fluctuations in the capital 
value of your investments over both the shorter and medium terms in order to allow 
you to seek higher returns. 
Unrestricted  the range of securities will be unrestricted and drawn from across the 
United Kingdom and international markets. These may include investment regarded 
as lower, medium or higher risk, including direct equity investment and collective 
investment vehicles which predominantly hold securities other than investment grade 
bonds and money market instruments.
So I am satisfied that Mrs B and Mr B should have been aware of the investment strategy 
employed by Killick from the start of their relationship and therefore would have been fully 
aware that equities would have had to have formed part of her portfolio in order to produce 
the income she was looking for.
Killik has also stated that the low risk selected by Mrs B in 2006 when she opened her 
account was an internal risk rating and that the low risk only applied to cash. Again, this is 
confirmed in the terms and conditions. Therefore, Mrs B and Mr B would have been aware of 
Killiks procedures and internal explanations of investing. And given no complaint exists for 
the time between 2006 and 2017 I can only assume that all other advice given by Killik 
during this time was satisfactory for Mrs B and that she understood the terms and condition 
under which she and Killik were bound.
The nature of the relationship between Mrs B and Killik is also worth considering at this 
point. Mrs B held an advised dealing service with Killik. Under the terms and conditions, it is 
stated that:
You (meaning Mrs B) or the person you have designated as the Primary Contact of your 
account are the manager of your investments.
We (Killik) will provide you with advice that is suitable for you at the time the advice is given 
but as you (or the Primary Contact) are the manager of your investments and not us we will 
not undertake to ensure any advice we have given remains suitable for you after that time.
So, it can be seen that Killik had a duty to ensure the advice was suitable for Mrs B in 2017 
but thereafter it was for her (or her primary contact) to keep abreast of the performance of 
the portfolio and amend it if she felt necessary. Killik clearly had no obligation to monitor the 
portfolio and advise on an ongoing basis about potential changes to it unless it was asked 
for advice. 
So while Mr B has complained that Killik didnt communicate with Mrs B sufficiently about the 
WEIF and the performance problems it began to have from around the beginning of 2018 it 
clear from the terms and conditions that Killik was not obligated to do this under the terms 
and conditions of the relationship it had with Mrs B.
 Overall therefore, I am satisfied that Killik has acted in line with the terms and conditions of 
the relationship with Mrs B. It wasnt obligated to provide ongoing advice to Mrs B or to communicate at length with her about her portfolio. It was Mrs Bs responsibility to ensure 
that her portfolio remained suitable for her after the initial point of investing in 2017. I am also 
satisfied that the advice to invest in WEIF in 2017 was suitable for her. And while the fund 
experienced problems from 2018 onwards and its risk level changed due to the increased 
levels of unlisted assets it was for Mrs B to be aware of this and initiate any changes she 
wanted to her portfolio.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman