DRN-3176715
The complaint
Ms B complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC acted irresponsibly towards her by not 
reducing the limit on her credit card account.
What happened
Ms B said she contacted Tesco because she felt it hadnt acted as a responsible lender and 
had contributed to her financial hardship. She felt Tesco shouldve noted she was struggling 
with persistent debt. Her credit limit on two other accounts had been reduced by other 
lenders. But Tesco hadnt reduced the limit on her account until she asked herself.
Ms B said shed been close to her limit on many occasions and had struggled to pay the 
minimum monthly amount. Shed been charged fees for late payment and high levels of 
interest which wouldve been less if Tesco had reduced her credit limit. So she wants a 
refund of all charges and interest applied since 2016.
Tesco said itd contacted Ms B in November 2019 to discuss her circumstances as shed 
requested a stop to interest on the account. Tesco said shed not mentioned any financial 
hardship until then. And it hadnt heard back from Ms B in response to its letter.
Tesco said it was unable to refund any additional fees or interest. Theyd been applied 
correctly and in line with the terms and conditions on the account. Ms B had received 
monthly statements confirming her credit limit. And she couldve asked for it to be reduced at 
any time. So it didnt think itd done anything wrong.
Ms B wasnt satisfied with Tescos response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He looked at the information provided and felt Tesco had 
applied the charges and interest in line with the terms of the account. So he wouldnt ask 
Tesco to refund them. 
Our investigator also considered whether Tesco had acted fairly and reasonably to Ms B. He 
explained there was a relatively new requirement for banks to monitor credit card accounts 
in case of persistent debt. But it couldnt be applied to anything that mightve happened 
before the regulation came into force. 
Overall he felt Tesco had acted fairly and reasonably in relation to the complaint. Ms B 
hadnt responded when Tesco suggested she get in touch in November 2019 to discuss her 
financial situation. And itd reduced her credit limit when Ms B had asked it to. So he 
wouldnt be asking Tesco to do anything more.
Ms B didnt agree with our investigator. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Ms B has experienced. But Im afraid I agree with the 
investigator that the bank hasnt done anything wrong here. 
Ms B feels Tesco shouldve reviewed her account and reduced her credit limit at an earlier 
stage. She says if it had done so shed have been able to pay off the debt sooner and 
without the excessive charges and hardship it caused. 
I can see from looking at Ms Bs credit card statements that she occasionally missed 
payments or exceeded her credit limit. But on most occasions she was able to make regular 
monthly repayments and her balance was usually a few hundred pounds below the credit 
limit. 
Tesco, like other banks, monitors its customers accounts on a regular basis. But it wouldnt 
have been able to suggest a reduction while her balance was near the credit limit. That 
wouldve caused the account to incur more charges and possibly impacted on Ms Bs credit 
file. And although its regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, issued new guidance to 
banks in relation to persistent debt, these only came into operation in 2020 and cant be 
applied retrospectively.
But I would expect Tesco to respond positively and sympathetically when Ms B got in touch 
in November 2019 to say she was experiencing financial difficulties and seeking help from a 
debt charity. Tesco said it would discuss what help it could offer in the circumstances. But I 
cant see that Ms B or the debt charity responded to Tesco.
Ms B says other credit card issuers reduced her credit limit because of her difficulties. But as 
Ive explained Tesco couldnt do that as the balance on her account was very close to the 
limit. If Tesco had reduced the credit limit Ms Bs balance wouldve exceeded the new limit 
and she wouldve incurred extra charges for doing so. So I think Tesco acted reasonably 
when it suggested Ms B get in touch to discuss her financial circumstances rather than 
taking any action that might make Ms Bs situation worse. 
Ms B was able to make a substantial reduction to her balance during 2021 and asked for her 
limit to be reduced  which Tesco did. And of course she couldve asked for a reduction of 
her credit limit at any time when shed previously been able to reduce her outstanding 
balance.
I do sympathise with the difficult circumstances Ms B has been through. But based on 
everything Ive seen I cant say Tesco lent irresponsibly to Ms B or acted unfairly when she 
asked for help. Ive looked at the charges and interest applied by Tesco and Ive not seen 
anything to suggest they werent applied correctly and in line with the terms and conditions 
of the account. So Im afraid I wont be asking Tesco to refund them. And I wont be asking 
Tesco to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman