DRN-3331073
The complaint
Mr C complains about errors by Nationwide Building Society after he took a payment holiday 
during the pandemic. 
What happened
Mr C took a loan with Nationwide in 2018. In May 2020 Mr C successfully applied for a 
payment holiday with Nationwide. The payment holiday was approved and Nationwide sent 
Mr C confirmation. Nationwide explained that, at the end of the payment holiday, Mr C would 
need to accept a new loan agreement to extend the term. 
At the end of the payment holiday, Nationwide sent Mr C a new loan agreement. Nationwide 
says Mr C didnt sign and return the new loan agreement. Nationwide also started to collect 
the monthly payment again. 
The October 2020 payment was returned unpaid and Nationwide later close the loan and 
transferred the debt to a third party business (A) to collect. Nationwide also recorded a 
default on Mr Cs credit file. Nationwide says the loan was closed due to arrears and failure 
to receive a new signed loan agreement from Mr C. 
Mr C complained and Nationwide ultimately agreed it had made some mistakes. Nationwide 
agreed to recall the debt from N and delete the default from Mr Cs credit file. In addition, 
Nationwide paid Mr C a total of £150. Nationwide said that it would approve a new rewrite 
of his loan to resolve Mr Cs complaint. 
Mr C referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an adjudicator. In his 
complaint submission, Mr C explained the default recorded on his credit file had impacted 
his ability to obtain other credit.  Mr C also said hed been offered a lower interest rate for the 
new loan and that payments made to A werent forwarded to Nationwide. The adjudicator 
thought Nationwide had dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything 
else. Mr C asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Nationwide agreed the payment holiday, it sent Mr C confirmation of what would 
happen in August 2020. Nationwide said Mr C would either need to get in touch (if he wasnt 
able to start making payments again) or sign and return the new loan agreement to extend 
the term. Whilst I can see Nationwide made some mistakes, I think its fair to note a new 
signed loan agreement wasnt received. Without extending the term to reflect the payments 
that werent made during the payment holiday, Mr Cs account was in arrears. 
After a payment was returned to Mr C in October 2020 Nationwide took the decision to close 
his loan and record a default on his credit file. Nationwide has explained it shouldve done 
more to contact Mr C in the run up to its decision to transfer his loan account to A. I agree 
Nationwide shouldve done more to contact Mr C about his loan, so Im pleased its taken 
steps to try and resolve the complaint. Nationwide recalled the debt from A and went on to 
use payments Mr C made after the loan was closed to the outstanding balance. 
However, during the process of recalling the debt from A there were delays in crediting the 
payments Mr C had made. That meant Nationwide sent Mr C new loan details that werent 
correct as they didnt contain the right balances. Mr C has explained this happened on 
several occasions and delayed the new loan agreement being put in place. I can see there 
were delays in this case and that Mr C also complained during the process. But a new loan 
agreement was accepted towards the end of last year. And Nationwide has taken steps to 
amend Mr Cs credit file to remove the default and adverse information reported. 
Mr C has explained he was told the new loan agreement would be on a lower interest rate. 
But Nationwides payment holiday confirmation correspondence confirmed the loan would be 
extended at the existing rate. Based on the information Ive seen, I havent been persuaded 
Nationwide offered to reduce the interest rate on Mr Cs loan after his payment holiday. 
Mr C says credit applications hes made have been impacted by the default recorded on his 
credit file. Mr C has sent screen prints showing his credit score over time. But the 
information doesnt show how Nationwides default impacted his credit file or ability to secure 
other borrowing. Based on the information provided, I havent been persuaded it would be 
fair to tell Nationwide to take further action on this point. 
Nationwide has confirmed the rewrite process has been completed and says the adverse 
information has been removed from Mr Cs credit file. Nationwide has also paid Mr C £150 to 
apologise for the distress and inconvenience caused. Having considered all the available 
information, Im satisfied Nationwide has dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly so Im not telling it 
to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Nationwide Building Society has 
already arranged a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman