DRN-3534026
The complaint
Mr P complains hes paid higher premiums for his motor insurance policy with Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited than he should have.
What happened
In November 2021, Mr P was looking to renew his motor insurance policy. On making an 
online enquiry he found the offer for new customers was more financially beneficial to him 
than renewing as an existing customer.
He spoke with Advantage and they looked to see if they could give him a better quote by 
staying as an existing customer. They checked through details with him over the phone and 
gave him a monthly premium amount which was less that the new online enquiry quote. But 
Mr P said as a new customer there was also a £30 cashback offer. And by taking this into 
account he said the new customer quote was better for him, so he cancelled his renewal 
policy.
But Advantage later found Mr P hadnt declared a previous claim from 2017 when he applied 
online. And said hed need to pay an additional premium of £60.42 and £30 for Advantage 
having to amend the policy. Mr P complained.
Advantage didnt consider Mr Ps omission as a deliberate misrepresentation of his details. 
And acknowledged the quote comparison call could have identified the omission when Mr P 
called to cancel his policy. They said theyd waive the amendment fee of £30 and cover     
50 % of the additional premium. This meant Mr P would now only need to pay an additional 
£30.21. They also gave Mr P the option of a new quote with the correct details,  based on 
real time pricing or to cancel the policy with a cancellation fee of £45.00.
Mr P wasnt happy with their response, he accepted the new policy but said this meant he 
didnt get the benefit of the £30 cashback. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said  Mr P needed to take reasonable care that all the information he 
provided was accurate. She also said the online enquiry specifically asked if hed any 
previous claims within the last five years. She said the discrepancy could have been picked 
up whilst the comparison quote was being looked into. But considered Advantages offer to 
be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr P didnt agree he said he was assured in the comparison call that the policy details 
matched. He asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres a responsibility on consumers under The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) when providing information to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation. Generally, policies are setup on the basis that the information 
given to the insurer is correct. But in this case Advantage also had information given by Mr P 
from the previous policy year.
I can understand Mr Ps frustration as he was seeking the best quote for his car insurance. 
Although Mr P was already an existing customer, he made the online insurance quote 
journey as a new customer so that he could claim the £30 cashback. I can see Mr P was 
clearly asked when he was completing the new customer online journey whether hed had in 
the previous five years any motor convictions or claims. And I can see from the statement of 
insurance sent to Mr P for the new policy hed taken out that he hadnt declared the claim 
hed made in 2017.  
Ive listened to the call Mr P made when he asked for the existing policy to be cancelled. He 
made clear the renewal quote he received was nearly £100 more than the new customer 
quote hed been given online. And by being a new customer he also got £30 cashback. 
During the call the agent checked a number of factors on the existing policy against the new 
online quote. She told Mr P shed look to see what the differences were to see if she could 
provide a better quote for Mr P as an existing customer. 
Mr P wasnt asked about any claims in the previous five years but was asked whether hed 
any claims or convictions in the last 12 months, and about specific areas such as address, 
drivers in the household, value of vehicle and mileage. Mr P said hed asked for social and 
commuting when he completed the online quote, but was told the hed asked for social only, 
they discussed whether commuting was needed, and agreed to leave it as social only.
Mr P said he couldnt understand the need to go through the details as hed only called to 
cancel the policy as he wanted the £30 cashback offer. And checked that the existing policy 
was being cancelled. The agent said she was checking to make sure hed the right product. 
And gave Mr P a renewal quote as an existing customer  a one off payment of £19.28 and 
11 payments of £19.33 in total £231.91. Mr P was told his new customer policy would be 
£21.92 a month. Mr P calculated that with the £30 cashback, the new customer quote was 
financially better for him, but I dont think this is the case as I calculate the existing policy 
would have been a one off payment of £21.86 and 11 payments at 21.92 in total £262.98, 
less the £30 cashback - £232.98, so the existing customer quote of £231.19 I calculate to 
have been more beneficial by £1.08. But during the call Mr P chose to cancel his existing 
policy and to take the new customer policy. 
It wasnt picked up during the call that Mr P hadnt declared his previous claim that he made 
in 2017 on his online quote. And if it had it would have affected the new customer quote hed 
been given. Once this had been identified by Advantage Mr P was sent the amended quote, 
which had an increase in premium of £60.42 and a charge for the amendment of £30.
CIDRA doesnt allow the insurer to simply charge an additional premium. But gives the 
insurer the option of cancelling the policy where there has been a careless 
misrepresentation, as in this case. So I think its fair for an insurer to explain to the 
policyholder theres a problem and give them the option of paying the additional premium in 
order to keep the policy going or to cancel the policy themselves. Thats because the insurer 
cancelling the policy will have serious consequences on the policyholder because they will 
have to declare it when they want to take out insurance later on.I can see in Mr Ps case, Advantage gave Mr P the opportunity to pay the additional 
premium or to cancel the policy, which is what I would have expected them to do. Advantage 
have accepted that the missing claim could have been picked up when Mr P called to cancel 
his policy. And so theyve removed the £30 amendment charge and halved the premium 
increase which meant Mr P needed to pay an additional premium of £30.21. Mr P also 
received the £30 cashback for taking out a new customer policy. 
Mr P has chosen not to cancel the policy. Im mindful of the fact that the initial mistake was 
Mr Ps, not Advantages. So, I think Advantages actions have been fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman