DRN-3549186
The complaint
Ms L complains that A Shade Greener (Boilers) LLP (ASG) has no right to charge her for
a repair undertaken to her boiler in 2021, about a poor quality power flush that was
undertaken when the boiler was installed in 2014 and how she was treated when she fell into 
financial difficulties in 2021.
What happened
Ms L entered into a conditional sale agreement with ASG on 3 April 2014 for the
supply and installation of a boiler. The boiler was installed shortly after by a company that I
will call V.
Under the terms of the conditional sale agreement, everything else being equal, Ms L
undertook to make 168 monthly payments  of various amounts  totalling £7,258. This
was broken down as £2,535.52 for the equipment and £4,722.48 for the maintenance and
service for the term of the agreement [of 168 months].
Ms L called ASG on 26 March 2021 to report a fault with her boiler.
Ms L initially agreed for the fault to be investigated on 25 May 2021 when her annual boiler
service had been scheduled.
Ms L called ASG on 5 April 2021 to ask for her annual boiler service, and the investigation of
her reported fault, to be brought forward.
ASG advised Ms L that it would ask V to attend her property to inspect the boiler and carry
out any necessary repairs on 12 April 2021. But added that if it transpired the fault wasnt a
manufacturing fault with the boiler, then then the call out (and any subsequent repair) would
be payable by her.
V attended Ms Ls property on 12 April 2021 and inspected the boiler. It was repaired and a
service report produced/raised.
This service report said:
component replaced
NON-WARRANTY ISSUE
on arrival boiler was overheating on hot water
the plate was blocked, the plate was replaced and old one left on site
also removed a large amount of debris from the boiler
the filter is on the flow pipe, not the return
advised the customer that [V] does not cover against debris related issues
NON-WARRANTY ISSUE
Ms L called ASG on 13 April 2021 to ask whether a power flush was undertaken when the
boiler was installed.
On 21 April 2021 ASG advised Ms L that she was obliged to pay it £232.80, because the
12 April 2021 repair wasnt covered under its warranty. Ms L didnt pay ASG this sum.
On 22 April 2021 ASG advised Ms L that she was obliged to pay it £188.40, because the
12 April 2021 repair wasnt covered under its warranty, and this sum would be added to her
next direct debit on, or just after 28 May 2021. On receipt of this advice Ms L cancelled her
direct debit and paid her April 2021 contractual payment by card. Ms L didnt pay ASG the
sum of £188.40.
On 4 May 2021 ASG advised Ms L (amongst other things) that:
the charge of £188.40 stood
a power flush was performed when the boiler was installed in 2014
termination of the agreement and return of the equipment isnt an option, only
settlement of the agreement (with the equipment being retained)
her direct debit needed to be reinstated
Ms L contacted ASG on 4 May 2021 to say she was experiencing financial difficulties and
would like to discuss this with somebody.
On 11 May 2021 ASG advised Ms L that it was unable to agree to a reduction in her monthly
payments.
Ms L called ASG on 13 May 2021 to say she was unable to make her contractual monthly
payments of £44.16 (due to financial difficulties) but would pay  going forward  monthly
payments of £25 by standing order.
Ms Ls complaint was considered by one of our investigators who ultimately concluded that
it should be upheld.
In summary she said that ASG had no right to charge Ms L the sum of £188.40 (and this
sum should be cancelled/written off), it should pay Ms L £100 for the distress caused in
failing to deal appropriately with her request for assistance (when she fell into financial
difficulties) and that her credit file, if required, is amended.
Ms L didnt respond to the Investigators conclusion and ASG responded to say it disagreed
with it.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in May 2022. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that both parties have very strong feelings about this complaint. Both parties 
have provided detailed submissions in support of their respective views which I can 
confirm Ive read and considered in their entirety. However, I trust that the parties will 
not take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The 
purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose of my 
decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
For ease I will address matters raised by Ms L under three separate headings.power flush
Ms L questions the quality of the power flush undertaken by V when the boiler was 
installed in 2014. She says that she has been led to believe that a power flush should 
take a whole day to undertake and last for ten years. And the power flush undertaken 
by V in 2014 took only half a day and has lasted only six to seven years.
Although I dont doubt what Ms L says she has been led to believe, its my 
understanding that power flushes can take between half a day and a whole day to 
undertake depending on the size of the property and the size of the central heating 
system. Its also my understanding that power flushes can last for between four and 
ten years depending on a number of factors.
Based on what both parties have said and submitted, and what I say above, Im 
satisfied that an appropriate power flush was undertaken by V in 2014 and there is 
simply insufficient evidence for me to conclude that V did anything wrong in this 
respect.
repair charge of £188.40
Ms L has a conditional sale agreement with ASG. This agreement is a regulated
agreement and this service has the power to look at complaints about it.
Ms L and ASG should be able to rely on the terms of the contract. After all, Ms L and
ASG freely entered into it and they both agreed they wanted to contract on these 
terms.
When I look at the contract I see nothing that permits ASG to charge Ms L the sum of
£188.40. In particular, Ive seen nothing that says what a non-warranty visit is, or how 
much Ms L might be charged for it, or that she might be charged for such a visit at all.
I accept that ASG may have been invoiced the sum of £188.40 by V and it has been 
obliged to pay this sum to V. But I dont need to look at this point. I say this because 
if ASG wants to pass on such a charge to Ms L, and I can see why it might want to, 
then there was nothing preventing it from saying so when it drew up the contract, but 
it didnt.
Rather, Ms L contracted on the terms that ASG set out in its contract. ASG didnt 
take the opportunity to cover this point in that contract. That might have been an 
oversight or error on its part, and thats unfortunate. But I dont agree its fair and 
reasonable now to try to introduce a new clause in the contract to cover this.
Ms L and ASG seem to accept that the damage to the boiler was as a result of a 
build-up of debris. And ASG seems to accept there is nothing in the contract 
regarding additional charges. But ASG says section 17 of the contract states:
17 In the event of any of the following happening, the Customer shall pay all sums
payable to the Company under this Agreement including Instalments which are
overdue or are yet to become due, but subject to the provisions of paragraph 18 of
the Conditional Sale Agreement and the rights of the Customer under condition 4.2
above:17.2 In the event of theft, fire or damage accidental or otherwise to the Equipment
throughout the Term, where any loss suffered by the Company in respect of the
Equipment is not covered by the Customers insurance.
And 18 states:
18 The Customer will remain responsible for maintaining all other parts of the
Customers central heating system including pipe work and radiators in the Property
at their own expense and for the avoidance of doubt the Company will only be
responsible for maintaining the Equipment and not any other parts of the Propertys
central heating system.
And instead of invoking its section 17 rights, a chargeable repair was conducted as 
an alternative.
I accept that section 17 might allow ASG to call in all the sums due under the 
contract in the event of damage to the boiler, but ASG didnt do this. Instead, ASG 
asked Ms L to pay the sum of £188.40, a non-warranty cost. Non-warranty costs 
arent set out in the contract, so I cant see that they are recoverable under this 
clause.
I can see that section 18 says Ms L is responsible for maintaining everything other 
than the Equipment (as defined in the contract). But the contract doesnt set out the
consequences of Ms L not doing so. Furthermore, the sum of £188.40 is in respect
damage to the boiler (the Equipment) and not the other parts of Ms Ls central 
heating system.
Im also not persuaded that just because ASG and/or V notified Ms L that she might 
be charged for the 12 April 2021 repair (by phone and email) and that she signed the 
service report generated/produced by V in respect of the same changes anything. In 
other words, Im not persuaded that these notifications/report varied the original 
contract that was taken out by Ms L (with ASG) in 2014.
Therefore, Im satisfied that ASG has no right to seek recovery from Ms L the sum of
£188.40 for the repairs undertaken on her boiler (by V) on 12 April 2021.
Im also of the view that in pursuing Ms L for the sum of £188.40 in the manner that it 
did ASG has caused Ms L both distress and inconvenience, and she should be fairly
compensated for this. And taking everything into account I find that £100 would be an
appropriate sum for ASG to have to pay in this respect.
financial difficulties
In May 2021 Ms L contacted ASG to say that because of the pandemic she was 
suffering financial hardship and could only afford to make payments against her 
agreement of £25 a month.
In considering whether ASG has treated Ms L fairly and reasonably in this respect 
Ive had regard, amongst other things, to the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Consumer Credit and Coronavirus: Credit Tailored Support Guidance and CONC 7 
of the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook Arrears, default and recovery 
(including repossessions).The guidance referred to above requires a firm (amongst other things) to treat a 
customer who is facing payment difficulties due to circumstances arising out of 
coronavirus with forbearance and due consideration. And CONC 7 requires a firm 
(amongst other things) to treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with 
forbearance and due consideration.
The investigator concluded that ASG hadnt provided Ms L with as much support as it 
could and should have done when she notified it in May 2021 of her financial 
difficulties. And that for this ASG should have to pay Ms L £100.00.
On 11 May 2021 ASG sent Ms L an email saying that she should get advice about 
her financial difficulties and the Financial Conduct Authoritys information sheet titled 
Arrears. Now in my view ASG could and should have done more in May 2021 to 
support Ms L than it did. However, things have moved on since.
Since May 2021 its my understanding that ASG has continued to accept reduced 
payments from Ms L and payments that Ms L herself has said she can afford to 
make. So, taking everything into account, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
for me to say that ASG should have to do anything further in this respect although I 
would remind it of its continued obligations to treat Ms L, where she is still in financial 
difficulties, with forbearance and due consideration.
Ms L responded to she was happy with my provisional findings.
ASG responded to say, as a gesture of goodwill and without admission of liability it was 
prepared to accept my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional findings I see no reason to depart from them 
and I now confirm them as final
My final decision
My final decision is that A Shade Greener (Boilers) LLP must:
write off the sum of £188.40 and cease the pursuit of this sum from Ms L
ensure no reference to the sum of £188.40 is recorded with third party credit
reference agencies
pay Ms L £100 for the distress and inconvenience its pursuit of the sum of £188.40 
has caused her
ensure it continues to meet its obligations to treat Ms L, where she is still in financial
difficulties, with forbearance and due consideration.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman