DRN-3618910
The complaint
Mr M has complained Santander UK plc wont refund him for debit card transactions he 
didnt make.
What happened
Mr Ms son called Santander on his fathers behalf in September 2021 to tell them thered 
been unauthorised cash machine withdrawals made on Mr Ms debit card. Mr M had lost his 
card sometime after using it to buy petrol in August.
Santander wouldnt refund the transactions which amounted to £2,030. They didnt believe 
the pattern fitted what youd normally see when an unknown third party had got hold of a 
debit card. This was particularly so as Mr M confirmed hed not written his PIN down or told it 
to anyone.
Mr M brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator believed the 
evidence supported Santanders case. He told Mr M that he couldnt uphold the complaint.
Mr M remained unhappy with this outcome. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. This is relevant as I explain below.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Ms complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply. I 
will refer to gross negligence and how this may apply below.
The facts of the case arent in dispute. Mr M lost his debit card sometime after buying petrol 
on 24 August. Quite a bit later  a fortnight  cash machine withdrawals started, using 
Mr Ms debit card and PIN.
For all the disputed withdrawals which continued until Santander retained Mr Ms card, there 
were no balance enquiries made about the level of funds in Mr Ms account. This means that 
whoever had the card either knew or assumed what level of money was available. I find that 
surprising.
There were substantial funds in Mr Ms Santander account at the time of the unauthorised 
withdrawals. I would certainly expect an unknown third party who luckily found Mr Ms card 
to have checked what funds they could access.
Mr M has told us he didnt write down his PIN or share this with anyone. Except that his four-
digit PIN was used correctly first time the card was used to withdraw cash on 6 September. 
And every time thereafter. I cant see how an unknown third party could have guessed the 
PIN. There are 10,000 different PIN variations. Although I know Mr M has told us his PIN is 
quite simple, the chances of getting even a simple PIN first guess are pretty low.
It's certainly the case that the pattern of disputed cash withdrawals doesnt fit Mr Ms normal 
debit card use. He withdrew cash regularly but in branch. 
This means there are probably two alternatives about what happened. Either someone Mr M 
knew well  and who knew Mr Ms PIN as part of an informal family arrangement  used the 
card. Or it was found by a completely unknown person. That person would only have been 
able to use the card if the PIN was also written on the card.
When Mrs M, Mr Ms wife, first brought his complaint to us on his behalf, she told us they 
had difficulty remembering PINs. This suggests to me that its not completely unlikely that 
Mr M wrote his PIN on his card to make sure he could remember it.
Im not surprised Mr M denies this. Hell be aware that keeping a note of the PIN with the 
card would be considered as acting with gross negligence. When customers do this, even if 
their card has been used without authorisation, we dont generally ask banks to refund them.
I dont know exactly what happened here. But on balance and based on the evidence I think 
its most likely that I cant ask Santander to refund Mr M for the disputed cash withdrawals.
Im sorry that Ive had to come to this conclusion as I appreciate Mr M has lost more than 
£2,000 which is substantial. I suspect hell believe this outcome is unfair but I dont think it is.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ms complaint against 
Santander UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman