DRN-2779436
The complaint
Miss B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) has 
treated her unfairly by increasing her credit limit, making it unfordable.  
What happened
Miss B took out a credit card with Barclaycard in 2010 and is unhappy as she feels they 
have increased her credit limit irresponsibly since then. 
In April 2015, her limit was increased to £8,180. It was then increased again in 2017 to 
£9,700. 
Miss B has explained that she wasnt receiving any income between 2010 and 2013 and 
was then on income support from 2013 to 2015. After that, her income was around £900 a 
month as she could only work part-time. 
She has explained that had Barclaycard carried out proper checks, they would have seen 
that she was not in the same financial position she was in when she first took out the credit 
card. She said they would have seen late payments to her mortgage, a student loan, credit 
with other companies, and so much more. 
Miss B has said that shes been making her minimum payments instead of her water bill, and 
that the persistent debt is now impossible to get out of. 
Because of this, Miss B would like Barclaycard to refund all the interest on her account along 
with any fees. She would also like them to remove any negative data from her credit file, 
should there be any. 
Barclaycard said that when they increase credit limits, they carry out various checks. Here, 
they did a credit check and also checked Miss Bs credit file but saw nothing to suggest she 
was struggling financially. They explained she also successfully passed affordability checks. 
Barclaycard explained that Miss B could have also reduced the limit at any time had she felt 
it was too high, as they sent her confirmation each time an increase was applied. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that Barclaycard had acted fairly. She explained that in 
2015 they carried out a Trans Union affordability check which gave a green result. This 
meant Barclaycard were satisfied they could increase the credit limit as it was affordable. 
She was also satisfied that Miss B was regularly repaying the balance as well as making the 
minimum payments showing her account was well-run. 
Another credit check was done in 2017 for the second increase, which showed that a total of 
£15,000 wouldve been affordable for Miss B at the time. The minimum payments were also 
being made and even though Miss B was near the top end of the credit limit, our investigator 
didnt feel this showed Miss B to be in any financial difficulty. 
Our investigator also explained that letters were sent to Miss B each time the increases were 
applied, and so she would have had the chance to contact Barclaycard should she not want 
the increase applied. Because of this, she was satisfied that Barclaycard had acted correctly 
and in line with the FCA rules. 
Miss B disagreed. She maintained that had Barclaycard carried out more in depth checks 
they would have seen that the increases were not affordable. 
Because of this, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
I issued a provisional decision on 25 March 2021, setting out the reasons why I intended to 
uphold Miss Bs complaint in part. The following is an extract from my provisional findings 
which were set out in the decision:
On 1 April 2015, Miss Bs credit limit was increased from £4,180 to £8,180. On 3 January 
2017 the limit was increased again from £8,180 to £9,700.
Barclaycard have said the increases were carried out pro-actively in line with their terms and 
conditions, and that the appropriate affordability checks were carried out. Theyve explained 
a TransUnion affordability check was completed which reviews income using current 
account data, existing credit commitments and housing costs, minus essential spends. The 
remaining disposable income is then used to calculate affordability. 
While Barclaycard says this means enough was done to determine whether Miss B could 
afford the increase, they failed to recognise what was actually going on. As far as I can see, 
Barclaycard didnt do anything to check whether the details Miss B provided about her 
circumstances in 2010 hadnt change by 2014. For example, I cant see it did anything to 
check what Miss Bs annual income was at this stage. 
When asked what they based Miss Bs income on, Barclaycard said they used the 
TransUnion data, which showed Miss Bs income at a number seven at the time of both 
increases. They dont have sight of the income used, but they are satisfied the check 
validated Miss Bs income enough to increase the limit as the number needs to be above six, 
which it was. They also explained that the fact Miss B had a student loan and was receiving 
tax credits arent picked up as part of a TransUnion check and therefore not factored into an 
affordability assessment. 
Its unclear to me what these TransUnion checks that Barclaycard have described involved. 
But I have concerns about the accuracy of any income information provided on this basis as 
I dont see how a credit reference agency would have details of a prospective borrowers 
salary. Equally, as Miss B has provided information showing her annual salary for 2014 was 
under £8,000 and in 2016 it was under £10,000, I have to question just how accurate these 
checks were. 
Barclaycard have said Miss B consistently met the monthly minimum payment and until 
November 2015 she made regular substantial payments in order to clear the balance. 
However, after this, only the minimum payments were made. Barclaycard have explained 
that a customer making the minimum payment isnt an indication of financial difficulty and 
that when its made consistently, they consider the account is well managed. I dont agree 
that this is an indication that an account is well managed. 
From Miss Bs account statements I can see she only made minimum payments for the 
whole of 2016, which I think showed she wasnt on track to be able to repay what she already owed within a reasonable period of time. And this in itself should have raised some 
concern when the second increase was due to be made. I say this while especially mindful 
that Miss B also had existing credit with other lenders and has provided evidence to show 
she was at the top end of her spending limit with them as well. This is also evident on Miss 
Bs credit file. 
To me, these are factors that should have been considered before Barclaycard increased 
Miss Bs credit limit, as they provided an accurate reflection of how she was managing the 
credit that she had already. 
Barclaycard have also explained that even though Miss B has shown her income was below 
£8,000 in 2014 and below £10,000 in 2016, there are instances where customers have 
savings, joint bank accounts and alternative income sources. This may be true, but 
Barclaycard hasnt shown me anything at all to indicate this was the case here. And as 
Barclaycard had an obligation to check that these credit limits were affordable for Miss B 
before providing them, I dont think that I can fairly and reasonably say they met this when 
even now theyre unable to tell me what they think Miss B had available each month to make 
her repayments. 
Finally, Miss B has also provided a copy of a non-molestation order that shes applied for 
against her ex-husband. This sets out what Miss B has gone through since their divorce in 
2014 and how it affected her financially. 
I understand Barclaycard may not have been aware of what was happening, but had they 
contacted Miss B at the time of the increases, she could have explained that she was going 
through an extremely difficult time.  
Taking all of the above into account, I think it was unfair and unreasonable of Barclaycard to 
apply the credit increases to Miss Bs credit card account in both 2015 and 2017, and I think 
they should have done more to determine whether the increases were affordable.
Miss B accepted my provisional decision. However Barclaycard explained that the 
TransUnion check gave an Income Confidence Factor (ICF) of seven for Miss B for each 
increase. They explained the Trans Union check looks at what goes in and out of a 
customers account and generates a level of confidence on the income. While it doesnt 
share the exact income with Barclaycard, it gives them an indication of whether to lend or 
not. 
Because of this, Barclaycard have said there may have been another source of income that 
the Trans Union check could see, that we werent made aware of. They explained that 
theyve provided evidence to show that reasonable and proportionate checks were carried 
out in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidelines on responsible lending, 
and so cannot agree they made any error.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not minded to part from my provisional decision. Ill explain why. 
Barclaycard have explained that when carrying out the Trans Union check they received a 
score of seven back, meaning they felt it was reasonable to increase their lending to Miss B. I understand their point in that there may have been another source of income that we 
havent seen, however Barclaycard are unable to show me anything to prove this was the 
case. Equally it still hasnt been properly explained to me what this score of 7 was out of. As 
far as Im aware Miss B wasnt asked for any details of her income at the time of the limit 
increases. So as far as Im concerned, its still unclear to me what it is Barclaycard was 
validating.
When making a final decision, I must base my findings on the information I have, and what I 
feel is more likely than not. I have information showing me what Miss Bs income was at the 
time of each increase. I can see she was making the minimum payments and that she was 
also close to a credit limit with multiple other companies. And other than speculation that 
Miss B might have been receiving funds from elsewhere, because of a Trans Union check 
which still hasnt been properly explained, Barclaycard havent provided anything to suggest 
Miss B was actually receiving an income from elsewhere. 
I am satisfied the information provided suggests its more likely than not that the lending was 
unaffordable. Given these were unsolicited increases taking place a number of years after 
Miss B initially provided Barclaycard with information about her circumstances, Barclaycard 
ran the risk of providing unaffordable credit based on history information. Because of this, I 
stand by my provisional decision that Barclaycard should have done more to check the credit 
increases were affordable for Miss B. As they didnt and I think that the credit limit increases 
in 2015 and 2017 were unaffordable, Im still partially upholding Miss Bs complaint.
Fair compensation  what Barclaycard needs to do to put things right for Miss B
Usually when a business has done something wrong, I would ask it to put the consumer 
back into the position they would be in, had the wrong not taken place. However this is hard 
here as Miss B has had the funds from the credit increases and theyve been spent. So it 
wouldnt be possible to put her back into the position shed be in had the increases not been 
applied. 
As Miss B had the funds and used them, I think she should have to repay what was spent. 
But as the increases shouldnt have been applied, I dont think its fair for her to pay any of 
the interest on the extra amounts lent. So I think Barclaycard should do the following to put 
things right for Miss B: 
Rework Miss Bs account to ensure that from April 2015 onwards interest is only 
charged on the first £4,180 outstanding, to reflect the fact that no credit limit 
increases should have been provided. All late payment and over limit fees should 
also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments have been 
made, Barclaycard should contact Miss B to arrange a suitable repayment plan. If 
Barclaycard considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Bs credit 
file, it should backdate this to April 2015.
ORIf the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Miss B, along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments have been made, then Barclaycard should remove any 
adverse information from Mrs As credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclaycard to take off tax from this interest. Barclaycard 
must give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Barclaycard should show Miss B what theyve done to work out the above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC t/a Barclaycard 
should put things right for Miss B in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman