DRN-2899838
The complaint
Mr D complains about BNY Mellon Fund Managers Limiteds customer identification 
requirements. He says he was told he would not be able to access his funds until he 
provided the identification information it had requested to verify his identity, even though hes 
been a customer for many years.
What happened
In July 2020, BNY Mellon wrote to Mr D to say it had reviewed its records and realised that it 
needed to complete a verification check. It said it required documentation to evidence Mr Ds 
full name and to evidence his current address. It said if it was unable to successfully verify 
Mr Ds identity within 21 days, it might place restrictions on his account affecting his ability to 
pay in and withdraw money and investments. 
Mr D was concerned that he was being asked to comply with a requirement that he wasnt 
aware of, without being given the opportunity to close his account instead. He was 
concerned that he might not have access to his money if he couldnt provide the required 
documentation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that 
BNY Mellon was entitled to ask for certain documents to fulfil its anti-money laundering 
(AML) responsibilities.
Mr D didnt agree. He said, in summary, that he is not reassured that he will have access to 
his funds in the UK and that his right to access his money should take priority over BNY 
Mellons AML obligations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since our investigator issued his view of the complaint, Mr D has provided BNY Mellon with 
the documentation it requested. He was concerned to receive an annual report which 
indicated his identification had still not be verified. But BNY Mellon told us this was simply 
due to the earlier cut-off date for the report. It confirmed Mr Ds account was fully verified 
and it was writing to Mr D to confirm this.
Mr D is concerned about BNY Mellons processes for verifying his identity. Hes mentioned 
that he thinks this service should do more to protect investors; that we should step in to 
prevent businesses putting hurdles in place to stop consumers accessing their money; and 
that he wants some reassurance, otherwise he does not feel comfortable investing in the 
UK.
Whilst I understand Mr Ds strength of feeling on this matter, it is important to understand the 
ombudsman service isnt the industry regulator. That means we dont set the rules for 
financial businesses or police the industry to make sure those rules are followed. And we 
dont have the power to require a business to change its procedures or to fine or punish 
businesses. These are all issues dealt with by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). My role is instead to consider individual disputes and reach an outcome I think is fair 
and reasonable in the particular circumstances of each. 
Its not clear why BNY Mellon hadnt verified Mr Ds identify and address and why the 
information it requested in July 2020 wasnt already in its records. I think its likely that the 
information wasnt obtained when Mr D told it about a previous change of address. In any 
event I find that, if the information wasnt held, BNY Mellon was obliged to obtain it to ensure 
it complied with its AML obligations. It follows that, if it couldnt obtain the required 
information, it would likely have to put restrictions on Mr Ds account, otherwise it would be in 
breach of its obligations.
Mr D was concerned that he wouldnt have been able to withdraw his money if he needed it. 
But hes not provided any evidence to show that he intended to withdraw any money from 
his account. I would order BNY Mellon to compensate Mr D if I found it had made a mistake 
and if I found this has led to Mr D making a financial loss. I dont find that either is the case 
here.
Mr D could not provide the exact documentation that BNY Mellon requested. But, when he 
spoke to it, it confirmed what it would accept. I understand Mr D has now provided this 
information and that BNY Mellon has confirmed that it has fully verified his identify and 
current address.
I dont find BNY Mellon acted unfairly or unreasonably here. If Mr D requires further 
reassurance about investing in the UK more generally, he may decide to contact the FCA for 
more information.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman