DRN-3835260
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) offered a reduced 
settlement amount for the contents claim he made on his home insurance policy. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
Following a fire in Mr Ls summerhouse, RSA applied a proportionate settlement as it says 
Mr L is underinsured. It also applied a single article limit to a computer and declined to pay 
for an air conditioning unit as it said this was betterment.
Mr L is unhappy with the delays and the settlement offered. He also feels its unfair that the 
computer has been considered as one item and not its individual parts.
Our investigator asked for evidence from RSA about the sales process and what the insurer 
asked Mr L regarding the value of the contents at the point of sale or subsequent renewals. 
RSA didnt supply the information, so she upheld the complaint and said RSA should pay the 
full value of the claim. However, she felt RSA had fairly applied the single article limit to the 
computer and it was fair for it to decline the cost of the air conditioning unit as this she 
agreed was betterment. She didnt think there had been any significant avoidable delays.
Mr L agreed with the investigators opinion.
RSA disagreed and provided some further information. But our investigator wasnt 
persuaded by this as it still didnt show the sales process and if Mr L was asked a clear 
question. RSA have been asked for this information several times, but it hasnt been 
forthcoming, so the complaint has been passed to me, an Ombudsman, to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA has accepted that the claim for fire damage is covered. But this complaint has arisen 
because it has reduced the value of the contents claim settlement to approximately 84%. 
RSA are relying on a policy term to do this. The wording and the term are not in dispute, so I 
dont need to outline this here. 
RSA has proposed to reduce the claim settlement because it says Mr Ls contents exceeds 
the cover limits within the policy. For RSA to apply a proportionate settlement, I have to 
consider what information RSA wanted to know during the sale, who was responsible for 
asking the question, and why Mr L provided the information he did. In other words, did Mr L 
give a reasonable answer at point of sale of the value to replace his contents. To do this I 
require evidence of the sales process and the questions asked at the sale of the policy and 
any subsequent renewal. I can see we have asked RSA on numerous occasions to provide 
this information and it has been given reasonable time to do so. However, the information 
hasnt been made available. I am therefore basing my decision on the information that has 
been provided, and Im not persuaded that a clear question was asked and that it was fair or 
reasonable for RSA to apply the reduction in settlement.  I am therefore directing it to pay 
the full value of the contents claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
With regards to RSA applying the single article limit to the computer Im persuaded this is 
fair. Although I can appreciate Mr L bought individual parts and built the computer it 
ultimately formed one single item. And as the computer was not listed as a specified item 
under the policy, Im satisfied it was fair for RSA to apply the single article limit in these 
circumstances.
I am also satisfied that the air conditioning unit is betterment as the previous summerhouse 
didnt have air conditioning, so I dont expect RSA to cover this cost. 
With regards to delays. A claim of this nature must be investigated thoroughly, and I can see 
as Mr L found evidence of other damaged items the settlement offer was amended. There 
were times when RSA were waiting for Mr L to confirm if he accepted the settlement offer 
and this led to some back-and-forth communication discussing the totals. Im satisfied that I 
havent seen significant avoidable delays and Im satisfied that the claim progressed as I 
would expect. So, I wont be asking RSA to do anything further regarding delays.
Putting things right
In summary, Im satisfied there werent significant delays, it was fair for RSA to apply the 
single article limit to the computer and for it to decline the payment for the air conditioning 
unit. However, I dont think it was fair for it to apply the proportionate settlement and I direct 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay the contents claim in full in line with the 
remaining policy terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman