DRN-1604308
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined a claim they made 
on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T were due to travel on a cruise with Mr Ts mother and her partner. But when 
attending to board the ship Mrs Ts mother was refused travel  because it was noted her 
passport was water damaged. At this point, Mr and Mrs T decided that they would need to 
abandon their trip. This was because Mr Ts mother and her partner had limited mobility, and 
Mr and Mrs T felt they needed to help their relatives safely home.
Because they were no longer able to go on their booked cruise Mr and Mrs T contacted 
Aviva to make a claim for this loss. But they said Aviva declined to settle their claim. 
Mr and Mrs T noted they were initially told this was because Mrs Ts mother was over 70 
years of age  and the policy didnt cover anyone over 70. But then they were told it was 
because their policy didnt cover any losses as a result of cancellation or abandonment of a 
trip, because of damaged travel documents. Mr and Mrs T didnt feel this was fair. So, they 
raised a complaint.
 
Avivas maintained its position that it was correct to decline the claim. It said that for the loss 
to be covered under the policy it needed to have occurred as a result of an insured event 
listed in the policy. And in this case, loss of travel documents leading abandonment of a trip, 
was not listed. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt think it was fair of Aviva to refer to Mr Ts mothers damaged passport or 
age as reasons to decline their claim, as she wasnt a policyholder or covered by the 
insurance. And they felt that Aviva had interpreted the policy unfairly, in terms of what was 
covered, and what was excluded under it.
Because Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy with Avivas decision, they referred their 
complaint to this service for an independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think Mr and Mrs Ts complaint should 
be upheld. They considered that Aviva had correctly noted the policy only provided cover for 
cancellation or abandonment of a trip in set situations. And the reason Mr and Mrs T had to 
abandon their trip was not as a result of one of those set situations. So, they didnt 
recommend Aviva do anything more in this case.
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree with the investigators view. So, their complaint has been referred 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. 
I recognise that Mr and Mrs T have strong feelings about the decline of their claim and have 
provided a lot of information in respect of their complaint. I want to assure Mr and Mrs T that 
Ive read everything from both parties carefully and taken it into consideration when coming 
to my decision. But Ive only referred to what I consider relevant to explain the reasoning for 
my decision.
Mr and Mrs T have referred to them initially being told the claim wouldnt be covered 
because of Mr Ts mothers age. I agree with them that this wouldnt be relevant to their 
claim (which was only for their loss). To be eligible for the policy the policyholders do need to 
be under a certain age limit. But Mr and Mrs T are the only policyholders in this case, and 
are under the age limit noted. 
But, as with most insurance policies, Mr and Mrs Ts policy provides cover to them for losses 
caused by one of the insured events listed in the policy. If the particular event being claimed 
for isnt listed in the policy, then the loss isnt covered  and the claim wont be accepted. 
Mr and Mrs T abandoned their trip because Mr T's mother was unable to board a cruise as a 
result of her passport being damaged. So, Ive needed to see whether this circumstance is 
listed as one of the insured events in the policy documents, in order to decide whether 
Avivas decision was fair.
Ive considered the terms and conditions detailed in the policy in respect of cancellation or 
abandoning a trip. And this does explain a number of situations in which cover would be 
provided. For example, in circumstances where a close relative is seriously insured, and 
therefore a trip needed to be abandonment or cancelled. But there isnt a situation listed 
which encompasses problems with either the policyholder or their travel companions travel 
documents meaning travel was no longer possible.
Because the circumstance which led to Mr and Mrs T no longer being able to go on their trip 
isnt something listed as covered by the policy, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Aviva to 
decline the claim. The policy doesnt cover the event. So, I dont require Aviva to take any 
further action in this case.
Mr and Mrs T have also said they feel Aviva incorrectly referred to a particular exclusion 
which can be found in the policy documentation. This exclusion notes the policy wont cover;
Any loss that is not specifically described in the stated terms and conditions, e.g. we will not 
pay for loss of earning if you are unable to return to work due to illness or injury during your 
trip, or any payment which you would normally have made during your travels. 
 
Ive thought about whether it was reasonable for Aviva to refer to this exclusion. And Im 
satisfied it was. This exclusion is explaining that the policy doesnt cover any losses that 
arent listed in the policy as covered. And given what Ive said above, Im satisfied this is 
relevant in this case. Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances arent listed as covered, so therefore the 
policy would not respond. 
In summary, Mr and Mrs T abandoned their trip because Mr Ts mother wasnt able to travel 
because her passport was damaged, and she was refused travel at the point of boarding the 
cruise. Damaged travel documents arent an insured event. And neither is returning home, 
because another person was unable to travel because of their documents.And whether the uninsured event related to Mr and Mrs T (the policy holders), or Mr Ts 
mother (a travel companion), Mr and Mrs T wouldnt be able to claim for the loss of their trip 
for this reason. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. And I dont 
require Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman