DRN-3076943
The complaint
Mr H complains that Advanced Asset Consultants Ltd (AAC) stopped servicing activities on 
his self-invested pension plan (SIPP) without making him aware it had done so. As a result 
he has paid servicing charges without receiving any on-going advice, and Mr H says his 
pension investments have suffered from under-performance.  
What happened
This complaint is closely linked to a complaint brought by Mr Hs wife that I am also deciding. 
Both their pension investments were managed by AAC. And although the underlying 
investments were different, it seems they were managed by AAC in joint meetings with both 
Mr and Mrs H acting on each others behalf in discussions with AAC. Since the two pension 
plans were held in sole names it is right that I deal with the issues as separate complaints. 
But given what I have said above I am sure that Mr and Mrs H, and AAC, will understand 
why my decisions on the two complaints are broadly similar. In this decision however I will 
only deal with Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H had a long-standing relationship with AAC. It had been providing him with advice and 
servicing on his pension and ISA investments since around 2007. It appears that their 
relationship was placed under some strain in September 2016 when problems were faced in 
liquidating some ISA funds to allow Mr and Mrs H to proceed with a property purchase. 
Those issues dont form part of this complaint, and so I will not deal with them here. But they 
appear to have been the catalyst for the issues I am dealing with.
In October 2016 Mr Hs advisor at AAC noted that the firm should stop taking on-going 
advice charges in relation to Mr Hs investments. But it seems that the firm failed to 
implement that instruction and the on-going charges continued to be collected. And due to 
the breakdown of the relationship it doesnt seem that there was any on-going proactive 
contact from AAC to Mr H to discuss the performance of his investments, or any changes to 
his circumstances.
In March 2019 one of Mr Hs investments matured, taking the cash holdings in his SIPP to a 
far higher level. In June 2019 Mr H made contact with AAC and complained about its lack of 
servicing on his SIPP. His pension investments were ultimately transferred to another 
provider later that year.
AAC considered Mr Hs complaint. It agreed that it had failed to do work to justify the 
servicing fees it had taken since the problems in 2016. So it offered to refund all those fees 
and pay Mr H £250 for the trouble and upset hed been caused. Mr H indicated he would 
accept the refund of the fees but thought that AAC should pay further compensation both to 
reflect the trouble and upset hed been caused, but more importantly the losses he said he 
had suffered through his pension investments not being actively serviced for three years.
Mr H brought his complaint to this Service, and it has been considered by one of our 
investigators. She thought that the offer AAC had made to Mr H was fair and reasonably 
reflected the losses hed suffered. She didnt think that Mr H had lost out on investment 
returns in the period between 2016 and 2019. So she didnt think AAC needed to do 
anything more than the offer it had already made to Mr H.
Mr H didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr H and by AAC. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, 
I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what 
I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
It seems clear that there was a serious breakdown in relationship between AAC and Mr H in 
the latter part of 2016. From AACs notes it appears that in the previous years it had 
regularly guided Mr H on the changes that he might make to his pension and ISA 
investments to reflect both market conditions and changes to Mr Hs attitude to risk. Those 
discussions appear to have ceased following the problems in 2016.
AAC says that its intention was to stop taking the on-going servicing charges from Mr H from 
October 2016. So I think that would explain why it failed to make contact with him about his 
pension investments after that date. But I think the absence of those on-going discussions 
would have also been clear to Mr H. It doesnt seem that he got in touch with AAC until 
June 2019 to enquire about what was happening with his investments. So I think Mr H must 
share some responsibility for what happened in those intervening years.
AAC has already agreed that it should refund the on-going servicing fees that it took from 
Mr H after October 2016. My understanding is that those fees would have been taken from 
the cash that Mr H held in his SIPP (that I will discuss in a little more detail later). So Im not 
persuaded that Mr H has suffered any investment losses from those fees having been taken. 
I think a simple refund of the fees would be sufficient to compensate him for the fees he has 
paid when not receiving an appropriate level of servicing from AAC.I can see that over the years leading up to 2016, Mr H and AAC discussed the positioning of 
Mr Hs pension investments to provide a degree of protection against market fluctuations. 
When it first started to advise Mr H AAC described his attitude to risk as being that of a 
balanced investor. But it seems that over time Mr H asked AAC to take a slightly more 
conservative approach to his pension savings. I think that over the years AAC guided Mr H 
into a portfolio that had some higher risk investments, offset by some far safer products, 
including holding a proportion of the portfolio in cash. I dont think that I would consider that 
an unreasonable spread of investments, and it appears to have met Mr Hs evolving attitude 
to risk.
So I dont think that it was unreasonable for Mr Hs pension investments to be partly held in 
cash  AAC has said that his cash holding over the time amounted to around 12%. I think 
that might be considered a reasonable asset mix, offsetting some of the more volatile 
investments that Mr H held. 
The majority of Mr Hs remaining pension investments were of a long-term nature. So 
although AAC might have not discussed those investments with Mr H between 2016 and 
2019 I havent seen anything that persuades me that he has lost out as a result. I havent 
seen any indication that his attitude to risk is likely to have altered over that time, and so a 
different investment strategy might have been indicated. On balance I think that Mr Hs 
pension investments would most likely have remained relatively stable over that period even 
if hed reviewed them more regularly with the assistance and guidance of AAC.
So, to summarise, I dont agree with Mr H that he has lost out as a result of not receiving 
advice from AAC since 2016. But it seems entirely right that any charges AAC has taken 
should be refunded. I think AACs offer of £250 for the trouble and upset Mr H has been 
caused is in line with my expectations. It isnt clear to me whether AAC has paid that 
compensation to Mr H, so I think it should now do so.
Putting things right
Unless it has already done so, AAC should do the following;
Refund any advice charges it has received from Mr Hs investments since 
October 2016. 
The compensation should be paid into Mr H's SIPP. The amount paid should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If AAC is unable to pay the total amount into Mr H's SIPP, it should pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for 
any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr H's expected marginal rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age. I expect Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer 
so the reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, as Mr H would 
have been able to take an additional tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay the sum of £250 direct to Mr H in recognition of the trouble and upset this matter 
has caused to him.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold a part of Mr Hs complaint and direct Advanced Asset 
Consultants Ltd to put things right as detailed above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman