DRN-2047588
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the actions of Link Financial Outsourcing Limited (Link Financial) 
whilst trying to recover a debt that it says it acquired from the original lender. 
What happened
On 16 December 2014 the original lender wrote to Mrs B to say her debt had been sold to 
another business. The letter advised that the new owner of the debt had appointed Link 
Financial to administer the account and collect the debt. On 16 December 2014 Link 
Financial also wrote to Mrs B to say the debt had been acquired by a new business and that 
it had been appointed to manage the account. Link Financial said the outstanding balance 
was £1,479.06. 
Mrs B has since made payments to reduce the outstanding balance. 
Since 2015 Mrs B has made several complaints to Link Financial about the way her account 
was acquired. Mrs B complains that Link Financial is operating a scam.
Link Financial has issued several responses to Mrs Bs complaints since 2015, none of 
which have been upheld. Link Financial says that the debt was acquired from the original 
lender in December 2014 and that the correct rules and processes were followed. 
Mrs B referred her concerns to our service and the case was passed to an investigator. He 
advised that he was only able to look at Link Financials actions. The investigator thought 
Link Financial had dealt with Mrs Bs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mrs B responded to say she believes the sale of her account to Link Financial was 
fraudulent. Mrs B said that she was told the original lender had been approached by Link 
Financial with an offer to recover the debt on its behalf but there was no need for a third 
partys involvement. 
The investigator responded to say that Mrs B could address her concerns about the sale of 
the debt to Link Financial to the original lender. Mrs B and the investigator were unable to 
agree on the outcome of her complaint so it has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B has raised several points in her complaint. But I think the main focus of her concerns 
lies in the sale of her debt from the original lender to the new owner of the debt in December 
2014. Mrs B has raised several concerns, including that someone persuaded the original 
lender to sell her debt, that Link Financial has been contacting her as part of a scam and that 
the outstanding balance was wrong when the account was sold. I understand Mrs Bs 
concerns but I havent found any evidence to support the claim that Link Financial has acted 
fraudulently in this case. 
Mrs B says someone at Link Financial persuaded the original lender to sell her debt. 
Businesses are allowed to sell debts. Lenders will often decide to sell debts, especially when 
they havent been repaid on time. In this case, whilst I note Mrs Bs concerns, there is no 
evidence to show anyone at Link Financial actively persuaded the original lender to sell her 
debt. I havent found that Link Financial acted fraudulently to persuade the original debt 
owner to sell Mrs Bs debt. 
Mrs B has also forwarded press information that relates to scams from fraudsters who 
pretend to be collecting debts. Whilst some consumers may be the victim of a scam, the 
evidence doesnt support Mrs Bs concerns. The rules say that when a lender sells a debt to 
another business a Notice of Assignment (NOA) has to be sent confirming the new 
arrangements.  In this case, we have a NOA from the original lender dated 16 December 
2014 telling Mrs B it had taken the decision to sell her debt. And a NOA from Link Financial, 
also dated 16 December 2014, that confirms it has been appointed to administer the debt. 
The sale of the debt was confirmed by the original lender and Link Financial on the same 
day. Had Link Financials contact with Mrs B been part of scam, I wouldnt have expected 
the original lender to confirm the details of the sale. 
Over the years, Mrs B has made payments to Link Financial to reduce the outstanding 
balance. Ive looked at the statements and can see the account balance has reduced in line 
with the payments Mrs B has made. This adds further weight to the fact Link Financial is 
using Ms Ws payments to reduce the amount she owes, rather than as part of a scam. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B as I can see how strongly she feels in this matter. But I havent 
seen anything to show Mrs B has been the victim of a scam by Link Financial. And Im 
satisfied that the evidence shows the debt was legitimately sold by the original lending in 
December 2014 at which point Link Financial was appointed to administer it. 
Im satisfied that Link Financial was appointed to administer the debt in December 2014 and 
that it has dealt with Mrs Bs complaint fairly. As a result, Im not telling Link Financial to take 
any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman