DRN-4272096
The complaint
Mr S has complained about his car insurer Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited because it 
has accused him of fraud; declining a claim he made when his car was stolen.  
What happened
Mr S parked his car at work, locked and left it. When he returned on the evening, the car had 
gone. Mr S found CCTV footage of a person standing by the car, unlocking it, getting in and 
driving away. He called the police and made a claim to Admiral. Admiral applied for a copy of 
the police report, reviewed the CCTV footage, interviewed Mr S and assessed the two car 
keys he had provided. Admiral noted the keys were both damaged internally (by different 
means). It felt Mr S had likely done this so the data stored on the keys could not be read. It 
declined the claim and said it would cancel Mr Ss policy. It referred to the fraud clause on 
the policy and said it wanted Mr S to repay it £502.14 (its cost for the key report). In 
May 2022 it recorded a fraud marker against Mr Ss name. The policy was not cancelled  it 
continued until the end of its term in September 2022 and was not renewed by Mr S.
Mr S complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. In a final response letter dated 
8 September 2022 Admiral said it was satisfied it had made a fair and reasonable decision. It 
felt the reported location of Mr Ss car key, at the time of the theft, meant it was unlikely a 
thief could have used a device to steal the car (referred to as relay theft). It said it believed 
the keys had been tampered with to conceal the data they held. It wasnt minded to change 
its view on the claim outcome. 
Our Investigator wasnt convinced the possibility of the use of a device by the thief could be 
ruled out. But, on balance, he felt Admirals decision to not cover the claim was fair because 
the damage to the keys had prevented it from validating the loss.
Mr S was unhappy. He noted that whilst the car, at the time of the theft, was some distance 
from the keys it was possible, when standing outside of the building, to be within a few feet 
of where his keys had been within the office, whilst also not being too far from the cars 
location. So he felt it wouldve been possible for the car to have been stolen by a thief using 
a device. His complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans consideration.
I asked Admiral if it had any evidence regarding its view that relay theft was unlikely to have 
occurred. It said the CCTV is not indicative of a relay theft. I reviewed everything and felt 
the complaint should be upheld. So I issued a provisional decision, my findings were:
Fraud is a serious issue with significant consequences for a policyholder accused of it by an 
insurer. As such this service expects an insurer, wanting to rely on an accusation of fraud, to 
support such in strong evidence. Each complaint about a fraud allegation is taken on its own 
merits but, in general terms, its unlikely that merely a belief or opinion from an insurers 
claim or complaint handler will satisfy that a fair and reasonable allegation of fraud has been 
made. That is not least because there are two parts to fraud. The first is not being truthful. 
With the second being that the untruthfulness was put forward by the policyholder with a 
view to gaining a benefit from the policy they werent otherwise entitled to receive.
Here there is damage internally to the keys Mr S presented to Admiral. I understand that 
Admiral believes Mr S tampered with them to conceal data. But it has presented absolutely 
no evidence in support of that contention. It hasnt presented any evidence which shows 
when they were tampered with. And the key report points to them likely being the keys for 
this car. Further CCTV footage shows Mr S arriving in the car on the morning of the theft, 
getting out of the car and locking it.
Which brings me on to the second part of the fraud test. Even if Admiral could persuade me 
in response to this provisional decision that Mr S tampered with the keys before sending 
them to it, Admiral would have to show he did that to gain something he wasnt entitled to 
under the policy. From the thrust of Admirals letters (believing Mr S was actively concealing 
data on the keys), it would seem it thinks the benefit would be that a key was used by the 
thieves, or maybe the car was left unlocked, with the policy not covering theft in those 
circumstances. But the CCTV footage does not, in my view, support either of those 
concerns. Admiral, as I said above, has seen Mr S drive the car on the morning of the theft, 
and lock it. The footage of the theft does not suggest the thief had a key to enter the vehicle 
as the thief stands at the car door for a number of seconds seemingly doing something with 
their hands. Lights flash on the vehicle, indicating it had indeed been locked, and the thief 
gets inside. There is then a relatively long pause before the thief drives away. Im satisfied 
that had the thief been using a key theyd have made off much quicker.   
Admiral has said it doesnt think the car could have been taken by relay theft. But Im not 
satisfied it has either fully considered the layout of the premises in concluding that, or sought 
expert opinion. In any event neither Mr S nor Admiral have to show how the car was stolen. 
All of import here is whether Admiral has shown its most likely a fraud has occurred. I dont 
think it has done that. So its going to have to remove its record of fraud.
Admiral has accused Mr S of fraud, but whilst making those enquiries it had the chance to 
consider its liability position more widely. Its hasnt flagged any other bars to liability and, by 
implication if nothing else, its fraud enquiry demonstrates it must have or should have also 
considered the theft in light of policy terms. Because, as Ive explained, fraud involves an 
attempt to gain something one is not entitled to under the policy. So Im going to require 
Admiral to settle Mr Ss claim for his stolen car in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy i.e. those related to settlement.  
Whilst Admiral threatened to cancel Mr Ss cover, it didnt action that. Rather Admiral has 
said that the policy continued to renewal and lapsed, so Mr S wont have to declare a policy 
cancellation by it in the future. Of course, if Mr S has a different understanding of his policy, 
he should let me know in response to this provisional decision. 
I understand that Admiral accusing Mr S of fraud has been very upsetting for him. Not least 
as it has prevented him from obtaining a mortgage. Had Mr S obtained the mortgage, there 
is still no guarantee he would have been successful in purchasing the property. But 
Admirals fraud marker has undoubtedly made the process or prospect of Mr S being able to 
try and find a new home much more difficult. I understand he has also been without use of a 
car on and off, with sporadic use of company cars and those loaned by family members. 
Also that hes been unable to arrange a more permanent alternative due to cost of insurance 
with the fraud marker against him, as well as still having to pay the finance for his stolen car. 
Taking everything into account, particularly bearing in mind that hes sometimes been 
without use of a car, I think £2,000 compensation is fairly and reasonably due. 
Mr S said he was happy with the outcome. Admiral said its expert had confirmed that the 
keys had been damaged and it had removed the fraud markers previously. Our Investigator 
asked Admiral for proof of it having removed the fraud markers. Nothing was provided.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledged in my provisional findings that the keys were damaged internally. The rest of 
my provisional findings explains why that alone, in these specific circumstances, does not 
show that Admiral made a fair and reasonable finding of fraud against Mr S. 
I note that Admiral has said it has already removed the fraud markers. But also that it hasnt 
provided any proof of that. Admiral will be aware that, in this respect and others, if it wants to 
rely on something it has to be able to evidence or share that data, at least with this service. 
Here, Admiral hasnt presented any evidence to given me cause to change my provisional 
view of this complaint. Specifically in respect of it presenting nothing regarding the fraud 
markers, my compensation award and the directional award regarding it removing those 
records, will remain. 
Ive considered the responses, Ive not been persuaded to change or amend my provisional 
findings. They, along with my comments here, are now the findings of this, my final decision.
Putting things right
I require Admiral to:
Remove the record of fraud from its own and any industry database.
Settle the claim for theft in line with the remaining policy terms.
To any settlement, add interest* applied from the date of loss until settlement is made.
Pay Mr S £2,000 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require Admiral to take off tax from this 
interest. If asked, it must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at Putting things right. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2023. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman