DRN-4128197
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Legal and General Assurance Limited avoided their life and 
critical illness policies, treating the policies as though they had never existed, and declining 
to pay out after Mr W claimed on the critical illness benefit. Mr and Mrs W also complain 
about delays in assessing the claim and poor customer service.
What happened
In January 2017, Mr and Mrs W applied for three policies with L&G, through a broker. They 
were taking out a new mortgage and looking to update their protection arrangements.
Very unfortunately, in March 2019, Mr W suffered a heart attack. He sought to claim on his 
policy under the critical illness benefit. But due to further health complications, the claims 
forms werent submitted until June 2021. By this stage Mr W had, again most unfortunately, 
been diagnosed with a genetic mutation and associated cancer.
In June 2022, L&G told Mr W that his claim was being declined and all his policies cancelled 
from the outset. L&G thought Mr W hadnt given full and accurate information when 
completing a lifestyle and health questionnaire at application. Mr W was asked the following 
question:
During the last 5 years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional 
for raised blood pressure, raised cholesterol or condition affecting blood or blood 
vessels, for example anaemia, excess sugar in the blood, blood clot, deep vein 
thrombosis?
Mr W answered yes and disclosed raised blood pressure. He did not disclose excess sugar 
in the blood. 
A follow-up question asked:
Has your GP or practice nurse told you that your blood pressure has returned to 
normal?
Mr W answered yes, which L&G says wasnt accurate. And it considered this to be a 
careless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid his policies, decline the claim 
because of this, but return the premiums Mr and Mrs W had already paid.
Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to us. Our investigator didnt think it should be upheld. 
She thought the £750 compensation paid for poor customer service fairly reflected the 
distress and inconvenience caused. And she agreed there had been a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation and that L&G was entitled to avoid the policies. 
Mr and Mrs W disagreed. Amongst other things, Mr W said his answers were honest and 
justifiable. He was also unhappy that L&G had refused to consider his second claim for a 
critical illness, having advised him to make it. As they remain unhappy, Mr and Mrs W have 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be significant news for 
Mr and Mrs W and Im sorry about that. Ill explain my reasons, focusing on the points and 
evidence I consider material to my decision. So, if I dont refer to a particular point or piece of 
evidence, its not because I havent thought about it. Rather, I dont consider it changes the 
outcome of the complaint. 
Customer service
Ive reviewed the history of the claim and noted that L&G has accepted there were failings 
and that at times its service fell short of expected standards. L&G was entitled to make 
sufficient enquiries to enable it to assess the claims. But I acknowledge that the delays and 
lack of contact/updates did cause additional stress and upset to Mr and Mrs W at what was 
already a very challenging time. In general, Id expect to see compensation of this value in a 
case where the impact of the businesss errors had caused considerable distress, upset and 
worry over months. So overall, I think the £750 paid fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs W. 
Claim
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
L&G thinks Mr W failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
said hed been told his blood pressure had returned to normal and when he failed to disclose 
excess sugar in his blood.
Ive reviewed the medical evidence provided. Information from Mr Ws NHS GP shows that 
he was seen in June 2016 and that his blood pressure was discussed. He was advised to do 
home readings and to bring them to the surgery after two weeks. A home reading of 150/110 
was subsequently reported. Mr W was given dietary and lifestyle advice, a target blood 
pressure and advised to come back if it remained above 145/95. The GP also confirmed that 
blood glucose levels were discussed in 2015 and 2016, again with dietary advice being 
given.Mr W also saw a private GP in June 2016, who reported that on examination Mr Ws blood 
pressure was 150/94 with a repeat reading of 154/96. Mr W was referred to a private 
cardiologist for further investigation and tests. The cardiologist met with Mr W in August 
2016 to discuss the test results. In a letter back to the referring private GP - copied to Mr W - 
the cardiologist summarises the test results and discussion, saying he has gone over 
matters with Mr W in some detail. He notes the following:
His ambulatory blood pressure monitor revealed no more than marginal mild 
hypertension with a mean daytime blood pressure of 146/90.
The cardiologist concludes that only very mild abnormalities metabolically had been 
demonstrated and mentions Mr Ws long working hours and stressful existence. Dietary and 
lifestyle advice is given. The cardiologist also notes:
I will send him a low cholesterol diet sheet but I will also send him a very simple low 
carbohydrate diet sheet because his fasting blood sugar was 6.2 which would 
suggest glucose intolerance. 
He will adopt this lifestyle for the next three months and I will review him but with 
repeat biochemistry to include full biochemical profile and a glycosylated 
haemoglobin. 
Its accepted that the review did not happen and Mr Ws NHS GP has confirmed no further 
consultations regarding blood pressure prior to Mr W applying for the policies.  
Mr W has said he was never sent a further appointment and heard nothing from his NHS GP 
so assumed all was ok and there was no cause for concern. Hes also said he wasnt aware 
of excess sugar in his blood.  
 
I dont accept Mr Ws argument that the lack of follow-up review or absence of any further 
contact can reasonably be seen as evidence to support a positive answer to the question 
about being told his blood pressure had returned to normal. I think the question is clearly 
asking for a positive confirmation by a medical practitioner, not the absence a negative 
information. 
And on balance, I think Mr W likely knew there was an issue with his blood sugar levels from 
the contact with both his NHS GP and private cardiologist. 
 
So I think Mr W failed to take reasonable care to answer accurately when making his 
application. 
L&G has provided evidence of its underwriting criteria and retro-assessment of what would 
have happened had Mr W answered accurately. In those circumstances, Mr W would not 
have been offered critical illness cover. And life cover wouldve been postponed, pending the 
outcome of the follow-up review and tests. This means Im satisfied Mr Ws 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
L&G has treated Mr Ws misrepresentation as careless, rather than deliberate or reckless. I 
think this was a fair categorisation because I think Mr W ought reasonably to have 
considered that the information was relevant to L&G.
As Im satisfied Mr Ws misrepresentation should be treated as careless Ive looked at the 
actions L&G can take in accordance with CIDRA. As L&G would not have been able to offer 
any cover at the time, it was entitled to avoid the policies and decline the claim, but should return the premiums paid. I understand Mrs W did not wish to continue with the policies on 
her own, so just over £6000 was refunded to Mr and Mrs W. 
Finally, Ive considered Mr Ws comments regarding L&Gs failure to assess his second 
claim for cancer. However, it was right that L&G considered the claim for heart attack first, as 
this was the earlier claimable event. But as the policies have been avoided as a 
consequence of misrepresentation, its also right that the second claim fails automatically, as 
there is now no policy against which to assess it. So I dont think L&G has acted unfairly in 
this respect either.
Once again, Im sorry to be the bearer of unwelcome news.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman