DRN-1226694
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that AmTrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) declined his claim for damage to his 
sofas.
What happened
Mr A took out a fixed term Care and Protection Plan with Amtrust, insuring his leather sofas 
against accidental damage.
Mr A made a claim under his policy for damage to two sofas. He reported that his grandchild 
accidentally cut through the sofas when using scissors to cut paper. Amtrust declined the 
claim because it didnt think the damage was accidental.
Mr A complained to Amtrust, saying it hadnt taken into account the young age and health 
condition of his grandchild, suggesting the damage wasnt caused intentionally. But Amtrust 
maintained its decision to decline the claim based on its inspection report. The report said 
the cuts didnt look accidental and it was unlikely a child couldve cut through the thick 
leather seams.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that the terms of the policy 
excluded the type of damage caused as Mr A described, and that shown in the photographs 
and inspection report.
Mr A didnt agree. He thought that Amtrust hadnt fairly justified its decision to decline the 
claim.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that this will come as a disappointment to Mr A, but Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy that Mr A bought was to cover accidental damage to his leather sofas. The policy 
defines accidental damage as, a sudden and unforeseen accidental event. Theres no 
dispute that the sofas are damaged, and I dont think theres any dispute that the leather was 
cut, rather than torn. So it remains for me to decide whether the cuts are likely to be 
accidental as defined in the policy. 
Mr A has given two slightly different accounts of what happened. In the first reported 
account, he said his grandchild had been doing some arts and crafts while leaning on the 
sofa and accidentally cut into the leather. The second account was that his grandchild found 
the scissors to cut some paper. In both accounts the child was in the room without adult 
supervision, and I think the point of highlighting the subtle difference in the second account 
is to show that Mr As grandchild wasnt left alone already using scissors. Either way, Mr A 
says his grandchild cut the sofas unintentionally.
The photos show that two sofas were cut  one on both seat covers and the other on both 
seat covers and the armrest cover. The cuts are quite long, possibly around 20 - 30cm, 
some with jagged edges and cuts running off to the side of the main cut. One of the seat 
covers has a cross cut into it. Each of the cuts exposes the sofa filling and some of the cuts 
go through the thicker leather seams. So its clear that there is significant damage to both 
sofas.
Mr A provided a photo of the scissors his grandson used for his arts and crafts when he 
caused the damage, which appear to be small thread clippers. 
The policy covers, you against the cost of repairing Accidental Damage to upholstery 
resulting in rips, tears, burns, scuffs, scratches and punctures.
Im satisfied that the cuts to the sofas fall within the broader term of rips and tears.
But, the policy will not cover, costs arising from any damage, soiling or staining causedby 
lack of reasonable care, mishandling, abuse, neglect, or acts of vandalism; by deliberate 
damage caused by any persons, including children, and this is the reason Amtrust has 
given for declining the claim.
I dont think its possible to conclude without any doubt that the damage to both sofas was a 
deliberate act. But given the amount of damage caused, I cant reasonably conclude that it 
falls within the definition of accidental damage  a sudden and unforeseen event. For a child 
to have caused that amount of damage, they wouldve needed to move to different parts of 
each sofa and used quite some force to cut through the leather, especially the seams. This 
is explained in the inspection report and I think its fair that Amtrust relied on it to say that the 
damage wasnt a sudden event. 
I understand that Mr A thinks his grandchilds health should be taken into consideration. Ive 
thought carefully about that but I dont think its fair to hold Amtrust responsible for the 
damage. If Mr As grandchild cut the sofas so many times, I think its unlikely that the 
damage was caused unintentionally. Though I must make it clear that Im not suggesting 
there was any malice intended, especially given the young age. So I dont think Amtrust did 
anything wrong by not making an exception for Mr As grandchilds health.
Overall, I think that Amtrust fairly declined the claim because it didnt fall within the definition 
of accidental damage as set out in the policy and, even if it had, Im satisfied that it was fair 
for Amtrust to rely on the exclusions set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman