DRN-2040698
The complaint
Mr C says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1998. Mr C took out the cover at 
the same time as he applied for a credit card by post. It gave him protection against 
accident, sickness and unemployment, and some life cover. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Barclays disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is set out on our website and Ive 
followed it here.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint because the information Barclays gave Mr C about 
the cost and benefit of the policy wasnt as clear as it should have been. Mr C completed a 
short application form which gave him very little information. For example, it wasnt made 
clear that the cost of the premium would be added to what Mr C owed on his credit card, or 
that he would be charged interest on it.
I think this would have mattered to Mr C because he didnt have a strong need for the policy. 
He had other ways to meet his repayments for some time without the policy. He was entitled 
to 12 months sick pay at work (more in certain circumstances) and hes told us he had 
approximately 12 months savings in an instant savings account that he kept for a rainy day. 
Barclays says Mr C told them his sick pay was six months full pay then six months half pay 
and he had no savings. But even if Mr Cs sick pay gave him only nine months cover as the 
bank says, given the level of savings he most likely had I still dont think he had a strong 
need for the PPI. Ive considered the banks point about his level of savings, and I accept 
Mr C hasnt been able to provide supporting documentation. But thats not unreasonable 
given how long ago the sale was. When asked to confirm his savings in 1998 Mr C has been 
able to give us detail about the type of account his savings were held in and the purpose of 
the savings, as well as the likely value. So I think its not unreasonable to consider its likely 
his recollections are accurate.
 
Barclays pointed out in its appeal that the sale was non-advised, so it was up to Mr C to 
decide if the PPI was suitable. But this doesnt change my conclusion as the bank still had 
an obligation to give information that was clear, fair and not misleading so that Mr C could 
make an informed decision.
Overall, I think that if Mr C had been given enough information to understand the value of the 
policy, he most likely wouldnt have bought it.
Putting things right
Barclays should put Mr C in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken 
out PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A - Barclays should find out how much Mr C would owe on his credit card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it. So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any 
interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were 
caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr C owes and what he 
would have owed.
If Mr C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he
got for the claim from the amount it owes him. Similarly, it can deduct any commission 
refund already paid to Mr C.
B - If  when Barclays works out what Mr C would have owed each month without PPI 
 Mr C paid more than enough to clear his balance, Barclays should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr C paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mr C wouldve owed Barclays something on his credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
C - Barclays should tell Mr C what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint and instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman