DRN-2690515
The complaint
Miss B complains that she didnt make a payment to a retailer and her account was debited 
by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax).
What happened
Miss B had several accounts with Halifax, including a current account. On 28 September 
2020, a payment of £5.99 was debited to her account. Miss B disputed the transaction and 
said it wasnt hers. On 26 October 2020, Halifax refunded it. On 4 December 2020, it was 
debited to her account again. Following Miss Bs complaint, they refunded £5.99.
Miss B complained. She insisted she didnt make the payment. She said she was made to 
feel as if she was the guilty party  as Halifax said she did make the payment and only 
refunded the amount without liability. She has been very worried and stressed by 
everything that happened.
Halifax said theyd looked at what happened. They considered the transaction was made by 
Miss B. Theyd contacted the retailers bank and seen that the item had been delivered to 
Miss Bs address. Shed also bought other items from the same retailer before. But  they 
refunded the amount of £5.99. And because in their letter, they gave Miss B some 
inaccurate information, they also paid her compensation of £75.
Miss B brought her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into everything that had 
happened. She said Halifax had gone into the details of the payment. And theyd concluded 
that it was a genuine one. But equally, she appreciated that Miss B was certain she didnt 
authorise it. But she felt that Halifax had done all they could and had refunded the £5.99 and 
paid compensation of £75. So  on balance, she didnt think Halifax could do anymore.
Miss Bs asked that her complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It may help if I explain my role and that of the ombudsman service. We are an informal 
complaint resolution service. We dont take sides  we listen to what both parties have told 
us and decide on a fair and reasonable outcome based on the evidence we see. In this 
case, we wont actually decide whether the transaction was a genuine one or not  we cant 
investigate that - but we will make a judgement on whether Halifax dealt with Miss Bs issue 
properly and fairly.
Ive looked at what happened here in depth. Ive read everything that Miss B has told us  
and reviewed what Halifax has said. I also want to assure Miss B that our investigator also 
looked into what happened and asked a lot of questions of Halifax  she really went into 
Miss Bs case deeply. And her view dated February 2021 also sets out what she found  so 
Miss B should also read that again.
I can see that Halifax had gone into the details of the payment. They said that Miss Bs card 
and valid address had been quoted, and the goods had been delivered to her address. So  
they said that the transaction was valid. But Miss B says they must be wrong.
I think Miss Bs real concern here is that she feels that no one believes her  because the 
Halifax refunded the money and paid her compensation of £75 as a gesture of goodwill  
rather than saying without any doubt that she didnt make the payment. I can appreciate that 
of course. But from what I have seen, Halifax dont have the information which would enable 
them to say that Miss B didnt make the payment  so we cant expect them to say that. Ive 
seen that Halifax have gone into what happened  and they think the payment was a 
genuine one. But theyve dealt with Miss Bs complaint properly  theyve investigated what 
happened, refunded £5.99 and also paid Miss B compensation of £75. So, they really cant 
do any more.
But equally, I have no reason not to believe what Miss B has said to us  that she didnt 
make the payment. I can see that its causing her a lot of worry and stress. Thats 
understandable. But in cases like these, sometimes  we will never really get to the bottom 
of what really did take place. No one is saying that they dont believe Miss B. But Miss B 
really should now try to put this behind her. I can see that Halifax have given her a new card 
 so that should also give her some comfort if she felt that her card details had been 
disclosed to someone.
I think Miss B believes that Halifax now feel that shes dishonest because of what shes said 
and believes. I dont think thats the case at all  and she should feel confident that she can 
continue to be a customer of Halifax, and deal with them in the normal way - if thats what 
she wants.
I know that Miss B wont like to learn of my decision, but in all fairness, I cant ask Halifax to 
do anymore here. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman