DRN-4211818
The complaint
Mr A complains that Metro Bank PLC added a marker about him at CIFAS, the national fraud 
database, when it closed his account.
What happened
Mr A says he agreed to receive money into his account for a third party. And then to send it 
to another account. He didnt know that the money had been obtained fraudulently. The 
marker is having an effect on his ability to access financial products. And a different financial 
business had removed a marker in similar circumstances.
Metro Bank said it hadnt made a mistake. It said that on 10 April 2021 it had received a 
report that £500 paid into Mr As account was from a purchase scam. He was asked to show 
his entitlement to the money. He had told it on 30 April 2021 that the money had come from 
bitcoin sale, and he had provided evidence. But this didnt match up to the details if had 
received from the reporting bank. On 12 April 2021 it said it had received a report of fraud in 
relation to a credit for £2,500. And Mr A had moved £2,400 of this to a crypto currency 
account with another business. Metro Bank closed his account and retained the remaining 
funds. It said there were grounds for the marker to be added.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that Mr A had 
provided some screenshots of online conversations with the person he sent the money to. 
But these were insufficient to support his testimony and didnt correspond to what the victims 
had said. The funds werent from a friend or investments. These were moved into a crypto 
currency account in his name and indicated that hed profited. She didnt think it plausible 
that he would send money of this amount based on what a friend of a friend had told him. Or 
could think that this was legitimate. We were looking at what Metro Bank had done here and 
not any other financial business.
Mr A didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that the response was 
harsh and unfair. It had taken effort and a stroke of luck to gather the evidence and 
explanation he now had. If he had possessed this before then he could have presented his 
case to Metro Bank. There were very limited records from Metro Bank, and this is why he 
had asked for the help of this service. He wanted his evidence to be thoroughly examined, 
and his explanation carefully considered with a possible check on the money hed sent on 
from his crypto currency wallet. Metro Bank should reconsider, and this was essential as the 
other financial business had accepted what hed said. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Metro Bank 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted. The evidence must 
be clear, relevant and rigorous.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Second, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
Ive taken into account guidance from CIFAS about cases where someone receives 
fraudulent payments into their account like this  acting as a so called money mule. And 
that relevant factors in deciding whether Mr A was deliberately complicit in what happened 
include whether he knew or ought to have known that the money wasnt legitimate, whether 
he may have benefitted from the money by keeping part and whether he has provided 
generic or inconsistent explanations.
I agree with our investigator that we are only looking here at what Metro Bank did and not 
any other financial business Mr A has been involved with. Im satisfied its shown that the 
payments had been obtained fraudulently.
Ive looked at the evidence Mr A has provided. There are limited screen shots he says are 
his contact with the third party about receiving money. He has provided some screen shots 
he says show him moving at least part of this money to a crypto currency account and he 
then says moving this on to the third party. Im unclear from what he says why he wouldnt 
have had this information to provide to Metro Bank at the time when it asked him to prove his 
entitlement to a payment.
In any event Im not persuaded his explanation is a reliable one. These were sizeable 
amounts and didnt come from the person he says had asked to use his account. There is no 
evidence the money came from the sale of crypto currency. He sent money on quickly using 
a crypto currency account in his name and was in control of what happened to it. He seemed 
to have been able to retain some of it. I dont find it credible that he could think that this was 
legitimate. As I referred to above he would reasonably be responsible for what happened 
with his bank account. So, I dont find him an unwitting participant in what happened.
Metro Bank says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr A received fraudulent funds 
into his account. So, Ive looked at whether it was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. And 
that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to believe fraud or 
financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr As account of events and the evidence he has provided, Im satisfied 
that Metro Bank had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to 
this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr A received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Metro Bank 
at the time.
- He authorised the movement of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.- Metro Bank had grounds to believe that Mr A had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
In these circumstances I dont consider it acted outside its terms and conditions in closing 
his account and not releasing any remaining funds. I appreciate Mr A will be very 
disappointed by my decision given what he says about the impact of the marker for him.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman