DRN-2218496
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Amtrust International Underwriters DAC (Amtrust) declined a 
claim on his mechanical breakdown insurance policy when his daughters car broke down.
What happened
Mr N bought a car for his daughter in July 2018. He also bought a mechanical breakdown 
policy on the same day. The car had its annual service in October 2018, and in May 2019 
the car broke down. The car had covered approximately 50k miles at the time of purchase 
and Mr Ns daughter had travelled approximately 7/8k miles before the car broke down.
The car was taken to a garage and the engine was stripped. The report said there was 
heavy oil carbonization deposits on piston crowns and chambers, heavy deposits on the 
piston skirts and gumming of the oil control rings. It also said there is no evidence of wear or 
neglected maintenance and this was a progressive failure due to inadequate piston oil 
control from gummed and inefficient oil control ring wiping. 
Amtrust declined the claim. It said, It is clear that this fault is progressive and that no 
sudden mechanical breakdown, as defined has occurred, as such, the policy has no liability 
for this claim.
But Mr N doesnt agree. He says that Amtrusts definition of a breakdown is absurd and 
that the claim is clearly covered. He says the claim has been rejected because it is 
expensive and such a rejection has no basis in the policy wording.
An investigator in our service looked at this complaint and didnt think that Amtrust had done 
anything wrong. But Mr N remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
I reviewed the complaint and I sent an informal provisional decision to Amtrust in July 2020. I 
came to a different conclusion to our investigator and this is set out below:
Provisional decision
The consumers daughter has had the car for less than a year and travelled approximately 
8,000 miles. According to the independent engineers report it has a full-service history, with 
the last service taking place eight months before the breakdown. The mileage at service was 
51k and at breakdown 57k.
There is no indication of any prior issues. The car broke down suddenly and the breakdown 
was unforeseen. The car was towed to a garage where the engine was stripped. The 
engineers report says The evidence seen today, and information provided indicates the 
vehicle has had progressively increasing oil burning issues due to inadequate piston oil 
control from gummed and inefficient oil control ring wiping. This would be a progressive 
failure.
Repair will require a minimum of piston cleaning with piston and bore tolerance checks, new 
piston rings and cylinder bore deglazing if within specification. Best practice would also 
advise timing chain, guides and tensioner assembly renewal as part of any engine overhaul.
The final response says Your Mechanical Breakdown Insurance indemnifies your vehicle 
against the sudden mechanical failure of specifically listed components. The Terms and 
Conditions define such a mechanical breakdown as follows: 
Breakdown means the sudden and unforeseen failure of a component arising from any 
permanent mechanical or electrical defect, (for a reason other than wear and tear, normal 
deterioration or negligence) causing a sudden stoppage of its function, necessitating 
immediate repair or replacement of the component before normal operation can be 
resumed. 
The repairer confirmed that there was evidence of increased oil consumption and a new 
engine was required. An independent assessment was carried out which concluded that the 
engine was burning oil within the bore with the pistons showing heavy oil carbonisation. It is 
clear that this fault is progressive and that no sudden mechanical breakdown, as defined 
above has occurred, as such, the policy has no liability for this claim
Amtrust have turned down the claim and said that the policy says it has no liability for a fault 
that is progressive. Amtrust says that no sudden and unforeseen failure of a component has 
occurred.
But I think Amtrust have got this wrong. The engine is covered under the policy. And I agree 
the policy doesnt cover deterioration or normal wear and tear (after a certain age and 
mileage). But I take this to mean the sort of normal wear and tear or deterioration youd 
expect to see in a car, as opposed to something unexpected.
From what the engineer and the garage have said the vehicle has had progressively 
increasing oil burning issues due to inadequate piston oil control from gummed and 
inefficient oil control ring wiping. This would be considered unusual in a vehicle of less than 
60k miles. I dont think anybody would expect an engine with a full-service history at mileage 
this low to experience inadequate piston oil control unless there was an underlying problem 
with either the oil distribution or the mechanism distributing the oil. The engine was burning 
oil within the bore which is unusual and certainly, the gumming of the oil rings on the pistons 
as shown in the photos accompanying the engineers report is not what youd normally see 
on a car of this age and such low mileage. Piston rings do not normally deteriorate to the 
point they fail after 57k miles and excessive burning causing carbonisation is unusual, 
unless theres an underlying fault. But this fault hasnt been identified. And I think its fair to 
say that in most cars like this one the pistons/piston rings would work for a lot longer than 
this.
Further to this the failure was sudden and unforeseen. The car broke down suddenly, and a 
failure of this type is certainly unforeseen. So, the claim fits in perfectly with the definition of 
the type of breakdown that the policy covers. 
The point of the policy is to protect the consumer from breakdown of the older car she 
bought. And  while it doesnt cover problems caused by expected deterioration or general 
maintenance (the engineer pointed out there is no evidence of neglected maintenance), I 
think she has a valid claim in this particular instance. The car broke down suddenly and the 
failure of the engine at 57k miles was definitely unforeseen. And this failure wouldnt be 
considered normal wear and tear or deterioration.The policy is in place to cover the costs in the event of a breakdown as defined in the policy 
terms and conditions. And I think the consumer has submitted a valid claim. I cant see that 
any of the exclusions are valid. So, I think Amtrust should pay the claim.
But Amtrust continue to maintain that there is no evidence of an actual component failure 
and this issue is a result of gradual deterioration rather than a mechanical breakdown as 
defined within the policy terms & conditions. Amtrust continues to maintain this claim isnt 
covered by this policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Component failure
Amtrust say There was no evidence of any actual component failure.
The policy says all mechanical and electrical Components of the Vehicle are covered, 
where they were supplied as part of the manufacturers original specification, other than: 
Bodywork, paintwork, light units, interior and exterior trim, seats, glass (including mirror 
glass), handles, hinges, fasteners, wheels and tyres. Workshop consumables and 
service/maintenance items which includes, but is not limited to; exhaust systems, spark 
plugs, glow plugs, filters, brake and clutch frictional material, wiper blades and arms, drive 
belts, pipes and hoses, bulbs, batteries and fuses.
Looking at the engineers report under the heading repairers cost and service history it 
says a complete engine replacement is required. An internal email suggests the engine 
needs an overhaul or full replacement. So, Im satisfied that the engine has failed (or it 
wouldnt need replacing). The car's engine is not a singular unit. Its built up from several 
differently sized components that perform their intended functions. The two main 
components are the cylinders and the pistons. And the advice from the engineer is that the 
replacement or overhaul of these components is required as a bare minimum.
Neither component is listed under the definition of whats not covered. These components 
have failed, and this has been evidenced in the independent engineers report. So, Im 
satisfied theres been a failure of a mechanical component or components as defined by the 
policy
Gradual deterioration versus a mechanical breakdown (sudden and unexpected)
Amtrust say given the relatively low mileage of the vehicle, we would maintain this issue is a 
result of gradual deterioration rather than a mechanical breakdown as defined within the 
policy terms & conditions. 
There are a number of terms in the policy document we need to look at here:
The policy says this protection will suit the demands and needs of a customer who
owns a motor vehicle and wishes to insure against the costs of unforeseen mechanical or 
electrical failure. 
It goes on to say this Insurance will contribute towards the cost of repairs required to Your 
Vehicle, due to unexpected mechanical or electrical Breakdowns.And breakdowns are defined as the sudden and unexpected failure of a Component arising 
from any permanent mechanical or electrical defect, (for a reason other than Wear and Tear, 
normal deterioration or negligence) causing a sudden stoppage of its function, necessitating 
immediate repair or replacement of the Component before normal operation can be 
resumed.
Mr N says the ordinary and natural meaning of the word breakdown is that something stops 
working. He says that neither the brochure (nor summary) suggest the policy wording will 
give a restricted meaning to that term. 
The diagnosis given is that the vehicle has had progressively increasing oil burning issues 
due to inadequate piston oil control from gummed and inefficient oil control ring wiping. To 
my knowledge this would be considered unusual and very much unexpected in a vehicle of 
less than 60k miles. I dont think anybody would expect an engine with a full-service history 
and mileage this low to experience inadequate piston oil control or piston ring gumming. 
Piston rings do not normally deteriorate to the point they fail after 57k miles. 
The report suggests this could be down to incorrect oil or driving style. But Mr Ns daughter 
has travelled 7k miles in 10 months, which isnt unreasonable. Amtrust havent provided 
anything to show Mr Ns daughter has unusual driving habits or that the use of her car is 
anything out of the ordinary. And theres no evidence to suggest an incorrect oil was used. In 
fact, theres a full manufacturers service history, apart from the last service, which took place 
in the garage where the car was inspected. So, based on all of the above Im satisfied the 
failure was unexpected. 
Im also satisfied looking at the independent report that the failure caused a sudden 
stoppage of the components function, and that repair or replacement was required before 
normal operation could be resumed.   
But does a gradual failure fall into the scope of the policy? The car broke down suddenly. Mr 
Ns daughter hasnt mentioned any issues before the breakdown, and theres no record of 
any issues from the garage. So even if the failure started some time ago, in her eyes its a 
sudden breakdown.
But Amtrust say that the failure is deemed to be a gradual deterioration, and that it doesnt fit 
its definition of mechanical breakdown. Amtrust says that if it were to allow a gradual fault to 
be covered this would serve to contradict the purpose of the policy and allow for all gradual 
breakdowns to be covered under the policy irrespective of the cause.
But I cant see how this would be the case. Amtrust have covered themselves quite well 
against breakdowns that are considered gradual by excluding wear and tear, negligence 
and normal deterioration. And by declining an unexpected fault on a covered component just 
because it has manifested itself and taken a period of time to fail, Amtrust are actually 
contradicting the purpose of the policy themselves. 
I believe Amtrust have taken the word sudden and interpreted it as something that happens 
quickly. But that is a very narrow interpretation of the word. When something is sudden its 
also deemed unexpected, unforeseen or unanticipated. 
Ive seen pistons and associated parts last a lifetime in an engine. And in this case, I would 
consider that the specific components involved have failed unexpectedly and well before 
their normal life expectancy. The reality is that this engine has failed because something has 
gone wrong as opposed to a failure wed expect or anticipate could or should happen. And 
the fact its a gradual failure shouldnt matter, as the purpose of this policy is to insure against the costs of unforeseen mechanical or electrical failure outside of the listed 
exclusions as written in the policy. And thats what happened here, an unforeseen, 
unanticipated and unexpected failure of a component or components long before they 
should ever fail (not caused by negligence, normal deterioration or wear and tear).
The point of the policy is to protect the consumer from breakdown of the older car Mr M 
bought for his daughter. And  while it doesnt cover problems caused by expected 
deterioration or general maintenance (the engineer pointed out there is no evidence of 
neglected maintenance), I think Mr N has a valid claim in this particular instance. The car 
suffered an engine component failure long before it would normally be expected or 
anticipated to fail. And Im satisfied that this is a mechanical breakdown as defined within the 
policy terms and conditions and should be covered.
Putting things right
So, Im recommending that Amtrust pay the claim as per the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy. Any outstanding diagnostic costs covered by the policy should also be paid.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint.
I require Amtrust International Underwriters DAC to pay the claim as submitted along with 
any diagnostic costs in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman