DRN-3653489
The complaint
Miss M complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold a term 
assurance policy. She also complains that she was led to believe she would receive a pay-
out when the policy matured. 
What happened
The background of the complaint is already well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in 
detail here. In summary, Miss M visited a Halifax branch in June 2011 and was sold a life 
policy. She went on to receive advice from an independent financial advisor who explained 
that the policy was term assurance and was due to end when she turned 65.  She 
complained because she felt she didnt need this type of cover.
Halifax responded to the complaint and concluded a term assurance policy with a term of   
17 years would have been more suitable for Miss M and her circumstances. So, they paid 
Miss M the difference in premiums between what she did pay and what she would have paid 
had she been recommended a suitable policy. They included 8% simple interest and 
calculated the tax payable on the interest. 
Miss M didnt accept their offer and asked our service to investigate. Our Investigator issued 
a view explaining why they felt Halifax had already reasonably resolved the complaint.     
Miss M didnt agree. Therefore, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the fact find and I can see Halifaxs advisor sought to obtain information about 
Miss Ms circumstances at the time. This included information about her income, expenditure 
and personal circumstances such as her two dependents. 
Miss M said she didnt initially visit the branch for a life policy, and she has also provided 
information about her circumstances and health at the time. But Im not persuaded this 
meant she didnt want protection for her family. This is because in the fact find the advisor 
recorded that such protection was her aim and objective and she didnt want her children to 
suffer financially should something happen to her. Having considered this, Im satisfied 
Halifax obtained sufficient information to make a suitable recommendation for life cover and 
there was a need for it. 
However, Halifax have already accepted the term of the life policy wasnt suitable. I agree 
with this because the documents dont show there was a need for the policy to run to 
retirement age. It was recorded that Miss M wanted protection for her family and, as Halifax 
also accept, it would have been reasonable to recommend a term assurance policy with a 
period which ran until Miss Ms youngest child reached the age of 21. This was the age at 
which her children were less likely to be financially dependent on her.
Miss M has said she was unemployed at the time and receiving benefits. But I dont think 
this meant she didnt want the protection at the time based on what was recorded in the fact 
find about her aims. As mentioned, her income was recorded, and affordability also seems to 
have been considered. Im persuaded a suitable recommendation would have been a term 
assurance policy for a period of 17-years. 
Additionally, Miss M has said she thought she would receive a lump sum at the end of the 
term of the policy. However, Halifax reasonably set out in their key features document that 
there would be no cash-in value. It also made clear when the policy would pay out  in the 
event of death or expected death from terminal illness, during the term. 
Ive also considered the other documents as set out above, and I cant see any reference to 
a lump sum being paid. Therefore, Im content its likely Halifax made this clear at the point of 
sale. 
I appreciate Miss M has explained she cant recall receiving or reading correspondence from 
Halifax and she would have liked more time to sit down and consider her options. Ive 
reviewed the letter which included the suitability report and key features document. The 
address on the letter corresponds with what was recorded in the fact find. Additionally, Ive 
reviewed the declaration signed by Miss M. This confirmed she had already received and 
read documents including the key features document. 
The suitability letter confirmed what Halifaxs advisor understood about Miss Ms 
circumstances and set out the recommendation. The key features document provided an 
overview of how the policy worked and this included the cancellation period. Im satisfied 
Miss M still had time to change her mind if she was unhappy with the policy. 
Overall, Halifax made it reasonably clear there would be no lump sum at the end of the 
period and Im content there was a need for life cover. However, it doesnt seem Miss M 
needed the policy for 33-years and a shorter term would have been more suitable.  
Putting things right 
Halifax have already sent a cheque to Miss M for the value of £1,426.54. This represents the 
difference in premiums between what Miss M paid for the 33-year term policy and what she 
would have paid had she taken out a more suitable 17-year term policy. It also includes 8% 
simple interest for the period Miss M was without the funds and theyve calculated the 
relevant tax. 
Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint as it puts 
Miss M in the position she would have been had the policy sold been suitable. Miss M has 
confirmed that she cashed the cheque. As the sum has already been paid, I wont be asking 
Halifax to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my decision is Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax have 
already reasonably resolved the complaint and I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman