DRN-3389055
The complaint
Mr S complains that AWP P&C SA has turned down a curtailment claim he made on a travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr S booked a trip to a country Ill call P. He was due to travel between 20 
January and 22 April 2020. Alongside the holiday booking, Mr S took out a Trailfinders 
travel insurance policy to cover his trip.
Mr S travelled abroad as planned. However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health 
Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. On 17 March 2020, P was placed in a 
state of national calamity. On 23 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development 
Office (FCDO) advised all UK nationals abroad to return to the UK as a result of the 
pandemic. And on 26 March 2020, Mr S airline cancelled his return flight to the UK.
Ultimately, Mr S was able to arrange a repatriation flight back to the UK at his own cost. He 
returned to the UK on 7 April 2020. He made a claim on his travel insurance policy for the 
costs associated with the curtailment of his trip.
AWP turned down Mr S claim. It said the circumstances of the claim werent covered by the 
curtailment section of the policy. 
Mr S was unhappy with AWPs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. He told 
our investigator that hed lost out on pre-booked accommodation and travel costs when he 
cut short his trip, in addition to the repatriation flight cost hed claimed for.
Our investigator thought Mr S complaint should be upheld. He felt the main reason Mr S had 
cut short his trip was because of the change in FCDO advice. The investigator accepted that 
the policy didnt cover curtailment due to a change in FCDO advice. But he noted that the 
policy specifically excluded any cover at all if a policyholder travelled against FCDO advice. 
This meant Mr S wouldnt have been covered if hed continued with his trip and he wouldnt 
be covered if he cut it short. The investigator didnt think the policy terms made the 
combined effect of these terms clear. And he considered that if Mr S had been aware that he 
wouldnt be covered if FCDO guidance changed after he travelled, he wouldve been unlikely 
to take out the policy. So he felt it would be fair for AWP to assess Mr S claim in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy.
AWP disagreed. It said the circumstances of Mr S claim werent covered by the policy 
terms. And it didnt agree that the FCDO exclusion wouldve applied to Mr S circumstances. 
Thats because he had already been abroad when the FCDO advice changed. It said that 
when Mr S booked the trip, he couldnt have predicted the circumstances which arose 
surrounding Covid-19. So it argued that even if the policy documentation had set out the 
exclusion more clearly, this wouldnt have affected Mr S decision to take it out.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it was fair for AWP to turn down Mr S claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines Relevant regulatory rules (the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCAs) Principles for Business) say: 
 a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
The FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires insurers to: 
 act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its customer; 
 handle claims promptly and fairly. 
ICOBS 6 also requires insurers to give customers appropriate information about a policy in 
good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This is so the customer can make an 
informed decision about the arrangements proposed. Appropriate information includes the 
information that must be set out in an Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), which 
gives customers an at a glance summary of their cover. This includes a summary of the 
insurance cover, including the main risks insured, the insured sum and, where applicable, 
the geographical scope and summary of excluded risks. 
Relevant regulatory guidance (the FCAs The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors 
for the Fair Treatment of Customers) says firms should consider the impact of their actions  
or inactions  on the customer throughout the lifecycle of the service being provided.
The IPID
At the top of page one, the IPID says:
This document only provides a basic summary of policy cover. The full terms and conditions 
of the contract are shown on the policy document, which you should read carefully to ensure 
you have the cover you need.
Under the What is insured? section, the IPID says:
Cancelling/cutting short your journey  Up to £5,000 in total for lost pre-paid travel and 
accommodation costs.
Page two includes a section called Where am I covered? This says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Travel Advice Unit of 
the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation has advised 
against travel, unless agreed otherwise with the insurer.
The policy terms
Page 18 sets out the Cancellation or Curtailment section of the policy. This provides the 
following cover in the event a policyholder cuts short their trip:
For curtailment after initial departure; or from the date you were hospitalised as an in-
patient;a A pro-rata proportion of non-refundable unused inclusive tour costs, or
b Alternatively the original value of non- refundable unused air tickets up to the sum 
insured for any of the above reasons.
Page 18 of the policy terms also sets out the specific, listed events AWP covers if a 
policyholder cancels or cuts short their trip. These are as follows:
1. The death, accidental bodily injury, illness, compulsory quarantine on the orders of a 
treating doctor, redundancy that qualifies for payment under current redundancy 
legislation, cancellation of leave for British Forces, police or government security 
staff, summoning to jury service or witness attendance in a court of you or your 
travelling companion.
2.  The death, serious injury or illness of,
a a close relative, or
b the person with whom you intend to reside at the holiday or journey destination, or
c a dependent business partner; of you or your travelling companion which 
necessitates the presence of the person concerned.
3.  Hijack.
4.  Adverse weather conditions making it impossible for you to travel to initial point of 
departure at commencement of outward journey.
5.  Major damage or burglary at your home or place of business which at the request of 
an emergency service requires your presence.
The policy also sets out a list of specific things AWP doesnt cover and which apply to the 
whole policy. This includes the following, on page 14 of the policy, under the heading 
General exclusions:
10 You travelling to a country, specific area or event to which the Travel Advice unit of the 
British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation has advised 
against travel, unless agreed by or on behalf of the insurer.
Was it unreasonable for AWP to turn down the claim?
Mr S curtailed his trip because the FCDO advised all UK nationals abroad to return to the 
UK. And on 17 March 2020, itd advised UK nationals against all but essential travel abroad. 
Thats not something thats covered under the terms and conditions of the policy as its not a 
specific or listed insured event. However, taking into account the relevant law and industry 
guidelines, I dont think that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of 
this case for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
The exclusions that Ive outlined above mean that if Mr S had continued with his holiday 
plans (in the event that it was possible for him to do so), hed have not followed FCDO 
advice. So, the policy terms suggest that he wouldnt have been covered by any of the policy 
terms and conditions. But, under the terms and conditions of the contract, curtailment of a 
holiday due to changes in FCDO guidance also isnt covered by the policy. I dont think that 
was made sufficiently clear to Mr S. 
Mr S wouldve needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in order to understand that 
this set of circumstances wasnt covered. Although I accept that the IPID refers to the FCDO 
exclusion broadly on page two and is set out in the contract itself, I dont think the totality of 
the policy documentation made the combined effect of the policy terms clear enough to      
Mr S. And I dont think that this information was brought to his attention in a prominent and 
transparent way. I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr S and AWP. I 
think its unlikely that Mr S would have purchased the policy if hed realised that there was no 
cover under the policy if the FCDO guidance changed after hed bought it. And, at the time 
Mr S bought his policy, he would have been able to find cover elsewhere which did cover the 
circumstances he subsequently found himself in. 
I appreciate AWP says that the exclusion wouldnt have applied to Mr S situation, as he was 
already abroad when the FCDO advice changed. I therefore asked AWP to provide me with 
evidence to support this position  such as internal guidance; underwriting criteria and/or 
information about the number of claims itd paid out in similar circumstances. However, it 
didnt respond or provide any such evidence by the deadline I gave. On this basis then, I 
dont think theres enough evidence to reasonably demonstrate that AWP wouldnt have 
applied this exclusion to any claim Mr S mightve needed to make had he remained abroad 
against FCDO advice.
On this basis then, Im persuaded its more likely than not that had Mr S continued with his 
pre-booked plans and made a claim, I think the exclusion wouldve applied to the 
circumstances of it. 
Overall, I think it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for AWP to treat Mr S 
claim as covered under the curtailment section of the policy. AWP must therefore assess the 
claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. I should make it clear that 
it will be for Mr S to now provide AWP with any claims information it may require in order to 
assess this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct AWP P&C SA to treat Mr S curtailment claim as covered under the curtailment 
section of the policy and to reassess the claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the contract. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman