DRN-3713196
The complaint
Mrs K complains about advice she was given in relation to her wish to transfer the benefits of 
a defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS), to a personal pension plan in 
2021. 
Mrs K says the advice caused her to incur a financial loss because she paid up front for it. 
Because the advice was that she should keep her pension where it was, inside a DB 
scheme, she thinks she shouldnt be charged for the advice.
Corbel Partners Limited is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things simple 
Ill refer to Corbel. 
What happened
Mrs K approached Corbel to discuss her pension and retirement needs. Mrs K was a 
deferred member of the OPS in question, having joined the scheme in October 2001 and left 
in April 2013. The information gathered by Corbel about Mrs K at the time was broadly as 
follows:
Mrs K was 59 years old living with her husband who was 62. They didnt have any 
children that were still financially dependent on them. 
Mrs K earned £17,200 per year in her current job and she was hoping to retire soon. 
Her husband earned £26,000 and was also drawing a pension of around £7,800. 
They had over £700 left over each calendar month in disposable income.
They owned their home which was valued at £250,000. They also had substantial 
assets in the form of savings and investments.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of the OPS in 2021 was £42,378 and the 
normal retirement age (NRA) of the scheme was 65.
I think its fair to say that Mrs Ks expectation was that shed be able to transfer the £42,378 
to a personal pension arrangement so she could access it quite soon, when she began her 
retirement. Mrs Ks plan was for her to retire at the age of 60 which was only a very short 
time away. Mrs K also felt this lump-sum amount was of more use to her than a small annual 
pension of around £1,366 per year. And she says from the outset the Corbel adviser led her 
to believe this type of transfer would be possible. 
However, we now know that the advice, when it was issued, said that Mrs K ought not to 
transfer. As she paid £3,000 for the advice Mrs K feels this has been wasted.
Disappointed that shed had to pay for the regulated financial advice in these circumstances, 
Mrs K first complained to the firm. Corbel said it hadnt done anything wrong as it was 
following the rules and guidance it was required to use when advising on pension transfers. 
The complaint was then referred to our Service. One of our investigators looked into it and 
said we shouldnt uphold it. They thought Corbel had treated Mrs K in accordance with the 
relevant rules, and that it had been clear enough about the costs involved. As the complaint 
couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Corbel's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, Corbel should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mrs Ks best interests. 
Having considered all these things, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
Introduction
Because Mrs Ks CETV was over £30,000 the law required that she needed to get regulated 
financial advice if she was seeking to transfer away from a DB scheme. The requirement is 
only about obtaining the advice, there is no requirement that consumers have to receive a 
positive recommendation to transfer, and we do sometimes see cases where a consumer 
still may be able to independently process a transfer as an insistent client, a term used in 
the industry when a client goes against the regulated advice they received.
Mrs K signed a client agreement with Corbel on 29 August 2021 and paid £3,000 in 
anticipation of the service and advice. The client agreement stated, when we provide 
pension transfer advice, we will always start by assuming that a transfer will not be suitable 
for you, and only recommend to do so if it can be clearly demonstrated that its in your best 
interests. And in relation to the cost of the advice, the agreement also said the fees were, payable regardless of whether we recommend that you remain in your DB scheme or 
transfer.
So, whilst I certainly dont doubt that Mrs K may have had certain hopes and expectations for 
the resultant advice, I think the above was clear that any formal advice about transferring 
needed to be based on a thorough assessment of Mrs Ks situation. In my view, Corbel also 
took appropriate note of the starting point as set by the financial regulator which is that 
these types of transfer usually arent suitable for consumers. And I think Mrs K would have 
been able to see that there was a risk that the advice might be different to what she hoped 
for.
Ive noted that part of Mrs Ks subsequent complaint now is that Corbel could have carried 
out preparatory work which should have included contacting her pension provider to confirm 
what might happen if the advice was not to transfer. Ive looked carefully at what Mrs Ks 
representative says about this. But essentially this is saying that Corbel should have carried 
out certain tasks for free. Corbel wasnt obliged to do this and I think if this was something 
Mrs K wanted to explore, it could have been requested or done before formally engaging the 
firm and / or paying the fee.
Financial viability of a transfer
To demonstrate the financial comparisons between her OPS and transferring out to a 
personal pension, Corbel referred in its transfer analysis to a transfer value comparator. 
This is effectively the amount of money it would cost on the open market to buy a personal 
pension with the same benefits as the scheme being given up. 
Corbel also mentioned the critical yield. The critical yield is essentially the average annual 
investment return that would be required on the transfer value - from the time of advice until 
retirement - to provide the same annuity income as the DB scheme. It is therefore part of a 
range of different things which help show how likely it is that a personal pension could 
achieve the necessary investment growth for a transfer-out to become financially viable. 
However, because Mrs K wanted to retire at 60, I think these comparisons were of limited 
value. Nevertheless, they both provided a strong indication that transferring away from her 
DB scheme probably wouldnt be in her best interests from a financial comparison 
perspective. 
For example, if retiring at the NRA of 65, the analysis said £28,229 more would be needed 
on top of the CETV to buy a pension like Mrs K already had with her OPS. And £21,859 
more would be needed for an earlier retirement scenario, at the age of 60. The critical yields 
were also high: her transferred pension for a retirement at the age of 65 would need to grow 
every year by nearly 9% to match the benefits of the ceding scheme. For a retirement at 65, 
it was nearly 46% because this was more or less for an immediate retirement and her CETV 
simply wasnt worth enough to purchase comparable benefits. In my view, all these things 
were showing the value of the scheme Mrs K was already in.
As I say, these scenarios and the analysis didnt really fit Mrs K situation because what she 
was wanting to do was to take the CETV and use it to spend on different things. 
Nevertheless, they give a good general indication of how much shed be giving up by 
transferring away from this type of pension scheme.
The recommendation
On 28 October 2021, Corbel issued its suitability report with the recommendation that she 
shouldnt transfer away. This was a long document and so Im going to focus only on the issues I consider to be relevant. However, I think its fair to say that the report 
comprehensively considered Mrs Ks, and indeed her husbands, circumstances. 
The recommendation against transferring highlighted the following areas which Ive 
summarised:
The OPS provided a guaranteed secure income to meet part of Mrs Ks retirement 
needs without incurring any risk.
Even if she deferred transferring until closer to the age of 65, Mrs K could change her 
mind and thereby lose less annual benefits incurred by taking the pension earlier and 
for longer.
Benefits found in the scheme would be expensive to replace and were not commonly 
found elsewhere.
Mrs K already had equity-based investments elsewhere, so staying within her OPS 
thereby offset the risks she and her husband held in other types of investments.
Obviously I wasnt party to any of the discussions between Mrs K and Corbel. But I think the 
suitability report went into some detail about why transferring away wasnt right for her. In 
addition to the points Ive summarised above, I noted the report said Mrs K already had 
significant financial assets and also a disposable income each month. Mrs K also hadnt 
really demonstrated a clear need or rationale for why this CETV was needed in a lump-sum, 
rather than paid to her as a pension.
Mrs K had also told the adviser what she thought she and her husband would need to live on 
in their retirement(s). But the adviser noted there would be a shortfall in income, particularly 
ahead of them reaching their state pension ages. The adviser also pointed out that there 
were valuable guarantees and benefits associated with Mrs Ks OPS which would be lost if 
she transferred away. So, a straightforward comparison between having £42,378 as a lump-
sum, or a small annual pension instead, needed to be considered in a much wider context. 
As a DB pension, this annual amount was guaranteed, index-linked (with certain restrictions) 
and it also had death benefits that may have been of use to her husband if Mrs K pre-
deceased him.
So I think the suitability report and the analysis behind it was clear in explaining when 
transferring out of the OPS wasnt in Mrs Ks best interests. 
Summary
Under the rules relating to these types of pension, Mrs K was required to get regulated 
financial advice if she wanted to transfer away from her deferred DB scheme. 
I think its clear that Mrs K went to Corbel with the expectation that it would give her the 
necessary advice to more or less immediately access her CETV of £42,378. On the other 
hand, under the terms of her OPS, if Mrs K retired early at the age of 60, her annual pension 
was £1,366. She felt it would take many years for this annual pension to match what she 
could draw out as a lump-sum. 
However, the advisers caution was based firstly on the transfer to a personal pension plan 
ultimately providing Mrs K with lower retirement benefits over the longer-term. And more so, 
Mrs K was also losing the guarantees and wider benefits associated with a DB scheme. The advice also pointed out that even when taking Mrs Ks own figures about what income she 
would need in retirement, there would be a shortfall. 
Still, I accept that what Mrs K was seeking here was flexibility. I think that she was confident 
their existing financial assets would more than make up for any shortfalls.
However, I dont think Mrs K made it clear what this flexible approach was needed for.  The 
apparent uses for the money, if she did transfer away, were unclear; and the assets Mrs K 
and her husband already had could just as easily have been used for spending on their 
family if that is what their plans were ultimately about. If she did this, she wouldnt lose her 
pension and the benefits that came with it.
The advisers caution was therefore reasonable. Essentially, there was no need for Mrs K to 
irreversibly transfer her pension to access the money she thought she needed at the time. 
By meeting any spending from her existing resources, Mrs K could keep her DB pension. In 
short, what the advice here was saying, correctly in my view, was that there were poor 
financial objectives in giving up the DB scheme. Everything Ive seen shows Mrs K would 
have been better off retaining the pension and using it in the way it was originally intended. 
So, I dont think the advice to remain in the DB scheme was unsuitable.
In relation to the costs of the advice, in my view these were clear enough. And it was 
reasonable to assume that a comprehensive assessment of Mrs Ks situation, together with 
financial advice about her pension, would incur costs. She had been told about this and she 
had agreed to pay.
I cant see whether Corbel issued Mrs K with a certificate saying it had provided regulated 
financial advice. If it hasnt I would ask it do so.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs K, but Im not upholding her complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. I do not require Corbel Partners Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman