DRN-3004918
The complaint
Ms H complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (UK) Ltd (Sun Life) failed to 
adequately alert her that shed lose a retirement bonus if she agreed to transfer her benefits 
with them to another pension provider. 
Ms H is represented by her financial advisor in this complaint, and most of the 
communications have been with him. However, for consistency and ease of reference, Ill 
refer only to Ms H throughout this decision.
What happened
Ms H had a retirement annuity contract with Sun Life. In 2018, her IFA recommended she 
transfer the benefits shed accrued, just over £23,400, to a different SIPP provider. This was 
for a number of reasons  notably the Sun Life product had limited investment fund options, 
didnt allow investment in ethical funds, and the bid offer spread was too high. Sun Life sent 
the necessary papers to Ms H, and the transfer to a new provider completed in August 2018.
In 2020, Ms H discovered that, by transferring out of the Sun Life product, shed lost a 5% 
retirement bonus. This was discovered after Ms Hs husband had enquired about a similar 
transfer, where it had been explicitly stated that he risked losing such a bonus upon transfer. 
Ms H felt this hadnt been made explicitly clear to her in 2018, so complained to Sun Life.
Sun Life didnt uphold the complaint. Whilst acknowledging the wording used in documents 
and plan statements didnt explicitly say Ms H would qualify for a retirement bonus (subject 
to meeting certain conditions), the documents were clear in explaining that Ms H may 
qualify, inviting her (and her IFA, whod also received transfer documentation) to make 
contact with them to discuss further. Sun Life also pointed out the terms of Ms Hs policy 
stated their only obligation to highlight the loss of the retirement benefit was if Ms H (or her 
IFA) hadnt received a retirement quote in the previous three months  and here she (and 
her IFA) had been sent the full plan details within the three months before the transfer took 
place. 
Unhappy, Ms H brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators reviewed this, but also 
thought that Sun Life hadnt acted unfairly. He agreed the retirement pack Sun Life sent to 
Ms H didnt explicitly state Ms Hs plan included a retirement bonus  instead it was explicit 
in stating her plan may qualify for a bonus, inviting her to contact Sun Life to discuss this 
further. And because Ms H had been advised by her IFA in this transfer  whod had full 
sight of all the documents sent by Sun Life  the investigator felt Sun Lifes information/alerts 
regarding the bonus were sufficient. 
The investigator also addressed other points raised by Ms H, including whether by not 
paying the retirement bonus Sun Life was effectively levying an excessive transfer charge. 
Our investigator disagreed, drawing a distinction between a discretionary bonus not being 
paid and a charge being levied. And our investigator also commented on a point Ms H raised 
about the issue of shared responsibility  the IFA had accepted some responsibility for not 
having made adequate enquiries regarding the bonus, but thought Sun Life should share 
some responsibility for not having been explicit in their communications. Referring to an 
advisors obligations under the FCAs regulations, the investigator said the onus would have 
been on the advisor to obtain the necessary information before advising on a transfer.  
Ms H was unhappy with the investigators view, repeating that the information provided by 
Sun Life wasnt accurate or clear. She felt the investigator had failed to adequately say why 
Sun Life was justified in providing two different risk warnings  one to Ms H and the other to 
her husband. She also felt the investigator hadnt properly considered all communications 
her IFA had with Sun Life.  
And, despite further exchanges between the investigator and the IFA, Ms H remained 
unhappy with the investigators conclusions. So, the case has been passed to me to 
consider further and issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And, having done so, I wont be upholding Ms Hs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ms H has placed considerable store by what her husband was told when he applied for a 
similar transfer two years after Ms H. In particular, the fact specific warnings were included 
within her husbands pre-transfer literature, which differed from the less specific language 
within Ms Hs literature. And Ms H seems to be saying that her complaint should, essentially, 
be viewed against what Sun Life said in 2020 to her husband. I disagree. 
In deciding this complaint, I need to consider what Sun Life provided to Ms H in 2018. What 
they said two years later to another customer is, essentially, not relevant  I must judge what 
they did at the time and decide if it was fair at that time. So, I wont be commenting on Sun 
Lifes communications with Ms Hs husband in 2020 any further. 
Sun Life wrote to Ms H in June 2018 with her latest annual statement. Amongst other things, 
it said clearly on page four:
YOUR BENEFITS AND OPTIONS 
Retirement Bonus  This is an extra amount we may pay to your plans final value. 
Call us to find out more
And three weeks later, responding to Ms Hs request for information regarding moving her 
pension plan, Sun Life wrote to Ms H (and her IFA). Amongst other things, this letter said:
Do I have a retirement bonus?
Your plan may qualify for a retirement bonus, as long as certain conditions are met. 
Retirement bonuses can increase the value of your pension pot. If you are 
considering taking your pension pot check your terms and conditions or call us to find 
out of your plan includes this bonus and how it can be lost   
Im satisfied both of these communications are sufficiently clear to have alerted Ms H (a) that 
the retirement bonus wasnt guaranteed, (b) that Ms H was asked, clearly, to make further 
enquiries, and (c) that there was a risk the bonus could be lost. The language used in these 
letters is clear and, in my view, leaves little doubt regarding the conditional nature of the 
retirement bonus and what Ms H needed to do to find out more. I appreciate that Ms H has highlighted the distinction within the letters between how the 
loyalty bonus and the Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR) were discussed  the letters are clear 
that Ms Hs pension pot doesnt have a GAR, or a loyalty bonus. And that because these are 
explicit statements, then surely a similar level of explicit language should be used when 
referring to the retirement bonus. I disagree. Ms Hs pension pot didnt have a GAR or loyalty 
bonus, and so its understandable why these were commented on explicitly  because they 
could be. The retirement bonus was different  it may have been paid, so the use of less 
explicit language was understandable.
I also want to briefly address the issue of shared responsibility  which is something Ms H, 
and particularly her IFA, have raised strongly here. I appreciate Ms Hs IFA has accepted 
some responsibility here for the loss of the retirement bonus, due to him not making 
enquiries with Sun Life. But he feels the responsibility should be shared between him and 
Sun Life given their lack of explicit warnings. And Im conscious that our investigators view 
appeared to focus on placing the responsibility to make the necessary enquiries on the IFA. 
On that point alone, I note Ms H hasnt made any complaint against her IFA, and has 
suggested she has no interest in doing so, so It isnt appropriate for me to comment further 
on what the IFAs role and responsibility was here.
Instead, Ive already said that I think Sun Lifes communications with Ms H were sufficiently 
detailed in 2018, and accordingly they bear no responsibility for Ms H losing the retirement 
bonus. So, it follows there is no need for me now to consider the principle of shared 
responsibility here in relation to this complaint.   
Finally, I want to address Ms Hs point about whether Sun Life have levied an excessive exit 
charge. I dont think they have. Ms H has referred to FCA guidance that says a pension 
company is limited to charging a 1% exit charge (of a members policy value) where a 
policyholder wishes to transfer their plan. But Ms H is then saying I should consider that 
losing a discretionary bonus is the same as having a fee charged. Ms H, and her IFA, 
contend that it is the same, as the net effect  in Ms Hs case  is that shes lost an amount 
of her pension that she was otherwise entitled to. To distinguish between the two is 
essentially an exercise in semantics. However, I disagree.  
The value of Ms Hs pension pot, that shed paid into over the years, wasnt affected in any 
way. There was no reduction in value caused by an excessive exit charge on the value of 
the plan. Yes, she lost out on the 5% bonus, but in strict terms she wasnt charged an 
excessive fee. And Ive already said what I think about the circumstances surrounding the 
loss of that bonus.
So, taking all of the above into consideration, I dont think Sun Life have acted unfairly in 
terms of how theyve communicated with Ms H. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman