DRN-2773536
The complaint
Mr M complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Seat Financial 
Services (VWFS) made a mistake when applying a payment to his account and then 
accidentally settled his hire purchase agreement. He says it then didnt provide him with 
reasonable options to remedy the situation.
What happened
Mr M entered into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS in March 2018. In January 2020 he 
made a partial payment of £1,500. However, when he checked his account on 3 February he 
found it was showing as being in arrears. Mr M contacted VWFS and was told a mistake had 
been made applying his payment and a complaint was raised. The adviser tried to correct 
the issue but accidentally settled the agreement instead. Mr M was then given two options, 
either to pay the £5,200 remaining on his agreement or for new agreement to be reloaded 
which would involve a credit check and new agreement being signed. Mr M didnt think either 
option was reasonable and instead wanted his previous agreement reinstated. He was told 
this couldnt happen. 
Mr M says he spent a lot of time trying to deal with the issues during which time he received 
correspondence suggesting his account was in arrears. He says this caused him a lot of 
stress and he doesnt think the amount offered by VWFS in response to his complaint is 
reasonable. Mr M wants his outstanding balance to be reduced by £1,200 so he can pay 
this, and the agreement be settled. 
VWFS issued its final response letter dated 31 March 2020. In this it accepted that a mistake 
had been made in applying the payment Mr M made and his agreement then being 
incorrectly settled. It apologised for the upset this had caused but said the only way to 
resolve this issue was to reload a new agreement. It confirmed that any credit search would 
be removed from Mr Ms credit file once the agreement was in place. Following the issue of 
its final response letter, VWFS offered Mr M £250 as a gesture of goodwill. 
After Mr Ms complaint was raised with this service, VWFS explained that Mr Ms agreement 
would have ended in May 2020 had the partial payment been correctly applied. Therefore, it 
said it was no longer willing to offer to reload a new agreement and instead Mr M could 
either return the car and remain liable for any end of contract charges or settle the finance in 
full. It confirmed its offer of £250 was still available. 
Our investigator issued her view in which she noted the mistakes that had been made but 
also that VWFS had explained it wasnt able to reinstate Mr Ms previous agreement. She 
noted the agreement was due to end in May 2020 and didnt think that any of the 
outstanding balance needed to be waived as Mr M would have always been responsible for 
this. She thought the options provided by VWFS were reasonable and said that if Mr M 
wished to settle the agreement, but the payment was too large he could discuss this with 
VWFS.
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view. He said a reduction of £250 in his balance wasnt 
enough given the mistakes that had been made. He said the mistakes, including being 
chased for a debt he didnt owe caused him a lot of stress and anxiety. He said the issue 
had been hanging over him for over a year and he had to spend hours on the telephone to 
VWFS trying to resolve the issue. Mr M also noted that he hadnt asked for his balance to be 
waived instead reasonable compensation to be paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M entered into an agreement with VWFS and so was required to make the payments due 
under this. He decided to make a partial payment in January 2020 to reduce the term. 
Mistakes were made at this time both with the initial treatment of the partial payment and 
then in the actions taken trying to resolve this. Where mistakes are made we would expect a 
consumer to be put back into the position they would have been had the mistakes not been 
made and, where appropriate, compensation to be paid.
I understand why Mr M felt that his original agreement should be reinstated, however VWFS 
explained this couldnt happen. I know this was upsetting for Mr M and was the result of 
mistakes by VWFS rather than anything he had done. However, given the circumstances 
and that VWFS had explained it couldnt reinstate the original agreement, I dont think it was 
unreasonable that it gave the option of settling the agreement. However, I can appreciate 
that settling the agreement at that time may not have been possible and VWFS provided an 
alternative solution. This was to reload a new agreement. While I appreciate Mr Ms 
concerns about this and the impact on his credit file, VWFS confirmed that it would remove 
any searches from his credit file and monitor this situation. Therefore, I find that it did provide 
a reasonable remedy to the situation.
Mr M was caused distress and inconvenience by the mistakes made by VWFS. As well as 
the issue with the payment processing he also received letters about his account being in 
arrears which caused him further stress. Because of this I think that compensation is 
required.
Mr M believes that compensation of £1,200 should be paid and has said he would then settle 
the agreement. I understand why Mr M feels this amount should be paid, but having looked 
at the details of this case, I find that VWFS accepted its mistakes as soon as they occurred 
and provided reasonable options to remedy these. It acknowledged the upset it had caused 
and in this case I think the £250 offered is reasonable.
As the agreement was due to end in May 2020 (had the partial payment been correctly 
applied) I find the options now offered by VWFS in response to this complaint are 
reasonable. That is, Mr M can either return the car and will remain liable for any end of 
contract charges or he can settle the agreement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Seat 
Financial Services should, as it has offered pay Mr M £250 as compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience he has been caused. This can be offset against any outstanding balance. 
As Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited has explained, Mr M should now either 
return the car and will remain liable for any end of agreement charges or settle the 
agreement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman