DRN-2713259
The complaint
Mrs O complains that St Andrews Insurance Plc unfairly increased the cost of her home 
insurance policy.
Mrs O is represented by her son in bringing this complaint. But for clarity  Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by Mrs O directly.
What happened
Mrs O held a combined buildings and contents home insurance policy, which was 
underwritten by St Andrews. She took out her policy in October 2008 for £245.82 and the 
policy renewed each year until October 2019 when it was cancelled.
In September 2019 Mrs O received a renewal invitation from St Andrews, which quoted a 
policy premium of £463.82. As Mrs O is elderly and doesnt have access to the internet her 
son compared the insurance market on her behalf. 
After Mrs Os son compared the market, he was able to find a substantially cheaper policy, 
also with St Andrews at a cost £108.19. Mrs Os son said the replacement policy was more 
comprehensive and suited her needs better. So, Mrs O cancelled her existing policy and 
started a new one with St Andrews.
Based on the quote Mrs Os son had found, Mrs O complained to St Andrews that shed 
been overcharged over the years shed been on cover. When St Andrews responded to her 
complaint it explained that the premiums shed been charged had been correct for the cover 
it had provided. It stated there had been no obligation on the part of Mrs O to accept the 
renewal invitations it had sent her over the years. And it explained that its premiums had 
been correctly calculated in line with its pricing structure. 
But St Andrews recognised that Mrs O may have been able to obtain a more favourable 
policy had she engaged with St Andrews at renewal. So, on 14 November 2019, it paid her 
£235.71, which it said comprised of £155.24 in refunded premiums, interest of £30.47 and 
£50 compensation for the trouble and upset shed been caused as a result.
Mrs O wasnt satisfied with how St Andrews had dealt with her complaint. So, she referred it 
to our service. Our investigator explained that new policy prices are often discounted, and 
thats partly why the new policy was quoted much cheaper. And they thought the offer St 
Andrews had made to resolve Mrs Os complaint was fair and reasonable. But Mrs O 
rejected our investigators view of her complaint and requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mrs O experienced here. Its clear that she feels St 
Andrews overcharged her for the policies shes held since 2008 and that shes been 
disadvantaged by renewing her policy each year. 
Id like to make it clear that I dont have the power to tell a business what its insurance 
should cost. I would be, in effect determining or telling a business how it should operate  
and thats not my role. Within my role I can look at whether St Andrews treated Mrs O fairly 
during the time she held her policy. 
In assessing the issue of whether St Andrews unfairly increased the cost of Mrs Os policy 
over the years, Ive considered a number of things. Ive looked at information about the cost 
of the annual premiums Mrs O paid from 2008 onwards, what St Andrews has said about 
how the premiums were calculated, and what Mrs Os son told us about his mother. 
Its not in dispute that the new policy is very much cheaper than the premium St Andrews 
offered in its 2019 renewal invitation. 
Mrs O seems to believe that, because her new policy was substantially cheaper than the 
price of her renewal quote, this indicates St Andrews has been unfairly increasing her 
premiums over the years. But the insurance market is very competitive. So, its not 
uncommon for new policies to be cheaper as a result of introductory offers in order to attract 
new customers. These discounts are usually removed following renewal of the policy, which 
then increases the cost of insurance in subsequent years. In addition to this, different 
insurers calculate premiums in different ways and their assessment of risk can vary too. So, 
the fact that Mrs O found a cheaper policy elsewhere doesnt necessarily mean St Andrews 
unfairly increased her premiums each year.
Mrs Os son has made our service aware that his mother is elderly, vulnerable, has a 
number of health conditions and is unable to search for alternative insurance cover as she 
doesnt have access to the internet. 
I accept whats been said about Mrs Os vulnerability and difficulty in shopping around. I say 
this because I can see Mrs O has had to ask her son to compare the insurance market and 
raise a complaint with our service on her behalf. I can also see shed given her family 
permission to speak to St Andrews on her behalf. And theres also a Power of Attorney in 
place to assist in the management of Mrs Os affairs by individuals named in that document.
I think that, given Mrs Os age and vulnerabilities, she wouldnt necessarily have been aware 
that shopping around could have been beneficial to her. And I think, even if she had known 
she could shop around, shed have found it very difficult to try and compare the insurance 
market prior to each renewal. Im persuaded that this is why she remained with St Andrews 
since incepting her policy in 2008.
I can see that when Mrs O took out her policy with St Andrews in 2008 it cost £245.82. 
Thereafter, the price of Mrs Os policy steadily increased year-on-year until 2013 when it had 
risen to £459.39. I know Mrs O is concerned shes been overcharged during this early 
period. But I think its important to explain the way in which St Andrews priced its insurance 
policies. 
Ive already mentioned that when a new policy is incepted, an insurer provides the new 
customer with a discount incentive in order to attract new business. So, when Mrs O took out 
her policy with St Andrews in 2008 shed have benefitted from a new customer incentive. 
And this would have made her insurance policy cheaper and more competitive.In common with other insurers, St Andrews would then gradually increase the price of Mrs 
Os policy to bring it up to what it felt was the correct price  reflecting its view of risk, the 
level of cover requested and its needs as a business to make a profit. 
I think the premium rises between 2008 and 2013 are typical of what Id expect to see of how 
an insurer increases the premium in the years after a policy is incepted. And I think the 
increases also take into account inflation and Insurance Premium Tax rises. I cant say St 
Andrews has done anything wrong in taking the approach it did. And the evidence Ive seen 
satisfies me that St Andrews calculated Mrs Os premiums as it would have done for any 
other customer in her circumstances
Ive carefully considered the level of engagement Mrs O had with St Andrews over the years 
she was on cover. Based on the evidence Ive seen it appears Mrs O only engaged with St 
Andrews on one occasion after taking out her policy. This was during May 2014, when Mrs 
Os premium was reduced as a result of a discount being applied following her discussion 
with St Andrews. Its clear that Mrs O only engaged with St Andrews on this occasion 
because shed visited a branch and staff there had assisted her in dealing with her policy. 
As Mrs O, largely, didnt engage with St Andrews at renewals Im not persuaded she was 
aware she could have contacted it in order to try and negotiate a reduction in her policy 
premium. I think St Andrews ought to have done more done to recognise that Mrs O was 
unlikely to contact it about her premium price, given her age, vulnerability and history of non-
engagement. And I also think St Andrews ought to have been aware that Mrs O lacked the 
ability to shop around in order to compare the insurance market. 
I think that, if St Andrews had engaged more with Mrs O at renewals, it may have been able 
to offer her a better price by discussing her requirements and the level of cover she needed. 
It could also have discounted her premium or switched her to an alternative insurance 
product. St Andrews accepts it could have done this as these options are referred to in its 
final response letter. And I think it was unfair for St Andrews to continue to increase Mrs Os 
premiums in those circumstances. 
St Andrews has recognised that it could have done more to help Mrs O from 2015. I havent 
seen any evidence to persuade me that Mrs O was overcharged before this. And, as Ive 
already mentioned, the increases in the premium Mrs O was charged during those years 
reflects typical business practice whereby an insurer seeks to recoup its new incentive 
customer discount. 
In response to her complaint St Andrews paid Mrs O £155.24, as a refund of some of the 
premiums from 2015 onwards. Its provided our service with evidence to show how that 
refund has been calculated. St Andrews has also paid £30.47 interest. This is what Id have 
directed St Andrews to do as part of this decision.
 
St Andrews also paid Mrs O £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she 
would have experienced. I appreciate that it must have been upsetting for her to find out that 
other, cheaper options were available to her, but I think £50 is a fair reflection of this when 
considering the awards our service makes. Im therefore not going to ask St Andrews to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint. 
I realise Mrs O will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve her dispute with St Andrews informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant 
help Mrs O any further with this.
Mrs Os son may wish to note that the regulator of insurance firms is the Financial Conduct 
Authority and he can contact them regarding his concerns about unfair practices in the pricing of insurance policies.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman