DRN-3834281
The complaint
This complaint is made on behalf of the Estate of the late Miss S by her mother, Mrs S. The 
complaint is that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander), trading as Santander 
Consumer Finance, irresponsibly granted Miss S a conditional sale agreement she couldnt 
afford to repay. 
What happened
In April 2017 Miss S acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Santander. Miss S was required to make 48 monthly repayments of £674.87, with a final 
optional payment of £12,600 if she wanted to own the car at the end of the agreement. The 
total repayable under the agreement was £45,493.76.
The car was later written off in a road traffic accident when it was being driven by an 
unauthorised third party. 
Mrs S says that Santander didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, 
it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable for her daughter. Santander didnt 
agree. It said that it carried out a thorough assessment which included checking whether 
there were any adverse financial indicators against her. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommended the complaint be upheld. She didnt think there was 
enough evidence or information to suggest that the agreement wasnt affordable to Miss S.
Mrs S didnt agree and said Santander should have done more to establish Miss Ss 
financial situation at the time, given that she was unemployed and receiving state benefits. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Mrs S told us that at the time her daughter was doing shadow shifts for a job shed applied 
for and been made an offer, but for which the offer was subsequently withdrawn. Prior to that 
she had been unemployed. She also told us that in May 2017 her daughter had been sued 
for unpaid council tax. Ive also seen that prior to the agreement she was late in making 
payments on her mortgage and was also late in paying a water utility bill. Ive also seen 
evidence that she was turned down for a credit card shortly after the agreement started. 
Santander carried out a credit check before granting the agreement. Santander said this 
showed no concerns and passed its own processes. Ive seen that the checks didnt show 
any significant adverse credit findings, defaults or court judgments or other signs of financial 
difficulty such as repeated short-term borrowing. It also showed a relatively low amount of 
credit taken out elsewhere. 
Santander says that due to passing its credit check, it didnt verify Miss Ss income before 
approving the finance. Given the overall size of the borrowing, the monthly repayments and 
the term of the agreement, I think it would have been proportionate for Santander to have 
done so to ensure it was affordable. 
Ive also considered what Santander would likely have found out if it had completed 
reasonable and proportionate affordability checks. Mrs S has sent in some bank statement 
information to help us to get an indication of what would most likely have been disclosed but 
unfortunately this doesnt contain enough detail to establish what Miss Ss daily living and 
committed expenditure at the time would have been. That means I cant say that the 
agreement should have been considered unaffordable. So its not been possible to fairly 
determine what proportionate checks would likely have shown Santander. 
As Mrs S hasnt been able to demonstrate that her daughters agreement was unaffordable, I 
cant reasonably conclude that Santander ought to have known she would struggle to make 
the repayments due under the agreement. Im therefore not persuaded that Santander acted 
unfairly in approving the finance. 
Mrs S has told us about certain other issues that arose during the setting up of the 
agreement, as well as the difficult personal circumstances her daughter was experiencing at 
the time. And whilst Ive carefully thought about everything Mrs S has told us Im afraid it 
doesnt affect my finding that there isnt enough evidence or information to show or suggest 
that the agreement was unaffordable for Miss S or that Santander acted irresponsibly in 
granting the credit. I am sorry to have to disappoint Mrs S on this occasion. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of 
Miss S to accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman