DRN-3666296
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy Fairmead Insurance Limited declined a claim they made under 
their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B got in touch with Fairmead after they noticed water entering the 
bathroom through the flat roof following bad weather.
Fairmead sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. Based on the surveyors findings, it 
declined the claim. It said the roof hadnt been installed properly, the felt had never 
bonded, and had been deteriorating for years. It later said the wind speeds werent 
strong enough to amount to storm conditions.
Mr and Mrs B took advice from a roofer, who said they thought the damage had been 
caused by a storm. They provided a report and photos.
Fairmead didnt change its position. But it accepted its service had been poor and 
offered Mr and Mrs B £100 compensation.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He found the roofers 
opinion more persuasive than the surveyors. He said Fairmead should reconsider 
the claim, pay for the roofers report, and increase compensation to £200 in total.
Mr and Mrs B accepted this. Fairmead didnt. It reiterated comments made by the 
surveyor and maintained the storm hadnt caused the damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage caused by storm, which it says means wind speeds of at 
least 47mph. Fairmead has provided weather records which show 47mph winds 
nearby at the relevant time. Other records Ive seen show winds of 48-52mph around 
the same time. Overall, Im satisfied this means there were storm conditions.
Fairmead sent a surveyor. At that time the roof had a temporary covering and the 
surveyor didnt look underneath it. They said the felt had never bonded and would 
always have been loose. They gave no further explanation to support this view. 
Whilst they took a number of photos, none of them appear to demonstrate the 
findings reached. I dont find it persuasive.
Mr B provided a report from a roofer. They described splitting and lifting of the roof 
surface. They thought it had been caused by high winds and not from usual wear and 
tear. Fairmead maintained the felt had never bonded properly. Its not clear to me 
why it disagreed with the roofers report.
Neither report goes into a lot of detail about the cause of damage. And the photos 
dont show the roof itself. So the evidence available to me is limited. I bear in mind 
there were storm conditions. None of the photos show signs of wear and tear or 
gradual deterioration that might suggest a longstanding problem. In particular, the 
bathroom ceiling shows no signs of previous water ingress. The roofer thought the 
damage was caused by the storm. Fairmead thought otherwise, but it hasnt 
explained how it reached this opinion given the other evidence and points noted.
Taking everything into account, Im persuaded the damage is more likely than not the 
result of storm. Because of that, Im satisfied it was unreasonable for Fairmead to 
decline the claim. To put things right, it should now accept and settle the claim, 
subject to the terms and conditions of the policy.
I understand Mr and Mrs B had the work carried out after the claim was declined. 
That means theyve been without money unfairly. So, in line with our usual approach, 
Fairmead should add interest when it settles the claim by cash payment.
Fairmead accepted its service had been poor and I dont think that point is in dispute. 
It caused delays and confusion about why it had declined the claim. That would have 
caused Mr and Mrs B avoidable distress and inconvenience at an already 
challenging time for them. Im satisfied total compensation of £200 is reasonable and 
proportionate in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
Accept and settle the claim.
When settling it, add interest at 8% simple per year, from the date Mr and Mrs B paid 
for the repairs and any other claim costs, until the date the claim settlement is paid.
Pay a total of £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman