DRN-4340548
The complaint
Mrs B complains about advice given by Wren Sterling Financial Planning Limited trading as 
Wren Sterling (Wren) to transfer her pension into a new arrangement with the same 
provider.
What happened
Mrs B and her husband met with an adviser from Wren in September 2021, primarily for 
advice about investing cash held on deposit. Mrs B also had a pension plan with Royal 
London arising from when shed been contracted out of SERPS (State Earnings Related 
Pension Scheme). It was invested in Royal Londons Pension Equity Series 1 Fund. The 
transfer value was £19,114.35. Mrs B wasnt making any contributions to the plan.
At the time of the advice Mrs B was 57, married and employed. Her husband was 56 and 
self employed. Their income comfortably covered their expenditure. In addition to their home 
they had two rental properties, with a combined value of £520,000 and no debts plus around 
£178,000 in cash deposits. Mr and Mrs B had no specific retirement date but said it would 
likely be around age 65 and theyd look at it annually from age 60. Mrs Bs attitude to risk 
(ATR) had been assessed as Risk Group 4 which indicated a preference for investments 
which include an equal balanced mix of lower and medium risk investments such as cash 
and fixed interest and higher risk investments such as shares. 
Wren produced a suitability report on 30 September 2021. It included investment and 
pension recommendations. Wren recommended that Mrs B transfer her existing pension to a 
new pension arrangement with Royal London and invest 70% in the Royal London 
Sustainable Diversified Trust and 30% in the Royal London Sustainable Managed Growth 
Trust. Mrs Bs main objectives were recorded as to have a clear picture of her retirement 
provisions; have all her funds invested in line with her current risk profile and in a socially 
responsible manner; and to benefit from ongoing advice.
The transfer was completed on 21 November 2021. 
After an annual review meeting Mrs B complained to Wren that shed never seen the 
suitability report, didnt know how much shed been charged and had only been told her 
pension was being moved to a more modern product with the same provider. Mrs B also 
said she had no wish to be invested in a socially responsible manner and wasnt told this 
meant extra costs with less chance for growth. She said that idea was pushed by the adviser 
from the start.  
Wren responded on 31 March 2023. Wren didnt uphold the complaint. Wren said the 
evidence showed Mrs B wanted to review her pensions in line with her ethical approach and 
all the charges were made clear. 
The complaint was referred to this service. One of our investigators considered the advice 
about Mrs Bs pension and if the advice to switch had been suitable. 
The investigator referred to the then regulators 2009 report about pension switching (which 
remained applicable today) and which identified four main areas where consumers could 
lose out, including where theyd been switched to a more expensive pension without good 
reason. 
The cost of the new plan was 0.1% cheaper than Mrs Bs existing plan. But ongoing advice 
formed part of the recommendation, the cost of which was 1% pa. And when the initial 
advice fee was included, the recommended plan was more expensive than Mrs Bs existing 
plan and so would need to achieve higher growth just to match her previous pension. 
Assuming growth of 2.9% pa Mrs Bs pension would be worth £22,000 if it was left where it 
was or £21,700 if switched to the new product. Even with growth of 4.1% after charges the 
fund would only be £21,800. The new arrangement would have to significantly outperform 
the existing one for the transfer to be financially viable. 
The main driver seemed to be investing the fund in a socially responsible way. Mrs B 
wouldve known shed be investing in that way  emails sent by the adviser specifically 
mention that. But it seemed the suggestion had come from the adviser. An email sent after 
the first meeting didnt read as if ethical investing was a concern before the meeting, nor did 
the fact find suggest that was Mrs Bs aim before she took advice. And Mrs B had no need to 
access any benefits in the short/medium term. Although flexible access was a nice to have, it 
wasnt a priority. 
Mrs B accepted the investigators findings. Wren didnt. Wren pointed to the documentation 
as consistently confirming the clients objectives  reviewing their existing pensions, 
receiving ongoing advice as they approached retirement and investing ethically  and which 
set out Wrens charges. 
Wren also said the recommended pensions were lower cost. Mrs Bs new pension cost 0.9% 
pa compared to 1% pa for the original pension. Wren used the industry standard O&M tool 
which allowed like-for-like comparison of projections for investments with opaque charges. 
Mrs B and her husband wanted to review their pensions for which thered have been an 
initial advice charge, regardless of the final recommendation. They also wanted ongoing 
advice which Wren wouldve provided and which was optional and had since been 
cancelled. The new pensions facilitated adviser charging, which is more tax-efficient than 
paying from savings/income.
Wren said the performance data for the recommended funds suggested that, even if the new 
pension was more expensive (which it wasnt), the new funds had the potential to generate 
sufficient outperformance compared to the original fund to make up a reasonable critical 
yield before retirement. Wren also pointed to a further issue with Mrs Bs pension  it was 
invested entirely in equities and not aligned to her risk profile. 
The investigator considered Wrens comments but he wasnt persuaded to change his view. 
He maintained that Mrs B would likely be worse off in retirement. An advice charge  a 
minimum of £1,000  wouldve been made if the advice was to leave the pensions where 
they were. It wouldve been paid from existing deposits and wouldnt have had an impact on 
the pension and future tax efficient growth. The investigator maintained that the evidence 
showed that ethical investing had been adviser led. The investigator pointed to an email from 
Mrs B sent on 10 October 2021. Although shed asked a lot of questions, ethical investing 
isnt mentioned. The investigator also referred to the advisers comment about not having 
really pushed ethical investments too much. 
In response Wren said, while there was a minimum fee of £1,000, the fee for the services 
requested was confirmed as 3%. If, after completing a review, Wren had advised Mrs B to retain her existing pension plan, the fee wouldve been the same. Wren also reiterated 
previous comments. 
Mrs Bs husband has also complained. His complaint has been dealt with under separate 
reference. But, as advice was given to Mr and Mrs B together and their complaints and 
Wrens responses are similar, the decisions are much the same in many respects. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigator that the complaint should be upheld. 
Im not persuaded that the advice to switch was suitable for Mrs B. I dont think the reasons 
put forward by Wren  ethical investing, flexible access and lower charges  justified the 
recommendation to transfer. The likely outcome of the recommendation was a reduction in 
yield which meant Mrs Bs fund at retirement  and the benefits it would provide  would be 
lower. 
Ive considered first whats been said about ethical investing. Wren has said, if Mrs B hadnt 
wished to invest ethically, its highly likely Wren wouldve still recommended a transfer as the 
new pension was lower cost than the existing plan. Ive considered the charges below. But 
its clear, as things happened, that ethical investing played a large part in the 
recommendation. 
Wrens position is that Mrs B wanted to invest ethically and couldnt have done so via her 
existing pension plan. Whereas Mrs B says that ethical investing was suggested by the 
adviser and wasnt a priority for Mrs B. The suitability report mentions socially responsible or 
ethical investing several times but Mrs B says she didnt see the report. 
Where, as here, theres a dispute I decide whats likely to have happened on the balance of 
probabilities, taking into account all the available evidence and information and the wider 
circumstances. 
As to whether Mrs B saw the suitability report, I agree with the investigator its unlikely Mrs B 
wouldve agreed to make changes to her pension arrangements without having something in 
writing. So Ive proceeded on the basis that Mrs B did see the report even if she doesnt now 
recall it. 
Mrs B also suggests the suitability report doesnt properly reflect the discussions with the 
adviser. I havent really gone into that as I think, based on what the suitability report did say, 
the advice to switch was flawed anyway. 
The suitability report said Mrs B wanted all of her funds to be invested in line with her current 
ATR and in a socially responsible manner. It seems that type of investing had been brought 
to Mrs Bs attention by reading a brochure supplied by Wren. I dont think Mrs B had 
decided, before she was advised by Wren, that she wanted to invest ethically and, as those 
type of funds werent offered in connection with her existing plan, that she wanted to change 
her pension arrangements to accommodate socially responsible investing. 
I further note it was Wren whod suggested a review of Mrs Bs pension, Mrs B having 
initially sought advice about investing a cash sum. So Mrs B wasnt actively seeking advice 
about her pension. She may have been happy, all things being equal, with the idea of investing ethically, but I dont see that was a key interest for Mrs B or a genuine driver for 
the switch. 
Wren has also pointed to the flexibility offered by the new pension arrangement. But Mrs B 
was only 57 at the time of the advice. She had no immediate plans to retire and she thought, 
although shed review it along the way, that might not be until she reached age 65. So, as 
things stood, she wouldnt be accessing her pension for some time. How she wanted to do 
that and if she needed to switch to a product that permitted flexible access couldve been 
considered nearer the time and when Mrs Bs exact requirements were known.    
As to the costs of the new arrangement, I note that Mrs B wouldve had to pay Wrens advice 
fee in any event and even if Wren had advised Mrs B to retain her existing plans. And Wren 
says the new plan was 0.1% cheaper than Mrs Bs existing plan. The platform charge for the 
new plan was 0.90% pa and there were no further fund charges. But Wrens ongoing adviser 
fee was 1% pa which made the overall total ongoing charges 1.90% pa and so the new plan 
would be more expensive.  
Wren says Mrs B wanted ongoing advice. Mrs B has since cancelled that facility which might 
suggest that she didnt fully understand how much it would cost her. But Ive said that I think 
shed have got the suitability letter which did set out the annual ongoing charges  the 
platform charge and the ongoing adviser fee, both in percentage and money terms. The 
section headed Reduction in Yield also said that the additional 1% ongoing service charge 
meant the total cost of the new plan would be more expensive than the existing plan. But 
that Mrs B was more than happy to accept that in return for the service that would be 
provided. On the basis that Mrs B did get the suitability report, shed have known shed be 
paying more because of the ongoing advice facility. 
But the fact that Mrs B had said she wanted ongoing advice didnt mean she needed it or 
that Wren shouldve recommended a switch to facilitate ongoing advice being provided. 
Especially if the other reasons for switching  ethical investing and flexibility  werent made 
out. The concept of ongoing advice is attractive to most investors. But the cost will obviously 
increase the charges and reduce the yield and wont be justified in all cases. 
The reduction in yield on Mrs Bs pension under the proposed new plan was 2.2% pa, after 
inflation. Her fund size was modest which can make it more difficult to justify paying for 
ongoing advice. Ultimately the overall aim in switching was to increase the level of Mrs Bs 
retirement benefits. I think the reduction in yield was significant. The new funds would have 
to do well if Mrs Bs pension fund wasnt going to be less when she reached retirement than 
if shed have remained in her existing plan. I dont think it was safe to rely on past 
performance data as to how well or otherwise the recommended funds might do. 
I note whats been said about the fund Mrs B was invested in not being consistent with her 
ATR.  And Ive seen that the suitability report noted that the fund Mrs B was invested in 
(Royal Londons Pension Equity Series 1 Fund) was a predominantly equity-based fund, with 
growth assets in excess of Mrs Bs risk profile. 
I havent looked into exactly how that Fund was made up and if it was suitable for Mrs B 
given her ATR. If it was too high risk Id usually expect that could be addressed by way of a 
fund switch. But here the report went on to say, although there were a couple of other 
available funds Mrs B could switch into, none met her ATR or objective to invest in a socially 
responsible manner and so had been discounted. 
Ive seen that Mrs Bs existing plan offered a limited selection of only four funds. But Im not 
convinced, if the existing fund was unsuitable and had things been further explored, that 
none of those funds  or a combination  wouldve met her ATR. Wren seems to have dismissed the prospect of a fund switch largely on the basis that ethical investing wasnt 
possible. But, as Ive indicated, Im not persuaded that Mrs B had a firm objective to invest 
ethically and so I dont think a fund switch shouldve been ruled out on that basis. I further 
note that, although, as Ive said, the issue is mentioned, the unsuitability of Mrs Bs existing 
fund and the lack of any suitable alternative fund(s) isnt relied on as a reason for 
recommending that Mrs B switch. So it would appear that Wren wasnt convinced that, of 
itself, justified Mrs B transferring. 
All in all, for the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded that the advice to switch was 
suitable. I dont think the chances of Mrs B increasing her pension at retirement were 
improved by the switch.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mrs B as far as possible back in the position 
shed likely be in if Wren Sterling Financial Planning Limited trading as Wren Sterling hadnt 
given unsuitable advice. I think Mrs B wouldve retained her existing pension arrangement.
Wren Sterling Financial Planning Limited trading as Wren Sterling should determine if Mrs B 
has suffered a loss by obtaining the notional transfer value of her previous pension from 
Royal London and assuming Mrs B had remained in the same fund. That notional value 
should be compared with the actual value of her Royal London Pension Portfolio at the same 
date. If the notional value is higher than the actual value, Mrs B has suffered a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is higher than the total notional value Mrs B 
hasnt suffered a financial loss and compensation isnt payable. 
If theres a loss it should be paid into Mrs Bs pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and interest. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. It shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If it cant be paid into Mrs B s pension plan, it should be paid direct to her. But had it been 
possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise
have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt 
a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mrs B wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after 
compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs Bs actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at her selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume Mrs B is likely to be a basic 
rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if 
she wouldve been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should
be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Wren Sterling Financial Planning Limited trading as Wren Sterling should pay Mrs B £150 for 
the distress and inconvenience of transferring her pension and the impact this has had on 
the value. This sum is payable regardless of whether theres any financial loss. 
Details of the calculation should be provided to Mrs B in a clear, simple format.
Any additional sum paid into the new plan (Royal London Pension Portfolio) should be 
added to the notional value calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal should be deducted from the notional value calculation at the point it was 
actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is 
a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if all those payments are totalled and that figure deducted at the end to determine the notional value 
instead of deducting periodically.
If Royal London is unable to calculate a notional value, Wren Sterling Financial Planning 
Limited trading as Wren Sterling will need to determine a fair value for Mr Bs pensions 
instead using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index. The 
adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value using the benchmark, which is 
then used instead of the notional value in the calculation of compensation.
I uphold the complaint. Wren Sterling Financial Planning Limited trading as Wren Sterling 
must redress Mrs B as Ive set out above.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Wren Sterling Financial Planning Limited trading as Wren Sterling 
must redress Mrs B as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman