DRN-2351125
The complaint
Ms G complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, incorrectly valued three
properties when she took out mortgages with it.
What happened
In 2010 Ms G bought three buy-to-let properties. She took interest only buy-to-let 
mortgages with Halifax on each of the properties, to support these purchases.
In 2018 Ms G complained to Halifax saying that the valuations it had instructed in 2010,
when it provided the three mortgages, were incorrect. She said that the values had been
overstated and at the time the properties were worth significantly less than what shed paid
for them  which was also still the case when she complained. She said shed become
aware of this because other people involved in the purchases had recently been convicted 
of fraud.
Halifax didnt think it had done anything wrong. Ms G disagreed and asked our service to 
investigate. She also added that she didnt think Halifax had reviewed her complaint 
objectively.
I issued my provisional decision in October 2020 explaining that I didnt intend to uphold 
Ms Gs complaint. Below is an extract from those provisional findings, explaining why I 
thought this. 
Ms G was disappointed that Halifax did not agree with her original complaint. But I
havent seen anything to suggest its initial review of the complaint or the valuations was
carried out incorrectly  which she has indicated she considers to be the case. Parties 
often dont agree on the outcome of complaints  that is why the option for an independent 
review by our service exists. But I dont think this disagreement here is an indication 
Halifax did not consider her concerns when she first complained.
Turning to the complaint about the valuations of her properties, Ms G has provided
information about individuals convicted of fraud. And she has said that these people were
involved in certain capacities when she purchased her three buy-to-let properties in 2010.
And this is what has led her to think that there were issues with these purchases, in
particular the price she paid for the properties. None of the information available suggests
that the convictions directly related to the three properties purchased by Ms G.
I think it is worth making clear at this point though that Im only considering the actions of
Halifax as part of this complaint. I wont be commenting on the actions of these other 
parties.
Ms G applied to Halifax for three buy-to-let mortgages in 2010. Ive seen copies of the
mortgage offers made by Halifax. These indicate that Halifax did not provide her advice
when the mortgages were taken out.
As part of a mortgage application, it is standard practice for lenders to instruct a valuation 
of a property. These lenders valuations are for the purposes of the lenders themselves  
to make sure that the property is a suitable security rather than an in-depth survey. And 
buyers are often encouraged to commission their own report, before purchasing a 
property.
The information Ive seen suggests that the three valuations that Ms G disputes, while
shared with her, were lender valuations, for Halifaxs purposes. They indicated that, in the
opinion of the valuers, the properties were worth the purchase prices Ms G had agreed. So
were suitable for Halifaxs lending purposes. I havent seen anything to indicate that Ms G
instructed separate valuations for her own purposes  which I think wouldve been 
reasonable in the circumstances, given the properties were being bought as investments, 
to generate a rental return.
A lenders valuation isnt usually carried out by the lender themselves, as they are not
experts in property valuation. The lender will instead instruct a specialist to carry these out.
And our service is not usually the relevant organisation to consider the contents of surveys
and valuations and whether errors were made. This is because carrying out a valuation is
not an activity that is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  which sets the
rules under which we operate. And surveyors are regulated separately.
When it comes to valuations, wed expect a lender to instruct an appropriately qualified
specialist. Provided that it does so, the lender would usually be reasonably entitled to rely 
on the specialists independent opinion.
The three valuations Ms G disputes were carried out by two separate specialist 
businesses. One of these has no links to Halifax, so acted independently of it. The 
information Ive seen indicates that this business was a suitably qualified specialist. So, I 
think Halifax was entitled to rely on its opinion. And in respect of this valuation, I dont think 
I can consider the contents of that valuation itself, as this is not a regulated activity.
The other two valuations Ms G has complained about were though carried out by a 
business called Colleys. Colleys was a surveying arm of the wider banking group which 
Halifax is part of. I think it would still be considered a suitably qualified specialist. But I also 
think the links between the two businesses impacts what we can consider. I say this 
because, as Colleys and Halifax were part of the same banking group, and Halifax was the 
lender in this transaction, I consider the completion of the valuations to be ancillary to the 
activity of lending itself  which is regulated and falls within our jurisdiction. So, I think I am 
able to consider the contents of the two Colleys valuations and whether errors were made.
Ms G says that the valuations attributed to the properties in 2010 were incorrect. But I
havent been provided with any evidence, beyond her testimony, to show that the 
valuations were wrong or that errors were made.
Ms G has mentioned the values of the properties as they currently stand as being evidence
that they were overvalued previously. But I dont agree that this shows that the 2010
valuations were incorrect. House prices are subject to fluctuations caused by a variety of
market conditions and can move up or down. So, I dont think current market values
potentially being lower is indicative of valuations carried out years previously being 
incorrect.
As Ive said, Ms G has also highlighted information about other parties involved in the
purchase transactions. But again, I dont think this is enough for me to say that the
valuations in 2010 were incorrect.So, while I know Ms G feels strongly about this, based on the information currently 
available, I dont think I can say on balance that an error was made in the valuations 
carried out by Colleys in 2010. And it follows that I dont think Halifax did anything wrong or 
provided Ms G with incorrect information when it relied on those valuations when deciding 
if it was willing to lend to Ms G.
And for similar reasons, I havent seen anything that leads me to think Halifax did anything
wrong by relying on the valuation provided by the independent party, in respect of the third 
property.
responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached a final decision.
Halifax said it had nothing further to add.
Ms G did not accept my findings. She said Id put insufficient weight on the fact that other 
people, which she has said were involved in the purchases of the properties in question, had 
been separately convicted of fraud. And she said that one of the properties shed bought had 
changed ownership shortly before she had bought it, for a much lower price than she had 
paid. So, she felt this showed that the people involved in the transaction when she 
purchased the properties had not acted in good faith.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not inclined to depart from my provisional findings.
As I mentioned in my provisional decision, Ms G has provided information about court 
convictions for individuals she says were involved in the purchases she made in 2010, in 
some capacity. And she feels I havent placed sufficient weight on this evidence. But, as I 
explained in my provisional findings, Ive only considered Halifaxs actions in respect of this 
complaint.
It isnt my place to comment on the actions of these other parties. Any issue Ms G has with 
these other parties would appear to be a civil matter, better dealt with by the courts. My role 
is solely to consider Ms Gs complaint about Halifax, specifically that the valuations it relied 
on were incorrect and it shouldnt have lent to her, and whether it has made an error.
And while Ms G maintains the valuations of the three properties she bought in 2010 were 
incorrect Ive still seen no evidence to show this, beyond her testimony. Current house prices 
differing from those ten years ago does not show that the previous valuations were incorrect 
 as house prices are subject to fluctuation, due to a number of factors. 
Ms G has said that one of the properties changed ownership not long before she purchased 
it for less than she paid. But that also doesnt mean the valuation at the time she bought the 
property was incorrect or that Halifax was wrong to lend. There couldve been a number of 
factors that played a part in the previous sale being agreed at a lower price. 
So overall, while Im sorry to disappoint Ms G, I havent seen anything the leads me to think 
the valuations undertaken in 2010 contained errors or that Halifax was wrong to rely on them 
when making its lending decision in respect of the three buy-to-let mortgages that she took out.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman