DRN-4099234
The complaint
Ms D complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc didnt send her direct debit and standing 
order information on her current account despite repeated requests.
What happened
In early August 2022, Ms D requested Co-op Bank provide details of current and historic 
direct debit and standing orders on her current account. Co-op Bank dealt with the request 
as a data subject access request (DSAR) and emailed Ms D with a link to the response later 
the same month. Ms D told Co-op Bank that shed not received the information and Co-op 
Bank re-sent it by email and post. 
Ms D complained to Co-op Bank that it hadnt sent the information, and that she was now 
unable to see her bank statements on-line. Co-op Bank didnt provide a final response but 
told Ms D that she could refer her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. When Ms 
D brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman one of our Investigators looked into 
things. The Investigator thought that Co-op Bank had provided the information Ms D 
requested on a number of occasions and, in respect of Ms D not being able to access her 
bank statements on-line, that Co-op had sent paper copy statements.
Ms D told us that she hadnt received any of the information Co-op Bank says it had sent 
and believes that Co-op Bank hadnt sent the information by secure email or post. Ms D 
asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
As I reached a significantly different outcome to the Investigator, I issued a provisional 
decision. I thought Co-op Bank had sent the DSAR to a secure email address, but that I 
couldnt be sure Ms D was receiving all of the emails on this account. So, I said intended 
asking Co-op Bank to send the copy statements for the period August 2015 to August 2022 
to the home address of Ms D by recorded delivery and to provide Ms D with a tracking 
number to allow her to track and trace the correspondence.
Ms D chased Co-op for information several times and had to make a number of telephone 
calls trying to clarify why Co-op Bank was unable to provide historical information. So, I 
thought Co-op Bank should pay Ms D £100 for the distress and inconvenience this caused.
I asked Ms D and Co-op Bank for any further comments. Co-op Bank has told me it accepts 
my provisional and that its since sent out a further copy statements to Ms D after she 
contacted its customer services department. Ms D didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
In view of the comments Ive received, Ive decided to adopt my provisional decision as my 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms D initially asked Co-op Bank to send her details of the current and historical standing 
orders and direct debits on her current account. Ms D asked Co-op Bank to send the 
information be sent by email and post. Co-op Bank decided to treat Ms Ds request as a 
DSAR and agreed to send the information requested by encrypted email and post. At the 
time of the request Co-op Bank confirmed the correct email address for Ms D so that it could 
send an encrypted email. Im satisfied that on 25 August Co-op Bank sent the information to 
a correct email address for Ms D, but unfortunately Co-op Bank didnt send the information 
by post. Ms D told Co-op Bank of this in a further call in September, but Co-op Bank didnt 
send it by post until mid-October.
I cant say why Ms D didnt receive the emails sent by Co-op Bank or provide an explanation 
why the information wasnt received by Ms D in the post after mid-October. However, I think 
its more likely than not Co-op Bank sent the information to Ms D in both formats she 
requested by mid-October  albeit the request to send information by post had initially been 
missed by Co-op Bank.
The information Co-op Bank provided to Ms D would only refer to the current standing orders 
and direct debits. I think Co-op Bank should have had made this clearer to Ms D much 
earlier than it did as Ms Ds request was for historical information and not just current 
information. Co-op Bank did tell Ms D in a subsequent call that cancelled or expired standing 
orders and direct debits may not be visible on their current system - and went on to explain 
this information would be included on historical statements. Im persuaded that if Ms D had 
been told this earlier, its more likely than not that she would have requested copies of her 
statements rather than wait for a DSAR.
Ms D says that when she tried to access her bank statements on-line, she encountered 
more challenges. Co-op Bank says Ms D had changed the on-line settings for her current 
account to be paperless and bank statements before 2017 werent available on-line. Co-op 
Bank wrote to Ms D and provided statements from 2015 to 2017, but Ms D has told us that 
she hasnt received these statements and that shes now not able to access any bank 
statements on-line.
Ive decided that Co-op Bank should have dealt with Ms Ds request for historical account 
information better than it did. The DSAR didnt appear to be able to provide the information 
Ms D wanted, but Co-op Bank didnt tell her this until more than two months later. It seems 
to me that what is needed to resolve this complaint is a pragmatic approach. Therefore, Ive 
decided Co-op Bank should send Ms D paper copies of her bank statements from August 
2015 to August 2022  seven years of statements. I intend asking Co-op Bank to do this 
without charge to Ms D. I think this is fair and reasonable as it will enable Ms D to identify 
historical information for the direct debits and standing orders on the account during this 
time, which was always her aim. Its reasonable to conclude Ms D would have kept paper 
copies of her statements from before August 2015 to refer to, but if she didnt, I dont think 
its fair that Co-op Bank should provide any statements from before August 2015 at no cost if 
Ms D requests them. 
Although Im satisfied Co-op Bank sent the DSAR to Ms D by secure email, I cant be sure 
Ms D is receiving all of the emails on this account. So, I think it would be fair and reasonable 
for Co-op Bank to send the copy statements for the period August 2015 to August 2022 to 
Ms Ds home address by recorded delivery and then to provide Ms D with a tracking number 
to allow her to track and trace the correspondence. I understand that Co-op Bank says its 
since sent out further statements requested by Ms D, but I feel that Co-op Bank should send 
out the specific statements Ive referred to by recorded delivery so that both parties have 
confirmation these have been delivered and received.
Ms D had to chase Co-op several times for information and made a number of telephone 
calls trying to clarify why Co-op Bank was unable to provide historical information. Therefore, Ive decided Co-op Bank should pay Ms D £100 for the distress and inconvenience this 
caused.
My final decision
Ive decided that The Co-operative Bank Plc should:
Provide Ms D with copy statements for her current account from August 2015 to 
August 2022 at no cost. The statements should be sent recorded delivery to Ms Ds 
home address and Ms D should be provided with the tracking number so she can 
track the delivery.
Pay Ms D £100 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman