DRN-3479581
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint concerns discrepancies in way the profit and loss are displayed on his 
spread betting account with IG Index Limited. He says the uncertainty created by this, and 
the failure of IG to promptly address the issue, has caused him stress and a financial loss.
What happened
Mr W opened his account with IG at the end of 2018. He used it initially during the first half of 
2019 then started again in January 2020. At this point, with three trades open, he noticed an 
issue with the way his overall trading position  the Workspace profit and loss  appeared 
to be at odds with the individual positions. 
Around 15 January 2020 Mr W contacted IG, spoke with his account manager and provided 
screenshots illustrating the issue. He then spoke with a member of IGs IT staff on 27 
January 2020, who took control of Mr Ws PC and was able to see the problem for himself. 
Following a second call on the same day, the IT staff member confirmed he would continue 
to investigate the problem and get back to Mr W. 
When no response was forthcoming Mr W raised a formal complaint with IG and contacted 
this service. IG issued a final response to him on 9 March 2020 in which it accepted there 
was a problem with the functionality of the system in relation to his account. It explained that 
its investigations were still ongoing. 
IG also acknowledged the frustration the matter wouldve caused Mr W and offered him 
£200 compensation. But it didnt accept responsibility for any financial losses hed incurred. 
It said the information about individual positions on his account had always remained 
accurate, so he wouldve been able to manage them in that way, as opposed to the overall 
profit and loss. And hed been free to close the position at any time, as hed done with 
several profitable ones. 
In response to the complaint made to this service, our investigator didnt think IG needed to 
take any further action. She said she understood the inconvenience the matter wouldve 
caused Mr W and was satisfied there had been a problem with IGs system. And she also 
acknowledged that Mr W shouldve been able to rely upon all aspects of IGs system. 
But she noted that once hed become aware of the problem there was still a method by 
which he was able to determine the prices for his open positions and manage them. She 
didnt feel there was evidence to support Mr W having been told by IG that he had to keep 
any positions open, or that it would take responsibility for any ongoing losses stemming from 
any open positions. 
Mr W didnt accept the investigators view and provided further submissions in support of his 
case. But these didnt persuade the investigator to alter her position. She said shed listened 
to recording of calls Mr W had made to IG staff and was satisfied hed been informed of how 
he could check his positions despite the technical issue. And, as hed only had three 
positions open at the time, doing so wouldve been relatively straightforward. The 
investigator reiterated that there was no evidence Mr W had been told to keep any positions 
open or that IG would take responsibility for any subsequent losses. 
The investigator noted that Mr W had said hed suggested to IG that the account be frozen 
while investigations were undertaken. But she didnt think this wouldve be a viable solution. 
She noted thered also been discussion with the IT staff of re-booking the positions as a 
potential solution. But she didnt think it was reasonable for Mr W to have assumed that if 
positions had been re-booked then doing so wouldve cancelled any losses, as opposed to 
simply recreating the existing positions. 
Finally, the investigator gave some consideration to Mr Ws trading experience, but she 
didnt feel there was any reason to conclude that he didnt have a reasonable understanding 
of the account and how it worked. 
Mr W remained unhappy and made further submissions. He didnt think his complaint had 
been properly understood and said the investigator had failed to reference important 
evidence. In brief, he felt IG shouldve acted to protect him and made good on its 
commitment to respond to him. He said hed interpreted the comments made to him as 
meaning that IG would sort out the corrupt trading figures and make good any loss of profit.   
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change her view, the matter was referred to me to 
review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should acknowledge first that the background to Mr Ws complaint Ive provided above, and 
the details of the investigation carried out so far, are very much intended to be a brief 
summary. This matter has been ongoing for some time and, as such, lengthy submissions 
have been made. So, Id like to reassure Mr W that Ive read all his comments carefully as 
part of my consideration of the matter.    
I also recognise he has very strong feelings about his complaint and understand it had 
caused him a great of worry. I note his recent difficult circumstances, for which he has my 
sympathy. But I trust he wont take as a discourtesy the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues and that they are provided in less detail than his 
submissions. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. Rather, its to 
set out my conclusions and the reasons for reaching them.
Turning to the merits of his complaint, I know Mr W feels very strongly about the problem he 
encountered with IGs system. But it was acknowledged by IG very early on when he first 
raised the matter and IG continued to acknowledge it, via the interaction with its IT 
department, right through to its final response in March 2020. 
And as IG has also accepted responsibility for the problem, I dont need to make a finding in 
that respect. The question I must consider here is whether IG has done sufficient to put 
things right for Mr W in light of that problem. 
At the time of making his complaint Mr W had open positions on three stocks  Ceres Power 
Holdings plc, ITM Power plc and Cisco Systems Inc. His primary concern relates to the 
Cisco position, which was closed at a loss of £4,945 on 28 February 2020.
Ive read the emails Mr W sent around the time he raised the issue with IG and listened to 
the calls he had with various members of staff. Its clear from these that he was genuinely concerned about the issue and felt strongly that it was impacting his ability to judge his 
positions and trade. During two telephone conversations on 27 January 2020 he spoke at 
length to a member of IGs IT department, who took control of his PC in an attempt to 
determine what was happening. 
During these calls there was discussion of the trades potentially being rebooked to try to 
determine which, if any, were causing the problem. And Mr W did also make reference to 
potential losses; those that were occurring as prices moved while he was on the phone, and 
those that might be made after the call was complete, while he waited for IG to resolve the 
issue.
I can see why following these the calls Mr W might have initially concluded that maintaining 
his existing positions was, for the time being at least, the best option, so that IG would be 
able to investigate. But I dont think there was anything said to Mr W that ought reasonably 
to have given him the impression that he had to keep one or more positions open. Or, more 
importantly, that IG was now accepting ongoing responsibility for any losses that might be 
incurred.
And its not the case that following the calls of 27 January 2020 Mr W did leave his account 
as it was. Shortly after, he closed the Ceres Power position, then a week or so later he 
closed the ITM positions, at a profit. It was then a further couple of weeks before he closed 
the Cisco position, on 28 February 2020. 
In short, its clear that IGs system had a problem and, understandably, it caused Mr W a 
great deal of concern. But in all the circumstances I dont think it would be fair to hold IG 
responsible for any losses that occurred once Mr W was aware of the problem. 
Its right that IG acknowledges Mr Ws concern and the inconvenience it caused, and its 
done so with its offer of £200. I think thats reasonable in the circumstances. But I think I 
could only reasonably hold IG responsible for the Cisco loss if a guarantee had been given 
to Mr W that after 27 January 2020 IG would accept responsibility for such a loss. And Im 
not persuaded that any guarantee was given.
I understand that Mr W will be very disappointed with my decision. I can see how it might 
feel counter-intuitive that although there was a clear, acknowledged error by IG, its not been 
held responsible for subsequent losses. 
But once Mr W was aware of the error, notwithstanding his communications with staff 
members at IG, Im of the view that its reasonable for expect him to have mitigated any 
losses, and that he was in a position to do so. Despite the profit and loss discrepancy 
persisting, he would nevertheless have been able to determine the situation with his 
individual positions (albeit with greater difficulty than normal) and decide how he wanted to 
proceed. And, as noted, the problem didnt prevent him from closing his positions. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman