DRN-2272758
The complaint
Ms C complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, have not upheld 
a complaint she made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 
75) that a holiday was misrepresented and not of satisfactory quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the disappointing holiday experience Ms C had and I know it will 
come as a further disappointment to her, but I agree with the investigators view of this 
complaint; please let me explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ms C has provided an extensive list of problems she had with her holiday. Ive read and 
considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I 
dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think 
about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Ms C made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
I understand that Ms C experienced issues with the air conditioning in two of the rooms she 
slept in. Whilst that would have been frustrating for her I can see the hotel were prepared to 
change her room and, in the circumstances, I think their actions at the time were sufficient.
I also understand that Ms C was ill during her stay. I dont think theres been sufficient 
evidence to suggest that was an illness she contracted as a result of anything that went 
wrong in the hotel. Had that been the case I think Ms C would have been likely to have 
reported it at the time and, as I can see she travelled outside of the hotel complex where she 
could also have contracted any illness, I dont think it would be fair to suggest there is 
sufficient evidence the hotel were at fault. 
Whilst I understand Ms C was unhappy with the ambience at the hotel and didnt find it either 
serene, warm or inviting, I think thats a subjective opinion. Ive reviewed customer 
comments on travel platforms and can see that the hotel receives very favourable reviews 
across all categories. 
I think it would be unfair to hold the hotel accountable for some of the issues Ms C complains 
of. For instance, weather conditions that prevented non-motorised water sports and an 
excess of seaweed are not issues that I think can be fairly considered under the hotels 
control. 
I can see that the hotel group offered Ms C an upgrade on any future booking at any of their 
hotels as a good will gesture. Whilst I understand Ms C would not want to return to the hotel 
she stayed at I can see that the group have several hotels in their group. So, I think their 
offer is a reasonable one and one that Ms C could benefit from.
Overall, I dont think there is sufficient evidence that Tesco Bank were unreasonable when 
rejecting Ms Cs section 75 claim and Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman