DRN-4316105
The complaint
Miss Ws complaint is that Santander UK Plc didnt do enough to help her with a dispute 
about a purchase she made using her Santander debit card.
What happened
In November 2022 Miss W bought an item from a supplier Ill call S. The item cost around 
£540 and Miss W paid S using her Santander debit card. 
Miss W said she sent the item back to S in the box it came in as it was no longer needed. 
Having not received a refund Miss W said she contacted S and provided the parcel tracking 
details. S told Miss W it had located a parcel with the same tracking details but it was a bag 
of clothes and not the item Miss W said she returned. S said it couldnt provide a refund until 
Miss W returned the item. 
Miss W asked Santander to help her get a refund. Santander raised what is known as a 
chargeback (a process available to a bank to recover money paid by its customer to a 
supplier). S defended the chargeback on the basis Miss W had not returned the goods to it 
yet. Miss W said she spoke with Santander over the phone after this and they took all of the 
relevant information and told her she didnt need to do anything else as it was an open and 
shut case. 
When Miss W spoke with Santander again it told her she hadnt replied to its request for 
information after S had defended the chargeback. So, it said it closed the dispute.
Miss W complained to Santander. It said it was too late for it to continue with her chargeback 
but said it had credited £75 to her account as compensation for poor service and journey. 
Dissatisfied, Miss W referred her complaint to this service. 
An investigator didnt think Santander needed to put anything right. She said Miss W hadnt 
provided evidence in response to Ss defence to the chargeback that persuaded her the 
chargeback would have been successful. So, she didnt think it was wrong for Santander to 
have accepted Ss defence and end its pursuit of the chargeback. 
Miss W didnt agree with the investigator so her complaint was referred to an ombudsman 
for further review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am looking here at the actions of Santander and whether it has acted fairly and reasonably 
in the way it handled Miss Ws request for help in getting her money back. This will take into 
account the circumstances of the dispute and how the supplier has acted, but there are also 
other considerations, such as the card scheme rules a bank has to follow and its own 
obligations. 
Miss W paid S for the item using her debit card. This meant the only realistic option available 
to Santander to get her money back was to engage with a process known as chargeback. 
The chargeback process provides a way for a bank to ask for a payment its customer made 
to be refunded. Where applicable, the bank raises a dispute with the supplier and effectively 
asks for the payment to be returned to the customer. While it is good practice for a bank to 
attempt a chargeback where the right exists and there is some prospect of success, the 
circumstances of a dispute means it wont always be appropriate for the bank to raise a 
chargeback. There are grounds or dispute conditions set by the relevant card scheme and if 
these are not met a chargeback is unlikely to succeed. The process provides an opportunity 
for a supplier to provide a defence to the chargeback and provide its own evidence in 
support of that defence. If the supplier continues to defend the chargeback the bank can 
either accept that defence if it believes it is valid, or, it can ask the card scheme to make a 
decision about who gets to keep the money  usually referred to as arbitration. 
Santander raised a chargeback but S defended it. S said the package it received from Miss 
W contained a bag of clothes and not the item she said she returned to it. As part of the 
evidence provided in support of its defence S included a photo of the tracking label that 
matched the details Miss W gave it and the opened bag full of clothes. It also pointed out its 
returns conditions which said returned items would be checked at the warehouse and 
refunds would only be provided if the item was unused, opened and in its original condition. 
Santander sent this evidence to Miss W on 6 April 2023 and asked for her rebuttal of Ss 
defence, confirmation she returned the item and any additional information she felt would be 
of use. It said it would close the dispute in 14 days if it didnt receive this. This was a 
reasonable action for Santander to take seeing as the evidence S had provided in its 
defence appeared, at least on the face of it, to be quite compelling. 
Miss W said she phoned Santander after this, spoke at length about the dispute and was 
reassured that all was in hand. Miss W said she thinks this would have been sometime in 
June or July 2023.
There were time limits set out in the chargeback card scheme rules within which Miss Ws 
rebuttal evidence had to be provided. This is usually around 45 days from when the supplier 
issues its defence. It appears that by the time Miss W said she contacted Santander she 
may have been outside of this time. So, if the call took place when Miss W said it did, it 
appears it may have been too late for her to present any rebuttal evidence she may have 
been able to gather by then in any event.
I dont have a recording of the call between Miss W and Santander. But if Santander did tell 
Miss W that all was in hand, then its possible this was wrong if it was already too late to 
provide her rebuttal evidence. In such event Santander should have explained to Miss W 
that she was out of time to take the chargeback any further at this point. 
Santander wasnt at fault if time had run out on the chargeback. It explained to Miss W in its 
letter of 6 April 2023 that she needed to provide her evidence within 14 days. So, it had 
made it clear enough that the matter was time sensitive. 
If however the chargeback rules did not prevent Miss W from submitting rebuttal evidence 
(or if Miss Ws recollections are not clear and she spoke with Santander on the phone within 
45 days of S submitting its defence to the chargeback), for me to fairly conclude that 
Santander should pay Miss W the cost of the item, Id still need to find that this was the sum 
she lost out on as a result of Santanders alleged error. In other words, Id need to conclude that if Santander had continued to pursue the chargeback, it would most likely have resulted 
in her getting the money from S. 
Having thought about this very carefully, Im not persuaded this would have been the case. S 
had provided what appeared to be some quite compelling evidence that the package it 
received from Miss W was not the item she said she returned. So, its likely Miss W would 
need to have provided even more compelling evidence to rebut this. 
Miss W said that if Santander had been clearer that it still needed more evidence to rebut Ss 
defence she could have got CCTV footage from the shop she used to prepare the parcel for 
return. She said this would have proved that she sent a cardboard box to S and not the bag 
that was in the photograph S provided. 
Miss W said its too late to get this now as the shop no longer has it. Looking at the defence 
S provided to the chargeback, it included an extract of an exchange of emails between it and 
Miss W within which it sent her the photograph of the bag of clothes it had received. This 
was in January 2023. So, I think Miss W would reasonably have been aware of the strength 
of evidence S might provide in support of its position before she even asked Santander to 
get involved and could perhaps have made enquiries of the shop as to the CCTV footage. 
Santander is not necessarily therefore entirely at fault for Miss W being unable to procure 
the CCTV footage.
In any event, I dont know now what the footage would have shown or if it would even have 
captured what Miss W said it would. And even if it showed her sending a different package 
to what S provided a photograph of, this still wouldnt have shown that S actually received 
the item in question from her  something its likely shed have had to evidence for her 
chargeback to succeed. It may have raised the possibility that the parcel was tampered with 
or switched somehow at some point on its journey before it reached S. But thats not a 
situation which neatly fits with the chargeback rules. So, its not clear enough that it would be 
a reason for the chargeback to succeed. 
Im not persuaded on balance therefore that the chargeback would have succeeded if 
pursued more robustly by Santander. 
Taking everything into consideration, Santander hasnt acted unfairly in declining to refund 
Miss W. A chargeback was raised and after this was defended by S, Santander didnt 
believe it had grounds for success if it pursued the chargeback further and based on the 
evidence provided this wasnt an unreasonable decision in the circumstances. 
Thats not to say that I do not believe Miss W when she says she has been the victim of the 
item being switched at some point on its journey, just that there is insufficient evidence to 
persuade me a chargeback would have succeeded. The chargeback rules are narrow. And 
the process is not the kind of determination of Miss Ws legal rights that she may be able to 
obtain as part of a contractual dispute in court or a criminal investigation  where for 
example witnesses can be called and examined. 
Santander paid Miss W compensation of £75 for poor service and journey. It didnt provide 
any detail beyond this. However, given the likely error I identified above (i.e. not giving clear 
enough information about the chargeback) I find this to be fair compensation overall for any 
distress or inconvenience Miss W was caused. Santanders error did not cause Miss W to 
lose out on the refund but it did likely lead her to believe for a while that all was in hand and 
that she didnt need to do anything else  which wasnt the case.  My final decision
For the reasons I have explained. I do not require Santander to do any more than it already 
has. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman