DRN-3413783
The complaint
Ms F has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint in March 2022 that I summarise below.
Ms F was given two loans by Loans2Go in 2019 and 2020.
Loan 1 in April 2019 was for £400 repayable in 18 monthly instalments of around 
£91. The total amount payable if the loan ran to term, including interest, was around 
£1,645.
Loan 2 in March 2020 was for £455 repayable in 18 monthly instalments of around 
£103. The total amount payable if the loan ran to term, including interest, was around 
£1,871. I understand both loans have been settled.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that 
Loans2Go needed to do such as the amount being lent each time, and the consumers 
income and expenditure.  I said that Loans2Go needed to take reasonable steps to ensure 
that it didn't lend to Ms F irresponsibly. And that the lender should have carried out 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that she could repay the loans in a sustainable way. 
I carefully considered all the evidence, arguments, and information Id seen about this matter 
in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Loans2Go says Ms F applied for her loans online. The lender assessed Ms Fs monthly
income and expenditure and acquired a credit check prior to each loan. Loans2Go thinks its
checks were proportionate and that Ms F could afford the lending each time.
Loan 1
I looked carefully at the information that Loans2Go gathered at the time. The lender
assessed Ms Fs expenditure to be higher than she had estimated. I thought Loans2Go 
would have been aware that Ms F had experienced some difficulties repaying credit 
previously and she had taken other short-term loans in the past. But given the type of 
lending, I thought a lender might reasonably expect to see some historic and adverse 
information on a customers credit report. Taking matters as a whole, I thought the checks 
that Loans2Go carried out before providing Ms F with her first loan were reasonable and 
proportionate. I thought it was reasonable for Loans2Go to rely on its checks and 
assessment of Ms Fs disposable income to decide whether the loan was affordable for her. 
Overall, I couldnt fairly say that I thought Loans2Go ought reasonably to have declined to 
provide the first loan to Ms F or that it lent to her irresponsibly. I said I didnt intend to uphold 
Ms Fs complaint about her first loan.
Ms F returned to borrow again about 12 months into the 18-month loan term. It appears that
she used part of her second loan to settle loan 1 and took the remainder in cash. Ms F
provided information about her income and expenditure and Loans2Go acquired another
credit check. Loans2Go again increased its assessment of Ms Fs expenditure. However, it
seemed to me that on this occasion Loans2Go ought reasonably to have looked further into
Ms Fs circumstances  to ensure she could sustainably repay the loan. From what Id
seen, Loans2Go assessed that this time, Ms F had less disposable income available after
meeting her repayments and all monthly outgoings; her financial position doesnt appear to
have substantially improved and she appears to have experienced difficulties repaying the
second loan from the outset. I recognise that the amount being borrowed was relatively low,
but this was a high interest loan, repayable over an extended period. Overall, I thought
Loans2Go ought to have gone further with its checks for the second loan to ensure that Ms F
could repay the loan sustainably over the whole loan term.
But from the evidence Id seen, its not clear to me whether better checks by Loans2Go
(such as requesting a bank statement) would have uncovered anything that would have
shown that Ms F might have difficulty repaying the second loan in a sustainable manner. I
thought about whether the checks that Loans2Go did carry out ought reasonably to have led
it to decline to lend to Ms F for a second time. On balance, I didnt think they did.
Ms F had previously been asked to provide bank statements by this Service, but she hadnt
done so. Without additional information, I could not fairly say what better checks by 
Loans2Go would have shown when Ms F applied for her second loan. And from what Id 
seen, I didnt think the lender ought simply to have declined her loan application based on 
the information it did gather. I said I was not intending to uphold the complaint about the
second loan.
I invited both parties to send me further evidence or comment. Loans2Go says it has nothing 
further to add. Ms Fs representatives said they would pass my provisional decision to Ms F, 
but I have not seen any further evidence or comment from her or her representative. The 
deadline for providing evidence in response to my provisional decision has now passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Overall, Ive not seen anything which makes me think that Loans2Go treated Ms F unfairly in
any other way. But as I explained, I cant fairly say that Loans2Go acted irresponsibly when 
it provided the first loan to Ms F. And I am not upholding Ms Fs complaint about the second 
loan as I haven't seen enough evidence for me to say that better checks in respect of this 
loan ought reasonably to have led to the loan application being declined.
I know Ms F will be disappointed by my decision. But Id like to reassure her that I have 
carefully considered everything that both she and Loans2Go have told us and all the 
information that has been provided. Having done so, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against Loans 
2 Go Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman