DRN-2708832
The complaint
Mr L has complained about the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled his claim under his 
motor policy following an accident.
Mr L is represented by his mother Mrs L. However, I shall just refer to Mr L throughout for 
ease of reference. 
What happened
Mr L was involved in an accident in May 2019. Unfortunately, he had only obtained his 
vehicle the week before and had some work done on it too. 
He felt Avivas recovery agents damaged it further, which in turn meant it was written off. He 
was also upset that Aviva initially blamed the other driver, however ultimately liability for the 
accident was deemed to be a 50/50 split. 
There were delays because his vehicle didnt pass the HPI check because the previous 
owner still had a finance agreement on it.  Mr L also didnt believe Aviva correctly valued his 
vehicle.
Mr L also complained that his premium increased substantially once he brought a new 
vehicle and asked Aviva to cover it under this policy.
Aviva delayed in providing him the relevant information when he raised a data subject 
access request.
Aviva agreed its service to Mr L was poor and paid him £300 compensation, but Mr L didnt 
think that was enough. So, he brought his complaint to us.
Ultimately the investigator didnt uphold it. Mr L didnt agree so his complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
I do understand how frustrated Mr L has been throughout, along with his mother, more so 
when this was a vehicle on which Mr L had done some significant work for which he had 
paid. However, all accidents cause a significant level of inconvenience and of course 
insurers arent involved in the accident either. I shall take each of the issues I consider to be 
important and now explain my reasoning.
Vehicle write off
Theres very little evidence to show that the actions of the recovery driver or indeed 
paramedics caused the vehicle to be written off, rather than the damage caused in the 
collision. Ive seen the video evidence Mr L produced but like the initial investigator, its not 
enough to show me what extra damage might have been caused by this and whether it was 
this possible extra damage which deemed the vehicle a total loss. Certainly, the damage 
listed by Avivas engineer does show the vehicle was badly damaged and therefore I 
consider it was reasonably written off by Aviva. 
Whilst Mr L might disagree with this, Ive no other evidence before me to consider the matter 
further. Therefore, I dont think Aviva did anything wrong in deeming the vehicle to be a total 
loss. 
Vehicle valuation
Mr L doesnt believe Aviva took account of all the work and new parts fitted to his vehicle 
before the accident. However, Avivas duty under the policy is to provide the market 
valuation of the vehicle immediately before the accident. Obviously, any work done to the 
vehicle will ensure its at the excellent end of the description of the condition of the vehicle 
but there is no duty under the policy terms in any motor insurance policy and likewise not in 
Mr Ls policy with Aviva, to reimburse the policyholder for new tyres or engine parts etc as 
they are assumed to be on the vehicle in any event. The fact they all might be new doesnt 
affect the market value of the vehicle in any substantial way. And neither is there any duty to 
reimburse Mr L for any warranty he had. 
 
As the investigator explained, this service takes the view that its reasonable for insurers to 
use the trade guides to value vehicles. On looking at them, its clear that Aviva paid Mr L 
more than the trade guides which indicates to me some consideration was given to the 
recent work on the vehicle. The lowest of the three guides quoted £14,927 and the highest 
quoted £17,015. Aviva actually paid Mr L £17,850 which is an extra £775. I consider this was 
substantially more than the trade guides and therefore I dont consider Aviva is under any 
other duty to increase this figure, since its liability is limited only to pay Mr L the market value 
and since it paid him more than the highest listed value on the trade guides, so it follows that 
there is nothing to show me this is unreasonable or unfair. 
 
Mr L complained that he wasnt paid for the cover he had bought for the pickup section of his 
vehicle. However, he kept this, and it wasnt a loss with his vehicle so there is no duty on 
Aviva to reimburse him for it. 
Responsibility for causing the accident
Mr Ls accident happened with a neighbour who was known to him. Mr L has complained 
that initially Aviva told his neighbours insurers it was holding the neighbour responsible for 
causing the accident when he never said it was the neighbours fault. The accident was then 
deemed quite early on to be a 50/50 split meaning both Mr L and his neighbour were equally 
at fault for causing the accident.
 
It clear from Avivas file that Mr L never said the other driver, his neighbour caused the 
accident. But again, from very early on both insurers did consider it would be a 50/50 split on 
liability. I do understand that Mr Ls neighbour did approach him and was quite hostile, but I 
also consider Aviva was honouring its duties to Mr L under the policy too. It does appear that 
initially the neighbour accused Mr L of being on his phone which Mr L was clear wasnt the 
case also.As the investigator explained, Aviva is perfectly entitled to take over, settle or defend any 
claim as it thinks fit. This is a standard clause in all motor insurance policies, so I dont 
consider it unusual or unfair. Avivas liability to Mr L is to protect his interests, therefore its 
not unusual or wrong for some negotiation to take place over who was responsible for 
causing the accident, especially initially, as happened here.
 
Give the lack of independent witnesses I dont consider its now unreasonable the eventual 
outcome was this 50/50 split. Aviva in any event paid Mr L compensation for its handling of 
his claim of which part is credited to this, which I will discuss separately below.
 
Increase in premium
Mr L bought a new vehicle and asked Aviva to cover it under his policy. On underwriting it, 
Aviva charged Mr L a further £900 approximately in premium, which he considered was 
unfair. He also said Aviva told him his premium wouldnt increase.
Having listened to the three call recordings, I dont consider Aviva ever told Mr L his 
premiums wouldnt increase, like the investigator I consider no such assurance was ever 
given to Mr L about this. All three said it would depend on the underwriting of the vehicle.
In looking at complaints concerning such mid-term premium increases we asked Aviva to 
show us its underwriting guide and pricing information to see how it calculated the premium 
increase. This is commercially sensitive information, so Im not permitted to share this with 
Mr L, more so since our decisions are published. However, Aviva like all insurers is entitled 
to decide what risks it wants to cover and for how much and provided it treats its customers 
in similar situations the same, there is nothing inherently unfair about it.
Mr Ls new vehicle was a later model, which unfortunately given Mr Ls age, then triggered 
Avivas young drivers policy which accounts for most of the increase of premium it charged 
Mr L. Since any other customer of Mr Ls age, driving this type of vehicle would have been 
charged the same, then it follows that Mr L hasnt been singled out or treated differently. 
Therefore, theres nothing to show me Aviva has been unreasonable in its calculation of the 
premium increase.
Delays and lack of service
Sadly, the previous owner of Mr Ls vehicle still had a finance agreement on his car. This 
meant that needed to be clarified and sorted out before Aviva could pay Mr L the market 
value of his vehicle. This is because Aviva isnt permitted to pay out on the market value 
without ascertaining the situation with the entity that has the finance on the vehicle.
Obviously, it was nothing to do with Aviva that this finance agreement was still attached to 
Mr Ls vehicle, even though the finance agreement had nothing to with Mr L.
 
The finance agreement wasnt cleared and removed until 28 June 2019. From then the 
payment to Mr L didnt take place until 22 July 2019 with the offer being made on 10 July 
2019. Its clear Aviva made further enquiries with Mr L around the work he had done to the 
vehicle and the engineer was required to consider it too at this time too. All in all, I dont 
consider there was an excessive delay here.
Theres certainly evidence that there were problems with Mr Ls hire car and delays in calling 
Mr L back, ensuring he had to chase Aviva. However, Aviva paid Mr L £300 compensation 
for this to include the issues he had raised over who was responsible for causing the 
accident. I consider this reasonable. Its slightly more than I have awarded in other similar situations had Aviva offered nothing and so I think taking everything into consideration, its 
fair and reasonable. 
Accidents sadly are inconvenient and there is much to deal with and not everything goes 
smoothly unfortunately  here the previous owners outstanding finance caused delays, 
which was neither Avivas or Mr Ls fault. 
Mrs L being Mr Ls representative throughout most of this, has complained that she should 
be compensated for her time and bother in chasing everything up. However, whilst Mrs L is a 
named driver on Mr Ls policy, as the investigator explained, since she wasnt involved in the 
accident, we can only consider the effect on Mr L as the eligible complainant under our rules. 
She obviously chose to help her son but that doesnt permit her to be compensated for that. 
 Data Subject Access Request
I dont have any jurisdiction to consider any issues Mr L might have with this as this is 
regulated by the Information Commissioners Office, not this service. And I understand the 
investigator gave Mr L the details of this office should he wish to take matters further. 
Conclusion
This was obviously a traumatic event for Mr L as a young driver. It was a new vehicle for 
him, on which he had worked and spent money, and the accident happened with a 
neighbour to make matters more sensitive.
However, Aviva paid Mr L more than the market value, namely an extra £775, (less the 
required excess) and paid £300 compensation for its service failings along with the fault of 
the accident being shared equally between both parties.
Taking everything into account, I consider this was reasonable outcome in these 
circumstances.   
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman