DRN-3039051
The complaint
Mr F complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) has made several changes to its service which he 
is unhappy with.
What happened
Mr F says:
TSB has removed the Gold Account (GA) fee waiver, so he now has to pay a monthly fee;
TSB has reduced the interest on his savings account to a very low level;
TSB has made the security on his online account more complicated than it needs to be;
TSB has closed branches including his local one.
He also complains that his complaint to TSB was poorly handled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I understand that Mr F has suffered significant ill health recently, and I wish him well 
in his recovery.
Ive read Mr Fs complaint carefully.
I can understand that removing the fee waiver from his GA made the GA much less 
attractive to him. 
I can see from his account statements that the interest return on his savings is extremely 
low. 
I acknowledge that the TSB online security process is complex. 
And I can understand that Mr F is very disappointed that his local branch has closed.
Putting all this together with his ill health I am very sympathetic to the fact that he is very 
unhappy with the impact this has had on him.
What I need to consider is whether TSB has done anything wrong in the action it has taken.
While I know Mr F will be disappointed by this, I cant see that it has. 
Removing the fee waiver on his GA and lowering the interest rate on his savings account are 
both commercial decisions which TSB was entitled to take. And I think it provided adequate 
notification about the changes and what Mr F needed to do if he wished to close either 
account.
TSB is required to make its online service secure and I cant see that it is out of line with 
other banks in the way it has done this.
And there is no obligation on a bank to have a particular number of branches or put them in 
a particular place.
So, unfortunately, while I can see the impact all of this has had on Mr F, Im not able to say 
that TSB has done anything wrong, as I would need to if I were to uphold his complaint.
For completeness I need to add, as explained by our adjudicator, that complaint handling by 
a bank is not something within the jurisdiction of this service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman