DRN-2951327
The complaint
Mr W complained that Valour Finance Limited, when it was trading as Savvy.co.uk (Savvy) 
lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr W took out loans with Savvy as follows: 
loan start date date repaidmonthly 
instalmentsloan 
amounthighest 
instalment 
amount
111/10/2018 23/10/2018 15 £1500 £200
226/11/2018 29/11/2019 12 £850 £141.65
Mr W mainly complained that Savvy didnt carry out appropriate affordability checks. And he 
was unhappy that when he paid loan 1, shortly after taking it out, Savvy then gave him 
another loan  without asking for more evidence like bank statements, despite the fact he 
had a very low credit score and he was being refused credit elsewhere. Mr W said he was in 
financial difficulty at the time and had several loans with other companies that took up all of 
his wages  information which he feels Savvy shouldve seen from its checks. 
One of our adjudicators investigated these loans. In brief summary, she didnt think that the 
information gathered raised concerns that the loans wouldnt be affordable or that Savvy saw 
anything that shouldve prompted it to do more checks before agreeing to lend loan 1. She 
thought that before lending loan 2 Savvy shouldve taken steps to build a more detailed 
picture of Mr Ws financial situation. But she didnt feel that she had seen anything in the 
information provided which suggested that Savvy wouldve known that Mr W wouldnt be 
able to sustainably make the repayments on loan 2.
And our adjudicator didnt think that the number of loans Mr W took, the amounts they were 
for or the period of time he was borrowing meant his loan history, on its own, shouldve 
shown Savvy he mightve been experiencing underlying financial difficulty.
So our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W disagreed with our adjudicators view. Mainly he said that he has provided evidence 
showing that both the loans were unaffordable for him when he was in financial crisis and 
spending every penny repaying and taking out new loans. He felt strongly that Savvy didnt 
carry out appropriate checks before lending. And Mr W felt that it cant be right not to uphold 
his complaint when he said other complaints from this time were found in his favour. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
Savvy was required to establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make the repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Theres no set list of checks that are proportionate. In general, what constitutes a 
proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a number of factors including  but 
not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and Mr Ws income and expenditure. 
And, for a first loan, less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Savvy did what it needed to 
before agreeing to lend to Mr W and thought carefully about the following key questions:
 Did Savvy complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr W would 
be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending decision? If 
not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
 Did Savvy act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I've carefully listened to the call recordings Savvy provided from when Mr W applied for 
these loans. And I've thought about each loan in turn.
loan 1Before lending to Mr W, Savvy asked Mr W for information about his financial situation. 
Using this information, Savvy was able to see what his monthly budget typically looked like. 
And it worked out what he could afford to borrow. 
Savvy asked Mr W about his job and did an automated income check which enabled it to 
rely on Mr W getting his declared take home pay of £2000. 
Savvy also asked Mr W about his outgoings and after checking through these with Mr W it 
worked out he would have a total monthly expenditure of £1054.97.
Savvy also did a credit check and asked Mr W to confirm that what it saw on its credit check 
regarding his credit cards and a couple of current accounts was correct.
Savvy specifically named some other providers of high cost credit and asked Mr W if he was 
paying any loans to any of those lenders  Mr W confirmed that he wasnt and explained he 
had recently repaid a loan to one of them and no further payments were due. 
Savvy calculated that Mr Ws monthly surplus was £945.03. So it was satisfied that the loan 
repayments of £200 per month for this loan shouldve been comfortably affordable for Mr W. 
And based on his responses to the information it had gathered on its credit checks, Savvy 
felt it was fair to lend to him. 
Mr W feels strongly that his credit history clearly showed he wasnt in a position to be given 
any further lending as he had outstanding credit and he was already having problems 
managing his debt. 
But I think its fair to say that all the information Savvy had gathered tended to suggest that 
Mr W seemed to be managing his credit without any obvious signs that he had a serious 
debt problem. Savvy has sent me its credit checks so I can see the same information that it 
relied on when assessing if this loan was likely to be sustainably affordable for him. It saw 
that Mr W had three credit cards approaching their limit and that he was making some use of 
bank overdrafts. He also appeared to have an outstanding unsecured loan for £300 dating 
back to early 2017 with no record of any payments.  
But the credit checks didnt show that Mr W was involved in any sort of arrangement with 
creditors and bankruptcy wasnt flagged up. He had no active county court judgements 
registered. These credit checks dont appear to me to show anything that would seriously 
call into question or contradict what Mr W told Savvy over the phone. And I dont think there 
was anything else that I can see that shouldve caused a reasonable lender to be concerned 
about providing loan 1.
It wouldnt be unusual for someone applying for this type of lending to have other debt  and 
sometimes even an impaired credit history. And these wouldnt necessarily be reasons not to 
lend. I dont think the amount of debt shown on Mr Ws credit checks was excessive or that 
his payment history was concerning having regard to his income. 
Id expect Savvy to decide Mr Ws lending application based on the information it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. And I dont think it was unreasonable for Savvy to 
provide loan 1  especially as there wasnt anything obvious, in the information it had, to 
suggest Mr W wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. So thats why Im 
planning on not upholding loan 1.
loan 2
Mr W took out loan 2 just over a month or so after paying loan 1 early  which he had 
cleared when he was only 13 days or so into the 15 months loan term. But I dont think this was enough to make Savvy think that Mr W was struggling with being over-stretched 
financially  especially bearing in mind that he seemed to have repaid loan 1 without any 
evident money problems and loan 2 was for a substantially smaller amount.
Mr Ws circumstances were broadly unchanged  Savvy took him through his declared 
income and expenditure and did a background check which again confirmed that he had 
been receiving a minimum of £2000 monthly for the past 12 months (just as Mr W had said).
Savvy also checked his use of other credit. I think its fair to say that its credit checks 
showed that Mr Ws overdraft limit on one of his bank accounts had gone up from £2000 to 
£3,335  and that it looked like Mr W was making full use of that borrowing option. Also, he 
was using a further £100 of his available overdraft on another bank current account  taking 
him almost up to his £1000 limit on that account. Mr W also still had three credit cards with 
only limited available credit  and the unsecured loan from 2017 showing on his record.
Savvy discussed the information showing on its credit checks and asked Mr W to confirm it 
had identified this debt correctly. Savvy checked again with Mr W that he wasnt indebted to 
any of the named lenders it asked him about and asked whether he had any other debts 
apart from the ones it had mentioned or any expenditure at all that hadnt been covered. 
Mr W said no to all these enquiries.
Taking everything into account, I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Savvy to 
probe any more deeply into Mr Ws finances or ask Mr W to prove what he was declaring (by 
requiring him to send in his bank statements for instance) or check other information sources 
to verify what he had told them (or omitted to say) about his financial circumstances. Unlike 
our adjudicator, I think its checks were proportionate and Savvys lending decision wasnt 
irresponsible. Even if I were to think that Savvy should have done better checks before 
agreeing to provide these loans, I havent seen anything in the information available to me 
which shows Savvy would have decided not to agree to lend had it done so. So I cant fairly 
uphold Mr Ws complaint about loan 2. 
In coming to my decision I've thought carefully about everything Mr W said in response to 
our adjudicators view and his point that paying off loan 1 so quickly should have prompted 
Savvy to ask more questions. But Mr W saved a significant amount of interest by doing so 
and if his circumstances allowed him to do this I can see why it mightve made good financial 
sense. Keeping in mind that loan 2 was for a substantially smaller amount, over a shorter 
loan term, I dont think Savvy had any strong reason to think that Mr W was in serious 
financial difficulty  particularly given the lack of any indication of this on its credit checks. 
I appreciate that Mr W feels strongly that Savvy should have seen the extent of his loan 
activity around this time. But when a lender carries out a credit search, the information it 
sees doesnt usually provide the same level of detail that a persons own credit search will. 
And it isnt necessarily up to date  that can depend on when other creditors have reported 
information and when its been recorded by the credit reference agency. A lender might only 
see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some information might be missing or 
anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short term lenders report to the same 
credit reference agencies. This is why information that Mr W feels Savvy should have found 
out, and that he might see on his own credit check, may not have been identified by a credit 
check done by Savvy when he applied for this loan. 
I think that Savvy gave Mr W fair opportunity to provide relevant information about his 
spending and it was entitled, at this early stage in their relationship, to rely on the information 
he provided. He said loan 2 wasnt going to be used to pay other credit  it was for home 
improvements. What Mr W said, and what Savvy saw on the credit checks it carried out, didnt suggest 
anything that makes me think Savvy shouldve been prompted to probe more deeply into 
Mr Ws reasons for borrowing or take steps to verify what he was saying. I would just 
mention also that information from Mr Ws credit history that I've seen from around this time 
tends to support Savvys lending decisions.
Ive also taken into account what Mr W said about the way other complaints have been dealt 
with. But each complaint is looked at on its own merits  no two complaints are likely to be 
identical in every way and the outcome on each will depend on its own facts. 
In a case Mr W mentioned that was upheld by an ombudsman colleague I can see that the 
lender had access to certain background information about Mr Ws financial situation that 
Savvy didnt have here. Ive looked at the circumstances that apply in this particular case 
and so what happened elsewhere doesnt change my conclusion.  
Taking everything into account, I think Mr W was aware he was taking high cost loans on 
terms he seemed happy to agree to at the time. 
I dont think Savvy had any reason to think that Mr W wouldnt be able to sustainably repay 
the loans. 
Im very sorry that Mr W had a problem with debt and that repaying these loans proved 
difficult for him. I accept that in reality Mr Ws actual circumstances possibly werent fully 
reflected either in the information he provided, or the other information Savvy obtained. 
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. And, in this case, I havent seen enough to make me think that Savvy acted 
towards Mr W in any way that wasnt fair and reasonable. 
So I havent seen anything to make me think this is a case where it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to award any redress. 
I appreciate that my provisional decision will disappoint Mr W. But I hope my explanations 
help him understand why, as things stand at the moment, Ive reached these conclusions. 
If Mr W is still in a position where he would like help to manage his finances or to talk to 
someone about his situation, theres more information about how to get free debt advice on 
our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr W sent me further details of other loans he had taken out which he feels havent properly 
been considered. He says his toal loan repayments exceeded what he was earning each 
month, he doesnt agree with the reasoning for taking out another loan in a short space of 
time and he feels strongly that Savvy should have asked for further information, such as 
bank statements. He believes that Savvy should have found out about the full extent of his 
use of credit.  
Savvy has told me it has nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I appreciate that Mr W feels strongly about what happened and he holds a different view to 
me. 
I would like to assure Mr W that Ive taken carefully into account all the information I've been 
sent and everything thats been said, including his comments in response to my provisional 
decision. 
Mr W hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think about this case. 
Im very sorry that Mr W had a problem with debt. But this alone isnt enough of a reason for 
his complaint to succeed.
In order to uphold his complaint, I would have to be able to say that Savvy did something 
wrong or that it acted unfairly in some way. But I think Savvy carried out checks that were 
proportionate before lending to Mr W and did what I would reasonably expect a lender in 
these circumstances to do. 
In addition to asking Mr W for information about his income and expenditure, Savvy did its 
own credit checks. 
Savvy then pressed Mr W for information about what it saw on its credit checks and asked 
him specific and direct questions about any borrowing with certain other lenders. 
The answers Savvy obtained to the questions it asked and the results of its credit checks 
appeared to show that the loans it provided would be sustainably affordable for Mr W. 
For all the reasons I have explained more fully in my provisional decision, I think its fair to 
say that Savvy was entitled to rely on the information it gathered. 
So I cant fairly say it should have found out all the information Mr W has told us about if 
Mr W didnt tell Savvy about everything  and although I can see he was fully engaged in the 
loan application process, I cant see that he did this. 
As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
I can understand why Mr W is disappointed in the outcome of his complaint but I hope that 
setting things out as Ive done helps explain how Ive come to my view.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against Valour Finance Limited trading 
as Savvy.co.uk.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman