DRN-3610959
The complaint
Mr A complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) unfairly 
declined his claim for the theft of his watch under his home contents insurance policy. 
What happened
In November 2021 Mr A noticed that his watch was missing from the bedside table where it 
had been left in a jewellery box since August. He says there was no evidence of a break in 
during this period. He couldnt find the watch after searching for it so made a claim to Red 
Sands. Mr A thought the watch must have been taken by someone he let into the house. He 
thought it most likely that this was one of the cleaners, which he reported to the police.
Red Sands declined Mr As claim. It says there was no evidence of forced entry into his 
home or evidence of entry by deception. It says the circumstances described dont meet the 
definition of burglary as if a theft had occurred it was by someone given access and not 
trespassing without consent. 
Mr A didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint. He says there was no sign of forced entry and no deception was 
used to gain entry. He thought Red Sands had declined the claim fairly based on the policy 
terms.
Mr A didnt agree. He says the police logged this crime as a burglary. He thinks this means 
the policy covers his loss. Mr A says Red Sands is using an arbitrary definition of the policy 
wording to justify declining his claim. Because he remained dissatisfied, he asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but I 
will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
When Mr A reported the loss of his watch, he said it had been on his bedside table from 
August 2021 until he noticed it was missing in November. There were no signs of a break-in 
during this period.  
I have read Mr As policy terms to understand the cover provided in these circumstances. 
The policy terms, under the contents section, say:
We pay for: Burglary while the house has all windows and doors closed and locked.
And:
Burglary following entry to the house by deception.
In its final complaint response Red Sands says there is no definition of burglary within the 
policy wording. It refers to the dictionary definition and the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) 
definition, which says:
Burglary consists of entering a building or part of a building as a trespasser intent to commit 
theft, grievous bodily harm, or criminal damage; or having entered as a trespasser, stealing, 
or inflicting/attempting to inflict grievous bodily harm. 
Red Sands says the police told Mr A that whilst they had classified the incident as a burglary 
it was technically theft dwelling, as the likely offenders may have had permission to be in 
his home. Red Sands says these circumstances dont meet the definition of burglary.
Ive read the email Mr A received from the police in December 2021. As above this confirms 
the incident has been classified as burglary, albeit technically referred to as a theft dwelling. 
Ive thought about Mr As comments that if it was the cleaner who stole his watch, they were 
trespassing. I note he also refers to the legal case of R v Jones, which relates to a burglary 
and when a person is considered a trespasser. Mr A says it cant be proven what the 
intentions of the individual were when entering his home. But he thinks its reasonable to 
presume they couldve intended stealing the watch having noticed it on a previous occasion. 
He thinks the case law supports his view that the individual who stole his watch was a 
trespasser in these circumstances. I also note his comments that arguing specific points of 
law isnt something he or this service should be focusing on. He says his policy terms are 
badly written and ambiguous and says the role of this service is to find a fair and impartial 
outcome. 
Mr A asked if Red Sands would accept a settlement to cover 50% of his loss. We put this 
proposition to the business, but It didnt agree for the reasons it had already given. 
I agree with Mr A that we offer a dispute resolution service that is separate to the courts. I 
must have regard to the law, but ultimately will base my findings on what I consider fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances. Having thought carefully about the arguments put 
forward Im more persuaded by Red Sands view that the policy terms dont provide cover 
here. 
I sympathise with Mr A for the loss he has incurred. I also acknowledge his comments that a 
consumer shouldnt be expected to go through insurance documents to ensure every aspect 
of the Theft Act is covered for. But I think the circumstances where a claim isnt covered is 
clearly set out in his policy terms. 
I think it was reasonable for Red Sands to apply the CPS definition of burglary. This means 
the individual who stole Mr As watch must have entered his home as a trespasser. It isnt 
definitively known if the watch was stolen, by whom or when this happened. But all parties 
appear to agree that assuming the watch was stolen, the perpetrator was someone who was 
granted access to Mr As home. I think Red Sands view that the individual didnt enter the 
property as a trespasser to commit a burglary is fair in these circumstances. 
I dont think its been shown that a burglary took place with respect to the CPS definition or 
that entry was gained to the house by deception. The policy terms provide cover for losses 
incurred because of a burglary and for a burglary following entry to the house by deception. 
But I dont think its been shown that this happened here.
Insurance policies dont cover every eventuality. The insurer is free to decide what cover its prepared to offer and ultimately what risks it is willing to accept. We expect the cover 
provided to be clearly explained. But having considered the policy documentation I think Red 
Sands view is fair that cover isnt provided in these circumstances, which is set out in its 
policy terms. 
Red Sands says Mr A was asked, when he took out his policy, if he employed any domestic 
staff such as cleaners or childminders. The policy document he was sent under, My details, 
says no domestic staff were employed. This wasnt mentioned when Red Sands declined Mr 
As claim or in its final complaint response. But it was highlighted to our investigator who 
informed Mr A of this when referring his complaint to an ombudsman. Mr A hasnt provided 
comment on this point. 
I understand from Mr As testimony that he employs a nanny and has cleaners who visit his 
home every other week. Its not clear if this was the case when he took out the policy. But Mr 
A by his own admission, was employing domestic staff when he discovered his watch was 
missing. I think it was incumbent on Mr A to provide accurate information about his domestic 
staff at the inception of the policy. If their employment happened later, this change is 
something he was specifically asked to update Red Sands with. This is set out on the front 
page of the My Details document, with the heading IMPORTANT - PLEASE READ 
CAREFULLY. 
In summary Mr A believes his watch was stolen by a cleaner whom he allowed to have 
access to his home. He confirms his watch was left in a jewellery box, which has a clear 
plastic window in the top, and this was left on his bedside table. The cleaners had access to 
his bedroom, and they werent supervised whilst in the house. I dont think this was a risk 
Red Sands was made aware of despite Mr A being asked if he employed domestic staff. 
Having considered all of this I dont think Red Sands treated Mr A unfairly in relying on its 
policy terms and declining the claim for the reasons it gave. So, I cant reasonably ask it to 
do any more to resolve this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman