DRN-3847745
The complaint
Mr D complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money requires him to give a 
reason for the transfer whenever he moves some money out of his account. Mr D wanted 
Virgin to give him the option not to tell it what the transfer was for. 
What happened
Mr D said he was paying money to a family member from his Virgin account, but now Virgin 
asks him to give a reason for the transfer. He says this is none of Virgins business, and he 
shouldnt have to give it this information. Mr D said Virgin had told him this happened 
because of changes by the FCA, but Mr D said hed asked the FCA, and that wasnt right. 
He said Virgin then told him this was for his own financial safety. 
Mr D said that every time he transfers money using his Virgin app, hes now giving false 
information. But he doesnt think he should have to give any information at all, and he said 
that none of his other banks ask this. He wanted Virgin to give him the option not to answer.
Virgin said it had put this new process in place to keep its customers accounts safe. It said 
when a customer selects the reason for the transfer, that allows it to provide the relevant 
security and scam prevention messages. Virgin said it does have the right to ask Mr D this 
information, and if he wasnt happy to provide it, his account might be closed in future.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Virgin had explained 
what it was doing was designed to help protect customers from potential fraud and to 
provide customers with more tailored fraud warnings depending on the reason they choose 
for sending money. This was something it had done for all its customers. Our investigator 
didnt think Virgin had done anything wrong by updating its security systems in this way. So 
he said we wouldnt tell Virgin to change this. 
Mr D didnt agree. He wanted this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
As scams become ever more sophisticated, Virgin wants to be sure that its warning its 
customers about ways in which they might possibly lose their money. And different warnings 
are appropriate for different sorts of payment. Thats why Virgin has started to ask for the 
reason for a transfer  so it can provide a short, to the point warning which is relevant to that 
type of transfer. 
I can understand that Mr D might find this annoying for a regular payment to a family 
member, when hes absolutely confident theres no scam involved. But I think that the minor 
inconvenience to Mr D has to be balanced against the benefit of preventing those who are 
perhaps less astute from losing their money. And in that context, I dont think its 
unreasonable or unfair for Virgin to ask Mr D the purpose of his payment, even if its a 
payment hes made before. 
I know Mr D will be disappointed, but I dont think his complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman