DRN-4483425
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the service Santander UK Plc provided when she applied to transfer 
the mortgage she held jointly with her husband into her sole name.
What happened
Mrs G and her ex-husband jointly own a property that is subject to a mortgage with 
Santander. Mrs G had lived in the property with her son for several years, paying the 
mortgage and other property related expenses. Mrs G and her ex-husband were divorcing.
As part of the agreement between them, the property was to be transferred into Mrs Gs sole 
name. Mrs G made a change of borrower application to put the mortgage into her sole name 
as well.
Mrs G discussed her application with Santander in June 2022. In July they issued a 
mortgage offer. Mrs G appointed solicitors to act for her in relation to the conveyancing.
Since Mrs Gs son was 17 and wouldnt be party to the mortgage, Santander required him to 
sign a Deed of Consent (the Deed). Mrs G told Santander he lacked capacity to sign when 
she discussed her application with them in June. They said, in summary, theyd note their 
file, and she might ask her solicitors for guidance about who would be able to sign on his 
behalf.
When Mrs Gs solicitors asked Santander for guidance in August, they said the Deed would 
need to be signed by a court appointed Deputy, Guardian or Controller (a representative) on 
behalf of Mrs Gs son. Applications to the court to appoint a representative were taking many 
months at the time and wouldnt have happened before the mortgage offer expired. Mrs G 
was unhappy Santander wouldnt agree to deal with things in another way and complained.
Santander didnt uphold her complaint. They said they had let Mrs G know in June her son 
would be required to sign the Deed; the July mortgage offer had set out the requirement; and 
their mortgage team had confirmed the position to Mrs Gs solicitors in August. They said 
they couldnt go ahead with the application without the signature; the offer was valid until 
November; and they were currently allowing extensions of a month. 
Mrs G was unhappy with Santanders response. A months extension wouldnt allow enough 
time for the court application to go through. She brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator came to the view that Santander hadnt been wrong to require her son to 
sign the Deed. She noted the mortgage offer had set out the Deed would be required. But 
our investigator felt Santander could have explained things to Mrs G more clearly. She 
thought that if Santander had told Mrs G she needed to have a representative to sign on her 
sons behalf she would have saved time and money by not seeking advice from her solicitor 
in relation to that issue. She said Santander should pay Mrs Gs legal costs associated with 
that. Our investigator thought that since Mrs G would always have incurred conveyancing 
costs relating to the mortgage application, and there was no reason why that couldnt go 
ahead once shed resolved the court issues, Santander didnt need to meet that part of her 
legal fees. In addition, our investigator felt the way in which Santander had communicated 
about the Deed was unfair and they should pay Mrs G £200 compensation to reflect that.
Mrs G didnt agree. She said, broadly, if shed known at the outset shed need to apply to the 
court, she wouldnt have gone ahead with the mortgage application since it wasnt viable, 
and she wouldnt have incurred any fees. She thinks Santander should pay her the full 
amount of the fees she paid, compensation for the inconvenience shes suffered and the 
additional costs of borrowing shell have to pay once her application goes ahead since 
interest rates have gone up.
Santander asked for clarification about the legal fees our investigator was suggesting should 
be reimbursed as there was no breakdown.
Since the complaint hadnt been resolved, it was passed to me to decide. I recently issued a 
provisional decision an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs Gs strength of feeling about what happened. And Im sorry to hear of the 
stress she was under at the time of making the application given her personal 
circumstances. However, whilst I understand she will be disappointed, Ive come to a similar 
outcome as our investigator for broadly the same reasons. I have a different view about how 
Santander should put things right. So, Im issuing a provisional decision to give the parties 
the chance to comment further before I come to a final decision.
Im grateful for the detailed information and points the parties have made. I may not mention 
everything theyve said here. No discourtesy is intended by that. It simply reflects the 
informal nature of the service we provide. Ill focus on what I consider key in coming to my 
decision.
It was reasonable for Santander to require Mrs Gs son to sign the Deed. Without it, they 
might find it difficult to repossess the property to recover their lending, if they needed to in 
the future, because of legal rights he might have over the property. And Santander made it 
sufficiently clear the Deed would have to be signed. They told Mrs G in June her son would 
need to sign a form to say he had no financial interest in the property and the reasons why. 
And the mortgage offer set out clearly the requirement for the Deed. In all the circumstances, 
I dont think it was unfair for them to insist on it.
However, Santander didnt explain soon enough what they required where an individual 
lacked capacity to sign the Deed. When Mrs G told Santander in June that her son couldnt 
sign, neither they nor Mrs G knew how to overcome that difficulty. It was left on the basis it 
was something Mrs G might be able to discuss with her solicitors. The mortgage offer didnt 
explain things either. It wasnt until Mrs Gs solicitors asked for clarification and Santander 
provided it in late August that the need for a court application was made clear to Mrs G.
Santanders policy set out that where the person required to sign the Deed lacked mental 
capacity, the Deed would need to be signed by their court appointed representative. 
Santander were able to tell Mrs Gs solicitors this when they sought guidance in August. Its 
reasonable to think Santander could have told Mrs G the position when she discussed the 
application in June. The adviser ought reasonably to have checked Santanders policy and 
let Mrs G know at the time.Mrs G has said that if Santander had let her know shed need to make an application to the 
court in the first place and it would take up to a year, she would never have gone ahead with 
the application and incurred the solicitors fees.
I wouldnt expect Santander to have known Mrs G would need to make a court application 
or, if they did, how long an application might take. They are mortgage lenders, not lawyers. 
But if Santander had let Mrs G know in June what they required, I think its likely she would 
have let her solicitors know. They could then have checked how long a court application 
would take. And once the offer had been issued in July, and the time for acceptance was 
known, it would have been clear Mrs G wouldnt be able to accept the offer before it expired. 
I dont think things would have progressed beyond that stage.
In the circumstances, but for Santanders mistake, I think its likely Mrs Gs legal costs would 
have been limited to the work the solicitors carried out in checking the court procedure and 
timescales for the court application and advising on the implications of that given the terms 
of the mortgage offer. There would have been no need for them to contact Santander or 
carry out any further work relating to the conveyancing. It follows that any costs Mrs G paid 
over and above the costs of that work should be reimbursed by Santander.
Mrs Gs said there was no rush for the mortgage application to go ahead since shed agreed 
with her ex-husband to stay in the property. But shes also mentioned her concerns that her 
application might be more difficult in the future if her income reduced when her son got older. 
So, I can understand it was distressing to find out her application couldnt proceed. Its fair 
she is compensated for that. I think the sum of £200 our investigator recommended is 
reasonable.
It wouldnt be fair to ask Santander to meet Mrs Gs additional costs of borrowing in the 
future due to higher interest rates. Ive said it was reasonable for them to insist on the Deed 
being signed. They arent responsible for the fact the necessary court application would take 
a long time or that interest rates have increased since Mrs G first applied.
I note Mrs G raised concerns about her solicitors knowledge about the court application. Its 
not reasonable to hold Santander responsible for any impact that had on Mrs G. Although 
the solicitors were on a panel of firms Santander had approved to carry out conveyancing 
work associated with mortgage applications, they were acting for Mrs G. If shes unhappy 
with the work the solicitors carried out, shed need to raise a complaint with them.
To put things right I think its fair for Santander to pay all Mrs Gs legal costs except for the 
costs her solicitors would have charged her for checking the process and timescales for the 
court application and advising on the implications of that given the terms of the mortgage 
offer; interest on those costs; and compensation of £200.
Mrs G will need to ask her solicitors to provide a breakdown of their costs so the amount 
Santander needs to reimburse her is clear unless the parties can reach agreement about the 
amount Santander will pay. And she will also need to provide proof of payment.My provisional decision
I intend to uphold Mrs Gs complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to pay
1. subject to Mrs G providing a breakdown of costs from her solicitors and proof of 
payment, all her legal costs except for the costs her solicitors would have charged 
her for checking the court procedure and timescales for the court application and 
advising on the implications of that given the terms of the mortgage offer;
2. simple interest on those costs at the rate of 8 per cent a year from the date Mrs G 
paid them until Santander reimburse them; and
3. £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
If Mrs G incurs any fees in obtaining the breakdown, Santander should pay those fees as 
well.
If Santander considers it is necessary to deduct income tax from the interest, they should let 
Mrs G know how much they have taken off. They should also provide a tax deduction 
certificate if Mrs G asks for one to allow her to reclaim the tax from His Majestys Revenue 
and Customs, if appropriate.
Developments
Mrs G agreed with my provisional decision.
Santander commented that without further information about what work the solicitors did 
when, and what Mrs G had paid when, they werent able to comment. They noted that some 
customers instruct their solicitors before applying for a mortgage and make payments then. 
They said some fees, such as search fees, are refundable or transferable to a new 
purchase. And they said a mortgage offer can be withdrawn at any point.
Ive taken Santanders comments into account in coming to my final decision below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Santanders concerns about working out the solicitors fees they should pay, and the 
possibility Mrs G might benefit in the future from fees shes already paid. 
I explained the fees I thought Santander should reimburse Mrs G for in my provisional 
decision. Its reasonable to think the solicitors would have repaid any refundable fees by now 
given the time thats passed. It wouldnt be fair to deduct fees that havent been refunded 
since theres no certainty they would be transferable or that Mrs G will go ahead with a 
further application. 
Im satisfied that its fair for Santander to pay the costs on the basis Ive set out, subject to 
Mrs G providing the evidence Ive mentioned. 
I note Santanders point that a mortgage can be withdrawn. Im not aware that happened 
here, so I dont think it affects things.
Bearing everything in mind, I see no reason to change the outcome set out in my provisional decision for the reasons I set out there. 
Putting things right
Santander should put things right as set out below.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Gs complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to pay
1. subject to Mrs G providing a breakdown of costs from her solicitors and proof of 
payment, all her legal costs except for the costs her solicitors would have charged 
her for checking the court procedure and timescales for the court application and 
advising on the implications of that given the terms of the mortgage offer;
2. simple interest on those costs at the rate of 8 per cent a year from the date Mrs G 
paid them until Santander reimburse them; and
3. £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
If Mrs G incurs any fees in obtaining the breakdown, Santander should pay those fees as 
well.
If Santander considers it is necessary to deduct income tax from the interest, they should let 
Mrs G know how much they have taken off. They should also provide a tax deduction 
certificate if Mrs G asks for one to allow her to reclaim the tax from His Majestys Revenue 
and Customs, if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman