DRN-2740029
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold a life and critical illness policy by Nationwide Building
Society.
What happened
In 2004 Mr B had recently converted his mortgage from an endowment basis to a capital
repayment basis. He met with a Nationwide advisor and, following the completion of a 
factfinding process during which Mr Bs circumstances and needs were documented, a
recommendation was made for him to take out a level-term life and critical illness policy to
cover the mortgage. It covered the balance of just over £15,000 for a term of 15 years.
In March 2020 Mr B complained to Nationwide that he had never needed the policy, as his
mortgage had been small, he hadnt understood it, and had been under the impression that it
would last for the whole of his life rather than the cover ending in 2019.
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had been documented that Mr B wanted
both life and critical illness cover. And although it was initially noted that he preferred
decreasing cover as it was cheaper, he changed his mind when he was shown illustrations
comparing decreasing and level cover and saw that the latter cost only a small amount
more.
Nationwide confirmed that Mr B had been under no obligation to take out the policy and had
been provided with full documentation explaining it, which he had signed. In short,
Nationwide was satisfied that the recommendation had been suitable, and Mr B had been
fully informed about it.
The complaint was referred to this service. It was considered by several investigators, with a
conclusion eventually reached that the policy as recommended had been unsuitable for
Mr B. It was felt that he shouldve instead been recommended a policy that provided critical
illness cover only, and on a decreasing basis. This was primarily because hed been single
with no dependants at the time at the time of the advice, so he wouldve had no need for life
cover.
Nationwide didnt accept this, so the matter was referred to me to review.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said, in part:
I dont think the complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why. Where theres a dispute
about what happened, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other
words, on what I consider is more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence
and wider circumstances.
Its generally accepted that if someone is single and has no dependants then they are
unlikely to have a need for life cover. In the event of their death theres no-one who
continues to live in the mortgaged property and requires the benefit of the mortgage being
paid off. But, on the other hand, critical illness cover would be very useful in the event of a
single person becoming ill as it may become difficult for them to continue making the
mortgage payments and extra care costs may be incurred.
Similarly, if someone takes out a capital repayment mortgage, where the balance gradually
decreases over the term, its generally accepted that decreasing cover is most appropriate,
to match with the decreasing balance.
But these are not hard and fast rules. There may be good reasons why a recommendation
might deviate from this general position. And in this case, I think the documentation supports
there having been a reasonable basis for a level-term, life and critical illness policy to be
recommended to Mr B.
It was noted in the fact find that there was discussion of the different types of cover available
and Mr B confirmed that he wanted both life and critical cover. I accept that it was initially
noted in the fact find that Mr B preferred the option of decreasing cover because it would be
cheaper. But by the time the process reached the point of the adviser producing a financial
planning report summarising his recommendation, Mr B wouldve seen the illustrations with
the various combinations of life and decreasing cover and life and critical illness cover. And
these showed that it was only a relatively small difference between level and decreasing
cover.
So, I think its entirely plausible that Mr B considered all the options available to him and
decided that level-term life and critical illness cover was the best option given the price. His
decision was recorded in the report. And as noted, it was recorded in the fact find and in the
financial planning report that different types of cover were discussed in some detail. For
instance, there are references to the adviser strongly suggesting that income protection
would also be beneficial for Mr B. But it was declined, supporting the view that Mr B was
actively considering what was being suggested by the adviser and making decisions on what
might suit him best.
Theres no evidence to suggest that the policy was misrepresented as being compulsory.
And in respect of Mr Bs belief that it was going to last for the whole of his life, rather than for
a 15-year term, the documentation made very clear how long the policy would be active for. I
note also that when Mr B complained to Nationwide in 2020 about the policy, he said that he
continued to use it after his first mortgage ended as he took out a further mortgage with his
wife. This suggests to me that he was aware of the policy and the cover it provided and had
gained benefit from it.
So, in summary, while I note Mr Bs recollections, I must balance them against the
documentary evidence and a consideration of the wider circumstances. And in doing so, I
dont think I can reasonably conclude that Nationwide mis-sold the policy to Mr B.
Nationwide responded to say that it agreed with my provisional decision. 
Mr B said that he felt he had given all the information he could to the best of his knowledge.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I set out in my provisional 
decision.
My final decisionFor the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman