DRN-2635095
The complaint
Mr D and Mr Q complain that Skrill Limited wont refund money Mr D says he lost, as a result 
of money he sent to Mr Q, after Mr Q had been kidnapped and held to ransom.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows;
In November 2018, Mr D says he received a call from Mr Qs company accountant. The 
accountant explained that Mr Q needed $10,000 as a matter of urgency. Mr D has explained 
that as Mr Q was his old friend and business friend, he sent the following payment from his 
Skrill account to the account details provided by Mr Qs accountant:
28/11/2018 $10,000
Mr D has said after hed sent the payment he tried to contact Mr Q a number of times, but 
his phone remained off. After around 48 hours, Mr D says Mr Q contacted him and said that 
hed asked for the payment to be made after hed been kidnapped. Mr Q told him that hed 
paid £35,000 out of his own money, but needed to give another $10,000 to the kidnappers.
Mr D complained to Skrill. In summary, he said that as he didnt know that the payment was 
for ransom purposes, he doesnt consider that he authorised it and that Skrill should refund 
the money he had paid. Mr D has also said that Mr Q had successfully been able to recover 
the money he had lost from his bank, so he thinks he should also be refunded. 
Skrill looked into Mr Ds complaint and issued its final response. In summary it has said it 
would not be able to honour Mr Ds request for a refund. It said the funds were no longer 
available, in the account the payment was made to, as they had already been withdrawn. It 
added that at no point could it have added extra security, and it had no insight that the 
payment was being made under duress. It said that it did not consider this to be an 
unauthorised payment. 
Mr D then brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things. Our investigator thought that Mr D did authorise the payment, albeit he made the 
payment without the understanding that it was for ransom purposes. She also didnt think 
Skrill could have done anything to prevent Mr D from making the payment. She said this 
because she didnt consider the payment Mr D made was so unusual that it should have 
raised Skrills suspicions. And she didnt think Skrill missed an opportunity to identify the 
payment could potentially have been in relation to a ransom payment.  
Mr D didnt accept our investigators view. In summary, he said the payment was made due 
to a serious life-threatening situation to save his friends life and that it was forced due to 
extreme circumstances. He maintained that he didnt think the payment was authorised. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly. No discourtesy is intended by 
this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
I know Mr D has referred to other cases that this service has looked into. But I would point 
out that, while on the surface complaints may seem quite similar, each complaint is 
determined by its own individual circumstances. Here, as Im required to do, Ive looked 
solely at the individual circumstances of Mr Ds complaint.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr D, and I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly that this money should be returned to him. But having thought very carefully about 
Skrills actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfer to leave Mr Ds 
account. I also dont think it could have done any more than it did to try and recover the 
money.
So having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Mr Ds complaint. I do appreciate 
how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly say Skrill should reimburse 
the $10,000 Mr D has unfortunately lost. Ill explain why.
I accept that this was an authorised transaction, even though Mr D didnt realise he was 
making a payment as a result of his friend being pressured into asking for money. He 
authorised the payments and under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 he is presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Skrill 
should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent
years, there are circumstances where a payment provider should fairly and reasonably take 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases 
decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of 
financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide whether Skrill acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr D, when he made the transfer to his friend and when he reported the transaction, or 
whether it should have done more than it did.
Mr D authorised the transfer of $10,000 himself. Because of this, Skrill had an obligation to 
follow his instruction. But there are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a 
closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer - as Ive explained, I consider that 
as a matter of good practice Skrill shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of 
character transactions.
Having reviewed the activity on Mr Ds account statements, from which the payment was 
made, for the six-month period leading up to the scam, I dont think the payment made to Mr 
Qs accountant was particularly unusual or out of character in comparison to the normal 
account activity. There are frequent other transactions, where Mr D has sent funds for 
amounts in excess of $1,000 and ranging up to $10,000 and the payment didnt clear an 
unusual amount off of the account balance. So I dont think Mr D sending a payment for 
$10,000 was particularly out of character or unusual and Im not persuaded Skrill acted 
unreasonably in not making enquiries about the payment before processing it.
Ive gone on to think about whether Skrill did what it shouldve done once Mr D reported the 
transaction to it. In order for me to be able to fairly ask Skrill to refund the money to Mr D, I 
need to be satisfied that Skrill should have acted sooner in trying to recover the money. And 
if I dont think it acted soon enough, I need to decide whether it made any difference.
In this case Skrill wasnt able to recover the money Mr D had paid, because it had already 
been removed from the recipients account. Which is supported by Mr Ds testimony, where 
he has explained that Mr Q had given the money away as part of a kidnapping ransom. 
From what Ive seen, Im persuaded Skrill did what it should have and didnt miss an 
opportunity to recover any funds.
Its very unfortunate Mr D has lost this money in this way, and I understand the whole 
experience will have been frustrating and upsetting for him. But in the circumstances, I dont 
think I can fairly say Skrill should have done more to prevent Mr D from losing this money. 
So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask Skrill to refund the loss.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr D and Mr Qs complaint 
against Skrill Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mr Q to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman