DRN-3338055
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt reimbursed them for payments 
Mr M sent from their joint account, which ultimately went to a scam investment firm.
What happened
Mr M has explained that he became interested in investing in cryptocurrency and entered his 
details into a website that said it would share them with professional brokers. He was 
contacted by company G and advised it could triple his money. Mr M began investing with 
them in May 2020, sending the money to them from his joint Lloyds Bank account through 
legitimate cryptocurrency firms. 
By November 2020, Mr M explains hed sent 35 payments, but then he stopped hearing from 
G and didnt receive the withdrawal hed tried to process. He reported to Lloyds Bank that 
hed been the victim of a scam. He asked for his funds to be reimbursed under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM code). Lloyds Bank investigated his complaint, but 
didnt uphold it.
Mr and Mrs M brought the complaint to our service. They explained that they were either due 
a refund under the CRM code, or due to Lloyds Bank failing its obligations under other 
regulatory rules and guidance. Our investigator didnt uphold their complaint. He said that 
the CRM code didnt apply here, as Mr M was paying an account in his own name from his 
Lloyds Bank account. But he agreed that Lloyds Bank hadnt done enough to warn Mr M 
about investment scams. However he didnt consider that a clearer/more specific warning 
wouldve made a difference in this case. Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to 
review his and Mrs Ms case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his response to our assessment, Mr M has set out several pages of information about the 
rules, guidance and regulations that Lloyds Banks shouldve followed in relation to his 
account. Ive read this response in detail, but Im satisfied I dont need to respond to each 
point hes raised or all of the legislation/guidance hes quoted. I will address his points in 
relation to the CRM code. And then I consider the other points raised can be dealt with 
together.
In his call with Lloyds Bank Mr M explained the accounts he was moving the money to for 
the purpose of investing with G are in his name and accounts he has access to. He explains 
he then moves the money from these accounts overseas (to G). The CRM code specifically 
states that it applies to transfers The Customer so Mr M, made to another person. As Mr M 
was paying an account in his own name, that he had access to, it doesnt apply here. He 
isnt paying another person from his Lloyds Bank account. If the parties he paid were 
signed up to the CRM code then Mr M may have had a case with them, as from those 
accounts he did transfer funds directly to the scammer. But I understand they arent signed 
up  and in any event this case is only about Lloyds Bank. So Im satisfied he doesnt have 
any rights of reimbursement under the CRM code.
In relation to Lloyds Banks obligations, Mr M has explained in detail why he thinks it ought to 
have done more. However, our service has already accepted this in our investigators view 
of his case. But that in itself doesnt mean Mr and Mrs M automatically receive their 
payments back. If we consider a business has made an error, we then look at what we think 
wouldve happened if this error hadnt occurred. We of course cant know exactly what 
wouldve happened, so we have to reach an outcome by weighing up the evidence we hold 
and deciding what we consider most likely what wouldve happened.
Im in agreement with the investigator that Lloyds Bank failed in its duty to Mr M. It ought to 
have asked him better questions in relation to what he was doing with the large payments. 
And it also ought to have given him a warning about investment scams specifically, as it 
could see he was moving money to a cryptocurrency wallet. However, I dont consider this 
wouldve stopped Mr M making these payments. So while I accept Lloyds Bank ought to 
have done more, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Mr M has focussed some of his response to the investigator on what he considers we 
believe he shouldve done or known at the time of the scam. But as Ive explained, our role is 
to look at what Lloyds Bank did and whether it made mistakes. And then if it did, what we 
think most likely wouldve happened if it hadnt done this. Its also only to look at and decide 
individual cases, its not to set a precedent or to regulate industry practice. 
Its accepted by both parties that Mr M was warned about scams by Lloyds Bank in a later 
call with it. Hes calling to discuss the fees hes being asked to pay to withdraw his funds. 
Lloyds Bank tells Mr M he ought to speak to its fraud team and to speak to the 
cryptocurrency firm that hes paying G through. The adviser looks up G and following this, 
warns him theres a very strong possibility the money hes sent isnt going to a genuine 
company. Despite having this conversation, Mr M then continued to deal with G and sent it 
over £50,000 more. 
The advisor looks online and discusses negative reviews shes seeing with Mr M. She says 
how these say G isnt licensed or regulated as broker; and that the website has been dead 
for several months. Mr M tells the advisor hes seen the reviews and it seems he has some 
doubts about G, as he explains this is why hes cashing in the investment. But when she 
says about transferring him to the fraud team, he says about wanting to get his account 
unfrozen before they go down a route that may or may not be true. The advisor tells Mr M 
there would never be a charge of the level hes being told to get his funds from an 
international bank, and that Lloyds Bank would only charge £7. She explains that the fraud 
team would be the best place for Mr M to speak to as this doesnt seem genuine. And then 
she gives him the number for the bank who own the account hes sending the money to and 
says he should also speak to them about this. 
The above therefore doesnt suggest to me an intervention by Lloyds Bank at an earlier point 
couldve made a difference to what happened here, considering this intervention didnt deter 
Mr M, even though he had doubts. And I dont consider Lloyds Bank should have stopped Mr M sending these transactions altogether following this call, as he was paying his own 
accounts elsewhere that he had access to. However, I accept that by the time Lloyds Bank 
does have the appropriate level of call, Mr M is very invested in the scam, so I have 
considered his earlier mindset as part of my decision.
Ive listened to Mr Ms earlier calls with Lloyds Bank, when his account has been blocked 
due to sending payments to the cryptocurrency firms. While the earlier calls dont have the 
warnings Lloyds Bank shouldve provided, or the conversation that shouldve happened, they 
do provide insight into Mr Ms mindset at the time of the scam. Unfortunately there are long 
waits with Lloyds Bank which leads to Mr M being increasingly frustrated when he speaks to 
the agents. But this also means he isnt engaging with the agents in a productive way and 
the calls are challenging and Mr M simply wants his account unblocked so he can get on. 
Based on how the later call goes and what Ive heard in the earlier calls, Im not persuaded 
an earlier intervention wouldve had a different outcome in this case. Mr M seems very 
confident with what hes doing and how to run his account and affairs. Hes also explained to 
us how sophisticated the scam was and how he trusted G. The warnings by Lloyds Bank 
didnt stop him sending funds at a time he did have his own concerns, so I cant see that 
they wouldve stopped him at a time when he felt confident.
Unfortunately this was a sophisticated scam and Mr M was fully bought in to the scam and 
G. There werent regulatory warnings when Mr M first invested, so this information wasnt 
available to him or Lloyds Bank to provide actual evidence G wasnt legitimate. I accept 
Mr and Mrs M have lost a large sum of money and I do empathise with their situation. But 
based on what Ive seen and heard, I dont consider an earlier warning from Lloyds Bank 
wouldve broken the spell or stopped Mr M investing. So while I accept Lloyds Bank 
shouldve done more to highlight concerns to Mr M and give him an investment warning, I 
dont agree it now needs to reimburse any of the funds that were lost from Mr and Mrs Ms 
account.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman