DRN-3361660
The complaint
Mrs G complains that she was mis-sold a whole of life policy, for which ReAssure Limited is 
now responsible. She thought she had taken out a savings policy, but it now appears the 
policy was designed to offer life cover. Further, Mrs G says she was not made aware of the 
policys surrender charges and had been led to believe she could encash it freely at age 60. 
To resolve her complaint, Mrs G wants ReAssure to refund the portion of policy premiums 
that paid for life cover and allow her to surrender the policy without any penalty. 
What happened
In April 1989, Mrs G took out a Lifetime Account policy with General Portfolio. ReAssure now 
takes responsibility for the sale. It operates as a reviewable whole of life policy. Mrs G 
agreed to commit an initial £15 per month in premiums. This has increased over the life of 
the policy and the most recent premium was £74 per month.  
In September 2020, Mrs G complained to ReAssure. She said that when she took out the 
policy, she was assured that it was a savings plan and was designed for investment 
purposes but she has since discovered that the policy includes life cover  which she did not 
want or need. Further, Mrs G complained that she had since learned there is a significant 
penalty if she makes a withdrawal from the policy at age 60 but she had been told from the 
outset she could do so.  
ReAssure rejected the complaint. It said Mrs G was correct in the first instance that the 
policy was taken out for savings purposes, not for life assurance. The Lifetime Account was 
capable of providing either an investment or a savings benefit and Mrs G had chosen the 
former. Though she had since believed the policy was set up for protection needs, it wasnt; 
the policy had been set up on a maximum savings basis.  
It also said that Mrs G had been given information at the time of the sale which set out how 
there was a percentage applied upon capital surrender depending on the policyholders age. 
It was therefore made clear to Mrs G that the policy contained charges, and what they were. 
Mrs G brought her complaint to this service. She said ReAssures response had focused on 
investment risk and affordability for the policy but the suitability of the policy based on those 
factors was not something she had raised. Her primary concern remained that she could not 
access her funds as anticipated at age 60 without significant financial penalty. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should succeed. He said the policy terms were 
clear that the policy would either be set up for investment benefit or savings benefit and Mrs 
Gs policy was investment-based. He also noted that in the policy documentation, it was set 
out how the cash value payment would be based on a percentage, depending on Mrs Gs 
age at surrender. Finally, he said that he felt the policy had overall been suitable for Mrs G.    
Mrs G disagreed with our investigator. She said if he was unable to change his view on the 
complaint, that she wanted it to be passed to an ombudsman. She also said, in summary:
she took out another policy (this time an endowment savings policy) with General 
Portfolio and this was found to be unsuitable for her;
she believes omissions were made to her in 1989 and the policy was not actually run 
as a savings plan;
she now accepts that the life cover wasnt present and that the refund she asked for 
isnt the right outcome;
but she maintains that a penalty on surrender is unfair;
only one paragraph points the penalty out  and the adviser didnt make that clear;
the surrender benefit tables ReAssure referred to in its complaint outcome were not 
provided to her;
the returns from the policy are low, and it cannot reasonably be said to be a savings 
plan;
the reductions on capital units are excessive;
she did not expect capital units would continue to be bought, as per the policy terms;
after closer scrutiny of the policy she accepts it says retirement age of 85 on some 
documents;
but ReAssure will not increase the premiums after age 60  this is a clear 
discrepancy;
bearing in mind the lack of clear information on sale and subsequent operational 
peculiarities Mrs G feels ReAssure could consider a favourable outcome by either 
withdrawing the full policy value without charges or taking into account that after the 
first two years the policy ought to switch to accumulation units anyway. 
ReAssure had no other comments to add. The complaint has now been referred to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I do not believe this complaint should be 
upheld. I know that wont be what Mrs G has hoped for, but Ill explain my reasons below.   
Though a complaint about a different policy may have been upheld by ReAssure, that is not 
relevant to my findings. No two complaints are factually identical; I will look at the specific 
facts regarding the sale of this policy to reach a fair outcome to this particular complaint. 
I can see Mrs G now accepts that her policy was set up on an investment not protection 
basis. I appreciate why this may have seemed confusing when reviewing her documentation 
as the policy can be held for both purposes, together and individually. However, ReAssure is 
correct in setting out that the policy premiums were invested on a maximum savings basis  
with a 25%/75% split across two stated investment funds. 
To that end, the policy schedule set out expressly that Protection Benefits are not payable 
under this policy.  
I also recognise that it is frustrating for Mrs G to now discover that if her policy is 
surrendered before age 85 that there will be a capital reduction for capital units (though no 
reduction for accumulation units as she has held the policy for over 10 years). However, this 
is expressly provided for in the policy terms, and Mrs G has sent us a copy of the terms so 
she did receive them at the time.  
To explain, it was common with policies set up around that time for the policy provider to 
front-load the charges by allocating the first two years of unit allocation to more expensive capital units. This allows a policy provider to recoup some costs early on in the policy, 
thereafter, using accumulation units to build funds for the policyholder. The surrender charge 
in the policy terms is also built in to account for recoupment of costs on the same basis. 
This is reflected in the policy terms Mrs G has pointed out, which specify that 105% of each 
regular contribution will be allocated to units. The first twenty-four months full regular 
contributions will be allocated to Capital Units and thereafter to Accumulation Units. 
Whilst I realise that the possibility of a charge on the surrender value in respect of the capital 
units has come as a surprise to Mrs G, it is provided for within the terms and so I cannot say 
ReAssure has done anything wrong by reflecting that to Mrs G now, in anticipation of a 
policy surrender when she turns 60. 
However, the reduction in value may not have the impact Mrs G previously expected, as it 
seems from the initial complaint that she thought the entire value of the bid price of the units 
in the policy would be proportionally reduced, and that is not the case. Only the Capital Units 
from the first two years are affected.  
The policy confirms this, noting: 
You may surrender your Lifetime Account but a surrender value is not available 
during the first five policy years. Thereafter a cash value equal to a proportion of the 
bid price of your units will be payable increasing from 64% after 5 years to 100% 
after 10 years in respect of Accumulation Units, and increasing from nil at age 20 to 
100% at age 85 in respect of Capital Units .
Finally, I know Mrs G says the adviser did not point out to her at the time of the sale that the 
surrender value could be affected in this way  though she did know about some other 
charges. However, there is no contemporaneous sales documentation which would point to 
what was discussed. I am not disputing Mrs Gs submissions and I thank her for them, but 
there has been some 33 years since the policy was sold. 
When there isnt objective evidence available to confirm what happened at a previous point 
in time, Ill decide what was most likely on balance. Even if I could conclude that Mrs G 
wasnt told about the impact of future surrender charges on the bid price of the units, I 
cannot disregard that the policy information issued to her in the welcome letter of 26 April 
1989 set out the key features of how the policy operated including the extract I have outlined 
above. 
On that basis, I am not persuaded that ReAssure has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
relation to the policy as the information about charges was reasonably supplied. 
My final decision
I am unable to uphold this complaint or make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman