Complaint
Mr G complains that Vanquis Bank Limited acted irresponsibly when it granted him a credit 
card account and subsequently increased the credit limit several times.
Background
Mr G applied for and was granted a credit card account with Vanquis in November 2012. He 
says Vanquis increased the credit limit in April 2013, September 2013, February 2014, July 
2014, October 2016 and June 2017. Over this period his credit limit increased from £250 to 
£3500.
Mr G says Vanquis shouldnt have given him the card or increased the limit. He says 
Vanquis didnt carry out affordability checks. He says he only ever paid the minimum 
payment and had to borrow money to make the payments. He also says he had severe 
addiction problems and Vanquis shouldve been aware of this. He wants all the interest and 
fees refunded and he wants the default markers removed from his credit file. He complained 
to Vanquis about these matters.
Vanquis investigated his complaint. It said his application had been assessed using credit 
scoring. This meant it had assessed his credit stability and his ability to pay the card debt. It 
said the lending was within its policy and the account had been reviewed regularly for 
increases. It also said it had carried out further credit assessments each time it had 
increased the credit limit and Mr G had never declined any of those increases.
Mr G didnt agree and so he referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into it. He said we couldnt look into the part of his complaint about the original application to 
Vanquis because more than six years had passed and Vanquis hadnt given its consent. Mr 
G accepted this and confirmed that we should only look at the credit limit increases.
Our investigator looked at the credit limit increases. He thought Vanquis had assessed Mr 
Gs credit worthiness. He said that making only the minimum payments wasnt necessarily a 
sign of financial difficulties. He also said that Mr G had never declined any credit limit 
increases hed been offered. He said wed expect Vanquis to treat Mr G positively and 
sympathetically when he fell behind with his payments. Vanquis had asked Mr G to contact 
its credit services department to discuss his payment difficulties and our investigator thought 
this was fair and reasonable. So, he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr G didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. For mainly the same reasons as our 
investigator I wont be upholding this complaint.
DRN-1755571At the outset, Id just make clear that Im only looking at the increases in the credit limit. For 
the same reasons as our investigator Im not looking at the original decision to grant Mr G a 
credit card. I can see Mr G has accepted this and confirmed we should only consider the 
increases to the credit limit.
Before making a decision to grant or increase a credit limit a lender is required to carry out a 
reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of the consumer. That requires the lender to 
carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that the consumer would be 
able to repay any credit. In addition the lender is required to carry out a borrower focused 
assessment of ability to repay the amount borrowed in a sustainable way. These checks 
enable the lender to satisfy itself that the consumer can afford the credit limit and is unlikely 
to experience financial difficulty. Sometimes, where the lender is aware of special 
circumstances, it is required to take extra steps to ensure that any lending decision is 
responsible.
So, when looking at Mr Gs complaint about the increases in his credit limit in the period 
since the account was opened, Ive considered the actions Vanquis took each time it 
increased the credit limit.
Vanquis carried out a number of checks and used its own credit scoring before increasing 
the credit limit. The type of checks included information from credit reference agencies and 
information about Mr Gs outstanding balances with other lenders. Based on this information 
Vanquis was satisfied that Mr G could afford the increased lending. I think it was reasonable 
and proportionate for Vanquis to rely on this information. 
In addition to carrying out these checks Id also expect Vanquis to have considered how the 
account was managed by Mr G. The statements for the account, up to the date of the last 
credit limit increase (June 2017), show that there hadnt been any charges for overlimits or 
late payments  with one exception. In March 2016 an overlimit charge was applied. But the 
account was brought up to date soon after the overlimit occurred. So, I dont think this would 
have meant Vanquis shouldnt increase the credit limit.  
Mr G has told us he had a severe addiction problem. I can see there were gambling 
transactions on the account. But, the fact that there were payments to gambling sites 
wouldnt on its own mean that Vanquis acted irresponsibly. So, Ive considered whether 
Vanquis had other information which it shouldve taken into account in circumstances where 
there were gambling transactions.
I havent seen anything to suggest Mr G told Vanquis he had a problem with gambling or that 
he had financial difficulties. Vanquis sent him a letter each time to tell him about the 
increases and he was given the opportunity to decline. He never declined any of the credit 
limit increases. 
There had been gambling transactions on the account over several years but the spending 
on gambling transactions increased in the period since around July 2016. So, Ive 
considered whether this should have raised alarm bells with Vanquis and whether it acted 
responsibly when it further increased the credit limit in October 2016 and June 2017. 
During the period from July 2016 to June 2017 Mr G didnt incur any overlimit or late 
payment charges. He continued to make the regular minimum monthly payments and he 
made additional credits to his account by way of debit card payments and electronic 
payments. By doing this he ensured that the card stayed within the credit limit. And, on some 
occasions the additional payments meant that the outstanding balance was reduced 
significantly.So, I dont think there was anything to suggest that Mr G was struggling to make these 
additional payments. And, as Ive mentioned above he didnt tell Vanquis he was 
experiencing difficulties making the additional payments.
Ive also looked at the period after June 2017 and I note that Mr G continued to manage his 
account within the agreed limit, and to make his regular monthly payments, until around April 
2018. 
So, having considered everything here, Im satisfied that Vanquis wasnt acting irresponsibly 
when it increased the credit limit. 
Mr G has told us about the financial difficulties hes experiencing. Where a customer has 
financial difficulties wed expect the business to treat him positively and sympathetically. 
Vanquis has suggested that Mr G should contact its credit services department for 
assistance with his financial difficulties so that it can discuss an affordable repayment plan 
with him. I think thats fair and reasonable. But, I dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against Vanquis Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Irene Martin
Ombudsman