DRN-3719347
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund the money he lost as a result of 
what he believes was a scam.
What happened
Mr A arranged for a photographer to take photos and videos at his wedding events. He paid 
the photographer a total of £4,000 and it was agreed that the completed photos and videos 
would be sent to him six months after the events. Mr A says the photographer showed up to 
the events and appeared to take photos, but he then hasnt received any of the photos or 
videos he paid for.
Mr A was in contact with the photographer for some time after the events. But, ultimately the 
photographer stopped responding to him and blocked him on social media. Mr A then 
complained to Barclays that he had been the victim of a scam and asked it to refund him.
Barclays investigated but said it felt this was a civil dispute between Mr A and the seller, 
rather than a scam, and so it didnt agree to refund the money Mr A had lost. Mr A wasnt 
satisfied with Barclays response, so referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They felt the matter was a private civil 
dispute between Mr A and the photographer, and so Barclays had acted reasonably in not 
agreeing to refund him. Mr A disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it would be fair to require Barclays to refund the money Mr A 
has lost. Ill explain why below.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Barclays is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code). This requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim of 
certain types of scams, in all but a limited number of circumstances. But customers are only 
covered by the code where they have been the victim of a scam.
The CRM code says that it doesnt apply to private civil disputes, such as where a customer 
has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, services or digital content but has not received 
them. So in order to determine whether Barclays should refund the money Mr A lost under 
the CRM code, I need to consider whether Mr A has been the victim of a scam  or, in other 
words, whether the photographer set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud him.
Mr A has said he knew the photographer before he agreed to have him take photos at his 
wedding events, as they had a mutual friend. Hes said he had met the photographer several 
times socially, for drinks. And hes said the photographer had done other work for him in the 
past. But its unusual for scammers to target people they have existing relationships with. 
And I think the fact that the photographer had done work for Mr A in the past suggests that 
he was legitimate.
The photographer also showed up to all of the wedding events Mr A had agreed he would 
take photographs at, and continued to communicate with Mr A after the events. And Id 
normally expect a scammer to just not show up to the events, or to stop all communication 
once theyd been sent the money. So I think this suggests the photographer did intend to 
carry out the work that was agreed, at least to begin with.
Mr A has also said the photographer told him the photos were corrupted, but that he as 
trying to sort it out  which seems like a plausible explanation for why the photos werent 
provided as agreed. And I dont think this suggests the photographer was a scammer.
Its clear the agreement between Mr A and the photographer didnt go as planned. And I 
appreciate that Mr A hasnt received what he paid for and cant now re-do the photos of his 
events. So I understand why he feels so strongly about what has happened. But, based on 
the evidence I have, I think this was likely a case of a legitimate agreement that wasnt 
completed due to unforeseen circumstances. I dont think the photographer set out from the 
beginning with the intent to defraud Mr A, or that Mr A has been the victim of a scam here.
So I dont think the payments Mr A made to the photographer are covered by the CRM code, 
or that Barclays should be required to refund the money Mr A lost.
I sympathise with the position Mr A has found himself in, and Im in no way saying he did 
anything wrong or that he doesnt have a legitimate grievance against the photographer. But, 
for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think it would be fair to hold Barclays responsible for 
the money he lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman