DRN-1922144
 
The complaint
Mr S and Miss T complain that Lloyds Bank PLC continually made a mistake in their home 
address. This has led to issues with receiving correspondence, and issues with their credit 
files.
What happened
Mr S and Miss T have a joint current account with Lloyds. When they received their 
correspondence from Lloyds, they noticed their flat number had been removed from their 
address. This led to sensitive correspondence being left in the foyer of their building, rather 
than being delivered to their home. Mr S and Miss T complained. 
Throughout their complaint Lloyds said it was a system error that removed the flat number 
and defaulted to the building address. The error happened multiple times and Lloyds then 
updated the address manually. Mr S and Miss T asked for an additional verification process 
to be applied to their account as they were worried about people having seen their account 
information. They were first told this could happen but then told it wasnt possible. Mr S and 
Miss T were also victims of fraud and complained that it hadnt been handled correctly.
Lloyds apologised to Mr S and Miss T for the poor service it had given. It confirmed that it 
couldve done better and that the address issue shouldnt have taken so long to fix. In total it 
gave Mr S and Miss T £1,050 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. It also 
reimbursed them their expenses for getting the issues resolved including call costs and 
parking.
Our investigator felt Lloyds had done enough to put this situation right. She understood that 
the issues had continued for too long and acknowledged the frustration that Mr S and Miss T 
must have felt at the matter. But she explained that Lloyds has now shown that its reporting 
the correct address on their accounts and to credit reference agencies. And she noted that 
there havent been any further issues with post being left in the foyer. So, she felt the 
compensation Lloyds had awarded was fair and reasonable.
Mr S and Miss T disagreed. They believe they missed out on getting better rates on their 
credit cards because of the address issues, and theyre worried it will happen again. They 
also dont feel Lloyds has fully updated credit reference agencies with their address. They 
feel as its a joint account affecting both of them they should receive around £1,000 
compensation each. They have asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand the frustration caused by the continual error that was made by Lloyds in 
this situation. And I do think it impacted Mr S and Miss T greatly as they didnt feel their 
account was secure. And its clear they had to keep raising disputes with Lloyds about 
getting their credit files amended with the correct address. But I do think Lloyds has done 
enough to put things right here, so I wont be asking it to do anything more.
Lloyds has acknowledged that it made mistakes here. And the address shouldnt have been 
changed in the first place. Ive considered the impact of these mistakes, as well as the poor 
customer service. Having done so, I think £1,050 compensation is fair and reasonable.
Mr S and Miss T had to contact Lloyds on numerous occasions. And had the ongoing worry 
that someone may have seen their account details when their post was left in the foyer of 
their building. When the address issue happened more than once, I can imagine Mr S and 
Miss T became increasingly frustrated. I think they wouldve experienced a substantial 
amount of trouble and upset.
Ive also noted that they had issues with their credit reports. Mr S and Miss T have sent 
screenshots of their credit scores over the months where the address wasnt recorded 
correctly. Theyve explained they also had issues making card payments because their 
address didnt match. I think its fair that they lost trust in Lloyds and I can understand why. 
But the compensation that Lloyds has given Mr S and Miss T is substantial. Overall it has 
awarded £1,050 for the errors. I understand that Mr S and Miss T think they should receive 
this amount each, but I disagree. I think the compensation reflects the length of time the 
errors occurred and the worry that both Mr S and Miss T experienced.
Ive considered Mr S and Miss Ts point that their credit files are still incorrect, but I think 
their address is being reported correctly by Lloyds. Lloyds has shown us screenshots of how 
its reporting their address to credit reference agencies and I can see that the address 
includes the flat number. I can see its been reported this way since April 2020. I understand 
Mr S and Miss T are concerned the error may affect future borrowing as they intend to apply 
for a mortgage next year. But I cant see anything to suggest this will be the case.
Overall I think Lloyds has done enough to compensate Mr S and Miss T for its errors. And 
Im pleased to see the error has now been resolved. So, I wont be asking it to do anything 
more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman