DRN-3731787
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined a 
claim on her home insurance.
What happened
Mrs W had an RSA home insurance policy. In February 2020, the external door between her 
patio and lounge/dining room was damaged during a storm. She was unable to get through 
to RSAs home emergency number so arranged her own emergency repairs. She didnt 
make a claim to RSA at this time.
Mrs W called RSA on 1 October 2021. (I know Mrs W disputes this date; Ill deal with this 
below.) She told RSAs call handler that shed recently noticed that the floor in her dining 
room was starting to collapse. She thought this might have been caused by water coming 
through the storm-damaged door. She made a claim on her RSA policy.
RSA initially told Mrs W it would settle her claim. It appointed two of its agents to inspect the 
damage (a glazier and a flooring expert) and asked Mrs W to get quotes for repairs. It later 
appointed a loss adjustor to validate the claim. The glazier and flooring expert visited Mrs 
Ws home in October 2021; the loss adjustor visited Mrs W on 16 December 2021.
RSA received the loss adjustors report in late December 2021. The report concluded that 
the damage to the door was due to wear and tear, and the damage to the floor was a result 
of water gradually getting into the dining room over time.
In January 2022, RSA declined Mrs Ws claim. It told her the damage to her door and floor 
was caused by gradual wear and tear. It said this meant the damage wasnt covered by her 
policy. However, it accepted that its flooring expert cut away a section of Mrs Ws carpet 
during its inspection. It offered Mrs W £833.05, less the policy excess, as cash settlement for 
a replacement carpet. RSA also accepted that it didnt follow its correct process when 
dealing with her claim and had raised Mrs Ws expectations that the claim would be settled 
in full. It offered her £250 to apologise for these failings.
Mrs W was unhappy with RSAs decision and brought her complaint to this service. She 
wants RSA to settle her claim in full and pay her compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused. 
Our investigator recommended that Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that:
The original damage to the door was caused by the storm. This was covered by Mrs 
Ws policy.
Water was coming into Mrs Ws home due to this damage to the door. 
Mrs W wouldnt have been aware of this or that it was causing significant damage to 
her floor. 
For these reasons, he thought RSA should settle Mrs Ws claim in full. He also thought 
RSAs £250 offer to apologise for its poor service was too low. He recommended it pay Mrs 
W another £150, taking the total award to £400.
RSA disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to consider.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 14 September 2022. I said:
There are several important questions that Ive had to work through to reach my decision on 
Mrs Ws complaint:
When did Mrs W first contact RSA?
When was the door damaged?
What was the main cause of the damage to the door?
What was the cause of the damage to the floor?
The damage to the carpet by RSAs agent
How did RSA handle Mrs Ws claim?
Ive considered each of these below.
When did Mrs W first contact RSA?
The parties dispute the date Mrs W first contacted RSA about her claim so I think it would be 
helpful to clear this up. 
Ive reviewed RSAs internal notes and listened to the phone calls between Mrs W and RSA 
on 1 October and 23 November 2021. I know Mrs W says she first called RSA on 13 August 
2021, however RSA has no record of a call from Mrs W on this date and Mrs W is unable to 
provide evidence of it (for example, an itemised landline bill or mobile phone call history).
More importantly, during the 1 October 2021 call the RSA call handler asked Mrs W if this 
was a new claim. Mrs W replied: It is, yes. The content of that conversation makes it clear 
to me that this was the first time Mrs W had contacted RSA about the damage to her door 
and dining room floor.
During the call, Mrs W and the call handler discuss when Mrs W first noticed the damage. 
After some discussion, and Mrs Ws estimate that she first noticed the damage four/five 
weeks ago, they agree an approximate date of 13 August 2021. So I understand why Mrs W 
believes 13 August 2021 was the date she first contacted RSA. 
Finally, Mrs W gave a detailed description of what was discussed during her second call with 
RSA, which she believes was on 1 October 2021. But the details she remembers about this 
call  call handlers name, unavailability of her case manager, discussion about furniture 
storage, etc  make it clear that this was the call on 23 November 2021.
The evidence on this point is conclusive. Mrs W first notified RSA about the damage in the 
phone call on 1 October 2021. 13 August 2021 was the date Mrs W and the RSA call 
handler agreed was a rough estimate of when Mrs W first noticed the damage. 
While this date is important for context, it doesnt affect my decision.
When was the door damaged?
Theres some dispute about this. Again, I think its helpful to clear this up.During the 1 October call, Mrs W told RSA the door was damaged in the storms we had last 
year. The loss adjustors report says Mrs W told them the damage happened in late winter 
2019.
However, the most compelling evidence is the builders invoice for the emergency repairs, 
which Mrs W has been able to send us. This is dated 28 February 2020. 
Ive checked the Met Office information for the 2019/20 storm season. This shows storm 
Jorge hit the UK on 28 February 2020. That matches the builders invoice and is consistent 
with Mrs Ws account during the 1 October 2021 call, so Im satisfied this was when the door 
was damaged.
What was the main cause of damage to the door?
Like most polices, Mrs Ws cover only makes RSA liable for damage caused by certain 
insured events, listed in her policy. Mrs W has said that the damage to her door was caused 
by a storm. 
Page 22 of Mrs Ws policy booklet shows shes covered for damage caused by a storm. The 
policy booklet doesnt explicitly define a storm in terms of wind speed or rainfall. Instead it 
says: A storm will involve very strong winds powerful enough to cause structural damage to 
homes within its path. Its usually accompanied by torrential rainfall, hail or heavy snow. 
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions we ask: 
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
2. Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no the claim wont succeed.
The local weather records for the area where Mrs W lives show high wind speeds and 
rainfall on 28 February 2020. And, as Ive said above, storm Jorge hit the UK the night Mrs 
Ws door was damaged. So Im satisfied there were storm conditions the night the door was 
damaged.
Second, I think its reasonable to think a storm might cause some damage to a door or 
window. RSAs internal email dated 2 February 2022 seems to accept this: [The loss 
adjustor] advised a storm could have contributed.
So the last question is key: were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? Mrs W 
said the mechanism at the top of the door was broken by the storm. However, I think its 
unlikely that a properly secured UPVC door in good condition would be blown in by a storm 
in the way Mrs W described. Mrs W told RSA the door was installed 20 years or so ago. On 
balance, I think its more likely there was some pre-existing damage  most likely due to 
wear and tear over 20 years  and the storm simply exposed this.
I also think its important that RSA had no opportunity to inspect the damage until October 
2021, 19 months after the storm. (Even if I accepted Mrs Ws date of 13 August 2021, this 
would still be over 16 months after the storm.) I think it would be difficult for RSA to assess 
the precise cause of damage so long after the event. Generally, its for the policyholder to 
show that damage was caused by an insured event. I dont think Mrs W has done so in this 
case.
On balance, Im not persuaded that the storm was the main cause of the damage to the 
door. That means I think it was reasonable for RSA to decline this part of Mrs Ws claim.What was the cause of damage to the floor?
Even if I thought the storm was the main cause of the damage to the door, it wouldnt affect 
my decision on Mrs Ws claim for her floor. Ill explain why.
The loss adjustors report concluded: the cause of the damage to the flooring is due to 
gradual water ingress over a long period of time and not a one-off incident. He accepted 
that Mrs W may not have been aware of this until the flooring started to drop.
This seems to me to be a reasonable conclusion. Mrs Ws builder made emergency repairs 
to the door but didnt replace it. Mrs W didnt get this permanently fixed or replaced, or report 
this to RSA. So an external door remained damaged for over 18 months. The damaged door 
appears to have allowed water to get into the dining room  the loss adjustor noted that the 
flooring directly under the door was rotten  damage the joists, and ultimately cause the floor 
to collapse.
Page 18 of Mrs Ws policy booklet requires the policyholder to keep a home in good 
condition: If you dont keep your home and belongings in good condition, you may find that 
damage has been caused by wear and tear or lack of maintenance, or that loss or damage 
has happened gradually over time. These arent things your insurance covers. Page 26 of 
the policy booklet says Accidental damage caused by the gradual seepage of water into 
your home isnt covered.
The internal RSA email dated 2 February 2022 says: The damage [to the floor] is also not 
proximately caused by storm but a lack of maintenance. I think this is right. The February 
2020 storm didnt cause the damage to the floor; the gradual ingress of water over several 
months did. Unfortunately, this isnt covered by her policy.
I note that, during the phone call on 1 October 2021, Mrs W said she noticed the blinds 
moving in the wind when the door was closed as well as the broken door mechanism. The 
glaziers report and photos also show visible damage to the door. So while Im sure Mrs W 
didnt realise the extent of the water coming into her home, or what damage this was 
causing, I think she might reasonably have been aware that the door wasnt weatherproof. 
Given the length of time between the storm and her claim to RSA, I dont think Mrs W took 
sufficient steps to keep her home in good condition, as required by her policy.
I know Mrs W said the coronavirus pandemic and national lockdown meant that nothing 
could have been done when the door was damaged. However, the first UK lockdown wasnt 
until 23 March 2020, more than three weeks after the storm. And even a national lockdown 
wouldnt have stopped her from reporting the damage to RSA or making a claim. It would 
then have been RSAs responsibility to arrange for the door to be replaced and prevent any 
consequential damage.
For the reasons above, I dont think RSA acted unreasonably when it declined Mrs Ws claim 
for damage to the floor and subfloor. 
The damage to the carpet by RSAs agent
RSA accepts that its flooring expert removed a section of Mrs Ws carpet during its 
inspection. It agreed to offer a cash settlement for this, less the policy excess: Regrettably, 
I'm only able to offer a cash settlement for the replacement carpet and fitting only. The cost 
of this will be £833.05 which is subject to the £150 excess. 
Mrs W says the cash offer is completely unacceptable. She notes that RSAs offer doesnt 
include the underlay and grippers. She also notes the offer is far less than she originally paid for the carpet.
I agree that RSA should compensate Mrs W for her damaged carpet. Mrs W told RSA she 
wanted to clean and keep the carpet, and I see no reason why this might not have been 
possible. RSAs experts actions meant this was no longer an option.
In the circumstances, I think RSAs decision to offer a cash settlement for the replacement 
carpet is fair. However, I dont understand why its cash offer is only £833.05 when its 
experts quote for the replacement and fitting was £2,081.70, plus VAT. This quote would 
appear to be more realistic. For the avoidance of doubt, it think its fair for RSA to apply the 
policy excess.
Id like both parties to comment on this before I make my final decision. However, at the 
minute Im minded to ask RSA to offer Mrs W a cash settlement in line with its experts quote 
dated 13 January 2022. 
How did RSA handle Mrs Ws claim?
While I think RSAs decision to decline the claim was fair, I think its handling of it was poor, 
for the following reasons:
Mrs W reported the claim on 1 October 2021. It was declined on 4 January 2022. I 
dont think this claim should have taken three months to resolve. At least part of this 
was because RSA didnt appoint a loss adjustor until December 2021, more than two 
months after Mrs W made her claim.
RSA initially told Mrs W she was covered and indicated that it had accepted the 
claim. It asked her to get quotes for repairs and instructed a removal agent to 
arrange for furniture storage while the floor was being repaired. Its flooring expert cut 
out part of her carpet. All this raised Mrs Ws expectations that her claim would be 
settled in full and caused her additional distress when the claim was declined.
Mrs W had to chase RSA multiple times for an update. RSAs records suggest that 
several times she was promised a call back but this didnt happen (for example, 15 
November, 3 December, 17 December, and 31 December 2021). Overall, I dont 
think RSAs communication with Mrs W was good enough.
The flooring expert asked Mrs W to pay her excess directly to them, before the claim 
was validated. I dont understand why this should have happened.
Its clear that RSAs actions caused Mrs W a significant amount of distress. RSA accepted 
that it didnt follow its claims handling process correctly and offered Mrs W £250 to apologise 
for this. However, I dont think this adequately reflects the amount of distress and 
inconvenience it caused Mrs W. 
Ive considered this services awards in similar circumstances. Having done so, I think a 
more appropriate award is £500.
All this means that, overall, I think RSAs final response to Mrs Ws claim was reasonable. I 
think RSA acted fairly by declining the main elements of the claim  the damage to the door 
and water damage to the floor  but agreeing to compensate Mrs W for damaging her carpet 
and its poor service. 
Having said that, I dont think the compensation RSA has offered Mrs W for these failings is 
fair. I think it should increase both offers, as above.
I recognise that Mrs W feels very strongly about this and shell be disappointed with my decision. But based on everything Ive seen, I wont be asking RSA to do anything more than 
increase its compensation for the replacement carpet and its failings handling her claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs W was disgusted with my decision and made several points about why she believes it 
was unfair. Ive looked at everything shes said but I dont think I need to comment on each 
point to reach the right outcome. Ive focused instead on the key points.
In summary, Mrs W says:
I wrongly think the damage was to an internal door.
Ive completely underestimated the damage RSAs agent caused to her carpet and 
subfloor. 
She doesnt think she should have to pay her excess for damage caused by RSAs 
agent.
RSA hasnt shown that the damage to the door was due to wear and tear. Indeed, 
she says no-ones mentioned wear and tear before now.
The emergency glazier who fixed the door confirmed the damage was caused by the 
storm. Mrs W didnt think it was badly damaged and didnt think water was coming 
through it.
RSAs glazier told Mrs W that hed seen this sort of storm damage before and 
condemned the door but he didnt say this to RSA.
She didnt report the damage because she was working incredibly long hours in the 
run up to the UK lockdown. When lockdown came into force, her income stopped 
immediately.
RSA only commented on its offer to replace Mrs Ws carpet. It said:
Its flooring experts quote, dated 13 January 2022, contained errors  each cost was 
mistakenly duplicated.
It didnt agree to pay the costs for grippers, heat seam, or underlay as these werent 
damaged by its expert. Its new offer includes these.
It will offer Mrs W a cash settlement for her carpet of £1,040.88 (including VAT), less 
her £150 excess. That means a settlement of £890.88.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs W is extremely disappointed, however I think shes misread parts of 
my provisional decision. To clarify:
I know the door in question was an external door and not a door between two rooms. 
As I said in my provisional decision, this was the external door between her patio 
and lounge/dining room. Thats how rainwater was able to get into the house.
My reference to the policy term about keeping her home in good condition wasnt 
meant to offend Mrs W and Im sorry for this. Nor was it meant to suggest she should 
have replaced the door before the storm. 
Instead, Im saying Mrs W might reasonably have been aware the door wasnt fully 
weatherproof after the storm but she didnt report this RSA. As I said in my 
provisional decision, during the phone call on 1 October 2021, Mrs W said she 
noticed the blinds moving in the wind when the door was closed as well as the broken door mechanism. She also knew her builder had only made a temporary 
repair.
In answer to Mrs Ws other points:
I think its worth reiterating that Ive listened to all her calls with RSA. For the reasons 
set out in my provisional decision, I have no doubt the 1 October 2021 call was the 
first time she called RSA about the damaged door.
I dont agree with her explanation that she said this was a new claim during that call 
because RSA hadnt taken any action. I think most people in that situation would 
have told the call handler theyd already made a claim and/or expressed their 
unhappiness that nothing had been done.
Mrs W didnt quote a claim reference number during the 1 October call. RSAs call 
handler gave her the claim reference during this call.
Its not for RSA to conclusively prove the damage to the door was wear and tear. Its 
loss adjuster was unable to say whether this was storm damage or not. As I said in 
my provisional decision, Generally, its for the policyholder to show that damage was 
caused by an insured event. This is especially true when the damage happened 
more than 18 months before it was reported to the insurer. I dont think Mrs W has 
shown that the storm was the main cause of damage. 
The evidence shows the floor was damaged by water getting through the damaged 
door in the 18 months between the storm and Mrs W contacting RSA. In my opinion, 
this is a result of Mrs W not reporting the damage to the door in February 2020. 
Mrs Ws policy excludes Accidental damage caused by the gradual seepage of 
water into your home. This means I think it was fair for RSA to decline her claim for 
the damage to the floor and subfloor.
The subfloor was already badly damaged and needed to be replaced by the time 
RSAs flooring expert visited. While I agree they caused additional damage to the 
carpet, I dont agree that they made the damage to the subfloor any worse.
Mrs W didnt offer any new comment or evidence about the cost of replacing her carpet. Ive 
considered RSAs explanation for the difference between its flooring experts quote and its 
original settlement offer. Having done so, I agree that costs on that quote were duplicated. 
However, its clear from the evidence  and I mentioned this in my provisional decision  that 
Mrs W paid her policy excess directly to RSAs flooring expert in October 2021. Ive not seen 
any evidence that this was ever refunded to her. As such, it would be unfair for RSA to apply 
the excess to its cash settlement for the carpet. It should pay Mrs W £1,040.88.
Neither party commented on my proposed award for the distress RSA caused Mrs W in its 
handling of her claim. For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I think RSA should 
pay Mrs W £500 for this.
I see no reason to change any other findings in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mrs W £1,040.88 to replace her carpet; and
Pay Mrs W £500 to reflect the distress and inconvenience its poor service and claims 
handling has caused her.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman