DRN-3146794
The complaint
Mr C complains about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) under 
his pet insurance policy. His complaint is that Red Sands didnt make clear the impact on the 
annual limit for pre-existing conditions when he wanted to change the level of cover.
What happened
Mr C had a pet insurance policy providing lifetime cover for his dog, taken out in June 2015. 
At the time of the policy renewal in June 2020, Mr C was experiencing financial difficulties 
and found the renewal premium too high, so he reduced the level of cover. This meant that 
the annual limit on claims for pre-existing conditions reduced from £4,000 to £2,000. At the 
next renewal, in June 2021, Mr C asked to revert to the higher level of cover, but Red Sands 
told him the annual limit on claims for pre-existing conditions would remain at £2,000. 
Mr C says that he wasnt told by Red Sands that reducing the level of cover would mean the 
annual limit on cover for pre-existing conditions being permanently reduced. Mr C says that, 
had he known this, he wouldnt have reduced his cover.
Mr C complained to Red Sands, but they didnt uphold his complaint. In their final response 
they said that when he contacted them at renewal in 2020 to reduce his level of cover, it was 
made clear that cover for pre-existing conditions would reduce to £2,000. Red Sands also 
noted that Mr C didnt mention his financial difficulties, nor the possibility of reverting to the 
higher level of cover in the future. Red Sands confirmed that where cover for pre-existing 
conditions is reduced, then the annual claims limit it would remain at the lower level. In those 
circumstances, their agents werent required to provide information about the impact on the 
annual limit unless specifically asked about by a policyholder. 
Unhappy at Red Sands response, Mr C complained to this service. The main part of his 
complaint was that Red Sands hadnt made it clear about the impact on the annual limit for 
pre-existing conditions of reducing his level of cover. Mr C said hed been affected financially 
by future annual claims for pre-existing conditions being capped at £2,000 as hed previously 
exceeded that figure when hed made claims. He asked that he be allowed to reinstate the 
higher annual limit under his policy.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He said that as a lifetime policyholder he was committed to Red Sands policy and 
couldnt shop around. He restated his view that had he been told about the reduction in the 
annual limit for pre-existing conditions being permanent, he wouldnt have reduced his cover. 
He also thought he should be able to choose the level of cover at each renewal and there 
wasnt any indication in the policy documentation that the reduction in the annual limit for 
pre-existing conditions would be permanent. And as the reduction wasnt mentioned during 
the renewal discussion, there was no way in which he could have understood this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Red Sands has acted fairly towards Mr C. 
The main issue in Mr Cs complaint is that he wasnt made aware that the reduction in the 
annual limit for pre-existing conditions when he reduced the level of cover would be 
permanent. Had he known this, he wouldnt have reduced his level of cover. Mr C is also 
unhappy that the permanent reduction on the level of cover was neither included in his policy 
document nor mentioned by Red Sands when he reduced the cover. For their part, Red 
Sands say it was made clear that cover for pre-existing conditions would reduce to £2,000. 
They also say Mr C didnt mention either his financial difficulties, nor the possibility of 
reverting back to the higher level of cover in the future. Given that, they werent under any 
obligation to tell him about the permanent reduction in cover.
 
On the first issue, Ive considered both views carefully, together with the information and 
evidence provided by both Mr C and Red Sands. Ive also listened to the call Mr C had with 
Red Sands at the renewal of his policy in 2020. In the call Mr C confirms that he wants to go 
ahead with the option of reducing the level of cover under his policy. The Red Sands agent 
clearly tells Mr C that the impact of this will be that  while there will still be unlimited lifetime 
cover  the annual limit on claims will reduce to £2,000. Mr C accepts this and proceeds with 
the lower level of policy cover. The lower figure is also clearly set out in the policy document 
subsequently sent to Mr C after his renewal. Ive concluded that it was clear that a lower 
annual limit for pre-existing conditions was a consequence of Mr Cs decision to reduce the 
level of policy cover.
 
While Ive concluded the lower annual claim limit (for the coming year) was made clear, Mr 
Cs main issue is that he wasnt told this reduction would be permanent. That is, it wouldnt 
revert to the higher annual limit were he to decide to revert to the higher level of cover in the 
future. Listening to the call, its true that this wasnt made clear to Mr C. But equally, he didnt 
mention either the reason he wanted to reduce the level of cover (his financial difficulties) or 
mention that he might want to revert to the higher level of cover in the future (or ask whether 
it would be possible to do so). Given this, I dont think it was unreasonable for the Red 
Sands agent not to mention the permanent reduction in the annual limit as that would only 
become relevant in the event that Mr C wanted to revert to the higher level in the future. And 
he hadnt given any indication that he might do so. Had he done so, then Red Sands would 
have been able to tell him what the impact would be.
 
Mr C also makes the point that the policy documentation doesnt make the reduction clear 
either. Ive looked at the documentation and the impact on the annual limit of first reducing, 
then seeking to increase, the level of cover isnt specifically mentioned. But equally the 
policy document is there to set out the terms and conditions of the policy in force, including 
the annual limits for each level of cover. It isnt to set out all the potential scenarios where 
policyholders seek to vary the terms of the policy in the future, including the level of cover. 
Mr C also argues he should be able to choose the level of cover at each renewal. I agree 
with this as a principle and theres no restriction on his ability to request changes at each 
renewal (including the level of cover). But equally, Red Sands can change the terms and 
conditions of the policy that are offered at renewal, both in general or in response to 
policyholder requests. If the policyholder wants to change the level of cover (as Mr C did 
when he asked to revert to the higher level of cover) then its for Red Sands to respond to 
that request with the terms under which they are willing to offer that [change of] cover 
(including the annual limit on pre-existing conditions). Its then for the policyholder to decide 
whether they want to renew the policy on the terms offered, or to look for alternative cover.Based on this, while Mr C was free to request a change [back] to the higher level of cover at 
renewal in 2021, it was reasonable for Red Sands to decide the terms on which they would 
be willing to provide that higher level of cover (including the annual limit).
 
Based on these considerations, Ive concluded that Red Sands havent acted unreasonably 
in the circumstances of the complaint. While I can understand Mr Cs unhappiness, I cant 
say that theyve done anything wrong and ask them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman