DRN-2496982
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy about how Acorn Insurance and Financial Services Limited trading as 
Haven Insurance (Haven) handled his motor insurance policy when he changed his car. And 
that this has meant his car was seized by police and crushed.
What happened
Mr S had a motor insurance policy with Haven. In May 2020, Mr S said his car, registration 
ending *0ES  was seized and crushed by the police. After acquiring a new car, registration 
ending *XYO, Mr S asked Haven to update his motor insurance policy with his new car 
details.
Haven told Mr S he needed to pay £44.50 for the change. Mr S made the payment but said 
he needed the policy to include business use. Mr S said the police again seized his car and 
it was also crushed as the Motor Insurance Database (MID) didnt show his car *XYO as 
being insured. Mr S said hed another car seized by the police in September 2020. But this 
car was returned to him as the MID check showed it was insured. Mr S complained to Haven 
about failing to update the MID for his car *XKO.
Haven said the MID was checked for car *OES  on 8 May 2020. This confirmed the car was 
insured, but they were told it was being used for business use. Mr S policy was for social, 
domestic and pleasure purposes only. And so wasnt fully insured for what he was using it 
for.
Haven said  *XYO was seized by the police on 11 July 2020, but when the MID was checked 
it wasnt showing as being insured as it hadnt been updated with Mr S new car details, 
which they accept it should have been. But also said they couldnt find any contact from Mr S 
asking for insurance documentation to show the police he had valid insurance to prevent any 
further action. Mr S car was crushed  7 August 2020.
When another car of Mr S was seized by the police the MID had been updated and showed 
he had insurance cover. Haven said theyd paid Mr S the impound costs for this car £310. 
But on review saw they shouldnt have paid these as the MID was up to date. But agreed for 
Mr S to keep the payment as a gesture of goodwill. They also refunded the £44.50 change of 
details payment for *XYO.
Mr S wasnt happy with their response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said when Mr S was changing the details on his policy, he said he needed 
to insure *XYO for business purposes. Haven advised Mr S in May 2020 that he needed to 
apply for the change, but he hadnt done this. So she didnt think Haven had caused Mr S 
car to be seized and crushed.
Mr S didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The Road Traffic Act (1988), (RTA) makes it a legal requirement for all vehicles used on the 
road to be insured.  The Continuous Insurance Enforcement Regulations (2011) also makes 
it compulsory for all motor vehicles to either be insured or declared off the road through a 
statutory off road notification (SORN). If a vehicle isnt insured or declared as SORN, 
penalties can apply. When selecting a policy, a consumer will also need to choose what use 
they need the car to be covered for. A car should be insured for social, domestic and 
pleasure only, or additional cover can be added for commuting or for business use.
Mr S motor insurance policy ran from July each year. I can see Mr S insured his car *OES 
for social, domestic and pleasure but not for commuting or for any business purpose.  And 
this is what a check on the MID showed. But the police said Mr S was using his car for 
delivering food, and so needed to be insured for business purposes.  Mr S policy details 
what isnt covered and says:
Using the car for a purpose not specified in the certificate or policy schedule.
The police seized Mr S car in May 2020 and said it was being used to deliver takeaway 
food. As Mr S didnt have business use cover, he would have been using his car for a 
purpose that wasnt covered under his policy. So, Mr S car wasnt fully insured. And the 
police had the car crushed the same month. This was a decision taken by the police and it 
would be for Mr S to determine the precise reason for their action. But the information on the 
MID was correct.
Later in May 2020, Mr S acquired another car *XYO. And he asked Haven to amend his 
insurance details. Haven charged Mr S £44.50 to change the details from *OES to *XYO. A 
few days later after making the payment Mr S said he needed his policy to cover business 
use, and Haven advised him he needed to make an on-line application for this to be done. 
But I cant see this happened. 
I can see Haven sent an email to Mr S, 02 July 2020 that said its time to renew your motor 
insurance policy It also outlined what cover Mr S had, and the need for him to contact if his 
circumstances or level of cover needed to be changed. The email clearly shows the car 
being covered was still *OES and that the change to *XYO hadnt been made. The email 
also said the policy would automatically renew without any contact from Mr S. I havent seen 
any evidence that Mr S contacted Haven, and 11 July 2020, Haven sent Mr S his new  
certificate of insurance, but again this clearly showed it was for his previous car *OES and 
not for his current car *XYO.
The police didnt seize Mr S car until 17 July 2020 and it wasnt crushed until August 2020. I 
know Mr S asked Haven to update his insurance policy in May 2020 but I think he would 
have been aware he didnt have the correct documentation to show his car *XYO was 
insured at the time it was seized. And I also think there was enough time for Mr S to check 
with Haven as to the insurance cover he had for *XYO, given he had paid £44.50 for his 
details to be changed. And if he had Haven could have shown hed changed his insurance 
cover from *OES TO *XYO before the car was seized. But I cant say this would have 
prevented his car being crushed as his policy covered him for social, domestic, pleasure and 
commuting. But still not for business purposes. So, I cant say Haven by not updating the 
MID was the cause of Mr S car being destroyed. Mr S had another car seized by the police in September 2020, for which he incurred 
impound costs of £310, that Haven has reimbursed him for. As the insurance information for 
this car was up to date, there wasnt any onus for Haven to pay these costs. But they have 
agreed for Mr S to retain the payment in recognition that they hadnt updated the MID for his 
previous car. Haven has also refunded Mr S the £44.50 hed paid to change his insurance 
details.
I can understand Mr S frustration as Haven should have updated the MID to show *XYO 
was insured. But as outlined above I cant hold Haven responsible for Mr S car being 
destroyed. And Haven has shown that if Mr S had asked for insurance documentation, 
theyd have shown *XYO was covered from 15 May 2020 to 28 August 2020 for social, 
domestic, pleasure and commuting purposes. So, it will be for Mr S to decide whether he 
accepts the payment made by Haven to cover impound charges for his other car and the 
£44.50 hed paid for changing his car details.
On checking the MID I can see that Mr S now has two policies on his latest car as he has 
taken out extra insurance cover.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman