DRN-3989977
The complaint
Miss D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money she didnt withdraw from her 
account.
What happened
Miss D explains that she deposited £8,500 in cash she had saved for her children into her 
account on 17 May 2022. She ordered a new card and PIN. She contacted Lloyds when she 
hadnt received this. On 13 June 2022 she was told when she called that £8,000 had been 
withdrawn from her account using that card. And she raised a claim of fraud.
Lloyds said it wouldnt be refunding this money. When it issued a final response letter it said 
that it found no evidence that it was liable for these payments. And that there was no 
explanation how a third party could have taken the money. It paid Miss D £50 for poor 
service. Lloyds said that it would cooperate fully with the police if Miss D reported the matter 
to them.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and the money refunded.   
Miss D said shed called several times about the missing card. He said it was entirely 
plausible that the card and PIN could have been delivered to the wrong address in a 
building of flats. Lloyds had provided CCTV evidence of Miss D depositing the money on 17 
May 2022 and the person withdrawing the money on 10 June 2022. He didnt agree that this 
was the same person. Thered been declined transactions on 13 June 2022, and he thought 
this, and the pattern of payments was consistent with the actions of a fraudster.
Lloyds didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman consider the case. It maintained that the 
person withdrawing money on 10 June 2022 in a branch was Miss D. It pointed out that the 
account hadnt been used before this deposit and that Miss D hadnt explained why shed 
had so much money at home. The card and PIN were sent out on separate dates and to an 
independent address with its own letter box. The first withdrawal was made on 28 May 2022, 
the day after Miss D had called about not having her card and PIN. The first withdrawal was 
made in a branch which was a risk for a fraudster. The final unsuccessful attempt to 
withdraw money came two hours before Miss D had called. Lloyds concluded that the money 
was taken out by Miss D, or someone known to her acting with her authority.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 24 January 2023. I set out below what I said.
I explained that I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is 
most likely based on the information that is available. 
I needed to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
Miss D wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I would be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
- Did Miss D authorise the payments on the account including by allowing someone else 
to use the card as Lloyds says?
The withdrawals were made in cash and using the card and the PIN. The first seven 
withdrawals were made in branch for £1,000 each between 28 May 2022 and 10 June 2022. 
There were cash machine withdrawals of £500 in total both on 12 and 13 June 2022. I was 
satisfied that these were authenticated when the chip on the genuine card was read, and the 
correct PIN entered.
I needed to decide whether Miss D consented to them. I wanted first to say a bit about some 
of the evidence.
Id considered the CCTV still images Lloyds has provided. The person withdrawing money 
on 10 June 2022 was wearing a cap and a face mask. I didnt consider this is of sufficient 
quality to be able to conclude whether this was or wasnt Miss D. The most I could say is that 
the image isnt inconsistent with it being her. In any event CCTV often doesnt help resolve 
whether if any third party was involved that person was acting with authority or not.
Miss D told this service she called a number of times about the missing card and PIN. Lloyds 
has provided its records about this and copies of the calls. There was a call on 27 May 2022 
as she says. In that call she was told to wait another two to three days and if there are any 
problems call back. There is no record of any call again until 13 June 2022. During that call 
Miss D says she called a week and a half ago. I thought it likely that had she called in the 
interim that the same concerns raised on 13 June 2022 would have been identified as 
withdrawals were then being made - and any reasonable timescale for receipt of the card 
and PIN would have been passed.
The pattern of withdrawals shows that although there were sizeable withdrawals, the money 
wasnt taken out as quickly as possible. There were gaps of days when no money was 
withdrawn. There was no balance enquiry before the first withdrawal. There were repeated 
attempts on 13 June 2022 to take out more money which were declined after £500 had been 
withdrawn. The only further use of the card was on 14 June 2022 when it was retained by a 
machine.
Miss D has explained that she lives only with her young children. While at times she has 
received neighbours post she doesnt report any other instances of post going missing. She 
has her own letter box. She says she was home for most of the period as it was half term 
from school and could have received the post. Miss D explains she hadnt told anyone about 
the card and PIN and depositing the money or allowed anyone else to use the account. 
Lloyds has shown that the card and PIN were dispatched on different dates and explains 
that these would be in unmarked envelopes. Taking into account what Miss D has said about 
her address I considered it highly unlikely that both her card and PIN would go missing in 
this way. And that they could both go to the same person even if they had. No one knew that 
these were coming and so would be anticipating them. 
In making my overall assessment I set out all the things Id need to think are most likely to 
find that Miss D didnt consent to these payments:
- Miss D decided to use the account after some time and had kept what is a very 
substantial amount of cash in her property until then.
- As I set out somehow both the card and PIN ended up with the same person and who 
was a fraudster.- Miss D having enquired about her card did nothing more until 13 June 2022. I didnt find 
her evidence about further contact with Lloyds to be reliable for the reasons I set out 
above.
- An unknown third party who couldnt know the amount of money in the account didnt 
make a balance enquiry before using the card.
- That person was bold enough instead to go to a branch to impersonate Miss D not 
knowing what security questions might be asked and if by then the card and PIN had 
been reported missing.
- A significant withdrawal was requested again without knowing the balance.
- That person risked detection in branch on a further six occasions with it becoming more 
likely that the loss would have been detected and that there could have been CCTV 
evidence.
- That person didnt take money out as quickly as possible as I set out above.
- But that person had tried to take out money of varying amounts on 13 June 2022 up to 
15:01 on 13 June 2022. And it is a coincidence that Miss D reported the fraud on the 
account just over two hours later on that day and by when the majority of the money had 
gone.
I said that in my provisional view these werent all findings I thought most likely based on the 
evidence. And so, I didnt conclude that an unknown third party made these withdrawals. I 
found that Lloyds acted reasonably in holding Miss D responsible for the payments and in 
saying that it would assist any criminal investigation if matters were reported to police. I 
didnt have any information about that here. I said I could appreciate how disappointed    
Miss D would be by my provisional decision given whats at stake for her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds didnt make any further comments.
Miss D didnt agree and made a number of points. She said that she wanted to know why 
Lloyds had provided still images and not the video footage. And that the reason it had 
refused her claim was because it said that she was the person in the branch and captured 
on CCTV on 10 June 2022. She now knew that this person had been wearing a mask and a 
hat. And so, shed lost confidence in what Lloyds has said and thought it was providing 
material in a certain way. She said all the CCTV needed to be viewed to get a full grasp of 
the fraud activity. 
Miss D said that she had been to two named branches while waiting for the card and PIN 
and in one her information had been looked up. And that shed got the same response to 
wait a few more days. She hasnt set out exactly when that was. She thinks that Lloyds has 
hidden this. This wasnt her main account and she said she was never going to be on top of 
it.
Miss D disclosed that shed been suffering from mental health issues at the time and that it 
was hurtful that her evidence about calling more often had been questioned. Shed called 
when she could, but her medication had a known side effect of making it difficult for her to 
remember to do simple tasks. And she needed to look after her children.
She said that the money in the account wasnt supposed to be regularly touched. This had 
been saved during the pandemic and also on childrens birthdays. 
Miss D wanted to know how I could be sure thered been no balance enquiry. And she wanted to know what identification had been asked for when the withdrawals were made. 
And why she hadnt been informed about them when shed notified Lloyds that she hadnt 
received her card and PIN. 
In summary Miss D said shed followed the advice of staff, had been affected by her mental 
health issues and responsibilities, there was no notification of the entries from Lloyds when it 
knew she hadnt had the card and PIN and it had unfairly relied on a CCTV image. It was 
easy to look at things with hindsight, but it hadnt crossed her mind that someone was going 
to intercept her card. To be held liable there should be 100 per cent certainty.
Im sorry to hear about the mental health difficulties Miss D has now described and have no 
reason to doubt what she says about that noting that shes offered to provide evidence.
I appreciate Miss D is unhappy with the way in which Lloyds used the CCTV. I can say to her 
that I didnt put any weight on that in my provisional decision and said that at best it wasnt 
inconsistent with it being her. But I dont think that further CCTV even if it did now exist 
would help me for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision. And my assessment is 
independent of what Lloyds had said before and Im deciding what is important and required 
to resolve the issues in this case.
I hadnt seen or heard any other clear reference to Miss D further going into two branches to 
ask about her card and PIN before in the information available. As I set out above what was 
said in her call of 13 June 2022 was consistent with her having made one earlier call. Miss D 
specifically told us that she called a number of times when she spoke to one of our team at 
this service on 17 August 2022. And in some ways based on what she says about her 
health, what Lloyds told her and the fact that she didnt need to use the account Im unclear 
why she would be in contact more often as she says she didnt suspect anything.
Ive seen the audit information about the use of the card, and I can say from that no balance 
enquiry was made before the first withdrawal. I had asked Lloyds if it could tell me anything 
more about the withdrawals and it wasnt able to. But clearly the person who went into the 
branch each time as Id said was confident on Miss Ds version of events to impersonate her 
and increasingly risked detection. And for it to be relevant for Lloyds to have contacted her 
Id need to think that a third party had been involved and she hadnt most likely authorised 
the payments.
Miss D hasnt added anything further in my view to what shes already said about the source 
of what was a significant amount of cash or whether shes pursued things further with police. 
And why and how the two items of her post here would be intercepted especially as she 
says no one knew about the card and PIN and the substantial amount of money in the 
account.
As Id explained in my provisional decision I wont be able to say exactly what happened, but 
Im thinking about what was most likely. I set out in in my provisional decision all the things 
Id need to find most likely if as Miss D claims an unknown third party was responsible for the 
payments. And as Ive said reliance on the actual CCTV evidence made available didnt 
feature in that. Ive considered what Miss D has further said carefully but on balance I remain 
of the view that I dont think its most likely that an unknown third party made these 
withdrawals for the reasons Ive given.
If Miss D doesnt accept my findings she remains free to pursue this in court and subject to 
any relevant time limits.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman