DRN-4192013
The complaint
Mr L says that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, treated him unfairly when it 
would not refund him for collectable shoes he had purchased, which turned out to be fake.
What happened
During July and August 2020 Mr L purchased separately five pairs of rare and collectable 
shoes (trainers) from unconnected shoe sellers (the Shoe Sellers) on an online marketplace 
called eBay. The July 2020 purchases of shoes cost £365.70, £299.02, and £335. The 
August 2020 purchases were £523.10 and £530.99. So, he paid a total amount of £2,053.81 
for what he thought were rare collectable trainers. He purchased them having either seen 
them being advertised as genuine and/or having asked the sellers before purchase whether 
they were genuine. After purchasing them Mr L became concerned and used an 
independent inspection company to check whether they were genuine or fakes. The 
company reviewed pictures of the trainers and confirmed that they were not genuine. And so 
Mr L complained to eBay, who told him that hed brought his dispute to it outside of its 
timescales so it couldnt help. So Mr L took his complaint to Virgin.
Virgin considered the matter and noted that when Mr L raised the issue to it was a significant 
time after the purchase date. So it didnt think a Chargeback had a reasonable prospect of 
success. It also considered a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It 
decided that the necessary relationship set out in the Act was not in place for S75 to apply. 
So it said it couldnt be liable for any claim. Mr L felt that this was unfair, so he brought his 
complaint to this service. 
Our Investigator looked into the matter and decided that the necessary relationship was in 
place for Virgin to be liable under the legislation Ive described. And she felt that Virgin 
should refund Mr L the cost of the five pairs of shoes. Virgin felt that the requisite relationship 
wasnt in place so it couldnt be held liable. So this complaint came to me to decide.
In May 2023 I issued a provisional decision explaining that I felt the relationship required was 
in place and that Virgin should refund the cost of the shoes.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L accepted my provisional decision without additional comment. Virgin mentioned in an 
aside in a preliminary response to my provisional decision that it seemed unfair to reflect on 
the Steiner case. I dont necessarily agree but in any event if the Steiner case was 
unavailable to my consideration then the relevant case law would be that of Governor and 
Company of the Bank of Scotland v Alfred Truman (a firm) [2005] EWHC 583, (the Truman 
case). I note that if Truman were to be applied to Mr Ls case it would also be significantly in 
his favour for similar (and broader) reasons to Steiner. So I dont necessarily agree with 
Virgins position on this point but in any event this doesnt make a difference to my overall 
conclusions here. Virgin then issued its final response to my provisional decision that it 
accepted my provisional decision without comment. So I dont think it was giving significant 
weight to this particular point as it had opportunity to elucidate on it but chose not to (for 
obvious reasons to my mind).
Both parties eventually accepted my provisional decision. Accordingly I see no reason to 
deviate from the reasoning or conclusions of my provisional decision. Accordingly and for all 
the reasons set out in this decision Mr Ls complaint is successful and Virgin must remedy 
the matter. Below is the reasoning as set out in my provisional decision along with my 
direction to Virgin regarding remedy updated to reflect the final nature of this decision.
authorisation
Mr L accepts he made the transactions for the shoes. He doesnt dispute the amounts 
charged or the dates they were charged. And it hasnt been argued that it was double 
charged or applied to the wrong account. Considering what has happened here and what the 
parties have said, Im satisfied on balance that Mr L did properly authorise the transactions 
at the time. And accordingly they were correctly allocated to his account by Virgin.
could Virgin challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr L does 
here, Virgin (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process. I dont 
think Virgin couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr L didnt properly authorise the 
transactions, given the conclusions on this issue that Ive already set out.
Virgin has said that it couldnt raise a chargeback request due to the time constraints within 
the network rules and due to the time between when Mr L paid for the shoes and when he 
took his dispute to Virgin. Ive looked into what happened here and considered the network 
rules around chargeback and agree it was out of time. Accordingly I dont think Mr L has lost 
out here by Virgin not raising a chargeback.
Section 75
Here I must consider what Virgin should do. To do this, I have to decide what I think is fair 
and reasonable, having regard to, amongst other things, any relevant law including both 
legislation and case law. In this case, the relevant starting point is S75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) which says that, in certain circumstances, if Mr L paid for goods 
or services on his credit card and there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
Supplier, Virgin can be held responsible.
For claritys sake I shall explain the underpinning legislation concerning the DCS concept 
before explaining my thinking on this case. S75(1) states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c)
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
So s.75 only applies if:
i) There is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement (or DCS agreement, for short) of the 
type that falls within s.12(b) or (c);
ii) That agreement finances the transaction between the debtor (Mr L) and the supplier 
(The Shoe Suppliers); and,iii)  If, relating to that transaction, the debtor (Mr L) has a claim against the supplier (The 
Shoe Suppliers) in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract. If so, 
then the creditor (Virgin) is jointly and severally liable to the debtor. 
S.12(b) applies to:  
a restricted use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made by the 
creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements, 
between himself and the supplier
S.11(1)(b) defines a restricted-use credit agreement as a regulated consumer credit 
agreement:
to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier) other than the 
creditor
Subsections 11(3) & (4) provide:
"(3) An agreement does not fall within subsection (1) if the credit is in fact provided in such a 
way as to leave the debtor free to use it as he chooses, even though certain uses would 
contravene that or any other agreement.
(4) An agreement may fall within subsection (1)(b) although the identity of the supplier is 
unknown at the time the agreement is made."
Section 187 provides:
"(1) A consumer credit agreement shall be treated as entered into under pre-existing 
arrangements between a creditor and a supplier if it is entered into in accordance with, or in 
furtherance of, arrangements previously made between persons mentioned in subsection 
(4)(a), (b) or (c).
(2) A consumer credit agreement shall be treated as entered into in contemplation of future 
arrangements between a creditor and a supplier if it is entered into in the expectation that 
arrangements will subsequently be made between persons mentioned in subsection (4)(a), 
(b) or (c) for the supply of cash, goods and services (or any of them) to be financed by the 
consumer credit agreement.
(3) Arrangements shall be disregarded for the purposes of subsection (1) or (2) if
(a) they are arrangements for the making, in specified circumstances, of payments to the 
supplier by the creditor, and
(b) the creditor holds himself out as willing to make, in such circumstances, payments of the 
kind to suppliers generally.
(4) The persons referred to in subsections (1) and (2) are
(a) the creditor and the supplier;
And s.189 says finance means to wholly or partly finance, and that financed shall be 
construed accordingly.
Historically credit cards worked within a commonplace three-party structure. Specifically that 
there was:
an agreement between the card issuer (the Creditor) and the cardholder (the Debtor) 
to extend credit by paying for goods or services purchased by the cardholder from 
suppliers who had agreed to honour the card; 
an agreement between the card issuer and the Supplier under which the Supplier 
agreed to accept the card in payment and the card issuer agreed to pay the Supplier 
promptly;
an agreement between the cardholder and the Supplier for the purchase of goods or 
services.
As time went by a new type of party entered the market and specifically these types of 
transactions, known as the Merchant Acquirer. This led to the creation of four party 
relationships where instead of the agreement being between the card issuer and the 
supplier, there were two agreements:
an agreement between the merchant acquirer and the supplier, under which the 
supplier undertook to honour the card and the merchant acquirer undertook to pay the supplier; and 
an agreement between the merchant acquirer and the card issuer, under which the 
merchant acquirer agreed to pay the supplier and the card issuer undertook to 
reimburse the merchant acquirer.
The impact of this development on the application of S75 was considered by the Court of
Appeal in the case of Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds & others [2006] (the OFT case). The 
Court of Appeal first considered whether the introduction of the four-party structure
meant that the system had evolved significantly beyond the state of affairs to which S75 had
been directed. They concluded that it had not, stating at paragraph 55 of their judgment:
From the customer's point of view  it is difficult to see any justification for drawing a
distinction between the different [three-party and four-party] situations. Indeed, in the case of
those card issuers such as Virgin TSB, who operate under both three-party and four-party
structures, the customer has no means of knowing whether any given transaction is
conducted under one or other arrangement. Similarly, from the point of view of the card
issuer and the supplier the commercial nature of the relationship is essentially the same:
each benefits from the involvement of the other in a way that makes it possible to regard
them as involved in something akin to a joint venture, just as much as in the case of the
three-party structure.
 They went on to say;
It is clear that, whether the transaction is entered into under a three-party or four-party 
structure, the purpose of the credit agreement is to provide the customer with the means to 
pay for goods or services. It follows that in both cases the card issuer finances the 
transaction between the customer and the supplier by making credit available at the point of 
purchase in accordance with the credit agreement. The fact that it does so through the 
medium of an agreement with the merchant acquirer does not detract from that because it is 
the card issuer's agreement to provide credit to the customer that provides the financial 
basis for the transaction with the supplier.
In the House of Lords in the same case Lord Mance said, in relation to the recruitment of 
overseas suppliers to the network:
30.  That, in today's market, arrangements between card issuers and overseas suppliers 
under schemes such as VISA and MasterCard are indirect (rather than pursuant to a direct 
contract as is still the case with American Express and Diners Club) is a consequence of the 
way in which the VISA and MasterCard networks have developed and operate. Likewise, the 
fact that the rules of these networks give card issuers no direct choice as to the suppliers in 
relation to whom their cards will be used. The choice of suppliers is, in effect, delegated to 
the merchant acquirers in each country in which these networks operate, and provision is 
made, as one would expect, to ensure and monitor the reliability of such suppliers in the 
interests of all network members. That network rules may not provide all the protections that 
they might, e.g. by way of indemnity and/or jurisdiction agreements, is neither here nor there. 
They could in theory do so, and it is apparent that there are some differences in this respect 
between different networks. The Crowther Report and 1974 Act proceed on the basis of a 
relatively simple model which contemplated that card issuers would have direct control of 
such matters. A more sophisticated worldwide network, like VISA or MasterCard, offers both 
card issuers and card holders considerable countervailing benefits. Card issuers make a 
choice, commercially inevitable though it may have become, to join one of these networks, 
for better or worse.
Lord Mance was talking about the conditions that existed almost twenty years ago, because 
the case from which he was hearing an appeal went to trial in 2004. But, I think it is clear that even by then the commercial practices by which card networks recruited suppliers had 
evolved by developing a system that left supplier recruitment to intermediaries, and card 
issuers were faced with an essentially commercial decision as to whether to participate in 
network that included suppliers who had been recruited that way.  Since 2004, new 
technology and the growth of internet commerce have opened up additional channels for 
recruiting suppliers and routing payment to them (for example, payment facilitators, which 
are now an established part of the payments industry and internet marketplaces to name two 
examples) and, again, card networks have changed their rules and practices in response. 
Having provided some important context to the circumstances in Mr Ls case, I need to now 
establish the exact nature of what happened as best I can and the relation between the 
parties involved. 
The DCS issue
I have considered the particular facts of Mr Ls case. In order for S75 to apply there has to 
have been arrangements between Virgin and the Shoe Sellers to finance transactions 
between Virgins cardholders and the Shoe Sellers. Its clear that there was no direct 
arrangement between them, but this isnt a requirement for the application of S75.
I say this because the Judge who heard the OFT case at first instance ([2005] 1 All ER 843) 
had also considered the meaning of the word arrangements, as used in section 12, and 
whether there existed relevant arrangements between creditors and suppliers in the four-
party situation. He said that the use of the word showed a deliberate intention on the part of 
the draftsman to use broad, loose language, which was to be contrasted with the word 
agreement. In the Court of Appeal, the creditors argued that arrangements should be given 
a narrower meaning that took the four-party structure outside the definition. But the Court of 
Appeal agreed with the Judge that arrangements had been used to embrace a wide range 
of commercial structures having substantially the same effect. They held that it was not 
required for arrangements to be made directly by or between the creditor and supplier, 
merely that arrangements should exist between them, and it was difficult to resist the 
conclusion that such arrangements existed between credit card issuers and suppliers who 
agreed to accept their cards, and stated:
Moreover, we find it difficult to accept that Parliament would have been willing to allow some
consumers to be disadvantaged by the existence of indirect arrangements when other
consumers were protected because the relevant arrangements were direct.
Ive also considered the recent High Court case of Steiner v National Westminster Bank 
(2022) EWHC 2519 (the Steiner case). This case involved payments to a trust for the 
provision of a timeshare supplied by a timeshare provider.  The High Court dismissed the 
claim under s.75 on the basis that the timeshare purchase was not made under a debtor-
creditor-supplier agreement. This was because payment had been made in the first instance 
to the trust company, whereas the claim related to agreement to purchase a timeshare from 
the timeshare provider. Mr Steiners credit card was issued under the MasterCard scheme 
and the trust company was a member of the MasterCard network, but the timeshare provider 
was not. 
The Judge (Lavender J) held that central question was not whether "arrangements" existed 
between the bank and the timeshare provider at the time when Mr and Mrs Steiner had 
entered into their agreement with the timeshare provider and Mr Steiner had used his card to 
pay the trust company. Rather, the question posed by s.12(b) CCA was whether Mr Steiners 
credit card agreement with the bank was made by the creditor (i.e. the bank) under pre-
existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements, between the creditor 
(i.e. the bank) and the timeshare provider. When a bank made an agreement with one of its customers in relation to a card issued by 
the bank to the customer, then the agreement was made under the card network, which 
constituted "arrangements" between the bank and the other members of the network.  So, if 
a supplier was already a member of the card network, the agreement was made "under pre-
existing arrangements ... between the bank and the supplier".  The bank was also aware that 
other merchants were likely to join the card network in the future, so in that respect the 
agreement was made "in contemplation of future arrangements, between the bank and 
merchant who subsequently joins the card network.
However, in the absence of specific factual evidence as to the bank's state of mind, the 
Judge said it was difficult to envisage that a bank which issued a card to its customer and 
made a credit card agreement in relation to that card made that agreement under, or in 
contemplation of, any arrangements other than the card network. And, as the timeshare 
provider was outside the card network, it didnt supply the timeshare under a debtor-creditor-
supplier agreement. 
Is there a DCS agreement here? 
The question of whether Mr Ls transaction took place under a DCS agreement seems to me 
to turn in this case on two matters: first, whether there existed arrangements between Virgin 
and the Shoe Sellers for the financing of transactions with the Shoe Sellers customers; and 
second, if such arrangements existed, whether that was the case when Virgin entered a 
credit agreement with Mr L or, if the arrangements came into existence after that, whether 
Virgin contemplated that they would do so. Ill examine those questions in turn.
Arrangements 
Here Virgin has pointed to the presence of the online marketplace (eBay) as the reason that 
the DCS agreement isnt in place and to a lesser extent the presence of the well-known 
financial services provider PayPal. Virgin has said:
"if a buyer uses a credit card, their payment is processed through PayPals payment 
gateway before being added to the sellers Paypal account. This means that the payment for 
the goods is not going directly from the credit card to the merchant, and therefore there is a 
breach in the transaction, merchant, credit card chain. We understand that you did not use 
PayPal to pay for the goods, however eBays processes all payments through the PayPal 
payment gateway creating a breach.
In this case it seems clear that from what Virgin has said and what this Service knows of 
these sorts of transactions that PayPal has acted here as both a Payment Facilitator to the 
operation of the transaction and also the provider of the respective accounts of the Shoe 
Sellers where the payments were destined and credited. In essence it appears that the Shoe 
Sellers had outsourced their payments processes to PayPal in these instances. 
PayPal has terms and conditions including that all applicable network/card scheme rules 
must be complied with. And within those terms and conditions some networks are named 
including Mastercard, the network relevant here. And Ive also considered the Mastercard 
network rules applicable here and this need to comply with the network rules is mirrored 
within those. 
Similarly Ive considered eBays terms and conditions which require adherence by its users 
whether theyre purchasers or sellers. Within this it says;
eBay does not have possession of anything listed or sold through eBay, and is not involved 
in the actual transaction between buyers and sellers. The contract for the sale is directly between buyer and seller. eBay is not a party to the transaction and is not a traditional 
auctioneer.
I note that this is directly contrary to what Virgin has said on the matter. I think its likely that 
eBay is more likely to be correct in its own legal position than Virgin. And I think I can rely on 
eBays user agreement to find that the contract for the sale is directly between the buyer (Mr 
L) and the seller (the Shoe Sellers).
I also note that eBays terms state that both its buyers and sellers are obliged to follow its 
rules but that it isnt a party to the actual contract between and buyers and sellers (in this 
instance for the purchases of these shoes).
So the Shoe Sellers have an agreement with PayPal which includes the obligation of 
adhering to the card network rules here (Mastercard). PayPal is obliged to follow the same 
network rules also both in providing its accounts but particularly whilst acting as a payment 
facilitator. Virgin, by using the card scheme here, is bound to follow the same card scheme 
rules as well. And Mr Ls card use is governed by his obligations to Virgin through his 
contract with it. And Mr L and the Shoe Sellers are both bound to the terms and conditions of 
eBay in their dealings with one another aside from the sale contract being between them 
directly as the eBay terms make clear. And according to Virgin itself the transaction goes 
through PayPals payment processing through to the Shoe Sellers PayPal accounts. Ive 
seen no persuasive evidence of eBay participating in the payment transaction directly, 
however even if it did (which Im not necessarily persuaded) it seems clear it would only be 
by acting as a payment facilitator. In essence all parties involved in these financial 
transactions here all have different roles but are all obliged to work within the rules of the 
network to complete the same transaction. 
It is clear that these transactions from Mr Ls credit card to the Shoe Sellers accounts with 
PayPal are in essence instantaneous. It also seems likely here that there is a conversion to 
E-Money in the transactions, but I dont think it makes a difference here and doesnt prevent 
there from being a DCS agreement for reasons I shall give in this decision later.
I should add at this juncture that Virgin has provided minimal representations to support its 
argument here on DCS. I note its comments about the contractual basis of these 
transactions is directly contradicted by eBays own terms and conditions. It hasnt provided 
detail about the exact journey of this transaction nor explained why it believes that there is 
no longer a relevant DCS relationship in regard to this transaction other than pointing to the 
presence of other parties (mainly eBay). It has not explained why the arrangement in this 
case should be distinguished from the established legal authorities. Nor has it chosen to 
provide supporting evidence about the agreements in place between the various parties. 
Furthermore it hasnt even demonstrated that the funds were ever in eBays possession 
even fleetingly. It has only pointed to PayPal and particularly eBay and in essence said their 
mere presence is proof that there is no relevant DCS agreement.  
It may be that in this case there was a separate Merchant Acquirer here as well. But whether 
there was a four-party arrangement here or indeed a five or six party arrangement present in 
Mr Ls case, either way Im still satisfied that there are sufficient arrangements between 
Virgin, as card issuer, and the Shoe Sellers, as suppliers, for the purposes of establishing a 
DCS agreement, I shall now explain why.
In Mr Ls case, I think there are indications of relevant arrangements even before looking at 
the contractual obligations undertaken by the parties, given that PayPal was specifically, and 
publicly in the business of processing or facilitating financial transactions such as the 
transaction in this case. It should also be noted that PayPal is a very large company 
generating vast numbers of transactions which go through all the card networks every day. So clearly the network here (and other networks) have decided to allow such payments to go 
through their networks. And it would seem that considering the commercial benefits of such 
volumes of transactions this is entirely understandable.
And eBay too is a vast commercial enterprise which facilitates huge numbers of purchases 
through its marketplace offering. It seems clear that at the point of sale Virgin and indeed 
Mastercard were well aware of eBays commercial offering. And it is of note that Mastercard 
allow the transactions linked to sales through online marketplaces to go through its scheme. 
Furthermore it is of note that Mastercard advertise its services to online marketplaces. On its 
current website this is reflected by its advertising its services to online marketplaces:
Mastercard provides a suite of innovative and secure solutions to support online 
marketplaces throughout their ecommerce journey from local to global platforms. Many 
established and emerging marketplaces use Mastercards world-class products to streamline 
payments, improve the overall eCommerce experience and enable further expansion and 
growth.
Similarly PayPal is specifically and publicly in the business of providing financial 
transactional services to suppliers, such as the Shoe Sellers. Virgin would be able to know 
the parties within the arrangement here included PayPal and that PayPals business 
involved processing payments under the network for its customers, such as these Shoe 
Sellers. And the Shoe Sellers were obliged through their agreements with PayPal to also be 
bound to follow the rules in the card network in this case. Fundamentally, it follows that 
Virgin financed the transaction between Mr L and the Shoe Sellers by making credit 
available at the point of purchase in accordance with the credit agreement between them. 
The fact that it does so through the medium of PayPal (and possibly eBay as well) does not 
detract from that: it is Virgin's agreement to provide credit to Mr L that provides the financial 
basis for the transaction with the Shoe Sellers. And all of this done with all parties being 
required to comply with the card network rules. And the presence of eBay which isnt a party 
to the contracts of sale here and is a Payment Facilitator at most doesnt materially impact 
this matter at all to my mind. Theres no evidence of the money going through eBays 
accounts and even if it did it was simply facilitating the payments between Mr L and the 
Shoe Sellers in compliance with the accepted processes and practices of Mastercard.
I would also note that both Virgin and the Shoe Sellers undoubtedly benefit commercially
from the involvement of the other, through the intermediations of PayPal (and any Merchant 
Acquirer present), in a way that makes it possible to allow the transaction to happen. By 
financing purchases from the Shoe Sellers, Virgin is able to lend money to their customer 
(Mr L) and make interest and/or other charges for that service, whilst the Shoe Sellers are 
able to obtain payments from Virgins credit card holders and so benefit from the credit Virgin 
extended (albeit indirectly).
Contemplation
It is possible that Virgin may argue that such arrangements as those present in Mr Ls case 
were outside of its contemplation at the time when it agreed with Mr L to open his credit card 
account, and thus there is no DCS agreement for it to be liable under. 
Given that payments systems and card networks have continuously changed and evolved 
over the past half century, I think it likely that Virgin always understood that the Mastercard 
scheme would be operated in accordance with evolving rules and commercial practices, and 
that this evolution was likely to bring in new groups of network participants. Virgin must have 
known Mastercard would try to adapt its network to accommodate major changes in the 
payments industry; and it would certainly not have expected that each customer to whom it 
issued a credit card would only make purchases from the suppliers recruited under the rules and practices applicable at the date when the credit agreement was first entered into.  
Rather, it would have contemplated that all its credit card holders would (irrespective of 
when their credit agreement started) have access to the same suppliers, i.e. those suppliers 
allowed under the Mastercard network (including suppliers such as the Shoe Suppliers). So, 
I think Virgin must have contemplated, when agreeing to give Mr L a credit card, that his 
card would be used to finance purchases from whatever suppliers the networks changing 
rules and practices accommodated at the time of the purchase. 
In this case, the credit card payment went to the Shoe Sellers via PayPal which when acting 
as a Payment Facilitator is a recognised participant in the same card scheme as Virgin, and 
this transactional process between debtors and suppliers is commonplace within the rules of 
the scheme. And as Ive explained the card scheme here run by Mastercard clearly supports 
and actively recruits the business generated through online marketplaces such as eBay. 
Hence the method of payment here (and the type of arrangement between the parties 
concerned) is of a type of that the networks rules and practices accommodate and, as such, 
I consider that it was within Virgins contemplation when the credit card agreement was 
entered into. 
Conversion
Virgin may point to any conversion from Sterling to E-money here as a reason for why there 
might no longer be a DCS agreement. But Im not persuaded by this either, because had 
there been a conversion of foreign currency in the transaction as is the case in huge 
numbers of credit card transactions used during holidays abroad for instance, the accepted 
position is that the DCS agreement isnt broken. And usually in such foreign transactions 
there is a fee charged for providing the added service of the currency exchange. It is 
important to remember here that the sums here were funded by the Virgin credit card. This 
transaction wasnt funded wholly by the balance already held in the account with PayPal. 
These were near instantaneous transactions from Mr Ls Virgin credit card to the Shoe 
Suppliers accounts through the intermediation of the financial transactional services as 
provided by PayPal. And I cannot see a fee being directly charged for any exchange to E-
money here. And even if there was such a fee (whether directly applied to the transaction or 
as part of the overall service that PayPal provided) I dont think it would make this 
transaction distinguishable from the other types of currency exchanges Ive described. 
Accounts
It may be that Virgin points to the fact that the transaction journey here is from Mr Ls card 
into the Shoe Suppliers accounts with PayPal via accounts used for payment facilitation 
(here provided by PayPal also) as a reason why to consider their might not be a DCS 
agreement. But Im not persuaded by this. There are still the necessary arrangements to my 
mind. Merchant Acquirers, Payment Processors and those parties providing currency 
conversion services have accounts in which transactions pass through on their journey from 
debtors account with the creditor to the supplier. Ive not seen any persuasive reason to 
distinguish what happened here from the authorities mentioned before. 
The network stance
Mastercards public stance on the DCS matter generally is unclear from my research. 
However I reiterate my earlier comments here about it actively advertising its ability to 
provide services to online marketplaces and also its facilitation of large numbers of 
transactions including PayPal through its network/scheme on a daily basis and it being 
aware of large marketplaces such as eBay through the normal course of its business.So all in all Ive not seen any persuasive evidence at this stage that the additional services 
provided by PayPal interrupts the DCS agreement. Im also satisfied these transactions fit 
within the financial limits set out in relation to S75 claims as described in the Act. Accordingly 
Im satisfied that there is the necessary DCS agreement and a S75 claim can be successful 
if the other requirements are made out. 
liability
As Ive explained, for Virgin to be liable under S75 a breach of contract or a material 
misrepresentation needs to be made out. Mr L has submitted in support of his claims the 
supporting reports he paid for from an independent shoe inspector (to both Virgin and this 
service).
Ive considered the operation of this inspection service based online, which is done through 
the submission of photographs, analysis through artificial intelligence of the photographs of 
the shoes to be tested and then these results are vetted by two employed inspectors to 
ensure the accuracy of the artificial intelligences findings. Ive no persuasive reason to 
discount this evidence. Ive also seen plenty of evidence online showing that such fake 
shoes are a substantial concern in this particular market which is also supported by the 
growth of this inspection resource to detect such fake shoes. So on balance considering the 
evidence Mr L has supplied and that Virgin hasnt challenged it at all, Im satisfied on 
balance each of the pairs of shoes listed is not genuine as per the findings of these 
inspections.
Did Mr L buy from a trader or a private seller?
The online marketplace Mr L visited allows items to be sold by businesses and people acting 
in a business capacity, or by private sellers making one-off or occasional sales. This is 
potentially important in cases such as this because different legislation would apply to 
purchases depending on whether or not they are made from a trader. A trader, according 
to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA), is a person acting for purposes relating to that 
person's trade, business, craft or profession 
So if the Shoe Sellers werent traders then the CRA wouldnt apply. As a consequence it 
would be the Sale of Goods Act 1979 (SGA) which would apply instead. However for the 
following reasons I dont think I need to decide here which of these apply. 
This is because it is clear that Mr L was provided information which he relied upon which 
turned out to be untrue and he suffered a loss by entering into a contract that Im satisfied he 
wouldnt have done had he known the true nature of these shoes. And unlike the CRA the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967 only requires a person (here Mr L) to have a misrepresentation 
made to him by another party. So I dont have any issues here about this Act not applying 
because of the nature or capacity in which Mr L or the Shoe Sellers acted. This legislation 
states that in such a situation the damages are to be awarded. And as Virgin here can be 
held to a like claim for the reasons Ive already provided then the it is liable to such 
damages.
Putting things right
Mr L has requested a full refund for these shoes. Considering all of the circumstances I think 
this is a fair remedy. Ultimately these types of shoes have the value they have due to their 
collectable nature and rarity of the models/brands of shoes Mr L sought to purchase. Fake 
versions of these models/brands of shoes have little or negligible intrinsic value. Both parties 
have accepted my provisional position as above. Accordingly I direct Virgin to refund Mr L 
£2,053.81 and Virgin can take possession of the shoes if it so wishes before making the refund. Virgin should also pay 8% interest on this amount from when it rejected Mr Ls claim 
to it until it settles this matter.
My final decision
It is my final decision that this complaint should be successful. I have decided that there is 
the required DCS agreement under s.75, and on balance, there is a misrepresentation and 
Im satisfied that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money should compensate Mr L for 
the loss suffered here as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman