DRN-4076640
The complaint
Mr I says MBNA Limited (MBNA) were unreasonable to reject a claim he made to them 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) or to pursue a claim under 
the chargeback scheme. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to hear about the problems Mr I had with his holiday booking, and I know it 
will disappoint him, but I dont think MBNA have been unreasonable here. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Section 75
When something goes wrong, and the payment was made with a credit card it might be 
possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says 
that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim 
against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75, only a 
court can do that. Instead, I take section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way 
to resolve the complaint and I consider whether the business approach to the claim has 
been reasonable.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Ive had a look at the contract to see if theres been a breach of it, but I dont think there has. 
The contract said:
"If you have to cancel your holiday due to bereavement, accident, serious illness, 
hospitalisation of any person named on (the) booking form or a close relative: spouse, 
partner, grand parent, son, daughter, grandchild, brother, sister, fianc(e) (includes step and 
in law) or if a cancellation is due to a person named on (the booking form only due to 
redundancy or work commitments and providing we receive written confirmation of 
cancellation of the entire party, supported by relevant documentation of proof, at least 72 
hours before the commencement of the holiday, we will refund all monies paid (less (the) 
cancellation scheme and deposit element.)"
And as Mr I didnt provide any relevant documentation to prove his family members illness I 
dont think the merchant breached the contract.
I understand that although Mr I informed the merchant he would need to cancel the holiday, 
the merchant didnt get back to him about the potential refund until after the holiday, and it 
was therefore impossible for him to make use of the booking. I dont think that changes the 
outcome of the section 75 claim as I still dont think theres been a breach of contract and, 
regardless, I can see the merchant were still willing to accept evidence of illness if Mr I had 
provided it.
I can see that MBNA also considered, and dismissed, the possibility of raising a claim under 
the chargeback scheme. That scheme isnt run by MBNA and MBNA didnt have to submit a 
claim as its voluntary. As the merchant hadnt breached the terms and conditions I dont 
think MBNA were unreasonable not to pursue a chargeback as I dont think there were 
reasonable prospects of such a claim succeeding.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman