DRN-1981310
The complaint
Mr L complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance 
(MBFS).
 What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MBFS, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr L acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MBFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. It also says we 
should take into account whether a car has proven to be durable when considering if it was 
of satisfactory quality.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr L. The car here 
was a little over one year old and had already completed about 13,000 miles. So, it was 
relatively new, and I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to many, if any, faults.
The car has had two turbo failures in two years and within the first 40,000 miles of driving. I 
dont think a reasonable person would think the turbo or, as a result, the car, had proven to 
be suitably durable. The investigator suggested that a turbo should usually last about 80,000 
miles and having researched the matter on-line I think thats a reasonable estimation, if not 
an underestimation. 
So, as I have decided the car was not durable I think its not proven to be of satisfactory 
quality and MBFS should allow Mr L to reject it.
Putting things right
MBFS should end the finance agreement and collect the car.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Mr L paid and they should add interest to that refund as 
Mr L has been deprived of that money whilst funding a car that was of unsatisfactory quality. 
I understand that Mr L now accepts that the deposit stated on the agreement is correct but, 
for clarity, I would explain that I agree with the investigators explanation of how the deposit 
has been calculated: much of it was used to fund the negative equity in Mr Ls trade in 
vehicle.
Mr L has provided evidence that hes not driven the car since 18 September 2019. So, I think 
MBFS should refund any finance instalments hes paid since that time and up to the point of 
settlement. They should add interest to that refund as Mr L has been deprived of that money 
too. It follows that if Mr L has missed any payments since September 2019 they should be 
waived, and no charges or interest should be applied. 
I think its clear Mr L has been inconvenienced by these matters. Hes had to bring his 
complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier and hes had to 
take his car to the garage to get fixed on several occasions. In those circumstances, I think 
MBFS should pay him £200 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to:
end the finance agreement with nothing more to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr L;
refund any instalments Mr L may have paid since 18 September 2018 and add 8% 
simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
remove any arrears, charges and/or interest added to Mr Ls account since 18 
September 2018;
pay Mr L £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
remove any record of the finance agreement from Mr Ls credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman