DRN-4054017
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the price quoted by Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds 
Bank) to renew her buildings and contents insurance policy. 
Mrs Bs complaint is being brought by a representative, who Ill refer to as Mr B. 
What happened
Mrs B received a quote to renew her policy which she says was 56% higher than the 
previous year. Mr B then used a price comparison website and found similar products which 
were cheaper and bought a new policy with Lloyds Bank for around £140 less than the 
renewal quote. Mr B says Lloyds Banks quote went against new pricing rules, so he 
complained. Lloyds Bank responded and explained they hadnt made an error. They said 
there were a number of differences between the renewal policy and the new business policy, 
and this had driven the price difference. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs B. He thought Lloyds Bank hadnt treated Mrs B 
unfairly in relation to the pricing. Mr B disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mrs B will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I can see Mrs B paid a premium of £293.38 in 2021 but then received a quote for £457.16 in 
2022  this is just over £160 more. Mr B then searched for a cheaper policy for Mrs B and 
bought one as a new customer for £314.89. 
Lloyds Bank have provided me with confidential business sensitive information to explain 
how Mrs Bs renewal price was calculated. Im afraid I cant share this with Mr B because its 
commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. And Im satisfied the price Mrs B was 
quoted has been calculated correctly and fairly and Ive seen no evidence that other Lloyds 
Bank customers in Mrs Bs position will have been charged a lower premium. 
Given that Mr B obtained a cheaper price from Lloyds Bank as a new customer, I do 
understand why he believes Mrs B hasnt been treated fairly and in line with new rules. The 
new rules for general insurance pricing which Mr B refers to were introduced by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) in January 2022. They apply to motor and buildings insurance 
only and insurers need to make sure they comply with these rules when offering renewals. 
The rules arent retrospective and only apply to renewals generated from 1 January 2022. 
The rules were put in place to remove the risk of existing customers paying more than new 
customers. It places an obligation on insurers to make sure they charge renewing customers 
the same as new customers. The FCA refers to this as the equivalent new business price 
(ENBP). The ENBP needs to be reflective of the new business price the day the renewal 
invite is generated. It is accepted the view of risk can change and the rules dont mean all 
insurers need to charge the same price and the FCA accepts that policies bought through 
different brands will likely offer similar cover at different prices. It also understands that 
different sales channels for the same brand might result in different prices and it accepts this 
is fair. The new pricing rules were in place when Mrs B was offered her renewal by Lloyds 
Bank, so they did need to follow these at the time. 
It's clear there is a difference in price, with the renewal price being higher than the new 
business price. But I think its important to note here, there are a number of factors which 
have led to this and, having looked at those factors, I cant say its unreasonable for there to 
be a difference in price. Firstly, Lloyds Bank have provided information which shows the new 
business price has been calculated on a different platform and pricing structure compared to 
the renewal and theyve explained how this works. As mentioned above, I cant share this 
with Mr B, but I hope hes reassured that Ive looked at this and Im satisfied Lloyds Bank 
havent made an error here. I think its important to again point out that the FCA understands 
that different sales channels for the same brand might result in different prices and it accepts 
this is fair.
Ive also compared the renewal details with the new business details and the information on 
both policies isnt identical. The original renewal includes cover for Unspecified Personal 
Belongings and the new policy doesnt. The original renewal notes over half the roof is flat 
but the new policy says its no more than half. Theres also a difference in who the property 
is occupied by. Lloyds Bank have provided information which shows how these factors were 
rated and how it affected the price. Taking all these factors into account, while the renewal 
price was higher than the new business price, I cant say Lloyds Bank have acted against 
the FCA pricing rules and failed to provide Mrs B with an ENBP. There is a price difference, 
but the two policies arent identical in either the sales channel or the risk ratings applied. 
I acknowledge Mr B believes the differences between the two policies are minor and not 
sufficient to justify a significant price difference. I do acknowledge why this will worry Mr B 
but its for a business to decide what risks theyre prepared to cover and how much weight to 
attach to those risks. 
I understand the outcome Mr B is looking for on behalf of Mrs B is confirmation that Lloyds 
Bank have been compliant with the FCA pricing rules. I do want to reassure Mr B that Ive 
carefully considered all the information in the complaint, and Im satisfied Lloyds Bank have 
complied with the rules. 
I wish to reassure Mr B Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman