DRN-3541927
The complaint
Mr A complains about missing funds from withdrawals he made from his account with 
Trading 212 UK Limited.
What happened
Mr A made several withdrawals from his Trading 212 share dealing account. Trading 212 
processed the withdrawals using the method Mr A requested.
After requesting the withdrawals Mr A realised the receiving account for the funds had been 
closed. Mr A contacted Trading 212 but the funds had already been sent. 
Trading 212 looked into things and their records showed that the withdrawals had been 
made as requested, and that no funds had been returned to them. Trading 212 gave Mr A 
some reference numbers that he could use to trace the funds with his bank.
Mr A remained unhappy as the funds were still missing so one of our Investigators 
considered the complaint. Whilst understanding this was a stressful time, they didnt think 
Trading 212 had done anything wrong. Mr A disagreed so the complaint has come to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to say that my role here isnt to locate the missing the funds  its to see 
if I think Trading 212 acted fairly and reasonably when dealing with Mr A. This is an 
important distinction. And looking at everything that happened I think they did.
Mr A asked Trading 212 to process several withdrawals from his share dealing account.
The withdrawals were made as requested and the payments were sent using the method set 
up on the account - which was a debit card. 
Trading 212 werent to know that the bank account linked to the debit card had been closed. 
They processed the withdrawals using the method Mr A asked them to use. Which is what I 
would expect them to do. So Im satisfied they acted correctly.
Mr A made Trading 212 aware that the bank account had been closed, but by this time the 
withdrawals had been processed. Trading 212 contacted their payment processor who 
confirmed the transactions had been made successfully and that no funds had been 
returned. They provided some reference numbers Mr A could use to help his bank trace the 
funds. 
To help Mr A Trading 212 contacted their payment processor a second time who again 
confirmed that no funds had been returned, and that no transaction had failed or been 
rejected. The payment processor then contacted the card issuer who confirmed that the 
funds had been successfully transferred to Mr As bank. 
Having considered all the evidence about what happened Im satisfied Trading 212 acted 
fairly and reasonably when processing the transactions and when trying to locate the 
missing funds. The payment processor and the card issuer both say that the funds were 
successfully transferred to Mr As bank. So theres really nothing more they could do. 
To help our Investigator contacted Mr As bank on his behalf, however they were still unable 
to locate the payments.
Im sorry that we cant help Mr A any further and considering the amount of money I know 
what happened has caused a lot of stress and inconvenience as well as a financial loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do noy uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman