DRN-2037332
 
The complaint
Mr C complains about Creation Financial Services Limited and their decision to decline a 
credit card payment after his credit limit had been increased
What happened
On 8 July 2019, Creation approved an increase to Mr Cs credit limit on his credit card 
account.
On 14 July, Mr C then attempted to make a payment using this credit card, which was 
declined. Mr C called Creation at the time the payment was declined and following this call, 
the payment was approved. But Mr C was unhappy that the payment had been declined in 
the first instance and he raised a complaint.
Mr C explained he was using the card to pay for accommodation and bar expenses for his 
senior manager and colleagues, all who were present at the time the payment was declined. 
He explained was left feeling indescribably embarrassed at the situation as it had created 
the impression he was struggling with his finances. He was worried about the rumours that 
may arise from the situation after his colleagues had offered to make the payment if he 
wasnt able to afford it. So, Mr C wanted Creation to compensate him for the embarrassment 
and stress hed been caused.
Creation upheld Mr Cs complaint. They agreed they hadnt followed their usual process and 
that Mr Cs limit shouldve been increased on 10 July. So, the recognised that this had led to 
the embarrassment Mr C experienced. But they thought theyd acted efficiently to resolve the 
issue on the call Mr C made that day and were able to authorise the payment. Because of 
this, they credited Mr Cs account £50 to recognise the upset hed been caused and thought 
this was a fair offer.
Mr C wasnt happy with this offer. He didnt think the amount was enough to recognise the 
upset hed been caused and put two counter offers of £100 and £75 to Creation to resolve 
his complaint. But Creation thought there offer of £50 was fair and didnt offer anything 
further. Mr C remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She agreed Creation had 
made an error when declining the payment. But she thought the £50 they offered to 
recognise the impact this had was a fair one and didnt think they needed to do anything 
more. Mr C disagreed, explaining the amount wasnt enough to recognise his 
embarrassment and thought it showed why businesses such as Creation offer a poor level of 
service. As Mr C disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator.
Its not in dispute that Creation declined Mr Cs payment unfairly. As theyve explained, Mr 
Cs limit shouldve been increased on 10 July, meaning the payment he made on 14 July 
wouldve been authorised without any issues. But they failed to do this, and I think this was 
both unfair and unreasonable. So, I think Creation should compensate Mr C for this error.
And Im aware its the amount Creation should pay Mr C thats being contested and the 
reason for our involvement. So, Ive considered the impact Mr C has experienced against the 
actions Creation have taken to resolve the issue and decide whether I think they acted fairly 
in this regard. And in this situation, I think they have.
Ive no doubt the situation Mr C found himself in was embarrassing. I can appreciate the 
payment being declined in front of his manager and colleagues wouldve been 
embarrassing. And having to decline their offer to pay instead, and then call Creation to 
rectify the issue, wouldve been stressful. Im aware Mr C increased his limit to ensure he 
was able to make this payment and prevent a situation like this occurring. So, I can 
understand why hed be angry that this situation didnt go as hed intended.
But Ive also considered the fact that Creation were able to resolve the issue on the call Mr C 
made that day. By doing so, Mr C was able to make the payment as he intended. So, he 
didnt need to rely on others to make the payment on his behalf and was able to use the 
credit card as hed wished. 
So, Ive took all of this into consideration. And having done so, I think the £50 Creation have 
already offered falls in line with an award I would direct in similar circumstances. While I 
understand Mr C thinks £50 equates to barely anything in terms of monetary value to 
Creation, thats not how we calculate or decide on compensation. The amounts we award 
are intended to recognise the impact the complaint has had on an individual, not to punish a 
business for their error. And I think £50 if a fair offer that recognises the embarrassment Mr 
C suffered while also taking into consideration Creations ability to resolve the payment issue 
on Mr Cs initial call. So, I dont think Creation need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Creation Financial 
Services Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman