DRN-3944940
The complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank closed his credit 
card account down despite him taking action to keep this open by the deadline Tesco gave 
him.
What happened
Mr S received a letter from Tesco informing him that they would close his credit card account 
down with them if he didnt respond to their letter or use the credit card before 4 January 
2023. Mr S says he responded to Tescos letter via a phone call on 15 December 2022, only 
to be told by them that his account had already been closed. Mr S made a complaint to 
Tesco.
Tesco upheld Mr S complaint. They said on 23 August they sent him a letter as part of a 
campaign where they contacted customers whose cards had been inactive for more than 12 
months. They said they asked him to contact them or use the card by 2 November to ensure 
the account stayed open or it would be closed. Tesco said as they received no contact from 
Mr S and his account remained inactive before this date, then they closed his account. 
Tesco said they had now been made aware of an issue they had which meant some 
customers received a letter stating they had until January 2023 to use the account, which 
was sent in error. Tesco said they paid £50 compensation to Mr S nominated account for 
the error. 
Mr S brought his complaint to our service. He said he didnt receive the previous letter Tesco 
said they sent him and when they rang him to talk about the outcome of his complaint there 
was silence on the line which he found intimidating. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr S complaint. He said Tesco provided evidence they wrote 
to Mr S in August 2022, asking him to get in touch by November 2022 and if Mr S didnt 
receive this letter he couldnt fairly hold Tesco responsible for this. He said Tesco then made 
an error, as they also wrote to Mr S in October 2022, asking him to get in touch by January 
2023, which he did but his account was already closed by then. He said the call was silent 
as it seemed both sides couldnt hear the other.
Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary he said the silent call from an unidentified number was distressing and their 
systems werent adequate enough and it was unacceptable for them not to use caller 
identification and we should make recommendations to them for this to change. He said 
Tesco had agreed they closed his account prior to the date of the letter they sent him and he 
had made contact with them prior to the date on the letter. He said his credit card should be 
reopened and the compensation wasnt adequate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Id like to explain to Mr S that it is not within this services remit to tell a business or make 
recommendations to them about what technology they should use or to tell a business to use 
caller identification. We would also be unable to tell them how they should run their process 
in closing dormant accounts as these would all be a commercial decision for Tesco to make. 
It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power 
to instruct Tesco to make changes to their policies and procedures if necessary. 
Ive considered what Mr S has said about his credit card should be reopened. But as Mr S 
didnt act in line with the date on the original, correct letter they sent him, he missed out on 
the opportunity to keep this account open, when he didnt reply, or use his card by 2 
November 2022. This is why Tesco closed his account in November 2022. Tesco have 
shown that Mr S was on their bulk mailing list for this letter, and they have said Mr S was 
also sent a further letter on 15 November 2022, confirming the closure had occurred, so he 
should have been reasonably aware that his account was already closed prior to the 
incorrect letter. But if Mr S did not receive these letters, I cant hold Tesco responsible for 
any postal errors. 
But Tesco did make an error by sending Mr S a further letter which gave him hope that his 
account wouldnt be closed down. This caused Mr S inconvenience by contacting Tesco, 
when the reality was his account was already closed down and would be unable to be 
reactivated. So it would have been distressing for Mr S to hear that despite him contacting 
Tesco before the deadline on the incorrect letter, that nothing could be done to reopen the 
account.
Ive also considered what Mr S has said about the silent call. In an email response to Mr S 
about the outcome of the complaint, the complaint handler says that he ended the call as 
there was no response from Mr S. So it appears there was a problem with the line where 
each party could not hear the other party. I would be unable to prove which line was faulty 
here, although I can empathise with what Mr S has said about how this call made him feel. 
But Id be unable to prove this was a Tesco error. 
Ive considered the compensation which Tesco paid Mr S. I know that he feels this is not 
adequate and too low. But it is in line with what our service would have awarded him if Tesco 
did not uphold his complaint. Ultimately, he didnt act by the deadline provided in the correct 
original letter, so his account was closed in line with their process. A later, incorrect letter 
would not change this fact, but it did cause Mr S distress and inconvenience as it set an 
expectation that his account may have been able to stay open, which was incorrect. But as 
the compensation is in line with our guidelines, it follows I dont require Tesco to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman