DRN-3833684
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money gave her wrong 
information which led to her promotional interest rate being lost.
What happened
Mrs W was accepted for a Virgin Money credit card which offered an interest free 
promotional interest rate on balances for 20 months. In October 2021, she made her 
minimum payment to them and she noticed on their application (app) that the minimum 
payment was still showing that it needed to be paid.
Mrs W says she gets paid on the 28th of every month, so at the end of the month she made 
another payment. She then realised in November that the payment she had made at the end 
of October had not been allocated to the following statement, therefore, she had paid two 
minimum payments in one month. 
Mrs W rang Virgin Money. She told them that she wouldnt be paid until after the payment 
due date, so she asked them if her payment date could be changed for when she got paid. 
The call handler explained that it was too late to amend the payment due date, but they 
would note on the system that she would be paying on 28 November instead. Mrs W asked 
the call handler if this would affect her promotional interest rate. She says the call handler 
checked with a manager and informed Mrs W that it shouldnt affect the promotional interest 
rate, but if it does, to call them back and they can speak with the promotional rates team. 
Mrs W says that while she was overseas, she received her new statement, which showed a 
late penalty fee and she had also lost her promotional interest rate. As Mrs W could not wait 
to resolve this when she returned home, she rang Virgin Money. They told her that they 
would remove the late penalty charge and then they continued to put her on hold and pass 
her to different teams to then be advised there was nothing they could do. Mrs W made a 
complaint to Virgin Money. 
Virgin Money partially upheld Mrs Ws complaint. They said that they removed the 
promotional offer in line with their terms and conditions as the payment received was late. 
But they said they gave Mrs W misleading information on the phone call on 16 November as 
they told her that the offer may fall off, as opposed to telling Mrs W that the offer would have 
been withdrawn, which would have prompted her to ensure the payment was made. Virgin 
Money said there was a known issue with call waiting times and they made customers 
aware of this on their website that there could be long waiting times of up to one hour. They 
said this was also communicated on pre-recorded messages on their phone lines.
Virgin Money said as an outcome of the complaint they would reinstate the promotional offer. 
They had also refunded the interest applied and they added an interest waiver to allow the 
reinstatement to be actioned, and to ensure no interest was charged to the next statement. 
The refunded interest totalled £224.33. 
Mrs W brought her complaint to our service. She said she wanted to be compensated for the 
phone call on 26 November as she rang from abroad whilst she was on holiday. She also 
said she wanted to be compensated for the inconvenience this caused her, which caused 
her a lot of stress and anxiety.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Ws complaint. She said that Virgin Money accepted that 
she was provided with misleading information on 16 November. Whilst the agent was correct 
in saying the offer was still in place at the time, they shouldve been clearer about the offer 
being removed. She said although Mrs W was passed to different departments to resolve 
her issue, Virgin Money had made her aware of the potential outcome in her call on 16 
November and that she knew that making her payment late would mean she may need to 
call them to discuss the promotional offer again. She said it was unfortunate Mrs W was 
abroad at this time, but it would not be fair for them to cover the costs of the call.
Mrs W asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She said that had she been 
advised that the promotional rate would be lost then this would have saved the 
inconvenience and financial loss she had during this timeframe as she would have arranged 
to cover the minimum payment. But because this wasnt made clear to her, she was led to 
believe if the promotional rate was affected, then she just needed to call back and this would 
be rectified. Mrs W said that there were unnecessary delays in Virgin Money resolving her 
complaint. 
I attempted to mediate the complaint. Mrs W said that she wanted £100 for distress and 
inconvenience and for Virgin Money to pay the cost of her call when she was abroad. Mrs W 
sent a copy of her phone bill to me, which showed a call cost of £101.52 to a UK mobile 
number. Virgin Money agreed to pay the £100 for distress and inconvenience, but they did 
not agree to pay Mrs Ws call costs. They said it is not their policy to pay for customer calls 
and that the call that incurred the cost was to a mobile number in the UK and is not the call 
in question to them. Virgin Money did not dispute that Mrs W may have experienced a long 
call due to the fact their agents engaged with colleagues to help Mrs W. 
Mrs W disputes that the call to them on 26 November was not the call to Virgin Money. She 
said the clocks went back from the end of October, so they would have been five hours 
behind in the country she was ringing from. She says this was the only call she made to 
them on this date and she was passed to multiple departments. 
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
I must explain to Mrs W that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and 
as such, the issues shes raised that relate directly to how Virgin Money have investigated 
her complaint such as how long they took to resolve her complaint, do not come under my 
powers to consider. 
Both parties agree that on the call on 16 November 2021, Mrs W was given misleading 
information as they told her that the offer may fall off, as opposed to telling Mrs W that the 
offer would have been withdrawn, which would have prompted her to ensure the payment 
was made. Ive listened to the phone call and there is an expectation set that Mrs W may 
need to ring them back if the offer was withdrawn. 
Mrs W explains to the call handler that she had already made a payment on 28 October 
when she was paid, but she didnt realise her new statement hadnt come out. She told the 
call handler she didnt have any money until she got paid on 28 November, which would be 
shortly after the payment due date. The call handler explains she wont be able to change 
the due date until the following month, but she would put a promise to pay on the system to 
say Mrs W would pay on 28 November, which would stop the collection calls moving 
forward. Mrs W asked if this would stop her promotional interest rate based on the terms and 
conditions of the account. The call handler says the promotion isnt showing on her end, but 
she would check with her manager, if the offer is lost whether it could be reinstated due to 
her making a double payment in the previous month. After speaking to her manager, the call 
handler says so what we can do, is I can put the promise to pay on until the 28th, you can 
make the payment and then what we can do is have a look to see if the promotion has been 
lost. If it has, then what to do is give us a call back and well speak to our promotions team, 
just explain whats happened, and just see if were able to get that reinstated going forward 
for you.
Mrs W asks how shell know if she has lost her promotional rate. The call handler asks if she 
has access to her app, which Mrs W confirms she does. The call handler tells her that it will 
show on her next statement that interest will have been added. She says so if you see thats 
been added, then what to do is to give us a call back erm, and then we can speak to our 
promotions team and just explain whats happened erm and then we can see if we can get 
that updated. The call handler says shell leave a note on the system so a colleague can 
see whats happened.
Mrs W asks the call handler if the call handler thinks therell be a case where the promotional 
rate wont be reinstated. The call handler replies again, its just down to the criteria that 
weve got, erm, they might just look at it, because its just a slight couple of days, erm, they 
might just reinstate it as a goodwill gesture.
So after listening to the call, the call handler neither confirmed that it was guaranteed Mrs W 
could have the offer reinstated if it was lost or confirmed that the offer would be definitely 
lost. But what she did make clear on the call on at least two occasions is that Mrs W would 
have to ring them back if she did lose the offer. 
So while the call handler may have set an expectation that Mrs W may be able to get the 
offer reinstated if it was lost, she also set an expectation that Mrs W would need to ring them 
if it was lost. She also confirmed to her that they would need to speak to their promotions 
team. So Im satisfied that there would be an element of Mrs W being transferred to a 
different department to enable her to get the offer reinstated - if Virgin Money agreed to this. 
Ive considered what Mrs W has said about the time difference and that the call on her 
phone bill was to Virgin Money. And it does appear that the call on her phone bill was to 
them, despite this being to a UK mobile number. I say this as Mrs W had provided me a 
screenshot of her hotel arrival and departure dates, which details the hotel she is staying in. 
In the part of the country she was in, they operate on Eastern Standard Time, which is five 
hours behind Greenwich Mean Time (GMT). So what Im persuaded has happened here is 
that Mrs W rang Virgin Money at 9:40AM GMT and she was in a queue for approximately 17 
minutes before she was connected to the call handler, who completed the security at 
9:57AM and that is why there is a system note with this timestamp on it. So I dont dispute 
that Mrs W was on the call for as long as her phone bill shows she was.
I know the strength of feeling Mrs W has about the phone call she made while she was 
abroad and that this should be refunded to her. But Im not persuaded this would be 
proportionate and Ill explain why. As the call handler had set out on more than one occasion 
that Mrs W would need to ring them if the offer was lost, then I cant hold Virgin responsible 
for any call costs Mrs W has incurred by ringing them while she was abroad. 
I understand that Mrs W rang them on 26 November as the situation was causing her stress 
and great anxiety, but she would have been aware from the call on 16 November that she 
would always need to ring them back if the offer was lost. Virgin have listed a telephone number on their website for customers to call them if they are abroad, but Mrs W rang a 
mobile number, which may have been charged at a higher cost. Ive looked at Mrs Ws 
statements, and no mobile contact number is listed on the statements if she needed to 
contact Virgin Money.
Mrs W returned from abroad in early December. So there would have been plenty of time to 
contact Virgin Money on her return before her following statement was issued, to make them 
aware that she had lost her promotional rate and to see if they could reinstate it. In addition, 
the call handler on 16 November informed Mrs W that they would need to speak to their 
promotions team, so the indication was not that a call handler could simply reinstate the 
offer. So as Mrs W chose to call them whilst being abroad, Im not persuaded it would be fair 
for Virgin Money to pay for the call costs here when they couldve been avoided.
Ive considered what Mrs W has said about if she had been advised that the promotional rate 
would be lost then she would have arranged to cover the minimum payment. And therefore 
this would have saved her inconvenience and financial loss. But the call handler at no point 
guaranteed Mrs W that the offer would be reinstated. So Im persuaded that this was not a 
foregone conclusion that the promotional rate would be reinstated. If Mrs W was in a position 
to make the minimum payment prior to the due date, she could have made the payment 
which would have avoided the phone call that the call handler told her on a couple of 
occasions she would have to make if the promotional offer was lost. 
So Ive considered what Virgin Money have done to resolve this complaint. They had 
reinstated the promotional offer and refunded the interest charged, including applying a 
waiver to the following months statement to ensure no interest was charged. But Im not 
persuaded that this recognises the impact of what happened here. And Ill explain why.
On the phone call on 16 November, Mrs W explained to the call handler that the terms and 
conditions showed that she might lose the promotional offer if she made a late payment and 
she was concerned about this. So Im persuaded that the call handler should have confirmed 
that this was the case. From listening to the phone call, I do think the call handler was trying 
to be helpful, by changing the following months due date and by setting a promise to pay, 
and leaving notes on the system about their discussion, but this unintentionally did cause 
Mrs W inconvenience when she did lose the promotional rate, even though an expectation 
was set that she would need to call back to see if this could be reinstated.
And I can see that when Mrs W did ring back on 26 November, she was passed to different 
departments and there were two noted occasions where agents spoke with colleagues 
between speaking to Mrs W. Im persuaded that although the call handlers were trying to 
assist Mrs W on 26 November, the call handler added notes onto the system on 16 
November to explain the situation. So by Mrs W (and the call handlers) needing to speak to 
other colleagues to try and rectify this, it would inconvenience Mrs W further. And Mrs W 
wasnt able to get the promotional rate reinstated on this call.
So Im satisfied that it would be proportionate for Virgin Money to pay Mrs W £100 
compensation for the inconvenience caused by the issues detailed above. Im satisfied it 
reflects the impact that the call on 16 November had on Mrs W where the call handler gave 
her the impression the offer might be able to be reinstated (although she would have to call 
them and they would need to speak to the promotional offers team first) and the 
inconvenience she faced on the call on 26 November, despite notes being left by the original 
call handler to explain the situation. So it follows I intend to ask Virgin Money to put things 
right. I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mrs W accepted the provisional decision. Virgin Money did not respond to the 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my decision 
and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I said I intend to ask 
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to pay Mrs W £100 for distress and 
inconvenience. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money should settle the complaint in line with the instructions in the putting things right 
section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman