DRN-2945558
The complaint
Mr E has complained that esure Insurance Limited refused to let him pay for his motor 
insurance policy by monthly instalments.
Reference to esure includes its agents.
What happened
Mr E had two car insurance policies with esure. When one of those was due for renewal in 
January 2021 esure said that, while it would offer him a policy, he would have to pay for it 
upfront, that is he couldn't pay for it in instalments. 
Mr E didn't think esure had treated him fairly and brought his complaint to us. One of our  
investigators looked into it. She didn't think esure had done anything wrong. Mr E didn't 
agree so his complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that during the pandemic Mr E lost his job and had difficulty meeting his 
monthly premium instalments. I was sorry to read of the difficult situation Mr E found himself 
in and hes made it clear that position was because of no fault of his own. But I've seen that, 
across his two policies, esure sent Mr S a number of letters between October 2019 and 
December 2020 advising him that hed missed payments. And I also understand that esure 
agreed to delay collecting his payments to try and help him out. But, at the time his policy 
was due to renew, he still owed esure £104 for his policy which was coming to an end. So at 
that point he still hadnt made all the payments hed agreed to make. 
Mr E is aware esure was under no obligation to allow him to make payments by monthly 
instalments. But he said it should have told him that rescheduling his payment dates might 
affect his policy at renewal. But I don't think that was something esure needed to do. Its 
clear that esure was responding to the difficult position that Mr E was in and, at the time it 
rescheduled his payments, it didn't know what Mr Es circumstances would be at renewal. 
And, had he paid everything he owed, then it's possible esure might have come to a different 
decision. But that wasn't the case. 
Further Mr E wanted to buy an annual policy which comes with an annual premium. So, by 
allowing him to pay for it in instalments esure would effectively be making a loan for the full 
cost of the premium to Mr E. And, when deciding whether to offer a consumer a loan or other 
finance agreement, responsible lenders need to think about whether or not a consumer is 
able to afford the repayments. Thats because, if they can't, providing that loan may well put 
the consumer into a more difficult position than they are already in. And it's clear that in this 
case esure was concerned that Mr E might continue to struggle to meet his monthly 
payments which would have a further negative effect on his credit score. And, given he 
hadn't finished paying the premium for the previous policy, I think that was a reasonable 
conclusion. So I don't think esure treated Mr E unfairly in refusing to allow him to pay for his 
renewal premium in instalments. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman