DRN-3826683
The complaint
Mr N complains that Fluro Platform Limited, trading as Lending Works (Lending Works) 
shouldnt have lent to him because it ought reasonably to have realised that he would 
struggle to make his repayments.   
What happened
Lending Works approved a loan of £1,000 for Mr N in June 2017. The loan was to be repaid 
over 12 months and Mr N told Lending Works it was for consolidation of debts.
Mr N said Lending Works were wrong to provide credit as it wasnt affordable for him.
Lending Works disagreed. They said that when they approved the loan they used a 
combination of credit reference agency and self-reported information to assess the 
application. They said that Mr N told them his income was £2,986 and they verified this 
income through a credit reference agency. They also used statistical information to 
establish/clarify Mr Ns likely expenditure. They didnt think there were signs that Mr N was in 
financial difficulty and they thought he had enough disposable income to sustainably afford 
the monthly repayments of a little over £90.
Our investigator agreed with Lending Works, but Mr N didnt. He said he had a credit card 
and a loan that Lending Works hadnt seen in their credit file review and should have, and he 
also explained that he was regularly using a large proportion of his overdraft and that hed 
taken a loan out for over £11,000 about 6 months before he had made his application for this 
one. He said he was using credit to fund a gambling habit and he explained that this service 
had already upheld previous complaints about irresponsible lending to him by other 
businesses. He asked for a final decision by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable here. 
I think Lending Works completed reasonable and proportionate checks before approving the 
loan, and I dont think the information it collected suggested the loan wasnt affordable for  
Mr N.
The credit file didnt suggest that Mr N was in financial difficulties. He was using about half of 
his available overdraft and there were no missed payments, defaults, or County Court 
Judgments listed on his credit file.
Lending Works established Mr N was earning £2,986. The loan repayments they were 
notified of in the credit report they were provided with suggested Mr N had monthly credit 
commitments of about £895. Once Mr Ns expenditure was taken into account that left about 
£594 of disposable income and was sufficient to sustainably make monthly repayments of a 
little over £90 towards this new agreement. Ive reviewed Lending Works calculation of       
Mr Ns housing and living expenses and the apportionment seems fair. Mr N was utilising 
about 50% of his overdraft limit and even if the full overdraft was utilised and repaid over a 
reasonable period of time I think Mr N would still have had sufficient disposable income to 
afford the limited credit Lending Works provided. 
There was a reasonably recent loan of over £11,000 but given the good repayment history I 
dont think that meant Lending Works needed to complete more detailed checks. I think a 
loan of that proportion would suggest the credit was being used to fund a major purchase 
and would not necessarily be a sign of financial distress. 
Mr N says the business should have seen he had another loan and a credit card. Its for 
Lending Works to decide which credit reference agencies they use to provide information on 
consumers credit obligations. I dont think it would be fair to suggest Lending Works needed 
to use alternative suppliers of that information. The one they were using was a major, 
established company.
As I think the checks the business completed were reasonable and proportionate I dont 
think Lending Works needed to ask Mr N to provide bank statements to support his 
application. It was only by reviewing those statements that they may have become aware of 
any gambling habit. So, I dont think it would be fair to suggest Lending Works should have 
been aware Mr N had gambling problems.
Whilst this service has upheld some of Mr Ns other complaints the circumstances were 
different for each of those credit applications. Having reviewed the circumstances of this 
complaint Im not persuaded to uphold it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman