DRN-2160182
The complaint
Miss C complains that Arval UK Limited (Arval) are refusing to amend the payment date for 
the direct debits she is making towards a finance agreement she has with them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss C, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The contract Miss C has with Arval says:
Payments will be taken on or within 3 working days of the monthly anniversary of the 
Vehicle delivery date.
Miss C has told us the car was delivered on 24 March and the direct debit is being taken on 
27th of each month. Thats in line with the terms of the finance agreement.
Miss C would understandably like the payment to be moved to the first day of the month as 
thats when shes paid, but Arval dont have to agree to that.
Arval have said that they dont have the facility to change the date on which a direct debit 
payment is made and, whilst I understand other businesses may offer that service, its for 
Arval to decide whether they will do that. Its a business decision for them to make and not 
something it would be fair for me to interfere with.
So, Im afraid I cant uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman