DRN-1841276
 
The complaint
Mr P and Ms R complain about the way Nationwide Building Society dealt with their 
application for additional borrowing and to add Ms R to Mr Ps mortgage account. They ask 
for an explanation of what went wrong and compensation.
What happened
Mr P had a mortgage with Nationwide. He contacted Nationwide in April 2018 as he wanted 
to take out additional borrowing for an extension. He also wanted to add Ms R to the 
mortgage. Mr P and Ms R have a number of complaints about how Nationwide dealt with 
their application, in summary they say:
it didnt assist them in finding a solicitor.
it gave them contradictory information about whether their solicitor needed to carry out 
searches.
it didnt tell them about Nationwides fixed fee conveyancing service.
it delayed refunding the early repayment charge.
it didnt pay them a cash back incentive, despite saying they were eligible.
Our investigator said while Nationwide had made some errors, its offer of £200 
compensation was fair and reasonable. 
Mr P and Ms R didnt agree. They said that their concerns are more about the lack of 
communication, poor process and contradictory information than whether they qualified for 
services. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr P and Ms R an application in April 2018 for a joint mortgage and additional borrowing. 
Nationwide issued a mortgage offer in May 2018 and the mortgage completed in July 2018. 
However, Mr P and Ms R say there were a number of problems in the process.
Appointment and role of the solicitor:
Mr P and Ms R gave Nationwide the details of their solicitor in April 2018. However, they 
werent happy with the amount the solicitor wanted to charge. They asked for a list of 
approved solicitors, which Nationwide said it doesnt provide to customers. And when they 
sent an email with the details of other solicitors to Nationwide it didnt respond to confirm 
they were approved.
Nationwide says it doesnt provide a list of solicitors to customers, so it gave Mr P and Ms R 
correct information about this. And its right to say that it was for Mr P and Ms R to appoint a 
solicitor. Its not clear from the available evidence that Nationwide received Mr P and Ms Rs 
email with details of other solicitors. But if it did, and didnt respond, then that was poor 
service.  
Nationwides notes say that when Mr P contacted it in early June 2018 the only matter 
outstanding was the certificate of title. Its notes show Mr P contacted it later in June to ask 
whether searches were required and whether free legal products were available. 
Nationwide expected Mr P and Ms Rs solicitor to provide a certificate of title, in accordance 
with guidelines issued by the Council of Mortgage Lenders. I think this was reasonable. Mr P 
and Mrs R say their solicitor wasnt sure whether to carry out searches as they already 
owned the property. The solicitor raised this with Nationwide and told Mr P and Mrs R that it 
had confirmed it had to do the usual local and environmental searches.
I dont know why Mr P and Ms R became involved in this  which would usually be dealt with 
by their solicitor. But I can understand their frustration that the information they were given 
by Nationwide about the searches wasnt clear.
Nationwide says Mr P and Ms R didnt qualify for its fee free conveyancing service. So it 
didnt make an error when it didnt offer this to them. But it could have told them this when 
they asked about it.
Payment and refund of the early repayment charge (ERC):
Nationwide says the ERC shouldnt have been paid by the solicitor. Its not clear from the 
available evidence whether it was Nationwide or the solicitor that made the error. 
Nationwide says it refunds ERCs within 10 to 15 working days. The mortgage completed on 
24 July and Mr P says they received the refund on 10 August 2018. This was less than 15 
working days. 
Cashback incentives:
Nationwide says Mr P and Ms R didnt qualify for any cash back incentives. 
Mr P and Ms R say they told incorrectly that they did qualify for this. This was after theyd 
taken out the mortgage. As they were never entitled to a cashback incentive, this didnt 
cause Mr P and Ms R any loss. But I understand they were disappointed when they were 
told they wouldnt receive the £200 they were expecting. 
What should happen now?
Nationwide accepts its service was poor at times. It wrongly told Mr P and Ms R after 
completion that they qualified for the cash back incentive. It didnt give them sufficiently clear 
information when they asked whether the solicitor needed to carry out local searches. It 
didnt always call Mr P and Ms R back when it said it would. 
I dont think, based on the available evidence, that Mr P and Ms R lost out financially due to 
Nationwides errors. They were never entitled to free conveyancing or cashback incentives. 
While they had to wait for the ERC to be refunded, its not clear that Nationwide made an 
error, or that this caused Mr P and Ms R any loss. But I do think Nationwides poor service 
caused them inconvenience and disappointment. I think that the £200 offered by Nationwide 
for its poor service is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances. Mr P and Ms R would like Nationwide to explain what went wrong and improve its 
processes. But Im not a regulator, and I dont have the same powers as a regulator. I cant 
require Nationwide to change its processes. And Nationwide has already accepted the 
service it provided to Mr P and Ms R was poor. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I find the compensation 
offered by Nationwide Building Society is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman