DRN-3349276
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. has turned down a cancellation claim they made on a travel insurance 
policy.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr and Mrs B booked UK-based accommodation for a trip they planned to 
take between 25 July and 1 August 2020. During the trip, Mr and Mrs B intended to attend a 
sporting event. They took out an annual travel insurance policy on 3 July 2019.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. On 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) 
advised UK nationals against all but essential travel abroad. And on 23 March 2020, the UK 
government announced strict, legally-enforceable restrictions on travel and movement within 
the UK, commonly referred to as lockdown.
The sporting event Mr and Mrs B were due to attend was cancelled in early April 2020. So 
Mr and Mrs B cancelled their accommodation booking and they made a claim for the costs 
associated with the cancellation.
Mapfre turned down Mr and Mrs Bs claim. It said that the cancellation section of the policy 
covered changes to FCDO advice. However, it said that at the point Mr and Mrs B had been 
due to travel, UK-wide travel restrictions had been lifted. So it said the claim wasnt covered.
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with Mapfres decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. In particular, they felt the policy would never have covered UK-based trips. And 
they also considered their claim should be covered by the natural disaster section of the 
policy.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said the policy did cover 
trips which took place in the UK  but only those claims which were caused by one of the 
insured events Mapfre had set out in the policy terms. In this case, Mr and Mrs Bs trip 
hadnt been cancelled due to a change in FCDO advice, as FCDO advice didnt apply to trips 
within the UK. And she didnt think the cancellation was down to any of the other events 
Mapfre covered. 
And she didnt think the claim was covered by the add-on natural disaster cover Mr and Mrs 
B had taken out either. Thats because a pandemic wasnt included in Mapfres definition of 
a natural disaster and because Mr and Mrs B hadnt incurred expenses in continuing with 
their trip. So she thought itd been fair for Mapfre to turn down the claim.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed and Ive summarised their responses to our investigator. A judge in 
another country had ruled that it couldnt be disputed that Covid-19 was a natural disaster. 
They felt theyd abandoned their holiday as the result of a natural disaster and they said that 
the abandonment section didnt include timescale restrictions with respect to the point of 
abandonment. They considered that Mapfre had misled them in regard to the cover by the 
policy, as they didnt feel it covered UK-only holidays. And they said it was inconceivable that 
FCDO guidance would not have matched lockdown rules.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B, I think it was fair for Mapfre to 
turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms and conditions of the policy and the circumstances of the claim, to decide whether 
Mapfre treated Mr and Mrs B fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs policy, as these form the 
basis of the contract between Mr and Mrs B and Mapfre. I appreciate that when Mr and Mrs 
B booked their holiday, the circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 couldnt 
have been foreseen by either policyholders or insurers. 
But no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide what 
level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore, 
Mapfres obligations under its contract with Mr and Mrs B are limited by the terms, conditions 
and exclusions which are set out in the policy. Mr and Mrs B didnt take out an all-risks 
policy. This means that Mapfre has set out the specific, listed insured events its chosen to 
cover if a policyholder has to cancel their holiday.
Does the policy cover UK-based holidays?
Its clear that Mr and Mrs B are concerned that the policy didnt provide cover for UK-based 
holidays. I can see that they took out a silver policy, which provides worldwide cover. Page 
seven of their policy document says that for an annual policy:
We provide cover under all sections of this policy (apart from sections B and C) for holidays 
in your home area, as long as there is a minimum of 25 miles radius between your home and 
your pre-arranged and booked accommodation.
Sections B and C of the policy are the medical expenses and hospital benefits sections.
In my view then, the policy makes it clear that Mapfre does cover holidays which are booked 
in the UK, as long as a policyholders pre-booked accommodation is at least 25 miles from 
their home. Mapfre may not have paid this particular claim as it concluded the circumstances 
of it werent covered. But Ive seen no persuasive evidence to indicate that Mapfre wouldnt 
have covered a valid claim for a trip due to take place in the UK. 
Is the claim covered by the cancellation section of the policy?
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs B cancelled their trip a few months before they were due 
to travel. So I think it was appropriate for Mapfre to consider the claim under the Cancelling 
and cutting short your holiday section of the policy. This says that Mapfre will cover 
cancellation claims if a policyholder has to cancel their trip due to one of the following, specified reasons:
1.You die, become seriously ill or get injured.
2. A relativebusiness associate, a person you have booked to travel with or a relative or
friend living abroad, who you plan to stay with, dies, becomes seriously ill or gets injured.
3. You have to go to court to be a witness or be on a jury (but not as an expert witness) or 
you are put in quarantine.
4. There is an accident involving a vehicle you were planning to travel in, which happens 
within seven days before the date you planned to leave and means you cannot use the
vehicle. This only applies to self-drive holidays.
5. You are a member of the armed forces, police, fire, nursing or ambulance services and 
you have to stay in your home area because of an emergency or you are posted overseas 
unexpectedly.
6. You being made redundant, as long as you had been working at your current place of 
employment for a minimum continuous period of two years, and that at the time of booking 
the trip or the date you purchased this insurance cover, you had no reason to believe that 
you would be made redundant. This cover would not apply if you are self-employed or 
accept voluntary redundancy.
7. It is necessary for you to stay in your home area after a fire, storm, flood or burglary at 
your home or place of business within 48 hours before the date you planned to leave. We
will need a written statement from a relevant public authority confirming the reason and 
necessity.
8. It is necessary for you to return to your home area after a fire, storm, flood or burglary at 
your home or place of business. We will need a written statement from a relevant public 
authority confirming the reason and necessity.
9. You cannot commence travel to your intended destination due to the (FCO) Foreign 
and Commonwealth Office advice for your destination/location changing to as a 
minimum 'all but essential travel' after the purchase of your policy or after the 
booking of any individual trip, whichever is the latter. This also applies to where such 
FCO advice changes are announced after you have commenced your trip/holiday.
10.If you become pregnant after we have sold you this policy, and you will be more than 32 
weeks pregnant (or 24 weeks if you know you are having more than one baby) at the
start of, or during, your trip. Or, your doctor advises that you are not fit to travel because you 
are suffering from complications of pregnancy or childbirth.
Its clear that Mapfre does cover changes in FCDO advice to a policyholders destination. Mr 
and Mrs B believe that their claim falls within the scope of this insured event, as they 
consider FCDO advice regarding UK travel wouldve matched lockdown regulations. I note 
they wrote to the FCDO to ask whether its guidance during the period 25 July to 1 August 
2020 wouldve matched the UK lockdown. However, the FCDO provides international travel 
advice. It doesnt usually provide travel advice for trips within the UK. UK Government 
regulations imposed lockdown and the resultant legal obligations placed on UK residents.
In this case, Mr and Mrs B werent planning to travel internationally. So their trip wouldnt 
have depended on FCDO advice. Their plans were largely affected by lockdown, which had 
been imposed around two weeks before the sporting event was cancelled. Id add though 
that by the time Mr and Mrs B had been due to travel, lockdown restrictions in England had 
been largely lifted and Mr and Mrs B wouldve been able to travel, even if the sporting event 
wasnt going ahead.
Ive considered whether the imposition of lockdown can fairly be treated as akin to a change 
in FCDO advice. But I dont think that would make a difference to the outcome here and Ill 
explore why.
The claim form Mr and Mrs B sent to Mapfre says that the holiday had been cancelled 
because the sporting event they were due to attend had been cancelled. They said: as such, the accommodation is not required. While the sporting event may have been 
cancelled as a result of Covid-19, it seems to me that the main reason for the trip 
cancellation was that the sporting event was no longer going ahead. And therefore, Mr and 
Mrs B no longer wanted to make use of the pre-booked accommodation. This simply isnt 
something thats covered by the policy terms.
And even if I had thought that lockdown was the main reason for holiday cancellation; the 
cancellation section of the policy includes a specific list of things Mapfre doesnt cover. One 
of these is:
Strikes, blockades, actions taken by the government of any country or the threat of an 
event like this.
In my view, the lockdown regulations, as Parliamentary legislation, were an action taken by 
the UK government in response to the pandemic. So I think its likely the exclusion Ive 
quoted would apply to the circumstances of the claim anyway.
This means I think it was fair for Mapfre to turn down Mr and Mrs Bs cancellation claim.
Is the claim covered by any other section of the policy?
Mr and Mrs Bs policy schedule shows that they paid an additional premium for natural 
disaster cover. This section includes extended delayed departure and abandonment cover, 
extended missed departure cover and extended accommodation cover. I dont think I could 
fairly find that Mr and Mrs Bs departure was delayed (or by extension, abandoned more 
than 12 hours after a policyholders booked public transport was cancelled or delayed) or 
missed. I say that because Mr and Mrs Bs claim hasnt arisen because booked public 
transport they were due to travel on was delayed or missed. I havent seen any evidence 
that they planned to travel by a form of defined public transport. Their claim arose because 
the sporting event was cancelled.
Extended accommodation cover does provide cancellation cover for a policyholders unused 
accommodation costs if a policyholder cant travel because of a natural disaster. However, 
Mapfre has defined what it means by a natural disaster in the policy terms. The definition 
says Mapfre considers a natural disaster to be:
An extraordinary natural phenomenon such as tsunamis, earthquakes, landslides, volcanic 
eruptions (including volcanic ash clouds), hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, falling objects 
from space (including meteorites), and in general any extraordinary atmospheric, 
meteorological, seismic or geological phenomenon.
A pandemic or epidemic is not included in Mapfres definition of a natural disaster. I think 
Mapfre has clearly set out the events it treats as a natural disaster and I think its reasonably 
entitled to rely on this definition when it assesses claims. And indeed, looking at the wider 
contract, I can see that this definition is distinct from the explicit reference to the outbreak of 
an infectious disease which is covered under section K  Accommodation cover. This 
particular section only applies if a policyholder incurs travel or accommodation expenses to 
allow them to continue with their holiday, so wouldnt apply to the circumstances of this 
claim. As a pandemic doesnt fall within the scope of Mapfres definition of a natural disaster, 
I dont think it acted unreasonably in not settling the claim under the natural disaster section 
either.
Overall, having considered the contract as a whole, I dont think there are any sections of the 
policy which would cover the situation Mr and Mrs B found themselves in. And so, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, I find there are no reasonable grounds upon 
which I could fairly direct Mapfre to pay this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman