DRN-2957768
The complaint
Mr M complains about Sanderson Drake Limited (SDL) and the settlement fee they are 
charging him following a successful guarantor loan claim.
What happened
On 5 April 2020, Mr M instructed SDL to pursue a claim for a mis-sold guarantor loan against 
lender A. Mrs M signed an instruction form and a letter of authority (LOA) which agreed to 
the conditional fee agreement (CFA).
On 24 July, lender A upheld Mr Ms claim and notified him of this directly. Mr M was awarded 
a total redress of £7,976.39. But £5,658.45 was used to clear Mr Ms outstanding loan 
balance. So, Mr M only received a cash refund of £2,317.94.
As Mr Ms claim was successful, SDL then invoiced Mr M for their fee. But their fee was 
based on the total redress Mr M received, not just the cash refund. Mr M disputed this fee, 
so he raised a complaint.
Mr M said he didnt think the fee should be payable as hed dealt with lender A directly to 
secure the refund. And hed removed SDLs authority over the claim because of this. So, he 
thought hed effectively cancelled the agreement and didnt think the fee should be due. Mr 
M also didnt think it was fair for SDL to base their invoice on the total redress he received, 
as this was more than the cash refund he received. He explained was in financial difficulty 
and couldnt afford to pay this amount. So, he thought SDLs fee should be waived.
SDL didnt agree. Theyd spoken to lender A who confirmed Mr M removed their authority on 
the same day the claim was upheld. And they didnt think Mr M had cancelled his agreement 
with them directly before lender A offered him a refund. So they didnt think this impacted 
their entitlement to their fee. And they thought this fee was calculated fairly, in line with the 
CFA Mr M entered into. So, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They also didnt 
think theyd acted unfairly when attempting to collect their fee or deciding not to accept any 
debt management solutions as Mr M had received a cash refund that wouldve enabled him 
to pay most of the outstanding amount. Mr M remained unhappy with this response, so he 
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised the impact 
the complaint had on Mr M, and the financial situation he currently finds himself in. But he 
didnt think Mr M had cancelled the agreement before the claim was upheld. He also didnt 
dispute Mr M spoke to lender A directly, but he didnt think he could hold SDL responsible for 
this as it was Mr Ms decision to do so. So, he thought SDL were entitled to charge their fee 
in line with the agreement, based on the total redress Mr M received. And as SDL were 
entitled to their fee, he didnt think theyd acted unfairly by commencing collection activity 
when Mr M stated he didnt intend to pay it. So, he didnt think SDL needed to do anything 
more.
Mr M didnt agree. He explained how severely SDLs contact had impacted his mental 
health, due to his current financial situation. He thought SDLs attempt to obtain payment 
had been unreasonable and aggressive, as they wouldnt agree to be added to his Debt 
Relief Order (DRO). He maintained his view that he shouldve been able to cancel his 
agreement after the claim had been upheld and pay a cancellation fee which he believed to 
be £100+VAT. As Mr M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr M. Im aware Mr M is in 
financial difficulty and I can appreciate the upset and worry this will be causing him. So, I can 
understand why he is unhappy with the settlement fee SDL are charging, as this equates to 
more than the cash refund he received from lender A. I recognise that Mr M engaged the 
services of SDL to assist him in obtaining a refund to improve his financial situation. And I 
can understand why Mr M feels instead that SDL have placed him in a worse financial 
position than he was in before. But for me to say SDL have done something wrong, Id need 
to be satisfied of one of two things. Either, that SDL didnt have authority to pursue Mr Ms 
claim so theyve acted outside of the CFA when invoicing him for their settlement fee. Or, if I 
think they did have authority, that they completed no work of value to Mr Ms claim. And in 
this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the LOA and instruction form Mr M signed in April 2020, authorising SDL to pursue 
a claim against lender A. Im aware Mr M doesnt dispute signing these. These documents 
confirm Mr M was happy to enter into a CFA, and the fees set out within it.
Mr M believes he cancelled this agreement, and the outstanding fees shouldnt be payable. 
But Ive seen no evidence to show me Mr M cancelled the agreement before the claim was 
upheld by lender A. So, I think the CFA was still in place when lender A offered Mr M a 
refund.
But I am aware Mr M removed SDLs authority with lender A directly and he thinks this 
should act as valid cancellation. Ive listened to a call recording between lender A and SDL, 
where its confirmed Mr M removed SDLs authority on the same day his claim was upheld, 
not before. So, even if I was to consider this as a valid form of cancellation, the terms set out 
in the CFA explain that SDLs full fees will be payable if cancellation was made after a claim 
had been upheld. So, I dont think this removal of authority impacts the fee SDL are charging 
Mr M.
Ive then thought about the fee itself, and whether SDL were fair to charge it. Ive considered 
the fee information included in the CFA. And I think SDL made it reasonably clear that their 
fee would be based on the total redress Mr M received. And I think its also made reasonably 
clear there was a chance Mr M would receive a partial cash refund, with some of the redress 
being used to clear any outstanding balance on the loan. And in this situation, SDL 
explained their full fee, based on the total redress, would still be payable. If Mr M was 
unhappy with this fee structure, Id have expected him to raise his concerns before signing 
the LOA and instruction form. But I cant see that he did. So Im satisfied Mr M agreed to this 
fee structure and authorised SDL to proceed on this basis.SDL submitted a claim on Mr Ms behalf, and lender A upheld Mr Ms claim. But the majority 
of the redress was used to clear the loans outstanding balance, with Mr M receiving the 
remaining sum as a cash refund. SDL have invoiced Mr M based on the total redress lender 
A awarded, which falls in line with the CFA that was in place. So, I cant say theyve acted 
unfairly by doing so. 
I recognise this meant Mr M was left in a situation where the invoice charged by SDL was 
more than the cash refund he received. But, crucially, Mr M did receive a financial benefit 
from the total redress, as his outstanding loan was cleared meaning no further repayments 
would be needed. And I cant say its unfair for SDL to calculate their fee including this 
benefit, as I think the claim they submitted led to this.
Im aware Mr M thinks he completed the work required for lender A to uphold the claim. And 
I dont dispute Mr M may have spoken to lender A directly. But I dont think its fair for me to 
hold SDL responsible for this. I think Mr M was reasonably aware hed instructed SDL to 
pursue the claim on his behalf, as he signed the documents for them to do so. So, when he 
received contact from lender A directly, I think he had the option to direct lender A to SDL. I 
cant see that he did, so I think it was his decision to continue to work with lender A directly, 
rather than any error made by SDL. And lender A confirmed Mr M removed SDLs authority 
when the claim was upheld, which I think satisfies me he was still aware of SDLs 
involvement at that point. So, I think he was aware he couldve used SDL to liaise with 
lender A, and again it was Mr Ms choice not to do so.
By lender A confirming SDL was listed as Mr Ms representative until the day the claim was 
upheld, Im satisfied the initial claim they received was made by SDL. And lender A provided 
SDL with information of the offer after SDL challenged Mr Ms removal of their authority. So, 
Im satisfied SDLs work on the claim was of value and I think theyve acted fairly when 
charging their fee, in line with the terms of the CFA.
Ive then thought about the way SDL attempted to collect their fee from Mr M. And I would 
expect SDL to act positively and sympathetically to Mr Ms situation, considering the cash 
refund he received was less than invoice amount. So, I would expect them to consider a 
repayment plan for the additional amount, after Mr Ms cash refund was taken into account. 
But I dont think theyve acted unfairly when saying they would look to challenge being added 
to the DRO, as Mr M did receive a cash refund that wouldve covered the majority of their 
invoice. And it is SDLs own business decision on whether to agree those terms, as that falls 
outside of the payment options outlined in the CFA.
From the correspondence Ive seen, Mr M made it clear he didnt intend to pay the fee. And 
his only offer was to refer SDL to the DRO. But SDL were aware a cash refund had been 
paid to Mr M. I understand this was used to pay other outstanding debt but crucially, Mr M 
paid this when I think he shouldve been reasonably aware SDL would be due their fee from 
the claim. So, I dont think Mr Ms decision to use the cash refund elsewhere should impact 
SDLs collection activity, and their attempt to recover their fee. So, I dont think I can say 
theyve acted fairly when following their collection process. And because of this, I dont think 
SDL need to do anything more.
But I do understand this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for. And I recognise the impact 
this decision will have on his financial situation, as SDLs invoice remains outstanding. This 
is something Ive considered at length as Im aware of the implications its had on Mr Ms 
wellbeing and mental health. But for me to direct SDL to do something differently, Id need to 
be satisfied theyve made an error. And I cant say thats the case in this situation.
Whilst I recognise SDLs position on the outstanding balance, Id hope they would look 
positively and sympathetically on Mr Ms situation and work with Mr M to find a suitable 
payment solution moving forwards.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Sanderson Drake 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman