DRN-3493908
The complaint
Miss F is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) withdrew a buy-to-let 
(BTL) re-mortgage offer. To settle the complaint, Miss F wants NatWest to complete the 
re-mortgage or else offer compensation.
Miss F is represented in the complaint by a family member, Mr F.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 12 May 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Miss F being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Briefly, Miss F applied for a BTL re-mortgage with NatWest. A valuation was carried out on 
behalf of the bank by a third-party firm of surveyors, following which a mortgage offer was 
issued for an interest-only mortgage of £105,000 over a term of 30 years, on an initial 
five-year fixed-rate product. The mortgage offer was conditional on (amongst other things) 
no change to the condition value or title to the property which would have a material 
impact on the suitability of the property as security for the loan...
NatWest instructed solicitors to act on its behalf.  One of the conditions the solicitors were 
required to comply with was to contact NatWest if the ground rent exceeded £250 per 
annum (£1,000 per annum for London properties). If that was the case, the bank would ask 
the valuer whether the ground rent would affect suitability or marketability. The solicitors 
reported that the rent was set to double every 25 years, with the next increase being in 2030 
 so within the term of the mortgage. 
After considering the issue with the ground rent, the surveyors didnt think the property was 
suitable security and adjusted its valuation to zero. This meant NatWest wasnt able to offer 
a mortgage and withdrew its mortgage offer. 
Miss F was very upset and complained. She was offended that the surveyor said the ground 
rent provisions in the lease were onerous and the property valuation was nil. Miss F said, if 
that was the case, why didnt the bank suggest an indemnity policy or suggest a variation of 
the lease? 
NatWest didnt uphold the complaint and so it was referred to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld. He was satisfied the bank was entitled to rely on the professional opinions of its 
surveyors and solicitors.
Unhappy with the investigators response, Miss F asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Mr F says that both he and Miss F feel extremely aggrieved by the way Miss F 
was treated by NatWest and so would like the matter reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will begin by explaining that, although Ive noted what Mr F has said about how aggrieved 
he is at what happened to Miss F, he is not a party to this complaint, and so I cant take into 
consideration how he feels. Mr Fs role is to represent Miss F in the complaint, in the same 
way that other parties might instruct a solicitor or accountant to represent them. But this 
doesnt give Mr F standing to raise his own grievances against NatWest.
NatWest is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that NatWest makes in respect 
of what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending assessment, 
and whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary matters for 
NatWests own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with. 
In relation to ground rent, once rent exceeds £250 (or £1,000 in London), it brings the lease 
within the provisions of legislation that gives the landlord/freeholder much greater powers to 
bring the lease to an end. There would also be no security of tenure for the leaseholder, nor 
protection for any mortgagee to obtain relief against forfeiture of the lease. That is why 
NatWest needed to know if the rent would exceed £250 during the mortgage term.
Solicitors: In this transaction, as it was a re-mortgage, the solicitors were NatWests agents, 
because they were acting solely for the bank on the transaction, and there was no 
conveyancing work being done for Miss F. The legal work was solely to put a new mortgage 
in place on behalf of the bank. So in this respect, the investigator was incorrect to say that 
NatWest isnt responsible for the solicitors actions, as the bank was principal and the 
solicitors were its agents. However, this doesnt affect the outcome of the complaint, 
because the solicitors did nothing wrong.
The solicitors complied with NatWests instructions in relation to reporting to the bank if the 
ground rent exceeded £250  which it would do in 2030 when it would increase to £500. I 
find the solicitors did nothing wrong in complying with the banks instructions, as it was 
required to do.
Valuation: I will begin by explaining that, as a BTL borrower, Miss F cannot place any 
reliance on NatWests valuation of the property. This is the legal position, endorsed by the 
Court of Appeal in the case of Scullion v Bank of Scotland plc (t/a Colleys) [2011] EWCA Civ 
693. The valuation was carried out for NatWests purposes only and no duty of care is owed 
to Miss F in relation to the content of the valuation. NatWests only duty was to ensure that 
the valuation was carried out by a suitably-qualified person. In this case, the valuer was a 
Member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Given this, Im satisfied that NatWest fulfilled its duty in appointing a properly-qualified 
person to value the property. The firm of surveyors instructed by the bank arent covered by 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, and so I cant comment on their actions. But I can look at 
whether or not it was reasonable for NatWest to rely on the surveyors opinion.Initially the surveyor valued the property at £140,000, but this was without knowing anything 
about the ground rent on the property. In this context, I wouldnt expect the surveyor to have 
this information when carrying out a valuation. Once the solicitors had reported on the 
ground rent and the bank referred it to the surveyor, he didnt think the property was suitable 
security.
Im satisfied NatWest was entitled to rely on the opinion of its professional surveyor that the 
property wasnt suitable security because of the ground rent issue. Its standard practice 
where a property doesnt meet lending criteria and so isnt considered to be suitable security 
for the valuation to be adjusted to zero. 
Miss F was offended at wording the surveyor used. As Ive said above, the surveyors arent 
covered by the Financial Ombudsman Service and so I cant comment on this any further, 
although I note NatWest did say it was sorry for the way Miss F felt on being told the ground 
rent was onerous.
I note Miss F raised the issue of whether or not NatWest would accept an indemnity policy. 
However, indemnity insurance is only suitable to cover something that might happen, not 
something that is inevitably going to happen. In addition, NatWest is under no duty to give 
Miss F legal advice about varying the terms of her lease. Thats something Miss F would 
need to take her own legal advice on.
Conclusion
I fully understand why Miss F was upset that her mortgage offer was withdrawn. However 
after looking at everything that happened, and after giving careful consideration to everything 
Miss F, Mr F and NatWest have said, Im unable to find NatWest did anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this compliant.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman