DRN-3207585
The complaint
A complaint has been brought on behalf of the estate of Ms W about National Westminster 
bank Plc concerning alleged fraud.
What happened
The administrator of the estate says that the account of his late mother, Ms W, was closed in 
July 2016. And that either her signature was then forged, or she was placed under duress to 
close the account and transfer the money to a relative. He says that this relative has tried to 
get access to the account before. And that in 2018 NatWest had told him that the account 
was dormant. He wasnt able to deal with this himself and his mother became ill and she 
passed away in 2019. He later discovered what had happened to the money.
NatWest says that it hadnt made any mistake. It had reviewed a copy of the account closure 
form and this had been signed by Ms W. And her signature had been checked before the 
account was closed. All required security checks were made. It had provided the sort code 
and account number to which the money was transferred in its final response.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that the notes 
recorded by NatWest at the time confirmed that Ms Ws signature was verified and that she 
was identified in a branch. All pre closure checks were made, and the payment made as 
instructed. The terms and conditions stated that NatWest would follow an account holders 
instructions unless for example it didnt think that these were authorised or that there was 
fraud. But she didnt think that it did have such a reason based on the checks made. She 
noted what the administrator had been said about the need to reverse instructions by this 
family member in the past. But there wasnt evidence to show either that Ms Ws signature 
was forged here or that she was acting under duress. NatWest had said that the account 
had activity a couple of years before it was closed so wouldnt have been marked as 
dormant.
The administrator had provided copies of forms he obtained in branch in 2018. Our 
investigator said that these queried funds sent to the account after it had been closed. And 
that these might have been sent to a dormant account or returned to the sender.
The administrator didnt agree. He maintained that hed been told that the money was in a 
dormant account and was given forms to complete. Ms W signed these as she wanted to 
know where her money was. These werent submitted. He alleged the family member took 
control of the account and that NatWest assisted her in doing so especially as this family 
member had tried something similar before.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. I 
need to think about whether Ms W authorised the payment when the account was closed.
NatWest has provided the instruction to close the account. Its notes state that Ms W was in a 
branch and was identified and her signature was confirmed. The balance of over £34,000 
was sent to the account details provided. The reason given for the account being closed was 
a dissatisfaction with the interest rates.
Its not impossible that Ms W was impersonated that day and her signature forged. But I 
dont have any direct evidence to support that. The checks noted by NatWest indicate that 
this isnt what most likely happened. The administrator says that alternatively Ms W was 
acting under duress. He refers to her being unwell at the time. But I understand she was still 
operating her account and again there is nothing to show that NatWest ought to have 
suspected a problem at the time and needed to make further checks.
I note the administrator identifies the relative he believes was involved but he states in the 
complaint form to this service that NatWest refuse to provide the name of the payee and 
that this is preventing me from pursuing this with police although it has said it is possible 
the money has gone to this relative.
I appreciate the wider information hes provided, and Ive looked closely at the form which is 
as he says headed up dormant account reclaim dated 27 April 2018 and which also 
appears to be signed by Ms W. I think it worth quoting a comment on the form which 
attempted to summarise the position as NatWest then understood it. Ive taken out the 
specific account numbers that were mentioned:
He [the now administrator] is querying amounts transferred to account [Ms Ws account 
number]. This account looks like it was closed on 27/7/16 but the balance was not 
transferred to customer. Screen shots attached. Bal to [account number]?
NatWest said that the account wouldnt have been marked as being dormant after what was 
only two years of inactivity. But in any event by then the money had been withdrawn. The 
administrator accepts that for personal reasons no dormancy form was then submitted, or 
this matter then pursued despite the potential concerns.
I know the administrator wants me to accept this form and his other comments as evidence 
that Ms W really wanted to dispute the transfer and it wasnt authorised. The form was never 
submitted and had it been the issue would likely have then been discovered. But I cant 
know what might otherwise then have happened. Although the administrator had the 
impression the account was dormant  there also seemed to be some uncertainty about 
what was going to be looked at based on the comments on the form Ive referred to above.
I have balanced all these factors in reaching my decision. Im afraid I dont have evidence 
sufficient to find that NatWest made a mistake here in allowing the transfer. Or that it ought 
to have made any further checks and so decided that this wasnt a legitimate payment 
authorised by Ms W as alleged by the administrator. So, I dont have a basis to require it to 
do anything more. I appreciate how disappointed the administrator will be given what is at 
stake for the estate. If he doesnt accept my decision as administrator of the estate he 
remains free to pursue this in court subject to any relevant time limits. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms W 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman