DRN-2484533
The complaint
Mr C complains about the interest rate he was offered when he applied for an AA branded 
personal loan from Bank of Ireland (UK) plc. 
What happened
Mr C had seen that AA were advertising loans with an interest rate of 3.1%. So he applied 
for a loan online at about 8pm on 15 July 2019.  
Mr C says he didnt receive notification that the loan hed been offered by AA had an interest 
rate of 7.9% until after the application was complete. He phoned AA as soon as lines opened 
the next day to cancel the loan and complain. He says AA wouldnt let him cancel the loan 
and as a result his credit files been affected.
 
AA responded to Mr Cs complaint. It said, Mr C had been shown during the application 
process what the interest rate was and also that he was the given the option, when the 
application had been approved, to sign the loan agreement electronically  which it said he 
did. And this meant hed accepted the loan was offered by AA  with an interest rate of 7.9% 
and had started the process of the loan funds being paid to him. AA explained that if Mr C 
wanted to withdraw from the loan, hed need to return the loan funds within 30 days and call 
its customer services to arrange this. 
Our Investigator considered Mr Cs complaint. She said, in summary, that she didnt think AA 
had done anything wrong. She said the evidence from AA showed that Mr C wouldve been 
shown the interest before he accepted the loan. And she was satisfied he had signed the 
loan agreement electronically which meant he was bound by its terms. 
Mr C didnt accept our Investigators view. He said he hadnt agreed to the loan because he 
didnt sign the loan agreement and thought the one wed sent him was a blank copy. 
As Mr C didnt agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision in 
December 2020. A copy of my provisional findings is set out below and forms part of this 
decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C applied for the loan online. AA has provided us with screens of the application process 
showing what the customer would see during an online application for a loan. These arent 
the exact screens from Mr Cs application  but examples.
At the start of the application, theres a screen headed Before we get started. On this page 
it says:
If you decide to proceed with a full application with us, your APR and monthly payment may 
change as your APR will then be based on a full assessment of your credit file.
So there was information available at the start of the application to show that interest rate 
applicable to the loan might change.
At the end of the application theres a screen with the heading Youre ready to sign online 
and it says:
Your personalised loan offer is shown below and has been calculated based on your 
individual circumstances.
The loan amount, interest rate, and monthly repayment is listed after this, as well as the loan 
term and total amount repayable. Mr C says he couldnt see the interest rate until after hed 
agreed to loan. He says he wasnt shown the rate at any time during the application. But this 
particular screen appears before the customer has accepted the loan.
Mr C has said he thinks his application mightve been affected because he was using a 
tablet rather than a desktop computer. So we asked AA about this. They provided their 
records of the device used to make Mr Cs application  which matches the type of device 
Mr C told us he used. AA said the only difference wouldve been the resolution of the 
screens. Otherwise, the process and screens are the same.
Having looked at the application screens and considered the information Ive got about the 
how the application works on a mobile device, Im satisfied the interest rate AA were offering 
Mr C wouldve likely been displayed during the application process, even if Mr C didnt see it.
Mr C also thinks AA misled him about the rate more generally. He says this as he wasnt 
offered a loan at the headline interest rate and he had an excellent credit rating  he doesnt 
think AA had any intention of offering anyone a loan at that interest rate. Generally, its for 
financial businesses to decide how much theyre willing to lend and on what terms. 
So in Mr Cs case it was up to AA to decide whether they were willing to lend him £25,000, 
and if so at what rate of interest. And Ive already explained that theres information at the 
beginning of the application to indicate that the APR offered will depend on the applicants 
circumstances. So I dont agree that AA did anything wrong.
Mr C says he didnt know what the interest rate on the loan was until after hed accepted the 
loan. But hes also told our Investigator that he never signed the loan agreement and 
therefore never agreed to the loan.
As Ive said, the final screen in the application process gives customers the option to sign 
online. AAs records show that Mr C opted to sign online. So although Mr Cs right to say that 
the loan agreement doesnt bear his signature and he didnt physically sign it. Im satisfied 
that he did sign the agreement electronically and therefore accepted the loan  on the 
terms offered by AA.
Mr Cs unhappy that AA wouldnt allow him to cancel the loan. When Mr C contacted AA, it 
correctly explained that the funds had already been released to him. So in order to withdraw 
from the agreement, hed need to return the loan funds. This is set out in the loan 
agreement. And as Ive provisionally found that Mr C had accepted the loan by this point, I 
dont think it was unfair of AA to say this is what Mr C would need to do if he no longer 
wanted the loan. Mr C did return the funds within the withdrawal period and wasnt charged 
any interest, so hes not suffered a financial loss.
Mr C says that this has affected his credit file but hasnt provided a copy. He says because 
its shown that he had taken a loan, albeit repaid immediately, this has reduced his credit 
rating. As Mr C hasnt sent us a copy of the entry AA have made, I dont know exactly what it says. But, based on what Mr C has told us it sounds like it shows Mr C took a loan from AA 
that is now repaid in full  which is what happened.
I understand that Mr Cs not happy with that because he says this has reduced his overall 
credit score. And he wasnt aware of the interest rate and didnt sign the loan agreement, but 
Ive explained already why I dont think AA has treated him unfairly in those respects. So, in 
the absence of anything to show that what AA has recorded on his credit file isnt accurate, I 
dont intend to ask it to remove the entry.
Responses to my provisional decision
AA responded to say it had nothing further to add.
 
Mr C didnt agree with my provisional decision. He said, in summary:
Mr C maintained that the loan agreement was never shown during the application 
and that he didnt electronically sign it. 
He maintained that he was not shown the interest rate, or any of the other pre-
contract information, during the application process. 
He still thinks having carried out the application on a tablet affected the application.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C made a number of points in response to my provisional decision, all of which Ive 
considered. But Ive only commented here on the most relevant points.
I know Mr C feels very strongly hes been treated unfairly by AA. This is because he is very 
clear in his assertion that none of the details of the loan were displayed during the 
application process. And hes been consistent about this from the beginning. He also 
maintains that he did not agree to the loan at any point during the application process. I want 
Mr C to know that I do understand what hes been telling us throughout about this and that I 
have taken everything hes told us into account. 
AA says Mr C was shown all this information and agreed to the loan. And its provided 
sample application screenshots to show what wouldve been displayed when Mr C made his 
application. 
So the evidence in this case is contradictory. Where thats the case, I must make my 
decision based on what I consider to be more likely than not  having considered all the 
evidence and information available. 
AA have shown us the application screens. Im satisfied having reviewed these again, that 
the interest rate would more likely than not have been displayed during the application. Im 
not persuaded theres any evidence, beyond Mr C saying so, that AA changed the interest 
after Mr C agreed to the loan  which is the suggestion hes making. 
Mr C also says that the loan agreement itself wasnt shown to him before the loan was 
drawn down and that he did not electronically sign it. But AAs records show that he did. 
Mr C also said in his response to my provisional decision I signed and agreed to what I 
thought was a loan at 3.1% APR. Again, having considered everything, I think its most 
likely that Mr C did tick the box to sign the agreement electronically. Because he says he did and if he hadnt, the loan likely wouldnt have been drawn down. Mr C says this has affected 
his credit file but hasnt provided a copy. So, as I said in my provisional decision, I havent 
seen anything to suggest whats on his credit file isnt accurate.  
I understand that Mr C says he didnt see any of the information about the interest rate  but 
as Ive explained  Ive found it was most likely displayed during the application process. 
Mr C says it wasnt. So while I know Mr C wont agree, I dont find AA has done anything 
wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman