DRN-3955744
The complaint
Mrs and Mr N complained about a number of administration issues concerning their personal 
pensions. They say that a number of actions and inactions by their financial adviser, 
Bluetrust Limited, caused them financial losses.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Bluetrust.
What happened
Some years ago, Mrs and Mr N transferred their pensions to personal pension arrangements 
operated by a large and well-known provider. It seems Mrs and Mr N were assisted in this by 
Bluetrust Limited and they retained Bluetrust as their ongoing financial advisers thereafter.
Mrs and Mr N say that in 2021 they decided to part company with Bluetrust based mainly on 
poor pension fund performance. However, they say that when they did this a number of 
specific issues came to light which they feel have caused them financial losses. So theyve 
complained about these matters.
Mrs and Mr Ns complaint refers to three issues. In respect of Mr N (only), they say that a 
direct debit sending contributions to his pension provider was cancelled in late 2021, without 
his consent or knowledge.
The second matter also relates to only Mr N and is about the tapered annual allowance. It 
was announced in 2020 that this was to be reduced to £4,000 per year for people on high 
incomes. Mr N says he wasnt told anything about this.
Finally, their third complaint point is a broader one, mainly that market performance was 
volatile and that Bluetrust poorly managed their funds through this, thus causing 
unnecessary losses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Having considered all the circumstances in this case with care, I have decided not to uphold 
Mrs and Mr Ns complaint. 
Introduction
My starting point here is that I think the investigator provided a very detailed and 
comprehensive response to both parties. They carefully set out the timeline of events and 
the various contacts the parties had with each other. 
However, theres no real dispute about what happened from a timeline point of view although 
Mrs and Mr N deny having received some items of correspondence from Bluetrust. I dont 
intend to set all this out again but Ive looked carefully at everything weve been sent and I 
can see no reason why Mrs and Mr N would have received some items of correspondence, 
but not others, from Bluetrust. The businesss correspondence appeared addressed exactly 
the same and some contained the types of explanatory documents Id expect to see an 
adviser send out to a client.
What the complaint is really about
The question here is simply about whether Bluetrust acted unreasonably and whether its 
actions or inactions have caused Mrs and Mr N any financial loss.
Im going to deal with the last issue first. Thats because its a relatively straightforward 
matter.
Market volatility
This issue arises from market instability following the UK referendum which resulted in the 
decision to leave the European Union. There then followed more volatility related to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. Mrs and Mr Ns complaint here  they say this affects both their pension 
funds  is that they were transferred to a defensive type of fund (dominated in cash). And 
they imply that the Bluetrust adviser failed to actively manage their funds thereafter by 
transferring them to more regular funds when the market volatility was subsiding. So, Mrs 
and Mr N say they missed out on the market bounce back, essentially because their funds 
were still held prominently in more defensive funds.
Ive taken the position here that these were unprecedented events. Ive also considered Mrs 
and Mr Ns circumstances which to me strongly imply a reasonable degree of financial 
awareness and knowledge. Nevertheless, Bluetrust was being engaged as their financial 
advisers and therefore had a responsibility to act in Mrs and Mr Ns best interests.
Everything Ive seen suggests Bluetrust did act in Mrs and Mr Ns best interests. As our 
investigator pointed out, there is a plethora of information suggesting an ongoing and 
comprehensive dialog between the parties about both Brexit and the pandemic related 
events. For me to consider upholding the complaint about this, Id need to be satisfied that 
Bluetrust did nothing, acted slowly or otherwise was negligent about Mrs and Mr Ns 
investment strategy during what was a difficult time. Id also have to be satisfied that there 
was clearly a loss.
Everything Ive seen, however, shows that for some time before Brexit Mrs and Mr N 
wanted to be exposed only to modest risk and so I think the actions taken by Bluetrust took 
account of this. Our investigator also set out, very clearly in my view, the emails, meetings, 
and other contacts the parties had about ongoing market conditions. These included, but 
were certainly not limited to, a new attitude to risk exercise in February 2021 which showed 
that a new and updated profile of medium risk had become appropriate. To me, this shows 
Bluetrust was continuing to assess their investment strategies in the course of the pandemic. 
I also see that in May 2021, Bluetrust sent an email about reinvesting differently which a 
graphic analysis of how the funds had performed in the past few years. Theres further 
evidence Bluetrust discussed investment charts with Mrs and Mr N and that they opted for a continued conservative approach. By September 2021 another meeting took place and they 
agreed to reinvest somewhat more adventurously.
Im not going to second guess every investment decision. But suffice to say, these were 
unforeseen global events and many people saw investments fluctuate quite considerably. 
The evidence shows there was a dialog and I think its unfair to use the benefit of hindsight 
to imply that a more aggressive investment approach was required. This simply wasnt part 
of Mrs and Mr Ns historical approach. And ultimately, I can see no evidence of a quantifiable 
or crystalised financial loss. 
So, to be clear, I dont uphold this part of the complaint.  
Cancelling Mr Ns pension direct debit
Ive also considered this issue with care, but again, I cant really add anything to what has 
already been comprehensively explained by our investigator. Essentially, the issue came to 
light as Mrs and Mr N decided they wanted to part company with Bluetrust. However, what 
Ive seen shows very clearly that the direct debit sending monthly contributions to Mr Ns 
pension was ceased not only to try and prevent an increased tax burden for him; it was also 
done at a time where Bluetrust and Mr N had been having a dialog about his earnings.
So, I think the Bluetrust adviser most likely agreed with Mr Ns pension provider to pause the 
direct debit when it came to light that his high estimated income figures for the 2021/22 tax 
year would require investigation from a pension taxation perspective. The premium was 
paused solely in Mr Ns best interests.
Ive read what Mr N says about this  that the adviser knew full well what Mr Ns income 
was. However, I think this is an over-simplification of Mr Ns financial affairs. And in any 
event, theres evidence of his income clarification - if not the direct debit cancellation itself  
being discussed. To me, this was a minor administrative oversight and the adviser knew that 
a pausing of the direct debit could be changed back, and even increased, if the situation 
merited it.
The tapered annual allowance
In 2020 the government announced changes to how much so-called high earners could 
contribute to pensions. Mr N says he wasnt told about this. However, whilst I can accept this 
may be his honest and genuine recollection now, Im afraid the evidence shows he was told.
This is because Bluetrust wrote to Mrs and Mr N in May 2020. The letter, in my view, clearly 
pointed out that significant changes were afoot. It said, Income levels (less some slight 
adjustments) of over £240,000 will see the annual pension allowance of £10,000 reduce  
for example incomes over £312,000 will have a £4,000 overall pension limit. The letter went 
on to say that they should let Bluetrust know if they had any questions.
Bluetrust also provided historic evidence which shows it previously sent an email to Mrs and 
Mr N in November 2018 explaining that the higher rate pension relief currently could either 
be capped or even abolished in the future. Another email was sent in March 2019 detailing 
more generalised information about pension tax allowance rules and the impact it could have 
on Mr N, a high earner.
Mr N implies he didnt receive the letter of May 2020. However, Ive noted that it appears 
correctly addressed and my experience is that the overwhelming majority of correctly 
addressed UK mail does arrive, as planned. Also, given the other contacts we know about, I find it unlikely that this subject area wasnt covered in the meetings Mrs and Mr N 
periodically had with Bluetrust.
Summary
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs and Mr N and I do accept they have a different perspective on 
these things.
However, Ive shown above, firstly, that they invested their pensions in money market funds. 
I think Mrs and Mr N would have known this involves a certain degree of risk. That some of 
their investments coincided with substantial market volatility is unfortunate, but Im afraid 
thats the nature of investing. Their investments were placed broadly in accordance with their 
attitude to risk at the time.
I also find no evidence to suggest that Bluetrust acted in anything other than in Mr Ns 
interests by cancelling his pension contributions direct debit. The evidence tends to support 
this and I can think of no other reason why the adviser would have done this.
For the final issue, the evidence is more persuasive of Mrs and Mr N having been written to 
about tax matters generally. Mr N is adamant that his adviser knew what his income level 
was. However, if indeed that was true, it would also have been true for Mr N himself. And 
given thats the case, the evidence is very clear that matters of tax and what could be paid 
into a pension without penalties was a subject area which was periodically and openly 
raised.
For these reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
I do not require Bluetrust Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman