DRN-3575804
The complaint
Mr R complains about the decision by The Exeter Cash Plan trading as The Exeter to turn 
down his health insurance claim. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for these 
reasons:
The policy covers rehabilitation treatment, so long as this is received from a 
registered practitioner of physiotherapy, osteopathy or chiropractic. The policy terms 
refer to the glossary for definitions of those practitioners. 
The glossary defines a physiotherapist as someone regulated by and registered as 
practising with the Health Professions Council and recognised by Us.
I understand that in 2012, the Health Professions Council changed their name to the 
Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC). But it is the same organisation.
The practitioner who carried out Mr Rs rehabilitation physiotherapy treatment isnt a 
registered physiotherapist with the HCPC. Im therefore satisfied that it was 
appropriate for The Exeter to turn down his claim. 
Its unfortunate that the policy terms dont refer to the HCPCs current name. Though 
the policy terms also say that treatment administered by members not affiliated to 
bodies recognised by The Exeter as specified in the glossary will not be covered. It 
does not appear that Mr R made enquiries into whether or not his practitioner was 
recognised by The Exeter, and so it does not seem that he was impacted by the 
HCPCs previous name being used in the policy terms. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman