DRN-3690325
The complaint
Mr H complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE has unfairly declined his travel insurance 
claim.
What happened
Mr H has an annual multi trip travel insurance policy underwritten by Great Lakes. He 
booked a trip abroad, departing from the UK on 8 February 2022. 
On the day of his departure, Mr H arrived at the airport to take his flight, however, he was 
denied boarding by the airline staff. They told him that, in order to travel, he needed to have 
taken a PCR test  Mr H hadnt taken this test. Mr H said he was unaware of this 
requirement (he believes that the airline staff were misinformed on the rules) and said that 
as he had been vaccinated against Covid-19 and had a vaccine passport, he should have 
been able to travel. I understand Mr H had to purchase a new ticket to fly a few days later 
and he says he was able to travel without taking a PCR test.
Mr H wasnt offered a refund from the airline for his unused ticket and so he made a claim to 
Great Lakes for this cost, but the claim was refused. Great Lakes said that the 
circumstances of the claim fell outside the policy terms. Unhappy with this response, Mr H 
complained to Great Lakes and brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into the matter but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He found that Great Lakes 
decision to decline the claim was reasonable, based on the policy coverage.
Mr H disagreed with our investigators opinion. As no agreement could be reached, the
matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Hs complaint.
The policy terms and conditions
Mr Hs claim relates to the unused flight costs after he was denied boarding. This was as a
result of the airline saying he hadnt obtained the relevant negative PCR test required in 
order to travel. 
Great Lakes has said there is no cover for the circumstances which caused Mr Hs claim. It
has referred to the missed departure section of the policy in its reply  Section 4a of the
policy  which states the following:
We will pay you up to the amount shown on the table of benefits, for reasonable
additional travelling and accommodation expenses necessarily incurred to reach your
overseas destination or to return to your home country by the most direct route.
If you arrive at the airport, port or international coach or rail terminal to depart too late
to commence the first outward international journey abroad of your booked trip, as a
result of:
a) breakdown of or accident directly involving the vehicle in which you are 
travelling; or 
b) cancellation, curtailment or delay of scheduled public transport due to 
adverse weather conditions, strike, or industrial action, or mechanical 
breakdown, or accident.
c) you being delayed due to a major incident on a motorway.
d) you being delayed due to road closures because of an act of terrorism or 
the public transport being used is delayed or cancelled due to an act of 
terrorism.
We will provide assistance by liaising with the carrier and/or tour operator to advise of 
your late arrival. If necessary, we will make arrangements for overnight hotel 
accommodation and alternative international travel.
In addition, the policy also includes additional cover for the cancellation of a trip due to 
Covid-19, under Section 18. In this section it says it provides cover for the following:
What is covered for Cancellation and Cutting Short Your Trip:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the table of benefits for either Section 1. 
Cancellation, or Section 2. Cutting Short Your Trip, per insured person for any 
irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs (and other prepaid charges) 
which you have paid or are contracted to pay, if you were not able to travel and use 
your booked accommodation or undertake the trip as a result of:
a) you, a close relative, a member of your household, travelling companion or 
any person with whom you have arranged to stay during the trip has a 
diagnosis of COVID-19 in the 14 days prior to your booked departure date.
b) you are denied boarding on your pre-booked outbound travel due to you 
contracting COVID-19, or having a confirmed temperature above 38 degrees 
Celsius.
c) you are contacted by a representative of the UK Governments Test and 
Trace service due to the probability of you having contracted COVID-19, and 
are instructed to self-isolate for a period of time which prevents you from 
starting your trip using your pre-booked outward travel arrangements.
d) you experiencing an adverse reaction to the COVID-19 vaccine in the 2 
weeks before your scheduled departure date and are advised that you are no 
longer fit to travel by a medical practitioner.
e)you, or your travelling companion being unable to complete the course of 
COVID-19 vaccinations before your scheduled departure date due to 
unforeseen illness of you or your travelling companion.
Has the claim been declined fairly?When looking at the missed departure section of the policy, I can see that cover is provided 
for additional travel and accommodation costs incurred to reach the trip destination if the 
policy holder arrives too late to the airport due to one of several listed reasons. 
From the information we have been given it appears Mr H wasnt late arriving at the airport, 
but he was denied boarding by the airline staff and this is what caused him to miss the flight. 
This is not one of the reasons detailed in the policy for which Great Lakes will provide cover 
for missing a departure and therefore Im persuaded the decision by Great Lakes to refuse 
the claim under this section is fair and reasonable.
Mr H has said that he wasnt allowed to fly as the airline staff said he needed to complete a 
PCR test before travelling. Ive therefore looked at the section of the policy which provides 
cover for Covid-19 and, as detailed above, there are a list of covered reasons for which 
Great Lakes would agree to cover the cost of a cancelled flight. Having reviewed the 
reasons listed, cover is provided where a policy holder is denied boarding but only as a 
result of contracting Covid-19 or having a high temperature  that didnt happen in Mr Hs 
case. The circumstances Mr H found himself in dont appear to fall within this or, having 
looked at the remainder of the policy wording, any of the other sections of cover provided. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr Hs claim is covered under the policy terms 
and conditions, nor are there reasonable grounds upon which it would be fair for me to ask 
Great Lakes to accept his claim. Im therefore not persuaded that Great Lakes needs to do 
anything more.
Mr H has said he feels that Great Lakes are trying to avoid making payments. I appreciate 
this decision will be disappointing for Mr H, but it is important to note that insurers are 
entitled to decide what risks they will accept (in return for the premium). The events they will 
and wont cover just need to be clearly set out in the terms and conditions of the policy. And 
Im satisfied that Great Lakes has clearly set out the reasons it will accept cover for a missed 
departure or cancellation claim in the policy terms. So, this point doesnt make a difference 
to my outcome.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman