DRN-3466492
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the cancellation fee charged by MD Insurance Services Limited 
(MDIS) in relation to a new build warranty hed taken out with them.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on 1 April 2022 explaining why I wasnt intending to uphold 
this complaint. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What happened
In October 2018, Mr B applied for a warranty with MDIS for a new home he was 
intending to build. By December 2020 all of the site investigations had been 
completed, and MDIS were ready to issue the insurance certificate for the warranty.
However, Mr B found a potential purchaser for the property in December 2020, and 
asked MDIS whether he could sell the property with the warranty. He was informed, 
on 14 December 2020 that within the first 12 months of the warranty, the property 
couldnt be sold with the warranty in place. MDIS agreed to cancel the warranty and 
explained that the site investigation fees, and an administration fee would be 
deducted from the monies Mr B had paid before the balance would be returned to 
him. 
Mr B decided to go ahead and cancel the warranty. When confirming the warranty 
had been cancelled, on 29 December 2020, MDIS explained that a cancellation fee 
of £540.95 and a technical audit fee (for the site investigations) of £910.52 were 
being charged, giving a balance of £860.09 to be paid to Mr B. 
On 31 December 2020 Mr B informed MDIS that he wanted to make a formal 
complaint about the level of the cancellation fees. He followed up again in October 
2021 to pursue his complaint, so MDIS then investigated his concerns. On 
29 October 2021, MDIS issued their final response letter partially upholding the 
complaint. In summary they said:
When Mr B requested that his warranty be cancelled in December 2019, 
MDIS informed him that £1451.47 in fees were being deducted from the 
amount hed paid, and he would receive the balance of £860.09.
Mr B was told that the fees being charged included a cancellation fee of 
£540.95 and surveyor site visit fees of £910.52.
The reason for that level of fee being deducted from the refund, was because 
MDIS had completed 100% of the site visits.
The letter concluded by saying that MDIS had charged an administration fee 
equivalent to 35% of the premium (equating to £390.95), the surveyor site visit fees 
of £910.52 and an admin fee of £150, as set out in the cancellation section of the 
terms and conditions, as the maximum number of inspections had been carried out. 
However, as Mr Bs request for a discussion about his complaint wasnt met, in 
December 2020, MDIS partially upheld his complaint and offered him £150.
Unhappy with MDIS response, Mr B brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into his concerns and issued her view upholding the complaint on 
24 February 2022. She concluded that it wasnt fair for MDIS to charge a fee 
equivalent of 35% of the premium because they hadnt demonstrated theyd carried 
out work to justify that level of fee, taking account of the other fees theyd also 
charged. Instead, she said charging an administration fee equivalent to 20% of the 
premium would be appropriate.
MDIS didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision on the complaint. They said that theyd applied the full figure set out in the 
cancellation terms of 35%, on the basis of the amount of time taken for the 
application, and the length of time spent on the administration of Mr Bs warranty 
given hed first applied for it in October 2018.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first considered whether MDIS decision to charge an administration fee 
equivalent to 35% of the premium paid was made in accordance with the terms 
agreed with Mr B, and Im satisfied that it was. 
Page 4 of MDIS terms of business sets out the charges that will be applied, for their 
services, in the event that the warranty is cancelled prior to a certificate of insurance 
being issued. In particular the relevant paragraph of the terms says:
As construction contracts can be of varying duration and there is always a 
site audit, our fees will vary depending on the stage at which notice of 
cancellation is given..An administration fee will apply up to a maximum of 
35% of the insurance premium depending on the amount of work 
undertaken.
So, MDIS decision to charge an administration fee of 35% of the premium was made 
in accordance with the terms and conditions agreed to by Mr B.
However, the terms do say that a fee up to a maximum of 35% will apply, depending 
on the amount of work undertaken. It is here that our investigator and MDIS 
disagreed. Our investigator rightly considered, under our fair and reasonable remit, 
whether MDIS had fairly applied that term to Mr Bs circumstances, and she 
concluded they hadnt. A fee of £910.52 had been separately charged to cover the 
site inspections that were undertaken, then the further administration fee of £540.95 
was charged by MDIS to cover the other work theyd undertaken. Our investigator 
wasnt satisfied by the explanation of other work undertaken provided by MDIS and 
didnt agree it justified charging a further administration fee of that sum. In particular 
she explained that she couldnt see that MDIS had had excessive contact with Mr B 
or carried out administrative tasks that were proportionate to a 35% administration 
fee. Instead, she felt that a fee equivalent to 20% of the premium would be fair.
MDIS didnt agree with our investigator. They said that given theyd administered the 
warranty since October 2018, when Mr B first applied for the insurance, they were 
justified in charging the higher fee.Ive carefully considered this issue. I agree with our investigator that where 
administration fees are charged, they should fairly reflect the work completed by the 
business. However, in this case, as everything had been done, aside from issuing the 
certificate (which was done in error, and rescinded) I think its fair for MDIS to charge 
the administration fee equating to 35% of the premium. I say this because, at the 
time that Mr B asked for the warranty to be cancelled, other than finalising the 
certificate, MDIS had done essentially all of the work that they were going to do, in 
relation to Mr Bs warranty. If, for example, the warranty had been cancelled after 
say, the July site inspections, then it could be arguable that a reduced administration 
fee should be charged, on the basis that only some of the work had been done. 
However, that isnt what happened here. At the point at which Mr B decided to cancel 
his warranty, MDIS had completed virtually all of the work involved in arranging the 
insurance cover. On that basis I currently consider that MDIS decision to charge an 
administration fee equivalent to 35% of the premium was both in line with the terms 
and conditions of the warranty and was fair and reasonable in Mr Bs circumstances. 
I concluded by saying that I wasnt intending to uphold the complaint. I asked the parties to 
let me have any final comments or evidence they wanted me to consider, before issuing this 
final decision. 
MDIS didnt provide any further comments on the provisional decision.
Mr B replied to say:
During his phone calls with LABC he said he would be building the house for himself 
to live in but may end up selling in a year or two down the line. 
When the house was completed, he contacted LABC and they said theyd only issue 
the certificate if he didnt sell the property as that would invalidate the warranty.
He said he had a few discussions with them and to his amazement hed been mis-
sold the policy because he was told it was transferable, when in fact, it wasnt.
He feels hes been misled by our service because he was told by our investigator that 
she was upholding his complaint, and then he received the provisional decision that 
said we werent upholding his complaint. 
Ive taken these comments into account in arriving at my final decision on the complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent been persuaded to reach a different decision to that set out in my 
provisional decision. I will explain why.
On 14 December 2020, Mr B and MDIS had an email exchange in which Mr B said he felt 
the policy had been mis-sold to him. He recalled being told by a call handler at MDIS that he 
could sell the property with the warranty as soon as it had been completed. In the email 
exchange, MDIS explained that their LABC Self Build Warranty scheme is designed for 
customers who are building their dream home to live in for at least 12 months from the date 
the warranty is issued. MDIS highlighted the definition of Policyholder in the terms and 
conditions which included the proviso that .no such transfer can take place if the Home is sold by the original Policyholder within twelve months of the inception date of the policy. 
They also explained that the original quotation provided to Mr B included a link to the policy 
and a request that he read the terms and conditions carefully before accepting their offer of 
cover.
While I understand Mr B has provided his honest recollection of that phone call, as the call 
recording is no longer available, I cant be sure exactly what was said during the call. 
However, even if I was able to listen to the call, it would be unlikely to change the decision 
Ive reached on Mr Bs complaint. I say this because, even if I were to conclude that Mr B 
was given incorrect information when he purchased the policy, ld need to be persuaded that 
had he been given the correct information, he would likely have made a different decision 
about purchasing the policy, and Im not. Mr B completed an application form for a self-build 
warranty, defined as Building or having your own home built, i.e. main place of residence. 
So, I think it likely that when Mr B purchased the warranty, he intended to live in the 
property. It appears that it was only later on, when he received an offer to buy the property, 
that he decided he needed a warranty that he could immediately transfer to a purchaser. I 
also think its clear from the policy terms and conditions that the warranty was transferrable, 
but only from 12 months after the commencement date.
Mr B has also expressed his disappointment that Ive come to a different conclusion to our 
investigator on his complaint. However, as our investigator mentioned in an email to Mr B, 
our service has a two-stage process and either party can request an ombudsmans decision 
if theyre not satisfied with the investigators view. As MDIS didnt accept our investigators 
view, the complaint was passed to me for decision. I reviewed all of the evidence afresh and 
came to a different conclusion to our investigator. So, I issued a provisional decision, 
explaining why I was taking a different view to our investigator and wasnt going to uphold 
the complaint. Having considered Mr Bs response to my provisional decision, for the 
reasons detailed above, Ive not been persuaded to come to a different conclusion to that set 
out in my provisional decision. Im therefore not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman