DRN-2851153
Complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly defaulted the overdraft on his 
current account when he was unable to repay it during the pandemic.
 
Background
Mr K was initially due to repay a temporary overdraft of £25,000.00 in January 2019. He 
intended to repay it with funds from the sale of a property abroad but was unable to do so. 
As a result of this HSBC defaulted Mr Ks account in July 2019. Mr K complained this was 
unfair because he was told this wouldnt happen. HSBC apologised, agreed to remove the 
default and provided Mr K with an additional six months  until April 2020 - to repay the 
overdraft. 
Mr K didnt make payment by April 2020. He told HSBC that he did have the funds as hed 
sold a property which he had abroad but due to local pandemic restrictions in that country, 
he wasnt able to access those funds. Mr K asked HSBC to provide him with additional time 
to repay what he owed but it refused this request and instead defaulted Mr Ks account in    
April 2020.
Mr K was dissatisfied with HSBCs actions and referred matters to our service. Mr Ks 
complaint was then looked at by one of our investigators, who didnt think that HSBC had 
treated Mr K unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr K disagreed with 
our investigator and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman.
Its clear that Mr K has been unhappy about a number of different matters with HSBC for 
some time. And as our investigator explained, HSBC issued eight separate final responses 
between December 2018 and April 2020. Mr Ks complaint about how HSBC responded to 
his request for further time to repay his overdraft, in April 2020, was the only matter referred 
within six months of a HSBC final response. And our investigator made Mr K aware of the 
significance of this. 
So this decision is limited to my consideration of whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably 
towards Mr K when he asked for additional time to repay his overdraft in April 2020. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by saying that Mr K initially responded to our investigators assessment saying 
hed provide detailed reasons for disagreeing with her view. However, despite Mr K and his 
representative being given a number of months and a number of deadlines to provide these 
arguments and any further information nothing has been provided. So Ive looked at whats 
already been provided and reached my own conclusions on Mr Ks complaint.
 
Having carefully considered matters Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Id like to 
explain why in a little more detail.
It isnt in dispute HSBC provided Mr K with a temporary overdraft facility in November 2018 
and Mr K was required to repay it in full by January 2019. I know that Mr K considers it was 
unfair for HSBC not to provide him with a further extension, in April 2020, as he says he had 
the funds but was unable to transfer them from abroad due to local restrictions as a result of 
the pandemic. But Im mindful Mr K had been telling HSBC he had funds forthcoming  as a 
result of an impending property sale abroad - and hed clear the outstanding balance on a 
number of occasions in the 15 months or so while the debt had been due to be repaid. And 
by April 2020 Mr K not only hadnt paid off the outstanding balance, but he hadnt provided 
anything to evidence that he was in possession of the funds or any indication of when he 
might be able to make the outstanding payment either.
Im mindful that a lender is required to take appropriate steps to exercise forbearance and 
due consideration in the event that a borrower isnt able to repay a debt as a result of 
financial difficulties. But Mr Ks facility was only ever intended to be a temporary interest-
bearing three-month one. Notwithstanding this, HSBC refunded any interest charged from 
January 2019 and ended up providing the facility interest free for more than a year. And as 
far as I understand it Mr K still hasnt made a payment to clear this debt despite a further 
year having passed. In these circumstances, its difficult for me to agree that the pandemic 
was the reason for Mr Ks failure to repay the overdraft on time as the available evidence 
doesnt support this being the case. 
So while I can understand why Mr K may be unhappy with the timing of HSBCs decision not 
to provide a further extension on his overdraft and instead call the debt in, in the 
circumstances, I can understand why HSBC took this course of action. And considering 
everything, I dont think that HSBC treated Mr K unfairly notwithstanding the pandemic. In 
my view, HSBC reasonably reached the conclusion that Mr K simply wasnt able to adhere to 
the terms of the contract and continuing to indefinitely postpone defaulting the account was 
counterproductive and not in Mr Ks best interests or that of any prospective lender.
Mr K has referred to receiving contradictory correspondence from HSBC. And Ive seen that 
HSBC did send Mr K marketing communications regarding applying for further products 
when it wasnt prepared to offer any further facilities. I can understand why this may have 
caused some confusion for Mr K. But given a number of his applications were made after   
Mr K was told HSBC was closing his account and while he was already overdue in repaying 
his overdraft, I do think Mr K ought to have been aware that any applications were likely to 
be unsuccessful.  
Finally, Ive seen what Mr K has said about HSBC recording a previous default, on his credit 
file, as a result of this overdraft. I am aware that HSBC initially recorded a default on Mr Ks 
credit file, in July 2019, as a result of Mr K not having repaid his overdraft balance by this 
date. But, in October 2019, HSBC removed this default and provided Mr K with a final 
chance to repay the overdraft by April 2020. I know that there was a delay with one of the 
credit reference agencies updating this information. But Mr K has already accepted a 
settlement in relation to this.  
Furthermore, HSBC backdated the April 2020 default to the date it was originally recorded in 
July 2019, which means that itll show on his credit file for a shorter period. So Im satisfied 
that HSBC hasnt recorded more than one default on Mr Ks credit file and that he hasnt lost 
out as a result of HSBC removing the previous default to provide him with a final extension  
until April 2020 - to repay his overdraft. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that HSBC has treated Mr K unfairly. 
So Im not upholding his complaint. Although Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint, Id like to 
remind HSBC of its ongoing obligation to continue to exercise forbearance, when requiring payment from Mr K and it be the case that hes experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman