DRN-3914675
The complaint
1. Mr M complains BUPA Insurance Limited provided poor customer service and failed to 
change his residency, which caused him to be charged incorrect policy premiums. 
2. As Mr M has requested numbered correspondence, I have numbered the paragraphs 
within this decision.
What happened
3. Mr M has held a private medical insurance policy with BUPA for many years. He 
previously lived overseas, and the premiums BUPA charged were partly calculated 
based on his country of residency. 
4. In 2021, Mr M moved back to the UK and informed BUPA. BUPA updated his address 
for correspondence, but not for his policy residency, as it said this can only be changed 
during the annual policy renewal window. 
5. The policy terms around changes to residency and making changes to cover, include the 
following. 
If you move to a new country or change your specified country of nationality 
You, the principal member must tell us straight away if your specified country of 
residence or your specified country of nationality changes. We may need to end your 
membership if the change results in a breach of regulations governing the provision of 
healthcare cover to local nationals, residents or citizens. 
If you change your specified country of residence or your specified country of 
nationality, please call the Bupa Global customer services helpline so we can confirm if 
your Bupa Global membership is affected, and, if so, whether we can offer you a transfer 
service.
Making changes to your cover 
You, the principal member's contract is an annual one, and you can therefore only 
change your level of cover from your renewal date (with the exception of U.S. upgrades 
which can be requested at any time).
6. Mr Ms policy renews on 1 March each year. And ahead of this in 2022, BUPA provided 
Mr M with a renewal quote, based on his overseas residency. Mr M told BUPA again that 
he had moved back to the UK. BUPA provided a quote for a policy with UK residency, 
which was cheaper. But it said Mr M didnt confirm he wanted to take up the quotation. 
And so it renewed his policy based on his overseas residency, on 1 March 2022. 
7. Mr M paid his first quarterly premium for 2022, based on the quotation he received for a 
UK policy. This was lower than the amount due for the overseas policy. BUPA said Mr M 
had not paid the full premium due and suspended the policy, pending the shortfall being 
made up. And it said it would not pay any claims arising during the period the policy was 
suspended. 
8. On page 36, the policy terms say: If subscriptions and other charges are not paid in full 
by the date they are due, you and your dependant's membership may be suspended and 
claims submitted whilst there are subscriptions and charges due will not be paid.
9. BUPA later said it would make an exception, and although the renewal period had 
passed, it would allow Mr M to change his residency to the UK, and switch to the UK 
based policy and lower premiums. It said to do this, it needed Mr M to complete a card 
mandate form, giving authority for payments to be taken from his card for premiums and 
the policy deductible. Mr M completed the form, but he made amendments to the 
wording of it. And BUPA said it couldnt process the form amended in this way. 
10. The policy terms say, on page 35: as we may need to collect amounts from you by 
credit card, you must have a valid credit card authority with us at all times. (We may 
suspend or terminate your cover if you do not have such an agreement or authority in 
place while you have an annual deductible on your plan).
11. Mr M complained to BUPA about the issues with his policy residency and premiums, and 
also the communications hed received. 
12. BUPA responded to the complaint. It apologised about the way its customer service 
team had communicated with Mr M. However it didnt uphold the other elements of his 
complaint. It said Mr M hadnt accepted the quote for the UK policy, and his overseas 
policy had renewed automatically. It said Mr M hadnt paid enough for his first quarterly 
premium. And said it couldnt accept amended versions of its card mandate form. It gave 
Mr M the option to pay the missing premium amount and have his cover reinstated. Or to 
complete a card mandate form, and amend his residency to the UK and switch to the UK 
policy, back-dated to renewal. It also said if Mr M wanted to cancel his policy, this would 
be done within 14 days of notification, and the premium already paid would not be 
refunded. 
13. Unhappy with BUPAs response, Mr M brought his complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened. They didnt uphold the complaint and 
said they didnt think BUPA had treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably. 
14. BUPA made no comment on the investigators view. However Mr M disagreed. In 
summary he said:
he informed BUPA of his address change, but BUPA didnt implement it at the time; 
BUPAs emails were unclear;
his payment on 1 April 2022 was made within the allowable period;
BUPAs correspondence was not numbered, which made it difficult for him to 
respond; and
its unfair that he should pay the backdated premiums now its known that he has not 
needed to make a claim.
15. Mr M asked for a decision from an ombudsman, and so the case has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think BUPA has acted unfairly or unreasonably, and Ill explain why. 
16. Firstly, Mr M has made detailed submissions to us about his complaint. And I appreciate 
he would probably like me to deal with every point hes raised. But, were an informal 
alternative to the courts and this means Ive focused on the issues that I think are 
material in determining a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. No discourtesy 
is intended by this; it simply reflects the informal nature of the ombudsman service and 
my role in it.
17. When Mr M informed BUPA of his change of residency from overseas to the UK, BUPA 
updated his address for correspondence, but informed him that changes in respect of the 
country of residency the policy is based on, can only be made at renewal. I dont think 
this is unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances, both based on the policy terms and 
because country of residency is one of the criteria upon which the policy premiums are 
calculated. So I dont think it was unfair for BUPA to say it could only make changes to 
the residency on which the policy is based, during the renewal period. And Im satisfied 
BUPA informed Mr M about how and when he could change his residency for the policy, 
when it responded to his request for an address change. 
18. At the time of the 2022 policy renewal, Mr M requested a quote for a policy based on UK 
residency, and this was supplied. BUPAs correspondence said it required Mr Ms 
confirmation that he accepted the quote, but Mr M didnt respond. Mr Ms overseas policy 
was set to automatically renew, and Mr M didnt confirm he wanted to cancel it, or 
change to the UK policy hed been quoted. Mr M has said BUPA didnt make the action 
he needed to take clear, if he wanted to accept the quote. However the email BUPA sent 
with the quote stated Please confirm back to us you are happy to continue and we will 
process the changes, the changes will be effective from your renewal date. And the 
quote document itself stated it was valid for 30 days. So Im satisfied BUPA made it 
sufficiently clear that it needed Mr M to confirm if he wanted to accept the quote, and I 
think it was fair for BUPA to continue with the renewal of the overseas policy, as it had 
received no instruction to the contrary. 
19. The UK policy quoted had a lower quarterly premium, and Mr M paid BUPA a similar 
amount for the first quarter of his new policy year. But, as Mr Ms overseas policy had 
renewed, and had a higher premium, Mr M hadnt paid enough to cover his premium for 
the first quarter of 2022. BUPA contacted Mr M about the shortfall. And said because of 
this, it would suspend the policy until the outstanding amount was paid. And said if Mr M 
paid the premium amount overdue, it would continue the policy and would pay any valid 
claims. And I dont think this was unreasonable, as its in line with the terms of the policy 
around non-payment of premiums.
20. BUPA said it would allow Mr M to make up the premium shortfall, and the switch to the 
UK policy with lower premiums. It said the overpayment based on the overseas policy 
having a higher premium, would be applied as a credit to the policy. And I think this was 
fair, as Mr M has shown he had an intention to change his policy residency, as hed 
contacted BUPA about his change of address, and later requested a quote for a UK 
policy. 
21. BUPA said it required Mr M to complete a card mandate form, as the card it held on file 
had expired. And it required Mr M to complete the form without amendments.  Im 
satisfied it wasnt unfair for BUPA to reject the card mandate form Mr M completed and 
to ask him for another, as he had crossed out and changed parts of the declaration, 
which would change the authority provided. I note Mr M didnt want BUPA to collect his quarterly payments from his card. And BUPA set out a process he could follow to 
achieve this. Its not for me to dictate BUPAs internal processes. The terms of the policy 
require a valid card on file for collecting the policy deductible and premiums. But as Ive 
said, BUPA also offered Mr M other ways to pay his premiums, including the option to 
set up a direct debit. And I think this was reasonable. 
22. Mr M also complained about the quality of communication from BUPA. BUPA has said at 
one point it shouldnt have passed the correspondence to its complaints team when it did 
and apologised for this. And it has explained that it didnt always number its 
correspondence, which Mr M has said he finds helpful. I think Mr Ms correspondence 
expressed dissatisfaction, so I dont think it was inappropriate for BUPA to treat it as a 
complaint. And I dont think it would be reasonable to expect that BUPA should 
automatically replicate the format or style of a consumers correspondence. However, 
once Mr M asked BUPA to do this, I think it would have been helpful if it had done so 
straight away. But Im persuaded by the correspondence Ive seen, that BUPA provided 
responses to Mr M which were adequate and clear. 
23. As part of its final response, BUPA said it was still willing to allow Mr M to change to a 
UK policy with no break in cover, if he brings his premiums up to date and provides the 
required payment details. And I think this shows BUPA is acting fairly, as the UK 
quotation was originally only valid for 30 days.  
24. Considering the amount of time which has passed and the policy year from March 2022 
having now ended, I wouldnt expect BUPA to keep its offer to reinstate the policy open 
indefinitely. If Mr M wishes to take up BUPAs offer to bring his premiums up to date and 
continue with no break in cover, he should contact BUPA directly, and as soon as 
possible. 
25. Mr M has said he now knows he doesnt need to make any claims for the policy year 
starting in March 2022, so doesnt think he should have to pay the outstanding 
premiums. However, if Mr M wants to maintain continuous cover, its fair that he pays the 
missed premiums. In doing so, BUPA has said it will stop its suspension of the policy and 
would pay any claims, so in effect it will have been on risk for the policy year. It wouldnt 
be fair to allow Mr M the benefit of hindsight, now that he knows he hasnt needed to 
make a claim, if he wants to maintain his continuous cover. 
26. If Mr M doesnt wish to bring the premiums up to date, he could cancel his policy. 
However it should also be noted that if Mr M continues to choose not to pay the missed 
premiums, BUPA is also entitled to cancel the policy due to the non-payment. And Im 
satisfied in line with the policy terms of cancellation, Mr M would not be due any refund 
of the premium he has already paid for the policy year which started in March 2022.
My final decision
27. For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against BUPA Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman