DRN-4309867
The complaint
Mr G complains about the advice he received from Switch Health Ltd (a broker) in relation to 
his private medical insurance.    
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, I understand that for some years, Mr G had private medical 
insurance underwritten by an insurer Ill refer to as V. Switch Health recommended that 
he renew his private medical insurance with V in 2020. In 2021, Switch Health 
recommended taking out private medical insurance with another insurer Ill refer to as B. 
In 2022, Switch Health advised Mr G to switch his private medical insurance to V. 
In January 2023, Mr G made a claim against his policy with V for treatment in relation to 
bilateral knee pain. V declined Mr Gs claim and excluded cover for investigations or 
treatment of both knees, and related conditions. It said that Mr G hadnt told it about 
previous issues with his knees. The insurer said that if it had known the true position, it 
would have excluded investigations or treatment of both knees, and related conditions 
from the outset. Mr G complained about the insurers decision. Another ombudsman 
dealt with that complaint and didnt uphold it. 
In relation to Switch Health, Mr G says that at renewal in September 2022, it knew about 
his claim in 2020 for treatment in relation to his knees and should have explained the 
relevance of his previous claim in relation to the questions he was asked at the point of 
sale. He also complains that at renewal in 2021, Switch Health advised him to change 
insurer to B and then return to V the following policy year in order to get a lower 
premium. 
In response to Mr Gs complaint, Switch Health said that it had a record of Mr Gs past 
claims, but its adviser hadnt reviewed this at the time of Mr Gs renewal in 2022. It said 
that it had found no error in the advice it gave at renewal in 2020 and 2021.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that            
Switch Health acted unfairly or unreasonably in relation to the advice it gave at renewal 
in 2022. And the investigator didnt think that Switch Health advised Mr G to change 
insurers to B in 2021 in order to obtain a lower premium with V the following year. 
The investigator said that Switch Health wasnt required to check for past claims at 
renewal. She said that in Switch Healths recommendation, it referred to it being based 
on the information Mr G provided in relation to his medical history, amongst other things. 
The investigator said that at renewal in 2020, Switch Health told Mr G that it wouldnt be 
advisable to change insurers as it would result in an exclusion in relation to treatment for 
his knees. She said that at renewal in 2021, Switch Health recommended B as the 
questions it asked didnt require Mr G to disclose the problem with his knees. The 
investigator didnt think that Switch Health had recommended changing insurer and 
returning to the original insurer the following year in order to obtain a lower premium.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator. He said that Switch Health was fully aware of his 
medical history and misadvised him or failed to look at its records. Mr G said that its too 
simplistic to say that he should understand every nuance in the insurers terms and 
conditions. He said that Switch Health assisted in preparing the application to the 
insurer. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint because I dont think that Switch Health acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. I say that because: 
Switch Health gave Mr G advice about his private medical insurance, so it was 
obliged to make sure that its recommendations were suitable for his demands and 
needs.
During the 2022 sale, Switch Health asked questions set by V. The question central 
to this complaint was:
 In the last three years have you had any treatments or investigations for any 
of the following [] back, neck, joint or spinal problems
I think that question was clear. Mr G answered no to that question. That wasnt in 
fact correct as in 2020, Mr G made a claim in relation to treatment for knee pain.
Its not in dispute that at the time of renewal in 2022, Switch Health knew about        
Mr Gs claim in 2020. However, on balance, I dont think Switch Health was obliged 
to search its records to establish whether Mr G had made an error in answering the 
question Ive outlined above. I think that it was entitled to rely on what Mr G said 
about his treatment and investigations in the previous three years when completing 
the questions at renewal. 
I think Switch Health was entitled to rely on the information that Mr G gave them. And 
it was his responsibility to ensure the answers to the questions were factually correct. 
If he wasnt sure about the dates hed had treatment, Id have expected him to let 
Switch Health know. 
Mr G complains that in 2021, Switch Health advised him to switch to B in order to 
obtain a lower premium with V at renewal in 2022. In one of the sales calls in 2021, 
Switch Health said that if Mr G was to return to V in 2022, there could be a saving. 
The adviser referred to switch and save. I dont think that Switch Health was at fault 
in saying that. And its clear from what Ive seen that wasnt the sole reason why 
Switch Health recommended a policy with B in 2021. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr G, but I dont think that Switch Health has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman