DRN-4240457
The complaint
Mr S complains that Novaloans Ltd trading as cash4unow (Novaloans) continued to text 
and phone him, even after he had told them he was no longer working and has a mental 
health condition. Mr S was also unhappy Novaloans passed his account to a third-party 
collection agency.
What happened
The issues Mr S has had stemmed from a loan of £300 advanced on 25 March 2022.
Mr S was due to make four monthly repayments of £104.54. As of September 2022,
Novaloans said there was an outstanding balance of £274.40.
On 28 April 2022, Novaloans was informed by a third-party debt advice charity that Mr S had
entered a debt respite scheme. As a result of this scheme, Novaloans paused collection
activity for 60 days. This meant Novaloans didnt proactively contact Mr S during this period.
Although I can see from the email records that it did respond to emails it received from Mr S.
The respite scheme ended on 28 June 2022 and as such Novaloans started to contact
Mr S about his outstanding balance to try and establish his current financial position and to
see whether a payment plan would be needed.
Initially, Mr S was trying to put a plan in place and then Novaloans started to call him from 5
July 2022. But on 30 June 2022 Mr S had already told Novaloans I am unavailable to talk
over the phone and this was again explained to Novaloans on 5 July 2022.
Calls continued until on 12 July 2022 when Mr S explained to Novaloans how these calls
were impacting his mental health and he considered the calls he was receiving as
harassment.
Novaloans put Mr S on the do not call list on 13 July 2022  after which Mr S didnt receive
any further calls.
Novaloans considered Mr Ss complaint and issued its final response letter (FRL) on this
matter on 19 August 2022. The FRL didnt uphold the complaint and in summary made two
main conclusions:
The debt respite period had ended, and Mr S may receive letters that Novaloans is
legally required to send  such as a Notice of Sum in Arrears.
It also explained the Consumer Credit Trade Association (CCTA) has provided
guidance on the number of calls that can be made  3 calls and 3 text messages
before each payment is made so Novaloans doesnt consider that it harassed
Mr S.
Unhappy with this response, Mr S referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. After
the complaint was referred here, but before the complaint was investigated, Mr S let us
know that Novaloans had sold the account to a third party collection agency. However, both
Mr S and Novaloans later confirmed the debt had been recalled and is currently still the
responsibility of Novaloans.
The case was then considered by an adjudicator. She didnt think Novaloans had done
anything wrong in terms of the number of calls that it had made, because she thought it was
reasonable for Novaloans to chase Mr S for payment.
However, taking into account Mr Ss current position, she thought it would be positive and a
sign of forbearance for Novaloans to write off the interest on the loan and only collect any
outstanding capital.
Mr S didnt agree with the proposed outcome, Ive read all his emails and Ive summarised
his response below:
Mr S said: under the Disability Act they cant do what they did
Due to Mr Ss health condition, he cant speak on the phone  and this meant the 
loan shouldnt have been granted in the first place because it didnt do enough 
checks.
Mr S was harassed because he sent numerous emails to Novaloans asking not to be 
called and calling 15 times was too many.
Mr S told Novaloans he wasnt going to make payments while the case was
being investigated by the Financial Ombudsman.
Even though the interest may be waived, Mr S says he cant afford to repay the 
balance and so he made an offer of a one-time payment of £100 to settle the debt.
As no agreement could be reached the case was passed to an ombudsman to make a
decision. After the complaint was allocated, I asked an adjudicator to obtain further
information from Novaloans which included putting Mr Ss offer to it.
Novaloans responded, to say that the offer Mr S made of £100 was too low for it to
accept. However, it did offer to re-work the account, removing the interest and applying the
payment Mr S made towards the outstanding balance. This would leave an outstanding
balance to pay of £260. This is in effect what the adjudicator asked Novaloans to do in her 
assessment.
Novaloans offer was put to Mr S  but he didnt accept it. Therefore, the case was passed to 
me. I then issued a provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to 
uphold Mr Ss complaint in part. A copy of the provisional findings follows this in smaller font 
and forms part of this final decision.
Both parties were asked to provide anything further for consideration as soon as possible but 
in any even no later than 11 July 2023. 
Mr S has sent a number of emails and Ive read and considered them in full. In summary he 
said:
Novaloans had sold his account to third party collection agency on two occasions 
and
Mr S was unsure how the payment of distress and inconvenience would work along 
with the outstanding balance that would need to be paid. 
I can see the adjudicator responded to Mr S to explain the payment of distress and 
inconvenience and confirmed that there would still be an outstanding balance to pay after 
the complaint is closed. Novaloans responded to say that given how long the loan has been active for, it would prefer 
to use the payment of distress and inconvenience to reduce Mr Ss outstanding loan 
balance. 
The adjudicator explained to Novaloans the general approach that is taken with regards to 
the payment of compensation for distress and inconvenience and that Mr S had asked for 
the payment to be made to him directly. Novaloans then confirmed that it would pay the 
compensation directly to Mr S. 
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to assist both parties I have broken the decision down in to various sub-sections.
In response to the adjudicators assessment, Mr S has now said the loan ought to not have
been granted because the checks werent good enough. This is a new issue about whether
the loan was affordable and so he may wish to speak to Novaloans about this. So, I say no
more about it and I make no finding about whether Novaloans was right or wrong to have
granted the loan.
Respite Scheme
Once Novaloans was aware of the respite scheme (through a third-party organisation) it
carried out what I would expect it to do. Under the guidelines that brought the scheme into
effect  for 60 days Novaloans wasnt entitled to take enforcement action or add interest and
charges.
Im satisfied the respite scheme was correctly administered, and while I can see from the
email logs provided by Novaloans that it did contact Mr S during this time, it was only in
response to questions and proposed repayment plans that were made by Mr S. In relation to
the scheme, Im satisfied no error was made.
CCTA Guidance
In the FRL Novaloans says that it didnt consider it had harassed Mr S because of what the
CCTA guidance says we can contact a customer with 3 emails and 3 SMS text messages
prior to each payment being due
A copy of the CCTA guidance that has been mentioned by Novaloans in the FRL hasnt
been provided, and a copy of the guidance that I found during my research doesnt say what
number of calls can or cant be made. The copy of the guidance I located says the following:
10. Always notify you by email, text, letter or phone at least three days before
attempting to recover payment using continuous payment authority on the due date.
This notice will ask you to contact us if you are in financial difficulty and cannot repay.
So, if this is the section that Novaloans is using to say that its calls were in line with
guidance, Im not persuaded that it actually says that a lender can call and text three times
before a payment is made. Indeed, due to the respite scheme Mr Ss payments were already
out of line with the contracted due date. And, I can see from the emails, that around
30 June 2022 Mr S had proposed a repayment plan.
But notwithstanding my concerns about the guidance Novaloans is relying on and even if the
CCTA guidance does say what Novaloans has suggested about the number of calls it is
entitled to make, based on its own call logs that it has provided, it attempted to speak to 
Mr S on both 5 and 12 July 2012 at least four times. Which would be, according to Novaloans in
excess of what the CCTA says it is entitled to do. So, I do think, based on Novaloans own
metrics it does appear to have called Mr S too many times on at least two separate dates.Harassment
I just want to start by saying, that harassment is a criminal offence and not one that I am
able to determine as criminal charges are prosecuted through the criminal courts. What I am
interpreting Mr Ss complaint to mean is that he feels the contact was too much and was
unreasonable.
And there is a balance to be struck between a lender reasonably following up with its
customer about missed and late payments and excessive contact such that the owner of the
debt feels that this was too much to bear.
Mr S says that Novaloans called too many times and that constituted harassment. In order to
see what the guidance says about the contact Novaloans cane make Ive considered the
Financial Conduct Authority Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  this is the relevant
guidance and rules. CONC 7.9.4R says:
A firm must not contact customers at unreasonable times and must pay due regard to
the reasonable requests of customers (for example, customers who work in a shift
pattern) in respect of when, where and how they may be contacted.
Directly, underneath this the FCA makes reference to:
[Note: paragraphs 3.3j and k of DCG]
The DCG is the Debt Collection Guidance issued by the Office of Fair (OFT) trading which
was the previous regulator of this type of credit. Section 3 of the DCG relates to Unfair
Business Practices. Looking at what the OFT guidance says. 3.3j says:
j. contacting debtors at unreasonable times
and then subsection k says:
 k. ignoring or disregarding debtors' reasonable requests in respect of when, where 
and how to contact them
Directly, underneath this section is a box which says the following:
For example, shift workers may ask not to be telephoned during certain times of the 
day.
Also, some debtors may request contact by email rather than by telephone.
Given this is the wording of the regulation, I think its pertinent to consider what both CONC
and the OFT guidance says in relation to the number of calls, the time when the calls can be
made and what did Novaloans know and at what point in time.
It looks like between the 5 July 2022 and the morning of 13 July 2022 there were at least 15
calls. However, Ive also seen copies of emails Mr S sent Novaloans on 13 July 202, which
indicated further calls were also made on this day  in addition to what I can see in the call
log. So, I do think its likely, that Novaloans attempted more than 15 times to speak to Mr S
in an 8-day period.
All the calls were started between the hours of 8 oclock in the morning and 8 oclock in the
evening. Just considering the times the calls were made, I dont think Novaloans acted
unreasonably, as for many people these were working hours and so I dont think an error
was made by Novaloans purely in relation to the times it contacted Mr S.
Ive also considered the number of calls that were made, and as Ive said above, there were
days when Novaloans attempted to call Mr S on at least four occasions. And so, I can quiteunderstand why Mr S says that he was being contacted too much.
But it is important to note, the regulations dont prescribe a set number of calls that can or
cant be made on any particular day. But the guidance in both CONC and DSG makes it
clear that due regard needs to be had for effect the individual circumstances of each
complaint.
Novaloans wasnt given any indication that these calls were impacting Mr Ss health until his
email to it on 12 July 2022, where he said:
Also (sic) I am suffering from mental health and you harassing me isnt helping its 
making my health worse.
This was the first time that Mr S had mentioned his health and the impact the calls had on
them. And while Novaloans added Mr S to the do not call list on 13 July 2022, this doesnt
appear to have happened until late in the afternoon, which meant that Mr S received further
calls on 13 July 2022.
Putting Mr S on the do not call list was a reasonable course of action for Novaloans to have
taken given what it had been told. But, purely in relation to his health, this was the first time
Novaloans was told about it and so I cant say it made an error by not making any
adjustments for this earlier than it did.
However, thinking about what CONC and the DSG guidance says  Novaloans needed to
take into account the individual circumstances of the consumer. And Mr S had told it  as
early as 30 June 2022 that he couldnt speak on the phone and while I accept no context
was provided as to why this was the case, but as Novaloans is considered the experts in this
 I dont think it was unreasonable for it to have asked.
In any event, looking at the emails Mr S has sent, he repeated this again on 5 July 2022 he
couldnt take calls, but these didnt stop. Indeed, they continued for another 8 days and it is
evident in the emails that Mr S was becoming more distressed as a result of Novaloans
continuing to call him when hes told them not to. It was a reasonable request by Mr S  not
to be called, and it isnt clear in this case why Novaloans didnt adjust its communication with
him.
And I do think, in this case, given what Novaloans knew that calling Mr S up to four times a
day was excessive especially when email communication seemed to be working as
Mr S was responding to emails he received from Novaloans.
This isnt to say Novaloans couldnt contact Mr S to find out what was going on  only given
what Mr S said about not wanting calls and secondly about his health, there were and
are other options open to Novaloans such as email or letters that couldve been sent. Only
knowing what it did and from what Mr S had told it, in the circumstances of this complaint it
shouldve done something differently.
I am therefore planning to award Mr S a payment to reflect the distress and inconvenience
that was caused, by Novaloans not taking on board what he was saying about wanting calls,
and then the further calls that were made, after Mr S had provided details about his mental
health. I am planning to direct Novaloans to pay Mr S  directly £200.
Debt Sale
I can appreciate why Mr S says that he wasnt going to pay anything while the Financial
Ombudsman considers the complaint. But there is no obligation on the part of the lender to
suspend collections activity while a case is investigated. I accept some lenders chose to
pause any further activity while a complaint is being looked into, but there is no requirement
for them to do so.
And given, albeit that only one payment has been made by Mr S since hed taken the £300loan in March 2022, and no payment arrangement was agreed between them, I can quite
understand why Novaloans concluded that Mr S was not giving it any signs of wanting to pay
and therefore proceeded to pass the debt to a third party.
Therefore, the fact the loan was sold, isnt in itself an error. And I can see, that after the loan
was sold, it was recalled  because it appears the third party who purchased it wasnt aware
of the ongoing complaint.
Whatever the reason, I am now satisfied the loan is back with Novaloans. I can see from the
emails that Mr S wasnt happy the loan was sold, but I make no finding against Novaloans
for this. And so I am not persuaded to award any compensation here as I do not consider
Novaloans did anything wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Novaloans initially queried whether it would be entitled to use the compensation payment of 
£200 to reduce the amount Mr S owes it. However, after further enquires with the 
adjudicator, it has now accepted that it will pay this sum directly to Mr S. And so, for 
completeness as part of the redress which I outline below, the money should be paid to Mr S 
directly. 
Mr S said the loan account had been sold twice, whereas in the provisional decision I 
explained that it seemed, based on the notes that it was sold only once, and the outstanding 
balance was now back with Novaloans. Further enquires have been made with Novaloans 
about the number of times the debt was sold, and it has also confirmed, that this only 
occurred once. So, I see no reasons to alter my view on this part of the complaint. 
Overall, I see no reason to depart from the findings I reached in the provisional decision, and 
I still think Novaloans should pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused 
to Mr S. In addition, it should also only collect the outstanding balance which it says is still 
owed of £260. 
Putting things right
Finally, even after the redress that I am directing Novaloans to pay, this will still leave Mr S 
with an outstanding balance to pay. He will need to work with Novaloans to discuss the most 
appropriate way forward. But I would remind Novaloans of its obligation to treat Mr S fairly 
and with forbearance as well as taking into account his health condition.
So, to put matters right, I require Novaloans to:
Pay Mr S directly, £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him by
this matter; and
As it has offered to do, only collect the re-worked account balance of £260.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained and in my provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Ss 
complaint in part.
Novaloans Ltd trading as cash4unow should put things right for Mr S as directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman