DRN-2718490
The complaint
Mr and Mrs U have complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold them fee-
paying Additions and Additions Active packaged accounts. These accounts were sold to Mr 
and Mrs U in November 1999 and August 2010 respectively.
Barclays says the Additions Active account was withdrawn in January 2017. It says all 
Additions Active accounts were changed to a fee-free account with Tech and Travel Packs 
added. I understand Barclays gave all affected account holders the choice to opt out of the 
Packs being added to their accounts, if they no longer needed those benefits.
Mr and Mrs U say the packaged accounts were mis-sold because they were led to believe 
that they had to upgrade their account to increase their overdraft facility. They say they were 
told itd be cheaper having the packaged accounts as they would get lower interest rates on 
their overdraft as a result of having the packaged accounts.
They have also complained that they contacted Barclays in early 2018 to ask if it was more 
cost effective to keep their fee-paying Packs for the associated overdraft benefits, or whether 
itd work out better for them to remove the Packs and pay the overdraft charges instead. 
They say they were led to believe keeping the Packs was the better option. They later spoke 
to Barclays who completed a comparison and it was established that removing the Packs 
was actually the better option.
  
What happened
Our adjudicators assessed the complaint and didnt think that the Additions and Additions 
Active packaged accounts had been mis-sold. 
But they did think that Barclays had given Mr and Mrs U wrong information in early 2018. 
They were satisfied that this information led to Mr and Mrs U unnecessarily keeping the fee-
paying Packs on their account, until they were eventually removed from the account some 
time later. The adjudicators recommended Barclays reimburse the Pack fees Mr and Mrs U 
paid from early 2018, until the Packs were removed. They also recommended that Barclays 
pay Mr and Mrs U 8% simple interest on those fees - calculated from the date they were 
charged until the date of settlement - less tax. 
Barclays agreed with the adjudicators assessment. It offered to refund all of the Pack fees 
Mr and Mrs U paid since January 2018, and 8% simple interest, less tax.
Mr and Mrs U disagreed with the adjudicators assessments, so the complaint was referred 
for an ombudsmans decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve explained how we deal with complaints about packaged accounts on our website. 
And Ive used that to help me decide this complaint.
I think it might also help to explain that where matters are in dispute and information is 
missing or limited - as is the case here - I am required to decide what I think was most likely 
to have happened, based on everything that is available. This includes any testimony Mr and 
Mrs U have given, as well as any documentary evidence that is also available.
Additions account
Mr and Mrs U say they were led to believe that if they wanted to increase their overdraft limit, 
they would have to upgrade their account to an Additions account. They say they were also 
led to believe that it would work out cheaper for them to have an Additions account due to 
the overdraft benefits it provided.
As Mr and Mrs U already had an overdraft facility in place before the Additions account was 
sold to them, I think they were aware that they didnt have to have a fee-paying packaged 
account to have an overdraft. So I think its likely they agreed to the Additions account 
knowing it was an optional product and that they did not have to agree to it if they didnt want 
to.
In 1999 the Additions account cost £6 per month. And the key benefit of the account was 
that by having it, Barclays would automatically provide an overdraft facility with the account 
(although its not clear what that amount was as it was so long ago). Therefore, by agreeing 
to the Additions account Mr and Mrs U were able to obtain a set overdraft limit without 
having to apply for one or undergo a credit check. Unfortunately, due to the limited 
information that is now available, its not clear if this played a part (for example if Mr and Mrs 
Us credit score wouldve affected an overdraft application) in why the Additions account was 
sold to them. 
Nevertheless, apart from being guaranteed a certain overdraft limit, by having the Additions 
account, the first £100 of the overdraft was interest free. Another benefit of having the 
account was that it meant Mr and Mrs U avoided paying a £5 monthly overdraft usage fee 
that was applied to fee-free accounts. Mr and Mrs U would still had to pay an unarranged 
overdraft fee whilst they held the Additions account, but this was a charge theyd have to pay 
regardless of the type of account held.
Having looked at bank statements from the time, I can see Mr and Mrs U were regularly 
using their overdraft facility. So by not paying the £5 monthly fee and not paying interest on 
the first £100 of the overdraft, this means that having the Additions account would likely have 
saved them money on a monthly basis when it was initially taken out. 
Barclays has also said that by having the Additions account Mr and Mrs U wouldve received 
a preferential interest rate on amounts borrowed above the interest free portion of the 
overdraft. But Ive not seen evidence that was the case in 1999 (I understand this was 
introduced as a benefit in 2001). So Ive proceeded on the basis that this was not a benefit of 
the Additions account at the time.Therefore having weighed everything up, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs U 
agreed to upgrade their account because they were told about its features and were 
attracted to what it offered - rather than because they felt they had no choice but to do so. 
And although Mr and Mrs U say they were misled into thinking that upgrading their account 
would work out cheaper, rather than paying overdraft fees and interest on a fee-free account, 
it seems that at least initially, it likely did work out better for them. Especially as they were 
able to secure a guaranteed overdraft facility, that was presumably larger than what they had 
when their account was a fee-free account.
When selling the Additions account Barclays was required to give Mr and Mrs U enough 
information about the account so they understood what they were agreeing to. And based on 
their recollections of the sale, it seems highly likely that the overdraft features were 
discussed with them. 
Mr and Mrs U have mentioned that they had little need for the other Additions account 
benefits. But when it was sold to them, it contained very few added features compared to 
what it offered in more recent years (such as mobile phone insurance or breakdown cover). 
And as I think they agreed to the account largely for the overdraft benefits, I think its unlikely 
they wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account, had they been given more 
information about the other benefits it provided. After all, it came as a package, so they could 
not pick and choose what it came with.
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, I dont think the Additions account was mis-sold.  
On the contrary, it seems the Additions account did what it seems Mr and Mrs U were told it 
would do  at least initially. The account mayve changed in terms of cost and benefits over 
the years, and I appreciate that Mr and Mrs U may now believe the account to have been 
poor value for money for the amount of time they kept it. But that does not mean it was mis-
sold, or that Barclays was wrong to have sold it to them when it did.
Additions Active account
Looking through what Mr and Mrs U have said, there seems to be very little explanation as to 
why they think this account was mis-sold. 
The complaint documents supplied by Barclays suggest that Mr and Mrs U believed, at least 
initially, that their Additions account had been changed to an Additions Active account 
automatically. However, Barclayss records show that the account was sold to Mr and Mrs U 
over the phone. As such, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs U agreed to the upgrade, 
even if its the case that they, quite understandably given how long ago it was sold, now cant 
recall doing so.
The complaint handling notes then suggest Mr and Mrs U thought their account changed 
from the Additions account to an Additions Active account so they could keep their overdraft. 
However, Im not persuaded by this argument either. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs U had held and used an agreed overdraft with Barclays for many 
years prior to 2010. I can also see that they were able to increase the agreed limit to £1,570 
in February 2007 i.e. whilst their account was still an Additions account. And this agreed limit 
stayed the same for some time after their account had changed to an Additions Active 
account. Therefore I find it unlikely they agreed to the account because they thought they 
had no choice but to do so to keep or increase their overdraft - especially as they have not 
said anything specific about this sale that suggests that is what happened. As such, I think 
its more likely Mr and Mrs U agreed to this account, which was slightly more per month than 
what they were already paying for their account, as they were attracted to something it 
provided.At the time the Additions Active account was sold to Mr and Mrs U, it cost £15 per month and 
provided worldwide travel insurance, enhanced (compared to the Additions account) levels of 
breakdown cover, mobile phone cover - as well as it being interest free on the first £300 of an 
arranged overdraft  alongside a preferential interest rate on balances overdrawn by more 
than this amount. 
Mr and Mrs U have said that due to Mrs Us employment around the time the Additions 
account was sold, she had no need for the insurance products provided by the account, as 
she could get these insurance products for free from her employer. However, its not clear if 
Mrs U was still working with the same employer in 2010. And I can see that Mr and Mrs U 
had relied on the breakdown cover in March 2010 and went on to register two handsets 
under the mobile phone insurance in 2012  both of which suggests they did have a need for 
those benefits around those times. And they were regularly using their overdraft facility 
around 2010 too  so I think they were also able to benefit from that feature of the account 
too.
So taking everything into account, Im unable to say that the Additions Active had been mis-
sold either. Overall it seems that they were able to benefit from a number of the features it 
provided. And Mr and Mrs U have provided very little testimony about this sale that points to 
a particular shortcoming in how Barclays sold the account to them. 
Discussion about removing the Tech and Travel Packs
In January 2017, Barclays removed the Additions Active account and transferred all 
accountholders, including Mr and Mrs Us account, to a fee-free account with Tech and 
Travel Packs they could opt out of. 
Barclays has provided copies of letters it sent to Mrs U about this. The first letter, sent on 29 
September 2016, informs them of the changes and what their options were, which included 
opting out of the Packs if they did not want them. Barclays has also provided a copy of a 
letter sent to Mrs U, dated 20 January 2017 confirming the changes had taken place. Based 
on these letters - which were correctly addressed - it looks like Barclays did what it needed to 
do in terms of notifying Mr and Mrs U of the changes and providing them with options of what 
to do if they didnt want the Packs added. 
Mr and Mrs U have said that in early 2018, they spoke to Barclays and asked if it was still 
worth keeping the Tech and Travel Packs just for the overdraft benefit alone, or would it be 
better if they removed the Packs and simply paid the overdraft charges on a fee-free account 
instead. I understand that they were led to believe itd work out better for them to keep the 
Packs. They say they contacted Barclays again in December 2018 and after some 
discussion, it was established that the Packs werent in fact worth keeping just for the 
overdraft benefits and so they chose to remove the Packs from their account.
An adjudicator looked into this aspect of the complaint and agreed that it seemed likely that 
Mr and Mrs U had been given misleading information in early 2018. And he concluded that, 
had more accurate information been given, its likely that Mr and Mrs U wouldve removed 
the Packs from their account then. Having put his view to Barclays, it agreed with the 
assessment and has now made the below offer to put matters right in relation to this aspect 
of the complaint.Having put the offer to Mr and Mrs U, they have not accepted the offer. But it seems the only 
reason they have not accepted the offer for this aspect of their complaint, is because theyve 
had to wait so long for their complaint to be resolved, they want more redress. As Mr and Mrs 
U have not said anything that makes me think that the offer for this aspect of the complaint is 
incorrect or unreasonable, I see little reason to require Barclays to amend the offer. 
However, I would like to point out to Mr and Mrs U that the offer does include compensatory 
interest at a rate of 8% simple. This is to reflect the fact theyve not had the benefit of the 
money (theyve paid in Pack fees) since they were charged those fees. I appreciate that Mr 
and Mrs U have had to put some effort in to pursue their complaint. But we dont routinely 
award compensation just because consumers have gone through a businesss complaints 
process or have used our service to pursue their complaint. And Ive not seen anything in this 
case that makes me think a compensatory award, beyond the interest award, is warranted.
Putting things right
To put matters right, I require Barclays Bank UK Plc to refund the Tech and Travel Pack fees 
Mr and Mrs U were charged from January 2018, until the Packs were removed from their 
account.
Barclays should also pay Mr and Mrs U 8% simple interest on those fees, calculated from the 
date each one was charged to the date of settlement, less deductible tax.
I note that when Barclays made its offered to our service, this included a deduction for a 
multi-Pack discount. However, it should not make this deduction if it is refunding the fees that 
Mr and Mrs U were actually charged (as the amount being refunded to Mr and Mrs U will 
already reflect the lower discounted price they paid for the Packs). Therefore this deduction 
can only be made if the calculation for the Pack fees is based on the cost of the Packs before 
the discount had been applied.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think the Additions or Additions Active accounts 
were mis-sold. 
But I do think that Barclays Bank UK Plc should do what Ive set out above, to put matters 
right in relation to the advice around the removal of the Tech and Travel Packs, in full and 
final settlement of this complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs U to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman