DRN-4226562
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited in relation to
His plumbing and drainage insurance policy. 
The parties will see that Ive changed the respondent from British Gas Services Limited
to British Gas Insurance Limited. This is because we have no jurisdiction over British
Gas Services Limited for a complaint about the handling of the insurance policy; its only
an insurance intermediary, not an insurer.
This is an important legal technicality but it does not affect the outcome of the case and
as British Gas Services Limited responded to the complaint on behalf of British Gas
Insurance Limited, theres no need for it to review the matter again or issue a further final
response.
What happened
Mr S took out a plumbing and drainage policy with British Gas on 27 November 2022. 
In early December 2020, he contacted British Gas to make a claim as there was a problem 
with the kitchen sink waste pipe. 
British Gas attended on 6 December 2020 to assess the issue. British Gass plumbing 
engineer said the kitchen waste gully was blocked but he could not clear it. He arranged a 
follow up visit for 15 December 2022, when he said the gully and pipework would be 
excavated. Another engineer came out on 15 December 2022. He said the kitchen waste 
pipe went out and down to a gully but said there should have been a drain pipe underground 
from the gully to take the waste water away from the house but there was no onward pipe. 
The engineer said the gully was effectively acting as a soak away. British Gas said this was 
excluded from cover and it could not rectify this, as it was a pre-existing fault due to poor 
workmanship and installation.
Mr S is very unhappy about this. He doesnt believe the engineer dug up the gully or did 
anything else to resolve the issue at all; he has paid for cover and hasnt had the work done 
hes entitled to. Mr S says he still has a blocked kitchen gully which is broken and pipework 
that needs to be added on in order to resolve the flooding and blockage. It is causing 
recurring flooding outside his kitchen and he is worried about damp. Mr S wants the work 
done and £300 compensation.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as he was satisfied that British Gas was entitled to refuse cover for the reasons it 
did.  
Mr S does not accept the Investigators assessment. He says the first engineer told him the 
work would be covered and British Gas cannot state the issue was pre-existing; there is no 
stated exemption or exclusion of this work in the policy. As British Gas has breached his 
insurance policy and not done the repair it is contracted to do, he is entitled to get a third 
party to do the repair and reclaim the costs. Mr S says he has been quoted £350 for the 
work and wants this paid by British Gas.
Mr S also says that British Gas closed down his initial complaint and then didnt respond to 
his complaint at all even after eight weeks. He thinks it was hoping he would not take the 
matter further. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
In the meantime, the Investigator sent Mr S copies of photos taken by the second engineer 
of the gully and excavation. 
Mr S disputes that the photos show that there is no onward pipework. He says they are only 
surface level photos, which show some water under one of the slabs which has been taken 
up. Mr S says the photos can equally support his contention that the pipe and gully are 
broken and need to be replaced. It cannot be inferred from these that this was a pre-existing 
issue or that there is no onward pipe. The photos cannot be relied on to prove either sides 
position, so should be disregarded. 
Mr S also said that the Investigator said British Gas must be considered the experts but the 
engineer it sent is not a member of the Institute of Expert Witnesses and is not qualified 
enough to be defined as such; we must use the same standard as a court of law and British 
Gas engineers are not experts. Therefore Mr S says his opinion is as good as theirs, being a 
homeowner for many years dealing with plumbing repairs. He says the photos prove the 
engineer did not look into the issue sufficiently and did not excavate enough to prove the 
issue. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss policy provides cover for various specified plumbing and drainage issues, including: 
Unblocking drains to restore flow
Repairing drains where we deem the drain to be unserviceable to restore flow...
The policy cover is also subject to various terms and conditions, including the following: 
Your products dont include cover for any faults or design faults that: 
 existed when you first took out the product; 
 weve told you about before and you havent fixed, or, if the work has been 
completed by a third party, where work, in our opinion, has not been completed to a 
satisfactory standard
We are not a court of law and we do not require evidence to be provided by a member the 
Institute of Expert Witnesses, or any other body, in order to be taken into account. I have to 
consider all the evidence provided and weigh up what I think is the most likely.  
There is no persuasive evidence that the British Gas engineer that attended was not suitably 
qualified to assess the problem with Mr Ss waste gully and pipework. Ive seen the handwritten customer checklist left with Mr S. It says the engineer arrived at 
8.30am and left at 11.15am. It says excavating in attempt to renew gully. Unable to fit new 
gully due to there being no outgoing pipe. Gully is effectively a soakaway taking kitchen sink 
[waste water]. He suggested rerouting the sink waste. 
I have also seen the photos taken at the time. They show that the paving slabs around the 
gully had been taken up and that the engineer had dug down under the gully. It is difficult to 
tell how deep the engineer dug down, but the area immediately under the gully has been dug 
out, and the hole has partially filled with water. The photos show soaked ground and a pool 
of water. Mr S says the photos are surface level but I do not agree, it is clear that a hole has 
been dug. Mr S also says they do not prove there is no onward pipe, as the excavation was 
not deep enough; and the photos could be used to support his complaint that there is a 
broken pipe below the level British Gas exposed. I do not agree this is likely because theres 
no sign in the photos of any broken bits of pipe or any sign that a pipe had previously been 
attached to the gully.
  
The engineer spent almost three hours at the property and exposed under the gully. It 
seems reasonable to me that if there had been a correctly attached pipe that it would have 
been visible at the depth the engineer dug to. There is no convincing evidence that there 
was a correctly connected pipe, which has come away and sunk down below the level that 
British Gas dug down. 
In any event, even if there were a pipe that was deeper than the engineer dug, I think it more 
likely than not that this pre-existed the start date of the policy. Mr S says there is no 
evidence of this and he only noticed the issues after he took out the policy. However, even 
though he may not have noticed, I think it is unlikely that pipework broke away from the gully 
and sunk deep into the ground, so it was not visible when the engineer dug down within the 
period of around two weeks after Mr S took out the policy. So even if there was a proper pipe 
beforehand and it just isnt visible (which has not been established) I think it more likely than 
not that this was an issue before the start of the policy. 
Mr S also said the first engineer told him the work would be covered. However, this does not 
bind British Gas to doing that work, if evidence comes to light that establishes the claim is 
not covered. Mr S also says British Gas was capable of changing the gully and adding the 
necessary pipework and there is nothing in the policy that states this work is excluded. 
However, I think the policy exclusions set out above are sufficiently clear that pre-existing 
faults are not covered. 
Having considered everything, I am not persuaded that British Gas is required to do anything 
further. This is because I am satisfied that it is entitled to reject the claim on the basis the 
fault was pre-existing and was likely work done by a third party not done to a satisfactory 
standard.  
Complaint handling 
Mr S is also unhappy that British Gas closed down his initial complaint and then did not 
provide a proper response when it was reopened. Complaint-handling is not a regulated 
activity in its own right, so I cannot consider British Gass handling of Mr Ss complaint. 
However, I note that British Gas did inform Mr S of his right to refer to us in December 2022 
and March 2023. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman