DRN-2107138
The complaint
Miss H and Mr H are unhappy with how Ageas Insurance Limited (trading as RAC 
Insurance) handled Miss Hs claim under her motor insurance policy.
As most of our contact has been with Mr H, to keep things simple Ill refer mostly just to him.
What happened
Miss H had a motor insurance policy with Ageas. On 30 October 2019 she was involved in 
an accident in her car. The next day Mr H, her father and a named driver on the policy, 
called Ageas to let it know. Ageas initially told Mr H it thought Miss Hs car would be beyond 
economical repair, in other words, a write-off. Miss H and Mr H didnt want it to be written-off. 
So after further communication with Ageas, Mr H arranged for the car to be repaired at a 
garage of his choosing. Ageas paid for these repairs. The car was collected from the 
repairers on 19 November 2019. 
Mr H complained to Ageas. He was unhappy it had initially said the car was a write-off, and 
that it based this on photos rather than a physical inspection. And he was unhappy it had 
charged a higher excess than it shouldve and didnt provide a courtesy car. 
Ageas apologised for not checking the excess earlier and confirmed it had refunded what it 
had incorrectly charged. But Ageas said it initially decided to write-off the car based on the 
information Mr H gave when he first reported the accident. And that when he was unhappy 
with this, it told him it could instead instruct approved repairers who wouldve provided a 
courtesy car while repairs were underway. But Mr H preferred to arrange repairs through his 
own garage, which Ageas covered the cost of. Nonetheless, Ageas offered £200 
compensation for any inconvenience caused.
Mr H brought this complaint to our service, saying Ageas wrote the car off within minutes of 
him reporting the accident despite it not being that seriously damaged. And that Ageas 
refused to have the car inspected and hadnt offered to repair it. He said to get the car back 
on the road and avoid the stigma of a write-off, hed been inconvenienced by having to act 
as Ageas assessor. And Ageas hadnt recognised hed saved it thousands of pounds. 
Our investigator said Ageas was entitled to deal with the claim as it saw fit, and had offered 
to have the car reviewed by an engineer at its approved repairer. He said Mr H got the car 
repaired by his own garage, which Ageas paid for. And Mr Hs chose this, so wouldnt be 
compensated for it. Our investigator thought Ageas didnt need to do anything more. 
Mr H disagreed. He said Ageas decided to write-off the car in the very first call based on just 
the agents opinion, without seeing any photos and without asking the questions its system 
should have prompted. He said he emailed Ageas many times between 1 and 5 November 
2019 but didnt get a reply. And that he had no choice but to get his own repairs underway 
because the total loss value Ageas offered wasnt enough to buy a replacement car. Mr H 
said Ageas hadnt acknowledged the money hed saved it and the £200 compensation it had 
offered wouldnt cover the car hire he paid for but didnt get. And that Ageas was incorrect to 
say hed declined its offer of its approved repairer. Mr H felt the approved repairer was 
charging much more than it should for repairs and this was ultimately passed onto 
consumers through inflated insurance premiums  he thought this should be addressed. 
As Mr H disagreed with our investigator, this complaint came to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of the complaint Mr H has brought to our service is that Ageas hastily decided to 
write-off the car and refused to have it inspected. Ive seen that Miss Hs policy entitles 
Ageas to decide how it will settle a claim. Policy section 2. Damage to the car says The 
insurer will decide either to;
Repair the damage themselves; or
Pay to have the damage repaired; or
Pay to replace what is lost or damaged if this is more cost effective than
repairing it; or
Pay you an amount equal to the loss or damage.
And its for Ageas to decide when a car insured with it might be uneconomical to repair. Mr H 
say Ageas made a definitive decision to write-off the car in the first call, based just on the 
agents opinion. But the screenshots Ive seen suggest Ageas system allows its agents to 
use their judgement about whether a car might be a write-off based on the information they 
have so far. And Ive listened to Mr Hs first call with Ageas. And I think its fair to say the 
repairs he told Ageas he thought the car needed werent insignificant  he said it would need 
a new bonnet, new front valance, two new headlight units, new radiator, new radiator grille, 
and a new air conditioning heat exchanger. The agent told Mr H the car might be beyond 
economical repair which might mean Ageas wouldnt repair it. Based on Mr Hs description 
of the damage, I think it was reasonable for Ageas to let him know it might be a write-off. 
As Ive said, Ive listened to the call. And Ageas didnt tell Mr H the car would definitely be a 
write-off and that this was his only option, as Mr H has suggested. Instead, it said the car 
might be beyond economical repair. And went on to explain its total loss department would 
look at the photos Mr H agreed to provide and make a decision, and they could still instruct 
an approved repairer if they decided it wasnt a write-off  she told Mr H the total loss 
department would call and go through the options. 
Ive also listened to the call Mr H had with the total loss department on 6 November 2019. 
Its clear that Mr H felt he wasnt being given options, that this was an important matter for 
him and that he wanted an inspection. In that call, Ageas explained the car hadnt been 
inspected yet because the information so far led it to think the car was a write-off, but that it 
could instruct its approved repairer to assess the car. Ageas gave Mr H the details of the 
nearest approved repairer, and agreed to send him its valuation figures so he could have a 
think before an approved repairer was instructed. 
In this call Mr H asked Ageas if it would pay for repairs carried out by his own garage, and 
Ageas advised it would need to review any quotes before authorising them. And it explained 
that if Mr H was challenging the decision to write-off, then the car could be assessed either 
by its approved repairer or his own garage, but hed only get a courtesy car and collection 
and delivery with its approved repairers. So Im satisfied Ageas made clear to Mr H he had 
the option to have the car assessed and repaired by its approved repairer or his own garage. Mr H arranged repairs through his own garage and Ageas paid the repair costs, which I think 
was fair and reasonable. I realise Mr H wanted to have the car back on the road as soon as 
possible, but dealing with a claim after an accident will always take at least some time. 
Mr Hs emails to Ageas suggest he instructed his garage to do the repairs on 7 November 
2019 and that the car was collected on 19 November 2019. And while it does seem there 
were a few days where Ageas didnt respond to Mr Hs emails, Im satisfied Ageas didnt 
cause any significant delays. 
Mr H has told us hes unhappy Ageas hasnt acknowledge the time and effort hes put into 
getting the car repaired, or that its benefitted from that. But as Ive said, Ageas made clear 
to Mr H that its own approved repairer could be instructed. And Mr H instead chose to 
arrange his own repairs. So in the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair for me to ask 
Ageas to compensate Mr H for his inconvenience.
Mr H has also told us hes unhappy Ageas didnt provide a courtesy car while the car was 
being repaired. The welcome pack Ageas sent Miss H when she took out the policy lists a 
Courtesy car whilst an approved repairer fixes your car (subject to availability) as one of the 
policy benefits. However, theres nothing in the policy terms to suggest Ageas will also 
provide a courtesy car if a customer arranges repairs at their own garage. Ageas also 
explained this to Mr H in the call on 6 November 2019, before he instructed his own garage. 
So Im satisfied Ageas hasnt acted unfairly by not providing a courtesy car. 
I know Mr H feels very strongly that Ageas and its approved repairers are treating 
consumers unfairly. But the role of our service isnt to regulate financial businesses like 
Ageas, or to tell them how they should operate. Instead, our role is to impartially investigate 
individual complaints from consumers. And if we think a business made errors in the 
particular circumstances of that complaint, then we put the consumer back in the position 
they shouldve been in if not for those errors. In this particular complaint, its clear Mr H 
wanted the car to be assessed and repaired, not written-off. And thats ultimately what 
happened without any significant delay. 
However, Ageas has itself offered £200 compensation for any inconvenience it might have 
caused. I dont think thats unfair or unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. But Im aware Ageas Insurance 
Limited has itself made an offer to pay Miss H and Mr H £200 compensation for 
inconvenience. So Ageas Insurance Limited should pay this to Miss H and Mr H, if it hasnt 
already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman