DRN-2406987
The complaint
 Mrs H complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS).
Mrs H has been represented by Mr H in this complaint but for ease, and because Mrs H is 
named on the finance agreement, I will refer to Mrs H only.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs H acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mrs H. The car 
here was brand new so I would not expect it to have any faults.
Mrs H first complained about a rattle in the car; hesitation when accelerating; a problem with 
the infotainment system and a Bluetooth connectivity problem, in February 2019 only three 
months and 2,845 miles from the point the car was supplied to her.
I think its likely these faults were present or developing at the point of supply as they 
appeared so soon. 
The rattling; infotainment system issue and Bluetooth connectivity problems werent repaired 
successfully. I can see they were still present, and a further repair was attempted in 
September 2019. 
In October 2020 the dealership eventually diagnosed a fault with the gearbox auxiliary pump 
shaft which required a replacement unit and had been the cause of the rattling.
So, Im persuaded at least one of these faults was present when the car was supplied and 
that repairs had not been unsuccessful. Mrs Hs contract will be now have run its course so it 
would not help to suggest further investigations take place or that the car is rejected on 
quality grounds.
But it isnt fair that Mrs H has had to use a car that has been causing problems since 
February 2019. She should be compensated for the lack of enjoyment she will undoubtedly 
have experienced and for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Putting things right
 I would agree with the investigators reasoning that VWFS should refund 10% of the 
payments shes made since February 2019 when the problems were first reported. I 
understand Mrs H doesnt think thats enough. But I think 10% is a reasonable estimation of 
the impact the issues will have had on her. She was clearly still able to drive the car and 
whilst the noises would have been irritating I dont think the performance of the car can be 
said to have been particularly affected.
Mrs H has clearly been inconvenienced by these matters. Shes had to return her car to the 
dealership on several occasions and shes had to progress a complaint through this service 
when I think it could have been resolved earlier. In those circumstances I think VWFS should 
pay her £100 compensation.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to:
refund 10% of all payments Mrs H made towards her finance agreement from 
February 2019 to the end of the agreement.
pay Mrs H £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman