DRN-4404859
The complaint
Mrs W complains that St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) caused delays 
when she approached it for advice about transferring her defined-benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme. The transfer value of her DB pension has since fallen. And she says SJP 
has therefore caused her a loss.
What happened
Mrs W holds benefits in a DB scheme pension relating to a period of employment between 
1981 and 1993. On 22 February 2022, the DB scheme trustees wrote to Mrs W explaining 
that her normal scheme retirement date was coming up in May 2022 and explained her 
options for taking her pension benefits.
I understand Mrs W requested a transfer quote from the scheme. On 18 August 2022 the 
trustees of the scheme provided her with the requested quotation. This said that the cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of her DB scheme benefits was £157,024.60. This transfer 
value was guaranteed until 18 November 2022.
SJPs notes indicate Mrs W spoke to one of its advisers on 9 September 2022. She and her 
husband were already customers of SJP and held savings and pension accounts with it. SJP 
said that this meeting was the regularly scheduled annual review it held with Mrs W. And the 
adviser she met with was not a DB transfer specialist.
The notes of that meeting said Mrs W was looking at her options in respect of the DB 
scheme and transferring this. The notes also said that she and her husband didnt need the 
additional guaranteed income from her DB scheme as they had other provisions to meet 
their needs. SJPs adviser says the CETV Mrs W had previously obtained was provided to it 
at that time.
I can see that there were several emails between Mrs W and SJP over the weeks that 
followed, where Mrs W was asking for a meeting to discuss her pension and in which she 
emphasised that the pension value was only guaranteed for three months.
A first meeting, involving an adviser that could deal with DB pension transfers, was arranged 
for 2 November 2022 with a follow up meeting just under a week later. SJP sought additional 
information from Mrs W in that time about her financial circumstances, including her 
mortgages. SJP says it also asked the trustees of the DB scheme if they would extend the 
guarantee in relation to the transfer value, but they declined.
The guaranteed CETV expired before SJP provided either abridged or full advice. SJP 
requested a new transfer valuation from the trustees of the DB scheme on Mrs Ws behalf. 
And I understand it paid the relevant fee for this in December 2022  as Mrs W was not yet 
entitled to another valuation for free.
The updated transfer value was provided on 5 January 2023. The CETV had fallen to 
£107,649.35.
Mrs W complained to SJP about the delays in providing her advice. She said it had always 
been her intention to transfer her DB scheme pension as this was part of her and her 
husbands longer term plans. And she said SJP had been aware of this. She was unhappy 
that advice had not been provided to enable this promptly. And she said this had now 
caused her a significant loss due to the reduction in the CETV. Mrs W also said this had 
impacted her plans for her mortgage and as a result shed had to withdraw funds from her 
savings to address this.
SJP did not provide a full response to the complaint within the eight-week timeframe set by 
the regulator. As a result, Mrs W referred her complaint to our service, noting she was also 
unhappy with the delay in responding to her complaint.
SJP did subsequently issue a response. It said it hadnt provided advice in a timely manner 
and apologised for this. And it said, it would pay Mrs W £500 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience the delay had caused and a further £250 for the delays in handling her 
complaint. It noted though that advice around a potential transfer of a DB scheme was 
required to be given by someone that specialises and is authorised to provide that advice. 
And that this can take time and it offers no guarantees, when giving such advice, that it will 
be completed within the usual expiry time frame of a transfer valuation. Here advice, either 
abridged or full, was not completed. So, SJP said it was unknown whether the adviser 
wouldve deemed a transfer appropriate and recommended Mrs W go ahead. And if it had 
advised against a transfer, Mrs W wouldve found herself in the same position. So, SJP did 
not agree that Mrs W had been caused a loss and noted she still retained her DB scheme 
benefits.
Mrs W said SJPs response hadnt fully reflected the timeline of events. She said SJP had 
been aware that it was her intention to transfer her DB scheme pension for some time. And 
that, although SJP hadnt provided the advice, it was aware her husband had previously 
made a similar transfer. Mrs W also said that the original adviser from SJP had asked her to 
obtain the CETV from the scheme trustees that was provided in August 2022. And it was 
only because of their error the advice had not been provided in time. Mrs W also said she 
believed there was no obvious reason why the transfer would not have been recommended 
based on her circumstances. And she said SJP should be required to show that its advice 
wouldve been not to transfer.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint. He thought the offer made by SJP was 
fair in the circumstances. It had acknowledged that there were delays. But he also noted that 
the starting assumption set out by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), is 
that a transfer from a DB scheme is unsuitable. And as it was unclear if the advice wouldve 
been to transfer, the full process couldve taken longer than three months anyway and 
Mrs W was still entitled to her benefits under the DB scheme, he didnt think SJP needed to 
take any further action.
Mrs W disagreed. She said SJP had been aware for some time of her intention to transfer 
her DB scheme, which was her retirement provision that she had the right to decide what to 
do with. Mrs W said that the transfer valuation in August 2022 was only requested after the 
initial adviser at SJP asked her to obtain this and the meeting where this was handed over 
was not an annual review. The adviser then failed to proceed with the advice or follow her 
instruction to transfer until it was too late. Mrs W said she and her husband had already 
received advice, from another business, and completed the transfer of a DB scheme pension 
belonging to her husband. So, the appropriateness had already been analysed, and she said 
SJP was aware of this. And she believed the high CETV meant any analysis of the transfer 
wouldve concluded this transfer was appropriate. So, she said she felt a fair resolution was 
for SJP to complete the transfer as instructed and to pay her the difference between the 
transfer value and the August 2022 CETV.The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is worth starting by saying the role of our service is to informally review and decide 
individual disputes on a fair and reasonable basis. We arent a regulator. And our awards are 
not intended to fine or punish a business. Rather, we look at what has happened in the 
specific circumstances of a complaint and decide whether a business has made an error, 
and if so, what the fair way to address that is. And Id add that, because of the informal 
nature of our service, Ive summarised what has happened. If I dont comment on or refer to 
everything Ive been sent or that has been said this isnt meant as a discourtesy or because I 
havent thought about it. Rather it is because my decision will address what I consider to be 
the key issues in deciding what is fair and reasonable.
Mrs W says she wanted to transfer her DB scheme benefits as this was part of her and her 
husbands plan and she instructed SJP on the basis it would transfer her benefits. But, while 
Mrs W mightve had a plan in mind, she was required to take regulated financial advice 
before she could transfer from her DB scheme. A transfer couldnt proceed without her 
taking this advice. 
Mrs W asked SJP for advice about a transfer. And the crux of the complaint is that it took too 
long to provide this. Mrs W has said that this shouldve happened much quicker and that the 
appropriateness of a transfer had already been analysed when she and her husband had 
taken advice from another business, that resulted in him transferring one of his DB schemes. 
But SJP didnt provide that advice. And SJPs role, as a regulated financial adviser, wasnt 
just to put in place what Mrs W mightve wanted. It had to give her suitable advice. There are 
a number of rules, regulations and requirements that it needed to consider to do that. Not 
least the provisions the FCA set that deal with making a personal recommendation and a set 
of provisions that specifically deal with DB pension transfers. These state that the starting 
assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, advising on a 
potential DB transfer is not straightforward. And Im satisfied SJP was required to analyse if 
a transfer was suitable itself, not just rely on what mayve happened previously.
Mrs W has said that SJP had been aware of her intention to transfer her DB scheme for 
some time, this had been discussed with her regular adviser and that the adviser had 
prompted her to obtain the CETV from her DB scheme in August 2022. Her regular adviser 
though was not a DB transfer specialist. So, the request for advice needed to be referred on 
to a suitably qualified specialist adviser to start the advice process. 
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that this did not happen as promptly as it shouldve done. 
The CETV was provided to SJP on 9 September 2022 but the first point at which a pension 
transfer adviser became involved was 2 November 2022. And SJP acknowledged, in its 
complaint response, that it had not started its advice process in a timely manner, that this 
was not the level of service it would expect and that this was likely to have been distressing, 
particularly given Mrs W had followed up with it regularly. So, what I need to decide is, what 
a fair way to address this is.
As Ive said, advising on a potential DB transfer is not straightforward. And I cant see that 
SJP committed to or guaranteed that this advice process would take less than three months 
 the period of time Mrs Ws CETV was guaranteed for. Which I dont think is unreasonable. SJPs process, in respect of potential DB transfers, is to first provide abridged advice and 
either conclude, based on more limited information, that a transfer is unsuitable or that it is 
unclear whether a transfer is suitable and that more information will be needed. If the 
outcome is that it is unclear, full advice can then be requested, at a cost. This process is 
permitted by the FCA. There is a significant amount of information that SJP would need to 
consider, particularly if providing full advice. And a transfer could not be carried out until full 
advice was given. The FCA also required SJP to carry out calculations and analysis 
comparing the benefits of the proposed new scheme with those the existing DB scheme 
provided and compare the transfer value with the estimated cost of replacing the DB scheme 
benefits. All of which would take time. 
Taking this into account, while it isnt in dispute that SJP did not begin its advice process as 
promptly as it should, there was no guarantee that even if it had, that this wouldve been 
concluded before the CETV Mrs W had obtained had expired. In which case, an updated 
CETV would always have been required.
Mrs W says she only obtained the CETV after her regular adviser from SJP asked her to do 
so. But a CETV would always have been required in order for SJP to carry out the analysis 
the regulator required of it in order to provide advice.
It may have been more appropriate for SJP to have waited until its advice process started, 
and a pension transfer adviser became involved, before requesting this. But, if it had done 
so, based on when the advice process started, the CETV wouldnt have been requested until 
early November 2022. Given an updated CETV was requested around 20 November 2022  
the one that was ultimately provided in January 2023  it is entirely possible that, if SJP had 
waited and asked for a CETV when it began its advice process, the CETV wouldve been 
lower than in August 2022 and closer to that of the one given in January 2023. Its also worth 
noting that, while the CETV from August 2022 did expire, SJP met the cost of an updated 
one being provided. 
So, although it mightve been better if SJP had waited before requesting a CETV, and this 
has resulted in a loss of expectation for Mrs W as she obtained a higher CETV perhaps 
prematurely, again there is no guarantee shed have ended up in a different position. She 
didnt incur the cost of having to obtain the replacement CETV. And as Ive already said, the 
advice process may still have not been completed before the CETV expired, even if it had 
been requested later.
And on top of this there was also no guarantee that SJPs advice, which Mrs W wouldve 
been required to pay a significant fee for if taking full advice, wouldve been that a transfer 
was suitable. Again, the starting point set out by the FCA is that a transfer from a DB 
scheme is unsuitable unless it can be clearly demonstrated a transfer is in the consumers 
best interests.
Mrs W has been clear that she wanted to transfer. But that doesnt mean that doing so was 
in her best interests. She also said shed discussed this previously with SJP. But again, her 
regular adviser wasnt a DB transfer specialist. 
Mrs W has said that she and her husband already had plans for their retirement, which 
another business had previously considered. But SJP was not bound by what a different 
business had advised, at a different point in time in relation to a separate DB scheme. Mrs W 
has also noted that she intended to access tax-free cash from this pension to use towards 
her mortgage. But taking tax-free cash was still possible under the DB scheme. And 
although she might not have considered it to be valuable a DB scheme provides a 
guaranteed escalating pension, payable for the rest of the pension holders life  however 
long that happens to be. It is not dependent on investment returns nor at risk of the pension fund running out.
In the information SJP has provided to our service, the specialist adviser has said, given 
what Mrs W has said about the purpose of a transfer being to release tax-free cash to assist 
with her mortgage, they wouldnt have recommended a transfer for this reason. And theyve 
said that they werent aware of this objective at the time. But ultimately SJP didnt reach the 
point of providing either abridged or full advice about a transfer. Ive seen evidence it had 
started to compile its abridged advice. But this is clearly incomplete  as advising against a 
transfer and there not being enough information to make a recommendation are both 
mentioned  and this wasnt given as the CETV expired. And the outcome of what the advice 
wouldve been is unknown. In the circumstances I have to make a decision on the balance of 
probabilities. And I cant reasonably say, based on the information that is available, that SJP 
would have recommended a transfer, even if it had provided advice sooner.
Mrs W is understandably upset that the CETV has been recalculated and reduced. But the 
CETV is not the same as a fund value of an investment linked pension. An investment linked 
pensions value rises and falls based on the investments held and their performance. The 
benefits in a DB scheme do not have an investment linked value though  as the underlying 
benefits are guaranteed. The CETV is a value determined by actuarial principles, taking into 
account factors including personal circumstances of the pension holder, contributions to the 
pension and market factors and requiring assumptions to be made about how future events 
might influence the members benefits. It is generally based on the providers best estimate of 
the expected cost of providing the guaranteed benefits. So, a fall in this is not a reduction in 
benefit value. And here Mrs W has retained the benefits under the DB scheme and still has 
access to them. So, while the CETV the trustees have offered her has fallen, she hasnt 
incurred a loss of pension benefits under the scheme.
Taking all of this into account, I cant fairly require SJP to process a transfer on Mrs Ws 
behalf, as it did not complete the advice process. Nor, if the transfer value is still below the 
level quoted in August 2022, do I think itd be fair to require SJP to make up that difference  
as even if it had acted differently, there is no guarantee a transfer wouldve been completed 
for that amount.
SJP offered Mrs W £500 for the distress caused by its failure to start the advice process as 
promptly as it shouldve done. I dont doubt that this caused Mrs W distress. The 
correspondence Ive seen makes it clear that she chased SJP to begin the process and I 
dont doubt it was frustrating when this didnt happen. In the circumstances though, while I 
know Mrs W doesnt agree, I think the offer that SJP has made is fair.
Mrs W is also unhappy that SJP did not respond to her complaint within eight weeks  the 
timescale set by the FCA. Again, our service is not the regulator. But, while I dont doubt SJP 
taking a longer period of time to respond was again likely to be frustrating, Mrs W was free to 
refer her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman when it failed to do so  something which 
she eventually did, prior to the complaint response being issued. So, while this was likely to 
have been upsetting, particularly as delays were the subject of the complaint, it hasnt 
prevented Mrs W from continuing with her complaint. And so, in the circumstances, I think 
the further £250 which SJP has offered for the upset the delays to its complaint handling has 
caused, is fair and reasonable.
As a result of the above, while I dont doubt this will come as a disappointment to Mrs W, 
because I think SJP has made a fair offer I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint, as I think St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc has already made a fair offer to resolve things.
So, to put things right, if it hasnt already done so, St. James's Place Wealth Management 
Plc should pay Mrs W the £750 it previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman