DRN-3463302
The complaint
S, a limited company, has complained about its business insurer QIC Europe Ltd as QIC has 
only offered to pay it for three weeks lost rent after S was unable to let rooms following an 
escape of water.
What happened
S was the landlord of a pub. The pub had rooms which were let on a bed and breakfast 
basis. In March 2018 there was a water leak. The rooms were let at the time and the 
agreement had to be put aside until repairs were completed. The pub owners, via their 
buildings insurance policy, handled the repairs. It was November 2018 before repairs were 
completed. And the rooms were re-let again after that.
It was around the time the rooms were re-let that S made a claim to QIC. S felt it had a valid 
claim for the rental income which had been lost during the months of the buildings insurance 
claim. S also reported damage to carpets, covered by the QIC policy as the landlords 
property. QIC agreed to pay for the carpets. But it said it had concerns about the claim for 
lost rent. Amongst other things, it noted that whilst there was cover for business interruption 
on the policy, the policy had been cancelled in July 2018. It also noted that Ss director was, 
or had been, ill. It said that it would offer to pay three weeks lost rent which was how long the 
repairs took  even though the repair period occurred long after its policy had ended.
S felt that was unfair, it said the loss  the escape of water  had occurred during the period 
when the QIC policy was active, and it simply had not been possible to let the rooms until the 
repairs were done, the time period for which it had had no control over. S said it was clear to 
it that the period over which it had lost rental income was eight months  and so this is what 
any claim settlement from QIC should be based upon. When QIC wouldnt revise its offer, S 
complained to us.
Our investigator felt that S had likely had no control over the repairs. So she thought QIC 
should pay the loss of rent claim from the day the loss occurred. Whilst QIC didnt provide 
any reason for disagreeing with the investigators view, it didnt accept it either. So the 
complaint was passed for an ombudsmans consideration. 
I felt that there was no basis on which I could require QIC to make further payment to S. So 
I issued a provisional decision to explain my views. My provisional findings were:
I think QIC acted pragmatically to make an offer towards remediating some of Ss losses, 
and that was a fair and reasonable thing for it to do. But Im not persuaded there is any 
policy cover available against which I can reasonably require it to pay more than that. And 
Ive seen no evidence of a failure by QIC which might give me cause to think it should 
otherwise reasonably have to settle for the full period of loss claimed for. Ive explained my 
views below and both parties will have a chance to respond before I make a final decision. 
The policy S had with QIC did not specifically cover it for lost rental income. Rather there 
was business interruption (BI) cover where a loss in gross profit occurred. The rental 
income was only part of the pubs trade  so it isnt fair to say that just because those rooms 
werent let, the value of the rent equated to a net loss of gross profit for the business. 
But the policy wording also presents a difficulty for S in respect of the period for which it was 
looking to claim for. The policy specifically states that it looks to provide cover for loss of 
gross profit occurring during the period of cover. And whilst S wants loss of rent to be paid 
from March 2018 to December 2018, the policy ended in July 2018. So I cant reasonably 
require QIC, under the policy, to settle a BI claim for loss which occurred from July 2018 
onwards, as that was outside of the period of cover. 
There is also a problem though in respect of the earlier period of loss claimed for  
March 2018 to the cancellation in July 2018. That is because the cover under this policy for 
BI is only activated:
where damage occurs to the landlords belongings (defined in the policy as property); 
a claim for which under the QIC policy is accepted; and 
where that damage has caused the loss of gross profit.
Here though the only claim for QIC under the policy was for damaged carpets. I dont think 
that damaged carpets alone would interrupt the business causing a reduction in gross profit, 
or certainly not for a period of more than a few weeks at most. 
Rather, as S has argued, I think its most likely that the damage caused to the buildings by 
the escape of water, along with the related, unresolved claim meant that the rooms couldnt 
be let. And also, logically, that the carpets couldnt be replaced. Whilst S had no control over 
that claim, QIC didnt either. In fact, QIC wasnt even made aware of any issue or loss to 
either the buildings or business until after the water damage repairs had been completed, 
which was also around the time the rooms started to be rented again.
In my view, QIC didnt purport, through its policy wording, to offer cover for lost business in 
this type of circumstance. And nor did it act in an unfair and unreasonable way which might 
give me cause to think it should otherwise pay more in respect of this claim. I have to set 
that against the fact that QIC did see fit to offer settlement for three weeks lost rent. From 
reading its file it seems QIC was made aware that Ss director had been ill and it seemed to 
accept that an incident had occurred at the premises which could theoretically have 
impacted the business. It seems to me that, on that basis, and rather than going to the 
lengths of formally assessing the issue on a strict liability basis for the business loss caused 
by the damaged carpets (as the policy would have allowed it to), it decided to make the 
settlement offer it did. On this occasion I think it acted fairly and reasonably and Im not 
minded to make it pay anything more.
QIC said it had nothing to add. S objected to my findings. 
S said I had over complicated a simple issue of insured damage and loss. It said the 
relationship of what is damaged to the extent of loss is not relevant  only that there is 
damage, which there was, so the BI cover should respond. Furthermore the insurers have 
not queried their liability  so that shouldnt be reviewed. The premises being traded from are 
surely factored into the risk the insurer agreed to offer cover for  so its unclear why the 
insurer would think it is not offering cover for instances where the premises are damaged by 
an insured event. S said as the policy was active when the loss occurred, the indemnity 
period will continue even if the policy ends. The only real issue is the time over which QIC 
must cover the business loss, and QICs argument in this respect was that it doesnt have to 
settle it from the date of the claim for damage to the premises because that claim took too 
long to progress.S said that QIC seemed to have forgotten its obligation to its policyholder. It should always 
have just settled for Ss loss and, if felt necessary, sought to recover some of its costs from 
the insurer for the premises. In simple terms, S said, Ss income after profit had suffered to 
the tune of £15,890.97, as the result of an insured risk and QIC should pay S accordingly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this is an important issue for S. And Ive considered its response to my 
provisional findings. Having done so I have to disagree with S that I have over complicated 
this issue or taken into account anything that should not be reviewed. In short S wanted QIC 
to pay it more in respect of its lost rental income. So I had to decide whether QIC fairly and 
reasonably should be paying more. Im satisfied that, in order to do that, it is necessary for 
me to take into account what S was entitled to receive under the policy.  
And for a successful BI claim, the policy does require the damage QIC is offering cover for to 
have caused the business loss. The policy is actually quite specific in this respect. In setting 
out what is covered, the pre-face says (emphasis as in the policy):
In the event of Damage to Property used by Youfor which We have admitted liability 
under Section 1 of this Policy causing an interruption or interference to the 
Business..which results in a reduction in the Gross Profit We will indemnify You for.
Property is defined as the policyholders material property  so not the premises, and We 
is the insurer named in the schedule  QIC. The phrase under.this Policy is used too. So 
I remain of the view that theres simply no cover for S for the loss it is asking QIC to settle 
for. Because that loss was incurred due to damage repairs for the premises being conducted 
by another insurer under a different insurance policy. 
As I explained provisionally, if there is no policy cover, I could only look to make an insurer 
provide some recompense if it had failed the policyholder in some way. So if QIC had done 
something wrong, for example, which caused S to suffer a loss not otherwise covered by the 
policy, I might make QIC pay something to make up for that. But QIC, in my view, didnt do 
anything wrong here. In my view, given the circumstances and what S was covered for 
under the policy, I think QIC acted fairly and reasonably.
My provisional findings have not changed. They, along with my comments in response to Ss 
reply, are now the findings of this, my final decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against QIC Europe Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman