DRN-1702683
 
The complaint
Miss H complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent money to her that 
she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
This complaint is about the loan Lending Stream provided to Miss H in August 2013.
Lending Stream said that before the loan was provided it carried out affordability checks and, 
based on the information it received, the loan repayments were affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint
Miss H didnt accept our adjudicators view and so this case has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss H could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, at the start of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); and
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Miss H could sustainably repay her loan - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The relevant guidance 
at the time of the loan was provided by the Office of Fair trading (OFT) and this set out the 
need to make a reasonable assessment of whether a borrower can afford to meet repayments in a sustainable manner. This refers to issues such as being able to the make 
the repayments without undue difficulties throughout the life of the agreement and without 
having to realise security or assets. It then further sets out that without undue difficulty 
means without having to borrow further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Hs complaint.
Before the loan was provided to Miss H, information about her income and expenses was 
gathered. This recorded that Miss H was working full time and had a monthly income of 
£1,900. Her monthly expenses were recorded as £900. Based on this Miss H had a monthly 
disposable income of £1,000.
The loan provided to Miss H was for £500 and was repayable over six monthly instalments. 
The highest instalment amount was £270. Based on the information provided, I find it 
reasonable that Lending Stream considered this loan affordable for Miss H. As only one loan 
was provided to Miss H and given the repayment amounts compared to her recorded 
income, I find that checks carried out before it was provided were proportionate.
Based on the above, I do not find that I can say this loan shouldnt have been provided.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Gain Credit LLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman