DRN-2482691
The complaint
Mr B complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (trading as Argos) 
incorrectly recorded a default on his credit file which has impacted on his ability to obtain 
other financial agreements.
What happened
In March 2007 Mr B took out a credit card with Argos. Mr B set up a direct debit to pay £10 
per month which he thought would be sufficient to cover the minimum monthly payment due 
on the card. 
In 2013 not all of the direct debits cleared leading to late payments and charges being added 
to Mr Bs account over several months. Unfortunately, this led to Mr B exceeding the credit 
cards limit, and his £10 monthly payments werent sufficient to cover the minimum payment 
that was required under the cards terms and conditions. Argos recorded the late payments 
and other adverse information on Mr Bs credit file. In October 2013, and unknown to Mr B, 
Argos incorrectly recorded a default for his credit card on his credit file.
Mr B paid off the balance for the card in 2016 and settled his account. However, the account 
continued to show as active on his credit file until 2020.
In November 2019, Argos wrote to Mr B and said that, on reviewing its internal processes, it 
had come to light that it had recorded a default on his credit file that it shouldnt have done. 
Argos said it had taken steps to remove this information.
Mr B was unhappy at what had happened and complained to Argos that by recording the 
default on his credit file for this agreement he had been declined for other financial 
agreements and, in particular, he hadnt been able to secure a mortgage with the High Street 
Banks meaning he had to take out a mortgage with a higher interest rate. He also 
complained that the credit account was still showing as active on his credit file.
Argos upheld Mr Bs complaint. It said it had corrected the information on his credit file by 
removing the default and showing the account as settled back in 2016. It offered Mr B £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by having the default on his credit 
file.
Mr B was unhappy at Argos offer and complained to this service. He said that because of 
the wrongly recorded default hed had to pay higher interest rates for loans and his 
mortgage. Mr B said he thought £200 compensation wasnt sufficient and believed a figure of 
£6,000 was fair to reflect the extra hed had to pay during the six years the default had been 
showing on his credit file.
Our investigator agreed that Argos had incorrectly recorded the default, but said he thought 
the settlement had been fair. Our investigator said that, although he accepted the default 
recorded on Mr Bs credit file would have had an impact on his ability to obtain credit, there 
would also have been an impact from the correctly recorded adverse information about the 
missed payments and exceeding the credit limit. So, there wouldve be negative markers on 
Mr Bs credit file even if the default hadnt been recorded.
Mr B had provided a decision letter from a High Street Bank declining him a mortgage on the 
grounds of his credit score. Our investigator said that he couldnt reasonably say that the 
reason for the banks decision had been due only to the default recorded on Mr Bs credit 
file, as there were many factors that together would affect a consumers credit score, 
including their income, outgoings as well as how they had managed other credit agreements.
Our investigator also said that by recording the default on Mr Bs credit card account interest 
had stopped accruing. And if the default hadnt been recorded then the arrangement for Mr B 
to pay £10 each month towards the cards balance would have been recorded as an 
arrangement to pay.
Our investigator said he didnt think he could say that Argos had been responsible for Mr B 
not being able to obtain a low rate mortgage. Mortgage offers varied over time depending on 
the rates and criteria that existed at the time of application. 
Mr B disagreed with our investigators view. He said that late payments didnt have the same 
impact as a default. He said he believed lenders may have taken a different approach if the 
credit card account had shown as settled in 2016, rather than still being active. 
As the parties didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen copies of Mr Bs credit card statements from 2013 to 2016. It isnt disputed that, 
during 2013, there was some missed payments by Mr B on his credit card balance and that 
he exceeded the cards limit. Ive also seen that there was then an arrangement put in place 
that Mr B would pay £10 per month, and no further interest on the balance would be added. 
Mr B cleared the credit cards balance in September 2016.
Argos accepts that it shouldnt have recorded the default on Mr Bs credit file, but it was 
correct to record the other adverse information as to Mr Bs management of his account. Mr 
B says that the default would have had a greater impact than the missed payments but, 
although I agree with that, looking at the statements I can see there were also a number of 
missed payments. I dont think I can reasonably say that these wouldnt have had a 
detrimental effect on other credit applications. I also have to take into account that if the 
default hadnt been recorded then the arrangement to pay would have been. 
Mr B has provided a letter setting out the results of his mortgage application to a High Street 
lender in 2018. This states that he wasnt eligible due to his credit score, but it also says that 
a credit score can be influenced by more than one thing. So, I dont think that this letter is 
enough for me to say that the default was the sole cause of Mr B not being accepted for a 
mortgage as there were other negative markers present. The bank will have been looking at 
a number of factors, including Mr Bs income and outgoings as it would have set its own 
qualifying criteria for the loan. I think its unlikely the bank would have only looked at the 
default when making its decision. 
Mr B says that if Argos had shown the account as settled in 2016 then lenders may have 
taken a different view to his credit applications. However, settled accounts still remain 
showing on a credit file for a period of time so the adverse information about Mr Bs 
management of this particular account would still have been viewable by a lender. I dont think I can reasonably say that by failing to show the account as settled Argos has directly 
caused Mr B to be declined for more preferential credit agreements.  
I appreciate Mr B has been upset to learn that Argos wrongly recorded a default on his credit 
record and that this default was there for six years. I also agree that this default would have 
had some impact on any credit applications made by Mr B in this time. But I dont think I can 
reasonably and fairly say that the default was the sole cause for any declined applications, 
or for Mr B having to take out credit with higher interest rates as there were other negative 
markers correctly recorded for that same account.
So, for the reasons given above Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint and Im not asking Argos 
to do anything more. I think its settlement of £200 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances to reflect the impact the wrongful recording of the default on Mr Bs credit file 
has had on him. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman