DRN-3870711
The complaint
Mr T complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund money he lost to a 
scam.
Mr T is being represented by solicitors in his complaint.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it 
again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
The complaint concerns 11 payments totalling £11,434.05 which Mr T made to a 
cryptocurrency platform from his Halifax account in May and June 2022. He made the 
payments in connection to a commission-based income opportunity which required him to 
pay in his own money (in cryptocurrency). But the opportunity turned out to be a scam, with 
the scammer using the details of a genuine affiliate marketing company.
One of the payments, for £74, came straight back into Mr Ts bank account. So, the total loss 
is £11,360.05. 
Sequence Date Type Payee Amount
Payment 1 31 May Faster payment Skrill Ltd £2.00
Payment 2 1 June Faster payment Skrill Ltd £74.00
1 June Credit Skrill Ltd £74.00 (credit)
Payment 3 1 June Faster payment Skrill Ltd £50.00
Payment 4 1 June Faster payment Skrill Ltd £300.00
Payment 5 1 June Faster payment Skrill Ltd £400.00
Payment 6 1 June Faster payment Skrill Ltd £400.00
Payment 7 1 June Faster payment Skrill Ltd £105.00
Payment 8 1 June Faster payment Skrill Ltd £1,123.05 (initially blocked)
Payment 9 2 June Faster payment Skrill Ltd £2,000.00
Payment 10 3 June Faster payment Skrill Ltd £3,000.00 (initially blocked)
Payment 11 4 June Faster payment Skrill Ltd £3,980.00 (initially blocked)
Total loss £11,360.05
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, 
even when they are duped into making that payment. Theres no dispute that Mr T 
made the payments using his security credentials, and so they are authorised. But in 
accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank should be on 
the look-out for and protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far 
as is reasonably possible. If it fails to act on information which ought reasonably to 
alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for losses 
incurred by its customer as a result.
Ive looked at the operation of Mr Ts account. I dont consider the first five payments 
were particularly unusual or suspicious such that I think Halifax ought to have been 
concerned. They were in keeping with Mr Ts usual account activity. Looking at the 
statements, it wasnt unusual for him to make payments to the same merchant or 
payee more than once in the same day. But by the point he authorised payment 6 
(see above table), Mr T had already sent four payments to the cryptocurrency 
exchange. In my view, this pattern of successive payments in a short space of time 
had become unusual enough to warrant an intervention by the bank. We know 
Halifax didnt intervene at that point. It did, however, intervene two payments later 
(payment 8) which Mr T also authorised on the same day. So, Ive carefully 
considered the intervention at that point to gain insight into what is likely to have 
happened had the bank intervened at the earlier payment. 
Halifax has provided a transcript of the call between the bank and Mr T at the time of 
payment 8, which the investigator has also shared with Mr Ts representatives. I can 
see the agent informed Mr T that there were a lot of scams involving cryptocurrency 
prevalent at the time and his payment had flagged for additional checks. They made 
enquiries about why he had been making all the smaller payments, whether hed set 
up the crypto wallet himself, and whether he could see the previous payments credit 
his wallet. The agent also described the most common scenario of cryptocurrency 
scams where people are contacted by a third-party regarding money-making 
opportunities and asked to set up, or assisted in setting up, crypto wallets. Mr T was 
asked if anyone had been in touch with him telling him to do that or if they had made 
promises of him making good returns on his funds  he said no. 
Having carefully considered Halifaxs questions and Mr Ts responses to them, Im 
satisfied that the banks intervention was proportionate in the circumstances involved. 
Given his answers, Halifax didnt have a reason to be concerned. Afterall, the 
questions that followed its initial enquiries were based on Mr Ts response. 
I acknowledge that Mr T did mention the name of the company involved in passing. 
But even if Halifax had asked probed him further, Im not convinced he would have 
been forthcoming about what he was doing. Hed already misled the bank by saying 
no one had promised him returns or asked him to send money. So, Im not 
persuaded that further questioning would have led to a different outcome here.
Mr Ts representative has argued that he was put under immense pressure by the 
scammer and that Halifax should be aware that consumers are coached by 
scammers and may therefore be dishonest. The representative submits that multiple 
effective interventions and provision of scam warnings could have helped break the 
spell Mr T was under. Ive carefully considered these comments, but Im not 
persuaded by them. As Ive explained above, Im not convinced that Mr T would have 
been forthcoming with his answers had Halifax questioned him further at the time or 
again at a later point  which it did on two further occasions. While the bank didnt 
provide an explicit scam warning at those times, it did ask Mr T what the payment 
was for. This gave him further opportunity to explain what he was doing. But Mr T 
didnt offer anything more than what hed previously said. If, as his representative 
appears to have acknowledged, Mr T was coached into lying, Im not persuaded further questioning by Halifax would have led to the scam being uncovered in the 
way that has been suggested.
Ive also thought about Halifaxs actions in relation to the recovery of payments after 
it became aware of the situation. It isnt clear whether Halifax contacted the 
beneficiary payment service provider to request a recall of the funds. But the 
beneficiary account in this case was Mr Ts crypto wallet. As hes told us hed already 
transferred out the cryptocurrency to the scammers crypto wallet (albeit he didnt 
know that at the time), by the time he notified Halifax about the scam there would 
have been nothing left to recover if Halifax had contacted the payment service 
provider servicing Mr Ts crypto wallet. In the circumstances, I dont think Halifax 
acted unfairly or unreasonably.
In summary, I know that Mr T will be disappointed with this outcome. Not least because hes 
told us about the impact this has had on his personal circumstances and the matter has 
been ongoing for some time. I fully acknowledge that theres a lot of money involved here. 
Despite my natural sympathy for the situation in which he finds himself, for the reasons 
given, it wouldnt be fair of me to hold Halifax responsible for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman