DRN-2918209
The complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, blocked his current account as 
it recorded him as being deceased. This happened twice and took him some time and 
difficulty to sort out, causing his direct debit payments to be affected. 
What happened
In June 2020, Mr W found that his current account with Halifax had been blocked. He visited 
his local branch about this and found that Halifax had recorded him as being deceased. This 
then caused problems with his direct debit payments which needed to be resolved. Halifax 
paid Mr W a total of £360 in compensation.
But Mr W again found problems with his direct debits and ability to transfer money from his 
account in November 2020. And he was told this was because he had again been recorded 
as deceased. Mr W then had to make sure all of his direct debits had been paid, including 
his mortgage with Halifax. Halifax apologised and paid Mr W a further £500 in compensation. 
Halifax said that it had incorrectly added the deceased indicator to Mr Ws account after 
being notified of the death of his relative. This caused Mr Ws to be blocked between 11 
June and 18 June. It said that the deceased indicator was later reapplied as it hadnt left 
clear notes about what had happened the first time. This caused Mr Ws account to be 
blocked between 26 October and 5 November. 
It asked Mr W to contact it if he incurred any charges as a result of the direct debits being 
cancelled or if any companies had applied late payment markers to his credit record.
 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. In summary, he agreed that the service 
Mr W had received was poor and acknowledged the impact this had on Mr W. He said that it 
took up a lot of Mr Ws time to resolve the issues and this affected his health and wellbeing. 
But he said Halifax had acknowledged the mistakes and had removed the deceased 
indicator on the same day Mr W had made his complaints. He felt that Halifax had looked to 
put things right, not only through the compensation but by offering to write letters to explain 
why direct debits had failed and offering to reimburse any related charges. The investigator 
felt that Halifaxs resolution to the complaint was fair.
Mr W didnt accept the investigators findings and asked that the complaint be reviewed. He 
didnt feel that the compensation offered was enough to recognise the seriousness of the 
situation. He felt that it wouldve been more helpful if there was a common contact for his 
complaint or two separate complaint numbers. He asked why Halifax couldnt tell him which 
direct debits had been cancelled or rejected. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how upsetting and frustrating this situation has been for Mr W. It will have 
understandably been concerning to be contacted by the companies he normally pays by 
direct debit and to learn that his payments hadnt gone through or that he had arrears  
particularly as one of these was about his mortgage with Halifax. I have been sorry to learn 
of the impact this has had on his health.
I can see that Mr W has asked a number of questions about why this happened and would 
like more of an explanation. Hes also expressed that dealing with the matter has been made 
more difficult with having to explain the circumstances to different representatives when 
trying to deal with his complaint.
 
Halifax has explained that this mistake happened because it had been notified of the death 
of a relative of Mr W, but had incorrectly marked its records that Mr W was deceased. This 
also impacted upon a separate policy Mr W has from a business thats part of the same 
group as Halifax. 
Once it became aware of the issue, it took steps to correct this for Mr W. I acknowledge the 
inconvenience Mr W was caused in having to set up or reinstate the direct debits again, and 
contact the companies concerned. Although this happened because of Halifaxs mistake, it 
wouldnt have been able to reinstate the direct debits on Mr Ws behalf, as these are 
arrangements between Mr W and the companies. I can see that one of these was for Mr Ws 
mortgage with Halifax, and he was frustrated that Halifax wasnt able to arrange for this 
payment to be sorted out. I can understand Mr Ws point here, but Halifax wasnt able to take 
this payment and he needed to pay this himself. And in its response letter of 12 November 
2020, Halifax confirmed that all of Mr Ws direct debits remained active except one, and that 
it understood that hed spoken with all the originators, including the one with the inactive 
direct debit. 
 
Halifax has acknowledged that the notes and records on Mr Ws account following the first 
removal of the block werent clear enough. And this meant that, when it was reviewed by 
another representative, they reapplied the deceased indicator to his account. It has 
recognised this and has said that relevant feedback has been provided to avoid this situation 
happening again.
 
I can fully understand how Mr W has been both embarrassed and inconvenienced by this 
situation, particularly as it happened for a second time, when it should have been fully 
resolved the first time. I can also appreciate that it will have been frustrating for Mr W to have 
to explain the situation and his complaint to different representatives. I do recognise Halifaxs 
mistake was human error, but this has impacted upon Mr W and I understand that he has 
chosen to move his current account to another provider. 
I dont underestimate how this situation has affected Mr W. However, Halifax has apologised 
for what happened and has paid Mr W a total of £860 to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience he was caused. Whilst I appreciate that Mr W feels that a higher level of 
compensation should be paid to him, in the particular circumstances here, I feel that the 
£860 Halifax has already paid, along with its apology, represents a fair resolution for Mr Ws 
complaint. My final decision
My decision is that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, doesnt need to do anything 
further to resolve Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman