DRN-4354343
The complaint
G, a company, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as Cashplus 
Bank) wont refund money it lost from a scam. 
Mr G, a director of G, brings the complaint on Gs behalf.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Its not in dispute that Mr G was scammed. But nor is it in dispute that he authorised 
the payments. So the starting position, in line with the Payment Services Regulations 
2017, is that Mr G, rather than Cashplus, is liable for them. 
But there are some situations where we believe that banks  taking into account 
relevant rules, codes and best practice  ought to have identified a fraud risk, so 
should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before 
making the payment. If Cashplus failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent 
loss, it might be fair to hold it liable.
The first payment Mr G made as part of the scam was for £20,000 to a new payee. 
Gs statements leading up to the scam show this was significantly higher than Gs 
usual spending. And given that Mr G had fallen victim to a different scam months 
before this, I think Cashplus ought to have been concerned that G was at risk of 
financial harm. 
If Cashplus had intervened appropriately and questioned Mr G about what the 
payment was for, I think the scam wouldve unravelled and Gs losses wouldve been 
prevented. Afterall, Mr G wouldve realised he was not, in fact, speaking with 
Cashplus and it wasnt necessary to move his money into a safe account. 
So, in summary, given this was a relatively significant amount to new payee and Mr 
G had a recent history of being a victim of fraud, I think Cashplus ought to have been 
concerned and intervened when the first payment was made. And I consider it likely 
the scam could have been uncovered at this point  preventing any losses from this 
account. 
It follows that Cashplus ought to refund Gs losses from this scam, alongside 8% 
simple interest per year to compensate it for the time its been out of pocket. 
However, Ive also considered whether G should fairly be held partly responsible for 
what happened by way of contributory negligence. I can understand how Mr G fell for 
this scam  they spoofed Cashplus number and sent text messages that appeared 
to come from Cashplus that legitimised the scam. And I can see how the situation felt 
plausible to Mr G, given how his account had been compromised before as a result 
of a scam. In saying that, I recognise that Cashplus had spoken with him in the 
aftermath of this previous scam. But I dont consider that the warnings were specific 
enough for Mr G to have realised he was at risk, given the particular circumstances 
of this scam.  
It follows that I dont consider it fair to reduce Gs compensation due to contributory 
negligence.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Gs complaint. Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
(trading as Cashplus Bank) must: 
Pay G the total of the disputed payments, less any amount recovered or already 
refunded. I understand this to be £20,231.59.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, accruing from when the disputed 
payments happened to the date of settlement, less any tax lawfully deductible.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman