DRN-3657865
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank reported a default 
on her loan account by mistake.
What happened
Mrs K says she took out a Tesco Bank loan in around January 2020 but in early 2022 found 
out that it was reporting the account to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) as being in 
default. She says she made numerous telephone calls to Tesco Bank about the issue whilst 
undergoing medical treatment. Mrs K says she made an application for a top up loan which 
was rejected by Tesco Bank. She says the compensation paid of £500 isnt sufficient for 
what took place.
Tesco Bank says its systems incorrectly reported the default each month to the CRAs. It 
accepts it thought it had sorted out the problem when it had not and has paid two payments 
of £250 compensation for the mistakes. Tesco Bank says an application for a top up loan is 
not guaranteed and says the problem was sorted out by June 2022.
Mrs K brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought the compensation of £500 
was appropriate. The investigator accepted Mrs K had been caused considerable distress 
but didnt think there would have been any guarantee any future loan application would have 
been approved.
Mrs K doesnt accept that view and says the compensation amount doesnt reflect the 
amount of calls she made, and the stress caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Tesco Bank has paid an appropriate 
compensation amount. I appreciate Mrs K will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no dispute here that Tesco Bank made a mistake by reporting incorrect information 
about Mrs Ks loan account to the CRAs. I dont think Tesco Bank has explained why the 
mistake took place, just that its systems did so and hasnt explained why the mistake 
continued for some months. I have no doubt Mrs K spent a considerable amount of time 
speaking to Tesco Bank about the mistakes and would have been caused considerable 
distress and inconvenience. I accept that at that time Mrs K was dealing with medical 
procedures which would have increased the level of distress.
The only question for me to consider is the level of compensation that is fair and reasonable. 
I dont think Mrs K suffered any direct financial loss that I have seen evidence of and I cant 
be sure the top up loan application was affected by the mistake as I can see Mrs K was able 
to take out additional borrowing elsewhere. 
I accept that the mistake took some months to sort out. But think £500 compensation is fair 
and reasonable and in line with the type of awards we would make for this type of mistake 
and for the length of time it took to sort out.
Overall, Im satisfied the compensation award is appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman