DRN-3574617
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) declined 
their claim for a storm-damaged bay window.
The buildings insurance policy was held in joint names but, for ease, Ill refer to Mr P 
throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr P claimed under his home insurance with Lloyds for storm damage to his roof and bay 
window. Lloyds assessed the damage remotely and concluded that neither area was 
damaged by subsidence. Mr P complained because he hadnt claimed under the subsidence 
peril.
Lloyds reconsidered the claim and agreed that the roof was storm damaged. It paid Mr P a 
cash settlement in line with his invoice for work done, along with compensation in recognition 
of its error.
But Mr P was unhappy that Lloyds hadnt also covered the bay damage. His expert provided 
a report saying the storm caused shock to the building. Lloyds said the bay was already 
damaged and the storm had only highlighted the issues. So, Lloyds didnt think it was 
responsible for the bay window damage, though it offered further compensation for the 
shortfalls in its handling of the claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They thought Lloyds had fairly settled the roof 
damage claim, but didnt think the evidence confirmed the damage to the bay was caused by 
a storm.
Mr P didnt agree, and he referenced the details in both his and Lloyds expert reports. He 
also repeated much of his original complaint and asked for the bay to be settled under the 
policy.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this is not what Mr P wouldve hoped for, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I note that Mr P would like me to comment on every piece of evidence. Theres a lot 
of information and Ive looked at it all, but it would be disproportionate to comment on every 
single piece of evidence. Our rules dont require me to and I dont think it would be of any 
significant benefit. Id like to reassure both parties that Ive considered everything, but my 
decision will be about the complaint as a whole, with reference to evidence where I think it 
helps explain.
Roof
Mr P accepted Lloyds cash settlement to cover his costs for repairing the roof, its offer of 
interest, and compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Ive considered the 
settlement and Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable. Thats because it reimburses Mr P 
for the full cost of his roof repairs and acknowledges that it didnt engage a roofing specialist 
to assess the claim. Therefore, I wont consider this issue further.
Bay Window
The remaining issue, then, is that Mr P is unhappy that Lloyds hasnt carried out a storm 
damage assessment for his bay window claim. He says Lloyds relied on a subsidence 
report.
Lloyds said there was no evidence of damage caused by any insured peril.
I know Mr P is aware of the three questions I consider when looking at storm damage 
complaints, but Ill repeat them here for completeness:
Was there a storm when the damage happened?
Is the damage consistent with that typically caused by a storm?
Was the storm the sole or main cause of damage?
Was there a storm?
This issue is not in dispute. There were three named, well-publicised storms in a short period 
of time when Mr Ps home was damaged. Therefore, Im satisfied that the answer to this 
question is yes.
Is the damage consistent with that typically caused by a storm?
Mr Ps bay window structure is unstable, and his expert thinks the shock of the storm caused 
the damage. Lloyds doesnt agree and thinks the cause is a construction issue.
A storm would typically dislodge the roof rather than affect the underlying structure of the 
bay window. But, I dont doubt that evidence of the structural issue became apparent during 
the storm. Therefore, Ill move on to consider the final question.
Was the storm the sole or main cause of the damage?
Mr P doesnt think its reasonable to rely on the subsidence report because his claim was for 
storm damage. As with the roof issue, he says Lloyds hasnt assessed his claim against the 
peril under which he was claiming.Although Lloyds commissioned a subsidence report, the expert identified the cause of the 
damage as movement away from the house but confirmed it was more of a connection 
issue. The subsequent expert report said there was evidence of historic distortion but no 
indication that an insured peril had caused it.
Mr Ps expert reported that the distortion wasnt realigned after underpinning works many 
years earlier, but the property remained fit for purpose. The expert concluded that the storm 
placed shock on the building causing damage to the roof and bay area, leaving the bay no 
longer fit for purpose.
Here, Lloyds has identified the cause rather than trying to decide whether the damage is 
typical of that caused by a storm. While the report was for subsidence, it does confirm that 
the damage is an ongoing issue and not related to an insured peril. Had the expert 
considered the damage to be storm-related, then Id have expected that to be reported 
regardless.
Having considered Mr Ps expert opinion alongside Lloyds, Im of the view that Lloyds has 
reached a fair decision in respect of the bay. Thats not to say that the storm didnt cause 
some damage. However, sometimes storms simply reveal damage that was already there, 
which appears to be the case here. A well-maintained property should withstand all but the 
most severe weather conditions, and the evidence suggests that there was an existing 
ongoing problem which simply allowed the storm to identify the weak point of the house.
I see Lloyds acknowledged its shortfall when its contractor declined to inspect for storm 
damage. But that doesnt mean it cant exclude the storm as a cause of damage. As Ive 
already explained, while looking into the issue of subsidence, Lloyds identified the cause of 
the damage, which wasn't the storm. So, a further survey to inspect the damage against the 
storm peril wouldnt have changed that.
Turning now to the comments Mr Ps expert made more recently, he said Lloyds confirmed 
significant damage by storm in its letter of 7 January. He also said that extended to the 
upper bay roof area. Looking at the 7 January findings, its clear Lloyds accepted that there 
was likely to be storm damage to the roof. Ive addressed that at the beginning of my 
decision. But I havent seen anything to indicate that Lloyds agreed there was storm damage 
to the bay. Its earlier letter, dated 2 March, confirmed that the survey revealed no evidence 
of damage to the bay caused by an insured peril. 
Therefore, I dont think the storm was the main cause of the damage, so I wont be asking 
Lloyds to settle the claim.
Compensation
Lloyds paid £750 compensation for both the roof and bay window issues. Theres no dispute 
that Lloyds didnt handle this claim as well as it couldve done. However, I think it has put 
matters right for the roof and I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that the storm 
caused the bay window damage. Therefore, Im satisfied that the compensation is fair and in 
keeping with what I wouldve required if Lloyds hadnt offered anything. I wont be asking 
Lloyds to increase its offer.
In summary, I accept that the storm will have contributed some damage to Mr Ps home, but 
the evidence suggests that the bay was already distorted, and the storm simply revealed that 
weakness. Im satisfied that Lloyds has settled the roof claim fairly and offered reasonable 
compensation in the circumstances. Therefore, I wont be asking Lloyds to do any more. My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman