DRN-2736524
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Scottish Equitable unfairly declined her request to transfer her
stakeholder pension into a Qualifying Recognised Overseas Pension Scheme (QROPS). 
What happened
Mrs M held a stakeholder pension with Scottish Equitable.
In 2014 Mrs M left the UK to live in Cyprus permanently. In June 2019 Mrs M decided shed
like to transfer her pension held with Scottish Equitable into a QROPS based in Malta.
Mrs M says she already had a policy with the QROPS provider having earlier transferred a
much larger defined benefit pension to the QROPS.
Mrs M wrote to Scottish Equitable and completed a questionnaire about transferring her
pension overseas. The questionnaire recorded;
Shed received advice in connection with transferring her pensions overseas by an
advisor in Cyprus named C.
She provided details of the receiving QROPS in Malta.
She was aware of the investment strategy and potential tax implications.
She was aware of the charges involved and recorded NIL advisor charges.
She confirmed she hadnt been offered any payments, loans or bonuses for
transferring and hadnt been rushed into making a decision.
When returning the questionnaire to Scottish Equitable, Mrs M also told them;
Please note this is not my first transfer to my QROPS therefore a great deal of the
information and confirmation you are requesting is irrelevant to me.
Please note:
I am satisfied there are no tax implications for me as this is not my first transfer, I live
in the EEA and have no intention of leaving.
I am fully aware that pension transfers are open to scams and accept this transfer is
done at my own risk. However I completed thorough due diligence and was advised
when I set up this QROPS and I am confident this is not the case.
Information about (the QROPS) is easily available to you on the internet and you do
not have any valid reason or legal right to refuse my transfer.
As this is an existing QROPs I do not need further advice on the transfer. This was
well researched when I took out the scheme.
There are no charges for me to make this transfer into an existing scheme and I do
not need further financial advice.
On 8 July 2019 Scottish Equitable phoned Mrs M as they were conducting due diligence
checks into the circumstances of Mrs Ms transfer. They followed this call with an email to
Mrs M highlighting a growing trend of QROPS fraud.
On 18 July 2019 Scottish Equitable wrote to Mrs M saying they had taken the decision not to
transfer her pension to the provider in Malta. In their letter, Scottish Equitable said their due
diligence investigation had identified concerns that led them to suspect Mrs M may be the
victim of a pension scam. They said that they couldnt find any record of Mrs Ms financial
advisor C based in Cyprus, indicating C wasnt authorised to provide pension transfer
advice.
C then wrote to Scottish Equitable on 22 July 2019. In his email he gave the full name of his
company and said he was regulated by the Insurance Company Control Service. He said the
company didnt give investment advice and therefore werent licenced to do so. 
Mrs M wasnt happy with Scottish Equitable denying and delaying her transfer. So, she
emailed them on 31 July 2019 and followed this up with a phone call on 1 August 2019.
During the call Scottish Equitable said they would respond to Mrs Ms complaint in writing.
Scottish Equitable responded to Mrs Ms complaint saying they couldnt explain to Mrs M
exactly why they rejected her request to transfer her pension. But that they didnt take those
decisions lightly. They said their decision wouldnt change but Mrs M still had the option of
trying to transfer using another provider.
Mrs M remained unhappy with Scottish Equitables response so brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. During his investigation Mrs M said that C hadnt
given her advice on whether to transfer her pension. She said C had given her advice on the
underlying Prudential bonds her pension would be invested into. Our investigator passed this
information on to Scottish Equitable on 15 May 2020. Scottish Equitable say based on this
information, they decided to allow the pension transfer to go ahead. They transferred the
funds to the QROPS on 29 May 2020. Scottish Equitable said it was only after the
clear statement that C didnt give Mrs M advice that they were able to allow the transfer to go 
ahead. So, they didnt think they had delayed the transfer.
I sent Mrs M and Scottish Equitable my provisional decision on 17 March 2021. In it I said 
Scottish Equitable should have sought further clarification from Mrs M around her 
relationship with C. And had they asked more questions, they would have transferred 
Mrs Ms pension to the QROPs earlier than they did. So, I said Scottish Equitable should 
compensate Mrs M for the delay. 
In response to my provisional decision Scottish Equitable said that having been told by 
Mrs M that shed taken advice on the transfer, they werent in a position to know what further 
questions needed to be asked of her. 
Mrs M accepted my provisional decision. And so, the case has been returned to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 What were Scottish Equitables responsibilities?
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out overriding principles for
financial businesses in their handbook. Amongst other things the FCA says Scottish
Equitable had to conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence. And they also had
to pay due regard to the interests of Mrs M and treat her fairly.
The Pension Scams Industry Group (PSIG), a voluntary group of representatives fromorganisations across the pensions industry, also issued a renewed version of their code of
good practice in June 2019. Whilst the code was not statutory and didnt override existing
requirements or legal obligations, it served as a guide to good practice in the industry to help
businesses assess transfer requests for scams. The code suggested ways in which Scottish
Equitable could identify scams and make their customers aware of their existence.
But the Pensions Schemes Act 1993, also gave Mrs M a statutory right to transfer her
pension to another pension provider. Providing the receiving scheme conforms with the
requirements of the act.
Scottish Equitable eventually did transfer Mrs Ms pension to the QROPS. But only after
Mrs M brought her complaint to our service and she clarified her relationship with the parties
involved. So, the issue to determine here, is whether I think Scottish Equitable were fair and
reasonable in the way they handled Mrs Ms request to transfer and the delay it caused.
Should Scottish Equitable have transferred Mrs Ms pension to the QROPS earlier than they
did?
I think they should have. Ill explain why.
When transferring a pension overseas, there can be a greater risk of customers falling victim
to fraud and scams. And those customers may also have less protection for reclaiming lost
funds. So, I appreciate why Scottish Equitable were cautious when Mrs M asked them to
transfer her funds overseas. And I think it was in Mrs Ms best interests for
Scottish Equitable to conduct due diligence checks to ensure Mrs M wasnt falling victim to
fraud.
Scottish Equitable first asked Mrs M several questions about the transfer in a questionnaire.
One of the questions asked was Have you ever received advice in connection with
transferring your pension fund overseas? Mrs M recorded the name of an advisor shed
spoken to in Cyprus. Unfortunately, Mrs M recorded the business name incorrectly which
later led to Scottish Equitable being unable to find the business registered on government
websites. So, because of Mrs Ms answer to this question, Scottish Equitable became
concerned Mrs M had received advice to transfer her pension from an unregulated advisor.
Mrs M later said she hadnt received advice to transfer her pension from C. And I can
appreciate Mrs Ms point that the question asked was whether shed received advice
in connection with the transfer. And Mrs M says advice C gave was around the underlying
Prudential bonds her pension would be invested in within the QROPS  so it was loosely
connected to her pension transfer. Customers dont always understand the importance or
relevance of the questions they are being asked.
The rest of the questionnaire was answered by Mrs M in a way to suggest she wasnt the
victim a fraud. The receiving scheme was genuine and included on HMRCs list of QROPS.
And Mrs M had included literature around the funds, fees, trust deeds and rules of the
scheme. Mrs M also confirmed she wasnt expecting to liberate any funds through the
transfer and wasnt being pressured into making the transfer.
Receiving unregulated advice would be a warning sign of a pensions scam. And the PSIG
code of good practice warned against the risk of unregulated advisors scamming investors
or advising them to invest in unsuitable funds. When Mrs M incorrectly noted the company
name of advisor C on her form, I can see why Scottish Equitable became concerned.
Especially as they could find no record of Cs business existing or that C was in fact a
financial advisor. So, I think it was reasonable for them to make further enquiries to ensure
Mrs M wasnt a victim of fraud.The PSIG code of good practice suggested providers phone their members directly and ask
questions about the reasons for transfer, how the request came about and who, if anyone,
was providing advice to the member.
Scottish Equitable called Mrs M on 8 July 2019. And theyve provided a recording of the call.
During the call Scottish Equitable said the purpose of the call was to establish that Mrs M
was fully aware of the transfer and its possible implications. Mrs M was asked what
prompted her to move her pension. She responded by explaining the scheme was already
set up as shed already transferred another pension into it. So, she wanted to have all of her
pensions in one place.
Scottish Equitable then asked if Mrs M had taken financial advice from a regulated financial
advisor to do the transfer. Mrs M said she had a financial advisor in Cyprus, but she also
said when the initial transfer to the QROPS was set up shed had to pay for a report from
another financial advisor, as the transfer had required it by UK law. So, Mrs M said shed
received quite a lot of advice about this. Mrs M again confirmed shed not been put under
any pressure to transfer. Whilst it may not have reassured Scottish Equitable that the advice
from C was suitable or regulated, the information Mrs M provided showed shed previously
received regulated advice from a UK firm about the same pension scheme and investments.
Scottish Equitable followed the call up with an email to Mrs M. In it, they said Mrs Ms
circumstances met several of the warning signs the FCA identified for pension fraud. And so,
it provided links to articles and organisations that could help Mrs M. It also asked for her to
confirm again she was happy to proceed with the transfer. Alerting Mrs M to the potential for
fraud and providing her with information in order for her to protect herself against fraud was,
I think, a reasonable thing for Scottish Equitable to do. It was also consistent with the PSIG
code.
In their letter to Mrs M on 18 July 2019, Scottish Equitable told Mrs M they had taken the
decision not to transfer Mrs Ms funds based on the due diligence they had conducted.
Specifically, Scottish Equitable said they could find no trace of her advisor C registered with
the Cypriot regulator for financial advisors, nor could they find any evidence of the existence
of Cs business. I can see why this would upset and frustrate Mrs M, given shed met her
advisor and knew the business existed. But from the information Scottish Equitable had at
the time, I think it was reasonable for them to continue to delay the transfer while they still
had concerns over Cs involvement. That being said, Scottish Equitables letter didnt invite
any further comments or information from Mrs M. I think a reasonable approach would have
been to say theyd keep the decision under review, pending any further information from 
Mrs M. After all, Scottish Equitable had only had a brief conversation with Mrs M over the 
phone and hadnt asked any questions around the advice shed been given.
C then emailed Scottish Equitable and I can appreciate why his email caused further
confusion. C said he was regulated to give advice on insurance contracts but not investment
advice. And whilst the email should have at least clarified that the business was legitimate,
Scottish Equitable say this was irrelevant as it was still quite clear to them C shouldnt be
advising Mrs M on her pension transfer. Im satisfied that Cs email didnt contain enough
information to satisfy Scottish Equitables reasonable due diligence checks.
Mrs M called Scottish Equitable on 1 August to seek clarification on exactly what the issue
was. She asked for an explanation in plain English as to why her fund couldnt be
transferred. Mrs M then directly asked if the issue was that Scottish Equitable had an
objection to the QROPS. The call handler replied, yes because our investigation identified
concerns which leads us to suspect that you may be a victim of pension scamming. Mrs M
then asked do you have any problem with the advice that I received? to which the callhandler said No. Mrs M then went on to explain this was her second transfer into the
QROPS and shed already transferred a much larger defined benefit pension nine months
before. Shed paid for a report and been through due diligence with the company shed
transferred from. She reiterated the receiving scheme were recognised by HMRC as a
QROPS. So, she asked exactly what Scottish Equitable were unhappy about.
Mrs M also asked to speak to someone who was able to tell her exactly what the issue with
the QROPS was. But Mrs M wasnt put through to anybody, she was told by the call handler
that their complaints department would answer her query.
Scottish Equitable have acknowledged the call was handled poorly. They say their error in
telling Mrs M the problem was with the QROPS didnt make a material difference to the
complaint. But I disagree. Ill explain why.
Scottish Equitable should have told Mrs M their issue was with C. And that they were
concerned he may not have the appropriate qualifications to give Mrs M advice on
transferring her pension. Mrs M would have then been able to make an informed decision on
whether she still wanted to transfer her pension because from what I can see, Scottish
Equitable isnt disputing that she had a statutory and/or contractual right to do so.
Its clear Mrs M wanted to clear up any misunderstandings and provide further information to
help Scottish Equitables due diligence checks. So, I think its likely had Mrs M been told the
issue was in fact with C, she would have provided further clarification about the advice she
was given.
However, Scottish Equitable didnt allow Mrs M to provide them any further clarification or
explanation as shed asked. Instead, they provided a response in their final response letter
to Mrs Ms complaint. And despite their assurances on the phone, the letter didnt help
Mrs M understand what caused Scottish Equitable to deny the transfer, as it said, Im unable
to confirm exactly why we rejected this transfer but we dont make these decisions lightly.
The letter also went on to say To confirm, this is our company stance and our decision wont
change. So, I think Mrs M was denied the opportunity to clear up her relationship with C, as
Scottish Equitable didnt respond to Mrs Ms request to talk about the issue further and told
her their decision wouldnt change. I think that was unfair.
It was only after Mrs M brought her complaint to our service and our investigator asked direct
questions about the nature of the advice C gave Mrs M that Scottish Equitable were satisfied
Mrs M wasnt given advice to transfer her pension by C. But I see no reason why Scottish
Equitable couldnt have asked those questions at the time of their due diligence checks. It
appears Scottish Equitable accepts that Mrs M had a statutory right to transfer, so they were
denying her that right without giving her an opportunity to address their concerns. I think it
would have been reasonable to allow Mrs M the opportunity to clarify her circumstances and
provide her with accurate information as to why they werent allowing the transfer to go
ahead. Had Scottish Equitable asked further questions, I think its likely Mrs M would have
given them the same answers she gave us. Which would have satisfied Scottish Equitables
due diligence checks several months earlier.
Scottish Equitable say that at the time, they had been told by Mrs M that shed taken advice 
to transfer, so they werent in a position to know that further questions needed to be asked. 
Whilst I acknowledge that Scottish Equitable may not have know exactly what to ask of 
Mrs M, the point is that I think Scottish Equitable needed to keep the conversation open to 
get to the bottom of their concerns about the advice. But instead they told Mrs M their 
decision wouldnt change. Had the conversation remained open, I think Mrs M would have 
clarified her relationship with C, as she did with our service and the transfer would have 
happened earlier than it did.  When deciding how best to put Mrs M into the position she would have been in had
Scottish Equitable transferred her pension earlier, Ive thought about the date on which I
think its likely the transfer should have happened. Scottish Equitable told us they transferred
Mrs Ms pension 14 days after they accepted Mrs Ms statement that C hadnt provided her
with advice.
When Mrs M called Scottish Equitable on 1 August 2019, she was seeking clarity over the
exact cause of the issue. And had she been given the correct information, I think its likely
she would have provided the same explanation about her relationship with C that she
provided us. Therefore, I think its reasonable to say the transfer should have taken place 
14 days after that call, so on 15 August 2019.
 
Putting things right
 Scottish Equitable should work out the notional value of the QROPS on the date of my final
decision, as if the transfer had taken place on 15 August 2019. This should of course be
based on the notional transfer value of the Scottish Equitable plan on 15 August 2019 and
then grown forward in line with the performance of the same funds Mrs M invested in her
QROPS.
If the notional value of the QROPS is higher than its actual value, there is
a loss and Scottish Equitable should arrange with the scheme to augment the value of
the scheme by the appropriate sum and additionally meet all charges involved.
If there is a loss but the QROPS cannot be augmented, Scottish Equitable should pay the
lost sum to Mrs M less a deduction reflecting the local tax liability on retirement benefits paid
from the QROPS. Assuming the scheme and benefits are denominated in euros, the redress
should be paid in euros.
I can also see Mrs M was caused distress and inconvenience by Scottish Equitable failing to
give a clear explanation as to why they wouldnt transfer her funds. Their unprofessional
handling of the call on 1 August also added to Mrs Ms distress. So, Im minded to say
Scottish Equitable should also pay Mrs M £200 for the inconvenience and distress they
caused.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive given in this and my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
I direct Scottish Equitable Plc to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman