DRN-4361385
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Santander UK Plc has declined to refund the money she lost when she 
fell victim in 2018 to what now appears to have been an investment scam. 
What happened
In February 2018, Mrs K invested in a bond issued by a UK based company (that Ill refer to 
as F). She made this investment through a £5,000 Faster Payments bank transfer from her 
Santander account.
F (and the associated group) has since entered administration. The liquidator has indicated 
investors in the bond may only be able to recover between 5-10% of their investments. While 
Mrs K says she received some interest payments from F, it therefore appears she faces the 
loss of the majority of her capital  a significant sum. 
Besides the financial loss, Mrs K has detailed how the failure of this investment has had a 
significant impact on her personally.
Mrs K reported what had happened to Santander in 2023, alleging she had been the victim 
of a scam from which Santander had failed to protect her. She highlighted why she had 
serious concerns that F misled investors and had not been a legitimate investment scheme.
She complained when the bank did not reimburse her. Amongst other points, she said 
Santander hadnt acted in accordance with the relevant rules and guidance by failing to 
question her about the original payment. Had Santander done so, it would have come to light 
the investment was not legitimate, and her loss would have been prevented. 
Santander said the payment had gone to an unregulated investment which has since gone 
into liquidation, and so it did not consider Mrs K had been the victim of a scam. This had 
been a failed investment and Mrs K had a civil dispute with F. In any event, Santander said it 
wasnt liable for any losses because Mrs K had authorised the payment, and it did not have 
any reason to intervene or block Mrs Ks payment request.
Mrs K referred the matter to our service and one of our Investigators didnt uphold her 
complaint. She noted that Mrs K had made the payment online and Mrs K hadnt spoken to 
Santander about the payment. The Investigator thought Santander ought to have contacted 
Mrs K to discuss the payment as it was unusual compared to her typical account usage. But 
even had Santander done so, the Investigator didnt think the bank (or Mrs K) would have 
identified concerns about F sufficient that Mrs K wouldnt have proceeded - given what the 
bank and Mrs K could reasonably have uncovered at the time. The Investigator didnt think 
Santander could have prevented Mrs Ks loss.
Mrs K maintained that had Santander intervened it would have been able to identify several 
concerning aspects of the investment, and therefore should have warned her about it. In 
particular, shed have checked if F was registered with the FCA. Had the bank done so, this 
would have stopped her from making the payment, and avoided the loss she has suffered.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. Where the evidence is incomplete or missing, I am required to make my findings based 
on a balance of probabilities  in other words what I consider is most likely given the 
information available to me.
I am extremely sorry to hear about the situation Mrs K is now in, following the failure of F, 
and the impact it has had on her. She has sustained a significant financial loss, through no 
fault of her own. She invested into F and Mrs K now has concerns that F was operating 
fraudulently. However, I do not have the power to consider the actions of F. The complaint 
I am limited to deciding is the one Mrs K brings against her bank, Santander. That means I 
must focus on whether I consider Santander was at fault in any way - and if so, what 
difference I think that fault likely made.
The starting position in law is that Mrs K is responsible for transactions shes carried out 
herself. Both sides accept Mrs K gave the payment instruction (albeit under the belief that 
she was making a genuine investment). Santanders primary obligation here was to carry out 
her instructions without delay. 
However, taking into account regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Id expect Santander to 
have been on the lookout for out of character or unusual transactions, as well as other 
indications that its customer might be at risk of financial harm from fraud or scam. 
In circumstances where such concerns arose, Id expect the bank, as a matter of good 
industry practice, to have intervened to a proportionate extent prior to processing the 
payment instruction to reassure itself the payment wasnt likely part of a scam or fraud.
Here, Santander did not intervene this extent. The banks records appear to show it sent 
Mrs K a text message to her mobile to confirm she authorised the payment (which at that 
point she did, unaware of the concerns she later uncovered). 
But even if I were to accept that Santander ought to have intervened to a greater extent and 
taken the further step of blocking her instruction until it could be discussed with Mrs K, I 
consider it unlikely this would have prevented her eventual loss. 
I cannot rely on the benefit of hindsight  I must consider what Santander could reasonably 
have established in the course of proportionate enquiry to Mrs K about her payment back in 
February 2018. While there are now concerns about the legitimacy of Fs business, these 
began to surface several years after Mrs Ks payment was made.
Mrs K has provided copies of investment literature I understand she received at the time. 
Given the payment was being made online, Santander wouldnt have seen this. I dont think 
Santander could reasonably have been expected to insist on Mrs K producing this 
information before it would allow her to send her money to the scheme  it would need to 
have held serious concerns already for that to be a proportionate response. But in any event, 
I have considered whether it would have likely made any difference if it had.The document appears professional and convincing. It gives an explanation of investment 
risks and recommended investors to seek independent financial advice prior to making an 
investment decision. It said the financial promotion had been approved by an FCA regulated 
firm. On the face of it, I dont think there was enough here for Santander (or Mrs K) to have 
reasonably suspected F was other than it seemed  this was in line with what a brochure for 
a legitimate investment might look like and say.
Mrs K explains that shed been referred (by the adviser) to the FCAs website already. It had 
been suggested to her that she should check F against the FCAs warning list (where it did 
not appear). Had Santander suggested this to her, I cannot exclude the possibility that Mrs K 
would simply have explained shed already been to the FCA website. 
Even if Mrs K had not responded in that way, I think its relevant that, at that time, the type of 
bond being offered by F wasnt one which would have required F to be registered with the 
FCA. So, F not being listed on the register would not be a particular cause for concern. 
Indeed, that point is made in the investment literature Mrs K has provided  finding out that 
information would not have contradicted the investment details she had received. 
Instead, the brochure explained that the bond promotion had been authorised by an FCA 
regulated firm (as was required) and provided the name and details of that firm. Based on 
what I have seen, even if Mrs K had gone on to check that firm with the FCA, this further 
step wouldnt have uncovered any cause for concern  it was listed. Again, this matched 
what the brochure said. 
Mrs K argues that F (or intermediaries acting on its behalf) did not act in accordance with 
rules around the marketing of unregulated investments, such as this was. She argues that 
the unsuitability of this investment for her as an investor should have been a sign to 
Santander that the advice was not legitimately provided - it should have identified and 
warned her about this. 
However, Santander didnt have any obligation to step in to protect its customers from 
potentially risky investments. And I find Santander couldnt have considered the suitability or 
unsuitability of third-party investment products or advice without itself assessing Mrs Ks 
circumstances, investment needs and financial goals. 
Taking such steps to assess suitability without an explicit request from Mrs K (which there 
was not here) would have gone far beyond the scope of what I could reasonably expect of 
Santander in any proportionate response to what, on the face of it, was a seemingly 
legitimate payment request from its customer.
All considered, I dont think it wouldve been readily apparent in 2018 that F might be 
fraudulent rather than simply a potentially risky investment. Im not persuaded sufficient 
information was readily and publicly available at the time which would have caused 
Santander (or Mrs K) specific concerns about the risk of loss through fraud.
To summarise, I can only reasonably expect any enquiries by Santander to have been 
proportionate to the perceived level of risk. And while Ive carefully reviewed all of Mrs Ks 
submissions, I dont find that significant concerns would (or could) have been uncovered by 
Santanders proportionate enquiries at the time. Neither do I think Mrs K could have done so 
at the relevant time. All considered, I dont think it likely that Santander could have prevented 
this payment from being made, or otherwise caused Mrs K not to proceed.
Finally, the recipient bank has confirmed that at the time Mrs K reported the matter to 
Santander, no recovery of her funds could have been possible. So at that point, even had 
Santander agreed F was fraudulent and attempted to recover Mrs Ks payment, it would have made no difference.
Having carefully considered everything Mrs K and Santander have submitted, I dont find 
Santander could have reasonably prevented Mrs Ks loss here. Neither do I find it materially 
at fault otherwise. I appreciate this will not be the answer Mrs K would like me to give her, 
and I am sorry to have to disappoint her. She has lost a significant sum. But it is simply the 
case that I dont consider I can fairly and reasonably hold Santander liable for that loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ks complaint 
about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman