DRN-3311116
The complaint
Ms N complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with her international payments.
What happened
Ms N says she called HSBC on 8 June 2021 to set up a new payee outside of the United 
Kingdom for two payments for apartment deposits. She says the first payment was made 
during the telephone call and she made the second payment herself online. Ms N says the 
second payment was not showing as completed online and so she assumed it hadnt gone 
through. She made a further payment but there was not enough money in the account and 
she then lost just under £200 in exchange rate differences. Ms N says she had recently had 
a medical procedure and this incident caused health issues as well as mental health 
problems. She would like appropriate compensation.
HSBC says there wasnt enough money in Ms Ns account to complete the transaction and 
so reversed it which meant an exchange rate difference. It says its terms and conditions 
make clear that an international transaction may take longer to go through. HSBC accepts it 
ought to have handled Ms Ns complaint more appropriately and accepts it didnt call her 
back as agreed. It has refunded the exchange rate difference of just under £200 and paid 
compensation of £230.
Ms N brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought HSBCs account terms and conditions made clear that additional checks may be 
made on international payments and that it was Ms N that made the additional payment 
which meant there wasnt enough money in her account to complete it. The investigator 
thought HSBC had acted fairly by refunding the exchange rate loss and paying £230 
compensation.
Ms N doesnt accept that view and says she has suffered a significant loss but hasnt 
explained what that loss is.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have looked carefully at Ms Ns account terms and conditions which I think she would have 
agreed to when the account was first opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that 
certain types of payments may take longer to process. So, I dont think HSBC made a 
mistake by not showing this transaction has being processed when Ms N checked the status 
of it. I appreciate Ms N assumed the transaction had not gone through and so made a 
second payment. I cant fairly hold HSBC responsible for that and also think that Ms N could 
have checked the position with HSBC before making the additional payment.
It follows that I dont think HSBC made a mistake by charging Ms N for the exchange rate 
difference in circumstances where I dont think it acted unfairly. But in any event, I can see 
that HSBC has refunded that amount.
HSBC accepts it could have dealt with Ms Ns call to it more appropriately and ought to have 
called her back. I can see that HSBC has apologised for that and paid what I think is a fair 
and reasonable compensation amount in total of £230.
I appreciate Ms N says she has suffered a financial loss. I dont think Ms N has been clear 
about what that loss relates to or how much it was for. I cant see any evidence of such loss 
and in any event, I dont think HSBC was at fault for the failed transaction which I think was 
caused by Ms N duplicating it. In those circumstances I cant fairly order HSBC pay any 
further compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman