DRN-1687389
The complaint
Mr B on behalf of Mrs B and Mrs S complains that The National Farmers Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited (NFU) unfairly withdrew cover in relation to their Legal Expenses 
Insurance (LEI) claim.
Where I refer to NFU, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
For ease of reading, Ill mostly refer to Mr B.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So Ill only provide a 
brief overview of the key events here.
In June 2019 Mrs B and Mrs S were involved in legal action, the costs of which were being 
funded by NFU under their policy. They were pursuing a solicitor G for professional 
negligence in relation to the purchase of property. They were also defending a counter-
claim. 
On 26 June 2019 NFU asked a solicitor to review the prospects of success in relation to Mrs 
B and Mrs Ss case. This was largely prompted by their discovery that Mr B had been 
convicted of an offence at court. The solicitor concluded that on the basis of Mr Bs 
conviction, Mrs B and Mrs Ss claim and the defence of the counterclaim didnt have 
prospects of success of 51% or more (which is a requirement of cover under the policy). 
So, NFU withdrew further cover under the policy. This was communicated to Mrs B and Mrs 
S. A complaint was raised and the matter was referred to our service. One of our 
investigators didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She concluded it was fair for NFU 
to rely on the legal opinion when making their decision to withdraw any further funding under 
the policy. 
Mr B (as a representative of Mrs B and Mrs S) disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman 
to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for largely the same reasons. Let me 
explain why. 
Mr B has made considerable submissions with regard to this complaint. Ive read everything 
thats been sent in and have listened to some of the calls between Mr B and our investigator. 
I wont however be responding in similar detail. So if I dont mention a particular point, or 
piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont 
feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. I hope Mr B doesnt take this as a 
discourtesy; it is just a reflection of the informal nature of our service.Mrs B and Mrs Ss policy says: We will provide indemnity for the operative covers shown on 
your schedule provided that in civil claims it is always more likely than not that an insured 
person will recover damages (or obtain any other legal remedy which [NFU] have agreed to) 
or make a successful defence.
A term like this can be found in nearly all LEI policies and I dont think it is unfair. A private 
paying customer wouldnt generally continue legal action if they were advised they were 
unlikely to win. I dont think an insurer should have to either. 
NFU themselves arent legal experts. So I think it is fair for them to rely on suitably qualified 
legal opinion when making decisions about a claim. Unless the advice is so obviously wrong 
that a layperson could be expected to identify that.
Mr B believes the legal opinion is problematic and cant fairly be relied upon for a number of 
reasons. Some of these include it being based upon an online news article about his 
conviction  which he says in inaccurate. He also raises numerous other concerns, such as 
it (and NFU in their correspondence)  mistakenly referring to a separate policy held by a 
limited company S (of which Mrs B and Mrs S are directors) rather than the correct policy in 
their joint names. 
Ss policy with NFU includes a very similar term requiring that there are reasonable 
prospects of success for cover to be available. So, having carefully thought about this point  
Im not persuaded it makes a difference here. The requirement for there to be reasonable 
prospects of success is very common and Im not persuaded the policy referred to in these 
circumstances makes a material difference. 
I accept that the online article isnt entirely accurate based on further information that Mr B 
has provided  the details of the sentencing being one example of this.  However, Mr B has 
provided evidence to show that in March 2019 he pleaded guilty in court to two counts of 
forgery. He has also provided evidence of the charge sheets in relation to the forgery and 
one of those records that it was in relation to a loan to buy the property in question. 
I also accept that the solicitor, who wrote the opinion, didnt have the full file in relation to the 
claim  something I would usually expect. 
The solicitor himself said that his opinion was largely based on the existence of the 
prosecution. So if the solicitor felt unable to form an opinion (on prospects) without greater 
clarity from reviewing the full file, I think he would have said so. 
Again, I appreciate the solicitor made several references to fraud. And Mr B points out he 
was convicted of forgery not fraud. Mr B also points out that cover was withdrawn, before he 
was sentenced. Ive thought about this and Im not persuaded either of these points mean 
the solicitors opinion cant be relied upon by NFU. Mr B pleaded guilty in March 2019 and 
the cover was withdrawn in July 2019, Im not sure the delay in him being sentenced makes 
a difference. And similarly Im not persuaded that Mr B being convicted of forgery rather than 
fraud makes a material difference; he was convicted of an offence involving dishonesty 
which Im satisfied was linked to the purchase of the property in question.
Mr B has also made much of the fact that he isnt a policyholder and he says the purchase 
that the loan related to was for a lot of the property that he himself had no direct 
involvement in. Its clear the solicitor was well aware that Mr B wasnt directly involved in the 
legal action with G. And he formed his opinion on that basis. As a solicitor, and with 
knowledge of the relationship between Mr B, Mrs B and Mrs S  I think he is qualified to 
make that judgement as to whether or not it impacted on the prospects of success of Mrs B 
and Mrs Ss legal action. Overall I dont think that is was unfair for NFU to have relied on the solicitors opinion when 
making their decision to withdraw cover. Im satisfied its author was suitably qualified and I 
dont agree it is obviously incorrect. I would normally expect NFU to share the legal opinion 
upon which their decision was based sooner than they did. However, Mrs B and Mrs S were 
promptly informed of NFUs decision and given an overview of some of the reasons why. 
They would have had the option to obtain a conflicting solicitors opinion supporting that their 
claim did meet the prospects required by the policy. 
I understand the legal action against G has now concluded. But if Mrs B and Mrs S were to 
provide an opinion based on the information available at that time, that supported the claim 
had reasonable prospects of success  Id expect NFU to consider it. But as things stand, I 
dont think they need to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman