DRN-1415917
The complaint
Ms S has complained about her home insurer QIC Europe Ltd because it has avoided her 
policy (treated it as though it has never existed) and, by association, declined her claim 
made following a burglary at her home. 
What happened
Ms S arranged her cover in 2015 via a price comparison website. It renewed in the years 
since. In 2018, prior to the policy renewing Ms S was sent policy documents (as she had 
been in the years before). The documents cautioned Ms S to make sure the cover she had 
was sufficient  she had £75,000 to replace all her contents items including valuables 
(although shed told QIC £45,000 was enough for all her contents). A part of that was 
£10,000 for all her valuables in her home (worth less than £2,000 each) and shed said that 
none of the valuable items she owned were worth more than £2,000 each.
In June 2019 Ms S was burgled. She made a full loss list to the police and gave the same list 
to QIC. Ms S was interviewed by QICs claims investigator and it transpired that her stolen 
jewellery (not all the jewellery she owned was stolen) was worth in excess of £60,000, with 
several worth more that £5,000 each. Ms S said she only wanted to claim for the £10,000 of 
cover she had, she didnt expect QIC to pay her more than that. 
QIC told Ms S that if it had known about the extent of her valuables, it wouldnt have offered 
her a policy. It said it was avoiding her cover from the 2018 renewal, but it would refund her 
premium. Ms S said she didnt recall ever having been asked about replacement values for 
all her contents and she hadnt known what her jewellery was worth. Ms S also said the 
policy terms were confusing and that the interviewer had been trying to trap her so her claim 
could be declined. Ms S said she has mental health issues which affect her interpretation 
and judgement and she hadnt seen that any of QICs processes checked or accounted for 
that.
When QIC wouldnt change its position Ms S complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold Ms Ss complaint. He felt QIC had acted reasonably given what Ms S should 
reasonably have known and what the law allowed QIC to do.
Ms S said she accepted that she had overlooked the importance of providing up to date 
values to QIC but stated that she had not known that the total worth of her jewellery 
exceeded the cover arranged. She asked again, particularly in light of her mental health 
issues, that QIC just pay her claim based on the policy limits available.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, with regret for any upset this causes Ms S, Im not minded to uphold her 
complaint. Ill explain why.
There is legislation which sets out the rights and duties of both parties when applying for and 
renewing policies of insurance. That is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
CIDRA requires a prospective policyholder to take reasonable care to not make any 
misrepresentation to the insurer when applying for cover (at the outset and at renewal). If a 
misrepresentation is made which is a qualifying misrepresentation then the insurer will be 
allowed to take certain action. 
If reasonable care wasnt taken by the prospective policyholder, and the insurer can show 
that if it had been, it wouldnt have entered in to the insurance contract, or it would but only 
on different terms, the misrepresentation made is seen to have been a qualifying one. And 
the insurer will be allowed to set the clock back to reflect what would have happened if the 
misrepresentation hadnt been made. 
Whether the prospective policyholder took reasonable care will depend largely on whether 
the question asked by the insurer was clear and/or specific enough to elicit from the reader 
what it really was the insurer wanted to know.
The question QIC asked at renewal was clear and specific. QIC asked to be told about the 
total replacement value for all Ms Ss contents items including valuables, and to confirm that 
the valuable items in her home (individually worth less than £2,000) did not exceed £10,000.
Ms S accepts that she didnt check the value of her items and that, as a result, the answer 
she gave QIC was, technically, incorrect. Ms S had the opportunity to check her valuables  
this policy and the relevant sums had been in place for a number of years before the renewal 
in question. And whilst Ms S is not a jewellery expert its reasonably understood by laymen 
that the price of gold generally increases over time. 
Whilst I understand that some items Ms S owned had been received as gifts (meaning she 
wasnt aware of what their purchase price was), I also understand she bought a lot of items 
herself, and many in recent years. I think she should have had a general regard to the value 
of her items when her policy renewed, especially as she was aware she herself had added 
to the value with new items, and her failure to check that and make sure she had given QIC 
correct information was a failure to take reasonable care. It also seems to me that as Ms S is 
aware that she has difficulty interpreting information she also failed to take reasonable care 
by not double checking her understanding of matters and what information she was being 
asked to provide when her policy renewed.
QIC has shown me that if it had known Ms S had jewellery items in excess of £20,000 it 
wouldnt have offered her cover. Consequently, I find that its action of avoiding Ms Ss policy 
was reasonable as it was in line with the rights afforded to it by CIDRA.
I know Ms S feels QIC should just pay her claim in line with the cover she arranged. But that 
is not how insurance works. Ms S carelessly misrepresented herself to QIC at renewal and if 
she hadnt QIC would not have been on risk at the time of the claim. As Ive explained the 
legislation allows QIC to set the clock back, to how things would have been for it if the 
careless act hadnt occurred. That is what it has done and I cant fault it for that. 
 My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against QIC Europe Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman