DRN-2861181
The complaint
Mr O complains about charges levied by Santander Consumer (UK) Plc at the end of a hire 
agreement.  
What happened
In June 2018 Mr O entered into a two-year hire agreement with Santander for a new car. 
Under the agreement Mr O was to return the car in good condition  meaning undamaged 
and with no abnormal wear and tear. Mr O was to pay for any repairs needed to put the car 
in good condition. 
When the car was returned Santander said that it identified four areas of damage. Mr O 
acknowledged one item of damage (a seat back cover) but did not accept the others. They 
were scratches to the front and rear bumper and scuffs to some internal trim. In total 
Santander invoiced Mr O £400 in respect of the disputed matters. 
Mr O said that, when the car had been collected, he had not been given the opportunity to 
agree or dispute the charges or the condition of the car. He did not agree that the matters 
identified were as significant as Santander had claimed. He referred the matter to this 
service.     
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He reviewed the condition report that had 
been prepared when the car was returned and the photographs included in it. He compared 
them with the industry guidance published by The British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA). Taking that guidance into account, he thought that the damage 
identified was sufficiently significant that it went beyond wear and tear. Santander had been 
within its rights to charge Mr O for it. 
Mr O did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O says that he was not given the opportunity to check the alleged damage to the car 
before it was collected from his property. The collection report notes that he was unable to 
sign anything because of the Covid-19 pandemic but that he was aware of the inspection 
results. I am not persuaded however that Mr O was made fully aware of the inspection 
results at the time. His contact with the inspector is likely to have been limited (for the same 
reason he could not sign anything) and I doubt he and the inspector looked very closely 
together at any damage to the car. 
However, the main reason for agreeing what damage is present is to avoid disputes such as 
this one. A lack of agreement does not mean that Santander cannot charge for damage 
which is in fact present. Agreement from the customer is not a condition of charging, and in 
some cases the customer might not even be present at collection. 
The primary issue for me to consider is therefore whether  as a question of fact  there was 
damage to the car and, if there was, whether it went beyond fair wear and tear such that 
Santander was entitled to charge for it. 
I note in this respect that Mr O does not appear that there was some damage. Rather, he 
says that the items identified (with the exception of the seat cover) were so minor as to fall 
within the wear and tear exception. 
Having reviewed the evidence of the damage, I broadly agree with the investigators 
assessment here. The scratches and dent to the bumpers are sufficiently deep that it does 
not appear that they can be polished out. There are multiple scuff marks to the interior. The 
investigator commented in a little more detail on each particular item of damage, so I do not 
need to repeat what he said about them. I do not believe that the charges have been applied 
unfairly in this case.   
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to 
take any further steps to resolve Mr Os complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman