DRN-3763978
The complaint
Mr M believes Zuto Limited caused delays to the collection of his car when he took a hire 
purchase agreement.
What happened
In March 2022 Mr M acquired a used car using a hire purchase agreement provided by a 
company Ill refer to as Q. Zuto were the credit intermediary.
Zuto asked the dealer to provide it with a photo of the V5 document in order to release the 
funds. The dealer initially refused as it said this was a data protection breach. It later sent 
Zuto a redacted copy and Zuto released the funds, allowing Mr M to collect his car.
Mr M says Zuto sent a text message to him saying the funds had been released, when they 
hadnt. And he says it shouldnt have asked for the V5 and the delay caused by this made 
him miss an appointment the car was booked in for, as well as causing him to lose income.
Mr M complained to Zuto and it issued a final response. In summary, it said the text 
message had been sent in error. It said the dealer caused a delay by sending it an invoice 
with an incorrect address on. And it said the dealer needed to provide proof of ownership 
and proof of purchase so it was right to ask for the V5. It said the dealer shouldve been 
aware it could redact this, which is what eventually happened.
Zuto upheld the complaint in part and offered £50 to Mr M. Mr M remained unhappy with this 
and brought the complaint to our service. He asked for £180 for the missed appointment and 
compensation for loss of income.
Our investigator said he thought the offer Zuto made was fair in relation to the text message. 
He said, in summary, that he didnt think Zuto asked for unnecessary information. And so he 
didnt think it had caused delays.
Mr M was unhappy with this. He said, in summary, that an email chain showed Zuto asked 
for the V5 with the previous owners details on and it wouldnt accept a redacted version. 
Our investigator said this didnt change their opinion, so the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the offer Zuto have made is reasonable. Ill explain why.
Mr M believes Zuto should not have asked for the V5. Zuto have explained this is part of its 
normal process. It isnt my place to investigate Zutos business practices. But, I dont think it 
was a particularly unreasonable request to make from the dealer. 
Ive looked at the email chain Mr M provided between Zuto and the dealer. I accept that Zuto 
dont specifically request a redacted version of the V5. But, I dont agree with Mr M that this 
shows it told the dealer it wouldnt accept a redacted version.
I can see there is a disagreement between the dealer and Zuto about whether the V5 is 
required or not and whether this would cause issues around data protection.
Considering things pragmatically here, I think the dealer couldve sent a redacted version of 
the V5 earlier if it had concerns around data protection  which it eventually did. Zuto 
accepted this and it solved the issue.
Thinking about things in the round here, I dont think Zuto caused unnecessary delays. It 
follows I dont think it needs to cover the costs Mr M asked for.
Zuto have accepted the text message saying the funds had been released was sent in error. 
I think this wouldve been somewhat upsetting for Mr M to realise this wasnt the case. But, I 
think the £50 already offered is fair and reasonable to reflect this.
My final decision
Zuto Limited has made an offer to pay Mr M £50 to reflect what happened. My final decision 
is that Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable under the circumstances of this complaint.
So, I instruct Zuto Limited, if it hasnt already, to pay Mr M £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman