DRN-3228839
The complaint
Mr H complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited handled his motor insurance 
claim poorly.
What happened
In February 2021 Mr H hit a pothole whilst driving his car. He thought the car had been 
damaged as its engine was making a strange noise.  He claimed on his RSA motor 
insurance policy. He says he asked to use his own garage for the repairs but was told that 
wouldnt be possible. The car was collected and taken to RSAs own repairer. Mr H was 
provided with a courtesy car. 
A few weeks later his car was returned by the garage. But when he started it up the unusual 
engine noise was still there. RSA arranged for the car to go back to the repairer. He wasnt 
provided with a courtesy car as promised. 
Mr H was then told he would need to take his car to its manufacturers dealership for 
investigation. He wasnt happy about this as it meant driving what he considered to be an 
unsafe car for about 10 miles. Mr H feels RSA gave him incorrect information about his right 
to use his own garage. He says if it hadnt done that, he wouldnt have paid the £600 excess 
for repairs that cost RSA £640. He complained those repairs were largely cosmetic. He felt it 
should have dealt with the cause of the engine noise as part of the claim. 
RSA responded to a complaint from Mr H. It said neither its garage or an independent 
engineer found any relationship between the engine noise and the pothole incident. RSA 
said it would consider any diagnosis that showed a link. It said Mr H hadnt asked, during the 
initial claim call, about using his own garage. It apologised for its repairer not providing a 
courtesy car. It also apologised for a staff member of the repairing garage breaking speed 
limit whilst in possession of Mr Hs car. This had affected his policys telematics score. 
To try to put things right RSA amended Mr Hs telematics score. It also offered him £100 
compensation to recognise the unnecessary distress and inconvenience he had experienced 
during the claim. 
Our investigator said there wasnt anything to support Mr H having asked if he could use his 
own garage when first making his claim. She didnt find any record of RSA having told him 
he wouldnt be able to. She felt, based on the available expert evidence, RSAs decision that 
the engine problem wasnt related to the accident was fair. She said £100 compensation 
already offered was enough to recognise the impact of any poor service by RSA and its 
agents. Mr H didnt accept the investigators findings in full. So the complaint was passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not clear if Mr H would like me to consider RSAs refusal to deal with the engine problem. 
He said he accepted the investigators opinion on it but has since provided further points 
about the issue. So for completeness Ive considered RSAs decision. 
RSAs repairing garage didnt think the problem was related to the pothole incident. It felt it 
was probably caused by a lack of maintenance. Neither did the engineer, appointed by RSA, 
see a link between the incident and the problem. 
Mr Hs since had the problem dealt with. Hes provided an invoice for the replacement of 
ignition coils and leads. I dont know if hes provided this to RSA. Unfortunately the invoice 
doesnt provide any opinion from the repairer that considers the possibility of it being related 
to the incident. So considering the available expert opinion I cant say RSAs decision not to 
repair that problem, as part of the claim, was unreasonable.  
Mr H insists he was misled by RSA to believe he couldnt use his own repairer. Ive listened 
to two calls he made to report the incident to RSA. He doesnt ask about a choice of repairer. 
Theres no discussion on the issue. He seemed to accept without raising any concern that 
RSAs repairer would take on the work. Ive also heard a related call with a breakdown 
service provider. Again theres no discussion about choice of repairer. I accept its possible 
RSA did mislead Mr H. But I havent heard anything to support that. So, based on the 
evidence I cant fairly say they did. 
Mr H seems unhappy that the repair work only cost £640  whilst his excess was £600. I 
accept the excess covered most of the cost of the work. Its possible if he had known that 
would be case, he may not have gone through with the claim. But I cant say RSA did 
anything wrong there. It seems unlikely, in this case, that it would be aware of value of the 
claim related repairs until its garage had taken possession of his car and begun working on 
it. 
According to Mr H RSAs repairer completed mainly cosmetic work. Having looked at the 
repair estimate it seems to be type of repairs that might be expected following a pothole 
incident - including replacement of a wheel and underbody parts, plus various alignment 
checks. Im not persuaded it was unnecessary work. 
Having looked at RSAs records I can see the £100 compensation was intended to recognise 
all aspects of unnecessary inconvenience or distress it had caused Mr H  not just the 
telematics issue as hes claimed. I accept RSAs complaint response letter isnt clear on this.  
However, having considered everything I think its offer is a fair one to recognise the impact 
of any mistakes it made  including the failure to provide a courtesy car and the telematics 
issue. Mr H would like the policy excess of £600 refunded. It was charged in line with the 
terms of his policy. And I havent seen enough to persuade me compensation at that level is 
required for a fair outcome to his complaint. So Im not going to require RSA to refund it or 
pay him an equivalent amount in compensation. 
Its not clear if Mr H has been paid the £100. If he hasnt and would like to accept, he should 
get in touch with RSA.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman