DRN-2568894
The complaint
Mrs P complains Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) wont pay out a claim made 
under her motor insurance policy when her car was stolen.
For ease, reference to Calpe includes those acting on its behalf.  And reference to Mrs P 
also includes submissions from her husband.
What happened
In June 2019, Mrs Ps car was stolen from outside her place of work. A claim was made on 
her motor insurance policy which is provided by Calpe.
Calpe turned down the claim saying Mrs P had been using her car to travel to and from 
work. It said her policy specifically excluded this and only provided cover for social, domestic 
and pleasure use.
Mrs P complained to Calpe and said shed driven to her place of work in her private car to 
meet her husband who also worked there. 
Calpe stood by its decision to decline the claim. It said going to a place of work in a private 
car was still classed as commuting and Mrs Ps policy didnt cover this.
Our investigator concluded Calpe had dealt with the claim fairly and reasonably and didnt 
make any award against it. 
Mrs Ps asked for the matter to be reviewed. In response to the investigators view, shes 
said:
Her car wasnt used for work purposes  she and her husband have other vehicles 
for work with separate insurance policies;
On the day in question, she had popped in to see her husband. She had done a bit of 
work, but this was unplanned.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs P feels strongly about her complaint. But I can only uphold it and make an 
award against Calpe if I find it has done something wrong.
Motor insurance policies have various levels of cover and not every eventuality is covered. If 
the policy doesnt cover the driver and the policyholder at the time of the incident that led to 
the claim, then the insurer is entitled to refuse to pay that claim.
The starting point for Mrs Ps claim is her contract with Calpe  the policy of insurance. 
The certificate of motor insurance states:
6. Limitations as to use.
Use for social, domestic and pleasure purposes only excluding travel to and from a 
place of work or study, any business use.
The policy schedule also says Social domestic and pleasure excluding commuting.
Im satisfied the level of cover Mrs P bought doesnt include travelling to and from work. This 
means she wasnt insured to drive to work  it doesnt matter if the driving wasnt work-
related.
Ive listened to the notification of loss call. When asked about the purpose of use at the time, 
Calpe was informed Mrs P had popped into workcome to work. During the call, it was 
also established Mrs P had previously parked her car outside her place of work quite a few 
times.
Ive also reviewed the theft report form which Mrs P completed subsequently. It states, Car 
was left outside. where I work as we was [sic] going for food and drinks so my husband 
drove his car and we left my car
Mrs P says she wasnt working on the day in question. Ive read her witness statement. It 
says, I went about my daily routine completing the admin work. Ive thought about what 
Mrs Ps said regarding the loss adjuster mixing up her answers with her husbands. I accept 
mistakes can occur, but Im also mindful our investigator was told Mrs P had done some 
work that day. On balance, Im persuaded Mrs P carried out work-related duties even if it 
was unplanned.
Having considered the available information, Im satisfied Mrs P drove to her place of work 
on the day her car was stolen. As she wasnt insured to do this, it would be unfair of me to 
conclude Calpe did anything wrong in declining the claim. 
I understand Mrs P is very disappointed with Calpes decision to decline the claim. And I 
acknowledge this has had a financial impact. But taking everything into account, I dont think 
Calpe has acted unfairly in correctly applying the terms and conditions of the policy. So, 
while I appreciate Mrs Ps frustrations, I wont be asking Calpe to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman