DRN-4465480
The complaint
Ms G and Mr R complain about the way DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited 
dealt with a claim on their legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Ms G and Mr Rs property insurance policy includes legal expenses insurance. Mr R made a 
claim on the legal expenses cover in relation to an employment dispute. They are joint 
policyholders but this claim only concerned Mr R and he has dealt with all the 
correspondence so Ill refer to him throughout.
Mr R contacted DAS in February 2023 about making a claim. DAS accepted the claim and 
after a number of phone calls with Mr R, offered two panel firms of solicitors. Mr R chose one 
of the firms. 
The panel firm assessed the claim and said it had reasonable prospects of success, which is 
a requirement for cover to be provided. Mr R had a query about one aspect of the claim. And 
he said while the advice referred to a deadline in October 2023 for issuing an unfair 
dismissal claim, there was a more urgent deadline in April for making a whistleblowing claim. 
He said the individual dealing with the case didnt appear to be qualified to deal with it. 
Mr R asked if his own solicitors could be appointed but DAS said that wouldnt be possible 
until proceedings were about to be issued, and said the solicitor at the panel firm was 
suitably qualified to act for him. Mr R continued to dispute this. 
In May 2023 the panel solicitors questioned whether they should continue to act as Mr R 
didnt appear to have confidence in them. DAS then agreed to negotiate terms with Mr Rs 
own solicitors but said it might not meet their charging rate.
DAS agreed to Mr Rs solicitors acting at an hourly rate in line with the guideline rate for the 
area where Mr R lives, which was £232. This was around half their normal rate. It offered 
two other panel firms as alternatives. Mr R contacted both firms and spoke to a solicitor at 
one of them. He told DAS he might consider appointing that solicitor in future but couldnt 
change solicitors at that point as there were urgent deadlines to meet.
DAS wouldnt increase the hourly rate offered so Mr R complained but DAS said its offer was 
fair. It did accept there had been some delays and offered compensation of £150 for that, 
which Mr R didnt accept.
When Mr R referred his complaint to this service our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. She said:
DAS had appointed a panel firm, which was reasonable, and acted quickly to appoint 
the firm Mr R requested; 
it had clearly explained to Mr R he could instruct his own choice of solicitors once 
proceedings were necessary, which was in line with the policy terms; 
the policy terms dont specify an hourly rate, so there needs to be a reasonable rate;
the County Court guidelines are an appropriate guide and the rate offered was fair;
DAS offered Mr R options and tried to negotiate a reasonable rate with his solicitors.
The investigator said if Mr R wanted to continue with his solicitors, they would need to agree 
the rates offered by DAS.
 
Mr R didnt agree. He provided further comments which the investigator considered, but 
these didnt lead her to change her view so he requested an ombudsmans decision.
Mr R has provided detailed comments in support of his complaint. I wont set them out in full 
but the key points include:
his case needs specialist knowledge of both employment law and financial services 
regulation;
the key point in his complaint is that the panel firm didnt meet the definition of a 
preferred law firm and DAS never offered anyone who did;
none of the restrictions on hourly rates are set out in the policy terms;
there were lots of delays and £150 doesnt reflect the level of delay;
the guidelines refer to hourly rates for where the solicitor is based, not where he 
lives, and say an insurer cant offer a rate that renders his choice meaningless;
DAS did just that  offering one firm that wasnt suitable and another firm two months 
after his request and only seven working days before a deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules and guidance say insurers must deal with claims promptly and 
fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim. They should settle claims 
promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The policy provides cover for the type of claim Mr R wished to make, provided his claim was 
likely to succeed. Thats not unusual - almost all legal expenses policies require a claim to 
have reasonable prospects of success for cover to be provided. 
Where cover is provided, the policy terms say DAS will appoint a Preferred law firm, which 
is defined as
A law firm or barristers chambers we choose to provide legal services. These legal 
specialists are chosen as they have the proven expertise to deal with your claim and must 
comply with our agreed service standard levels, which we audit regularly.
They are appointed according to the standard terms of appointment. The policy terms also 
say:
On receiving a claim, if legal representation is necessary, we will appoint a preferred law firm 
as your appointed representative to deal with your claim. They will try to settle your claim by 
negotiation without having to go to court.
b. If the appointed preferred law firm cannot negotiate settlement of your claim and it is 
necessary to go to court and legal proceedings are issued or there is a conflict of interest, 
then you may choose a law firm to act as the appointed representative.
c. If you choose a law firm as your appointed representative who is not a preferred law firm, 
we will give your choice of law firm the opportunity to act on the same terms as a preferred law firm. However if they refuse to act on this basis, the most we will pay is the amount we 
would have paid if they had agreed to our standard terms of appointment.
In the event of a claim, if you decide not to use the services of a preferred law firm, you will 
be responsible for any costs that fall outside our standard terms of appointment and these 
will not be paid by us.
Insurers will seek legal advice on whether the claim is likely to succeed. They are entitled to 
rely on the legal advice unless its obviously wrong. DAS did that and the panel firm 
confirmed the claim had reasonable prospects of success. 
The panel firms advice was detailed and properly reasoned so, on the face of it, DAS was 
entitled to rely on that. But as Mr R raised some queries, I would expect it to review his 
questions. That doesnt, however, mean he had freedom of choice at that stage. 
DAS did look into Mr Rs concerns but Mr R says it should then have agreed to appoint his 
chosen solicitors and pay their hourly rate. While Mr R has raised various issues, the crux of 
the matter is whether the hourly rate offered was reasonable. Ive considered carefully 
whether DAS should have offered to pay Mr Rs own solicitors at the rate they requested.
Once Mr R got to the point where proceedings were to be issued, he was entitled to choose 
his solicitors. But that doesnt mean DAS had to pay whatever rate they charged. Insurers 
are entitled to limit the amount of costs they will agree to pay, provided they dont restrict the 
policyholders choice so much as to make it meaningless. 
The policy terms dont specify an hourly rate to be paid. Where thats the case, I need to 
decide whats a reasonable rate. In doing that Ill take into account the County Court 
guideline rates, as they are a helpful guide.
I appreciate Mr R was unhappy with the panel solicitors. The panel firm has a department 
that deals with this type of work, including a partner and experienced solicitors. And solicitors 
have professional responsibilities, including to consider whether they have the relevant 
expertise to take a case on. So if they werent able to act for Mr R it was reasonable for DAS 
to expect the panel firm to say so. Im satisfied that, on the face of it, it was reasonable for 
DAS to appoint them. So I dont agree it never appointed suitable solicitors as a preferred 
law firm.
  
When Mr R raised concerns DAS took on board his comments and agreed that if the panel 
firm missed a deadline or took too long to reply, that was unacceptable. DAS agreed to 
discuss terms with his solicitors and entered into negotiations with them. 
DAS didnt offer any other solicitors at that point - but that was because it had agreed to his 
choice of solicitors and was negotiating terms with them. DAS did offer alternatives in May 
2023. I think the way DAS dealt with all of this was reasonable.
The key point here is that DAS wouldnt agree to pay the hourly rate requested by Mr Rs 
solicitors. He says this isnt a typical employment case and he needs solicitors with the 
appropriate expertise. He doesnt agree that the rate for solicitors in the area where he lives 
is appropriate as it should be based on where the solicitors are, not where he lives. And his 
solicitors are in central London. So he says DAS should pay their rates (London 1  the 
highest rates in the guidelines).
The standard court guideline hourly rates provide a starting point on reasonable hourly rates 
for different levels of experience and in different areas of England and Wales. There are different categories of fee earner. DAS says Mr R doesnt need to use his solicitors and is 
only prepared to pay the relevant rates for the area where he lives. 
Once he got to the point of needing to issue proceedings, Mr R was entitled to choose his 
own solicitors. And they need to be capable of dealing with the relevant area of law. Mr R 
and his solicitors argue that this is a complex area of law that requires a specialist. 
I agree the nature of Mr Rs case means he needs solicitors with relevant experience, but 
that doesnt mean it has to be a London 1 firm. Mr R says the rate should be based on 
where the solicitors are based. But the rate needs to be reasonable. If someone chooses to 
instruct solicitors in central London whose rates are at the highest level, in a case that 
doesnt require that level of expertise, it wouldnt be reasonable to expect an insurer to pay 
those rates.
London 1 rates are described as being for very heavy commercial and corporate work. 
Mr R is essentially arguing that only a central London firm that carries out very heavy 
commercial and corporate work is capable of representing him. I dont consider his 
employment dispute required that level of work. As he has himself has said, this type of case 
needs to be a London firm or a national firm with relevant experience.   
There are national firms who would be able to deal with this type of case. Indeed, DAS 
provided details of two other firms. I dont accept that only a central London firm dealing with 
very heavy commercial and corporate work would be able to handle his case.
Mr R said the partner he spoke to at one of the firms offered appears capable but he 
preferred to use his solicitors. I can see why he may have wanted to stick with his solicitors 
at that point, given the deadlines he had to meet, but he could have explored this more once 
those immediate deadlines had passed. Instead, he seems to have taken the view that only 
his solicitors could deal with the case.
DAS offered London 3 rates. These include rates of £282 per hour for a Grade A fee earner 
and £232 for Grade B. These are a little higher than National 1 rates. Taking all the 
circumstances into account I consider these are reasonable.
DAS agreed to cover the claim and gave Mr R the option of: 
accepting the rates offered and agreeing to top up his solicitors charges; 
nominating another firm which would act at those rates without the need for a top up; 
or 
agreeing to alternative panel solicitors suggested by DAS (in addition to the two firms 
put forward initially).
He didnt take up any of these options and said he wished to continue with his own solicitors 
but with DAS paying the full hourly rate. As a result, DAS said Mr Rs solicitors would need 
to agree terms at the rate offered and said it would be open to including costs he had 
already incurred with them in the costs to be paid at the end of the case. 
In the circumstances I think the options offered by DAS were fair. Mr R was given a number 
of options and his choice wasnt restricted so much as to be meaningless. If he wants to 
accept the rates offered, its open to him to contact DAS about that.
There was some delay and no doubt that would have been frustrating for Mr R. But DAS has 
acknowledged that and offered £150 compensation, which I think is a fair reflection of the 
upset caused to him at the time.My final decision
DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited has already made an offer to pay 
compensation of £150 settle the complaint, and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So my decision is that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited should pay £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman