DRN-2081709
The complaint
Mrs T complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to her 
in May 1996.
Although the PPI was sold by another business AXA France IARD has taken responsibility 
for this complaint. For ease of reference, I will refer to AXA throughout this decision.
What happened
Mrs T applied for the PPI in store when she subscribed for her store card. This policy 
covered her if she lost her job, was off work because she was sick, or if she had an accident. 
The policy cost no more than £1.00 for every £100.00 of the outstanding balance owed on 
the card. On a successful claim, it would have paid 15% of that balance until the outstanding 
balance on the card was repaid or until Mrs T returned to work.
In her complaint to this service, Mrs T told us she couldnt remember exactly how it was sold 
but she said that she had no real understanding of PPI and she didnt need it.
Our adjudicator said she didnt think this was a case that should be upheld. Mrs T through 
her representative disagreed with our adjudicators view. She asked that the matter be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case. 
 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs T, but I havent upheld her complaint. Ill explain why below.
As AXA had to give Mrs T an option whether to buy the PPI or not, the first thing Ive 
considered is whether Mrs T had a fair choice about buying the policy. This PPI was taken 
out in store. AXA has provided me with a copy of Mrs Ts credit agreement from the time. On 
it theres a section about the PPI. This section has been ticked to say Mrs T wanted the 
cover. This part of the form could have been left blank if she didnt want it and I can see Mrs 
T has signed the agreement.
I also think the PPI would have appeared on Mrs Ts monthly statements so she would have 
been able to question it if she was unsure about the cover. Taking everything into account, 
on balance, I think its more likely that Mrs T agreed to take the PPI out at the time knowing 
she could refuse it if she didnt want it even if its understandable if she cant remember that 
now after such a long time. 
I dont think AXA recommended this policy to Mrs T. So, it didnt have to make sure it was 
suitable for her circumstances. But it still had to give her enough clear information so she 
could decide for herself whether she wanted to take out the policy or decline it.
Its possible that not all the information was as clear as it should have been. But even if the 
information could have been clearer that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold Mrs Ts 
complaint. I must decide whether Mrs T would have acted differently if shed been given all 
the information she should have been given. 
To help me decide, Ive thought about the terms and conditions of the policy and Mrs Ts 
personal circumstances. Taking these things into account, I still think Mrs T would have 
bought the cover. 
I say this as it appears Mrs T was eligible for the policy. And as she was in full time 
employment and had no pre-existing medical conditions, I dont think she would have been 
affected by any of the main limitations or exclusions of the policy which might have made it 
more difficult to make a successful claim.
 
Mrs T says she changed jobs and we asked for some further information about her 
employment circumstances. This might have made a difference with this policy, as she 
would have had to be in employment for a continuous period for six months with one or more 
employers immediately before making an unemployment claim. 
Looking at what Mrs T has told us I think she was employed continuously over a period of six 
months (albeit with different employers) with no gaps between her jobs and therefore would 
not have been affected by any of the limitations in the policy in relation to unemployment 
claims.
Mrs T has told us she cant remember if she would have received sick pay from her 
employer and she said she didnt have any savings. I can see if Mrs T had to make a claim 
on the PPI, 15% of her balance would have been paid every month until the balance was 
repaid. It would have more likely than not paid out in addition to any sick pay she would have 
received and for longer. So, I still think the policy was useful to her.
 
So, for the reasons Ive given above I still think the PPI could have been useful if Mrs T lost 
her job or couldnt work. And it looks as though she chose to buy the insurance  so it seems 
like she wanted that type of cover at the time. I also havent seen anything to suggest the 
premiums were unaffordable. With that in mind, I dont think Mrs T would have acted 
differently even if AXA had given her more or better information about the policy. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mrs T, but after taking everything into account, it follows that I 
havent upheld her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint about AXA France IARD. I dont 
require AXA France IARD to take any further action in respect of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020. 
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman