DRN-3219339
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Legacy Private Wealth Limited (Legacy) didnt make her sufficiently 
aware of the option to use a buddy transfer. In not doing so she has lost the opportunity 
to take her benefits at 50. Furthermore, Legacy mistakenly then allowed Mrs F to believe 
she had this option for several months when she contacted it to say she wished to take 
benefits.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint and my provisional findings, in my provisional 
decision dated 26 November 2021. This is included below and forms part of this decision:
Mrs F met with Legacy to discuss transferring her Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS). A fact-
find was completed in March 2017. Within this it said that Mrs Fs intended retirement date was 
55. Mrs Fs key aims were to provide better provision for her family in the event of her death and 
to maximise her retirement benefits.
Following the completion of the fact-find the adviser sent Mrs F an introductory report setting out 
Mrs Fs circumstances and priorities with an initial discussion of her options.
It said at the top of this report.
If there is anything within this report that does not match your view of your situation or that 
needs clarification, please let us know as soon as possible.
The report discussed Mrs Fs requirements and said she was looking to retire at age 55 in 
numerous places  Mrs F was 48 at the time.
Protecting Your Early Retirement Age
Due to changes in pension scheme rules over the years, some schemes still allow their 
members to draw benefits before the normal minimum pension age of 55 such as is the case 
with this arrangement.
Normally when you transfer to a new scheme, this benefit would be lost but there are some 
circumstances where this is not the case. One way is known as a block/buddy transfer.
Your scheme offers an early retirement age of 50 which would be lost on transfer. In order to 
maintain this benefit, you could consider buddying up with a colleague should you proceed with 
this transfer in future
Please raise this with us if you are interested in pursuing. (my emphasis)
The adviser then completed his recommendation and sent this to Mrs F on 4 April 2017. 
Within this it said:
Protecting Your Early Retirement Age
...
Your scheme offers an early retirement age of 50 which would be lost on transfer. In order to 
maintain this benefit, you could consider buddying up with a colleague should you proceed with 
this transfer in futureYou have confirmed you will not be using this process as you do 
not plan to retire before age 55 (my emphasis)
Mrs F then met with the adviser on 26 April and the transfer to the SIPP went ahead as 
recommended.
Later, in 2019 Mrs F contacted her adviser as she wished to access 25% of her fund as tax free 
cash. Mrs F says she had experienced significant life changes since the transfer in 2017 and 
having spoken to a former colleague, she came to the idea that she could withdraw money from her 
pension.
Legacy initially didnt respond to Mrs Fs requests. When it finally did it began the process to 
arrange the withdrawal of benefits, including producing the relevant reports it said:
It wasnt until several months after leading Mrs F to believe that she could make a 
withdrawal, that it then told Mrs F that she couldnt withdraw benefits until age 55.
In this time Mrs Fs told us that she made significant financial commitments on the expectation 
she would receive a large tax-free cash sum of approximately £165k. And she was shocked to 
be told that in fact she couldnt withdraw the money after all.
Mrs F complained to Legacy that the buddy transfer wasnt discussed or explained to her. And if 
it had been, she wouldve taken that option.
Legacy responded upholding her complaint in relation to the poor service shed received in terms of 
the withdrawal and being led to believe she could take the tax-free cash. It offered her over £3,000 
which was a return of all its fees since November 2018 when the breakdown in service had started.
Our investigator looked into matters and didnt uphold Mrs Fs complaint. He explained:
At the time of advice Mrs F didnt expect to take pension benefits before she was  55.
It was a change in circumstances which prompted Mrs F to enquire about drawing the tax-free 
cash
The recommendation report sets out that the early retirement age was available through a 
Block/Buddy transfer. Its reasonable to say that enough information with sufficient 
prominence was put in writing to highlight the option of a Block/Buddy transfer.
He didnt agree that Mrs F wasnt informed about the option to retain an earlier retirement 
age.
If Mrs F had read the recommendation and didnt then raise the issue with the adviser, he felt 
that it couldnt have been a priority for Mrs F to investigate that option any further
He agreed that Legacy had made errors in 2019 when Mrs F wished to access her tax-free 
cash. But he felt that the refund of all its fees from that time was fair and reasonable redress.
Mrs F responded to ask for an ombudsmans decision as she didnt agree with the 
assessment. She said:
She accepts that this information was included in the written documentation. But as 
this option was so significant, it should have been discussed with her in person. Which 
it was not.
This fundamental option should require opting out of and not opting in.
Mrs F acknowledges we have no proof of what was discussed in person at the time of 
advice. But the mess Legacy made of her withdrawal request shows its lack of 
competence
Due to the sheer lack of attention paid to such an important option, she has been left 
financially disadvantaged and distressed.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators view of the events at the time of advice in 
regard to the buddy transfer. However, I felt further compensation was due, regarding the 
withdrawal request in 2019.
After considering the available evidence, I felt the offer to refund Mrs F her fees from the 
time in question didnt go far enough to compensate her properly. I put this to Legacy 
explaining:
Mrs F says she had made financial commitments and spent accordingly when she 
was expecting £160,000 and was shocked to find out she wouldnt be getting this 
money.
Legacy has refunded all fees from November 2018 when she received an annual 
review on the basis of taking the 25% tax-free cash and the fees ongoing which 
amounts to over £5,000. However, whilst this seems a generous figure  it appears 
these are all fees incurred due to the falsehood of being able to withdraw tax-free 
cash  and there were numerous service issues before that as well.
It strikes me Legacy should be offering these fees in any event, plus an additional 
payment for the trouble and upset caused. Mrs F suffered a big loss of expectation 
which I think wouldve been quite a shock to her. She had made financial 
commitments that whilst she says she hasnt lost out on  she may have had to go 
back on some of these or make alternative arrangements. And she will have been 
frustrated with the poor customer service and months of lost time thinking shed be 
getting this tax-free cash.
I said that a fair award for the trouble and upset caused would be £500.
Legacy said it agreed with my recommendation. I had hoped we could speak with Mrs F to see 
whether she accepted this figure before writing this decision. But weve been unable to find a 
convenient time to talk to her about it. But subject to any new evidence or arguments put 
forward regarding this matter, I intend to award an additional £500 to Mrs F upon acceptance 
of my final decision.
Moving on to the crux of the complaint, as Ive said my reasoning is largely the same as what 
was explained by the investigator. I am sorry to hear of the difficulties this has caused Mrs F but 
I dont agree that Legacy can be held responsible for Mrs F not making use of the buddy 
transfer option. I say this because:
It did highlight this option to her quite clearly twice in the advice process. Acting 
reasonably Mrs F ought to have read this documentation.
Had this been important to Mrs F I think she would have raised this then
I dont think retiring before age 55 was important to Mrs F at the time. The 
recommendation and documentation from the time said in a number of places that 
she had no plans to retire before that 55.
Mrs F says this wasnt discussed verbally. I dont doubt her recollections are honest, 
but this was a meeting some years ago and if this wasnt important to her at the time its 
quite possible she wouldnt recall it in any event.
I dont think I need to make a finding on whether it was discussed. The adviser made 
Mrs F aware of the option in the recommendation that Mrs F wouldve read. And I think 
that was sufficient in any event to draw Mrs Fs attention to this option.
I appreciate Mrs F thinks this option was so significant that it shouldve been discussed 
verbally and been an opt out situation. But for many retiring before 55 isnt important or 
part of their plans.
The extra steps involved in finding a buddy and meeting the requirements of a buddy transfer isnt attractive to all. And this option has only become important to Mrs F due to 
unforeseen events after the event. Im not sure it wouldve been attractive to her at the 
time when she had no intention to retire before 55.
Therefore for the reasons explained I intend to uphold Mrs Fs complaint in part. However, I do 
not agree that Legacy are responsible for Mrs F not taking up the option to buddy transfer.
Mrs F has responded to the provisional decision. She has re-iterated much of what she 
has said before. And that she feels such an important decision (as to keeping the 
protected retirement age and doing a buddy transfer) shouldve been an opt out process, 
not an opt in. Shes also pointed to the fact that the investigator, and I, had relied on 
Legacys documentation from the time to say that she was told about the buddy transfer 
option  but we hadnt placed the same weight on all of Legacys documenation 
afterwards which said she had kept the protected retirement age of 50.
Furthermore, shes said the £500 is insulting based on the financial loss and matieral 
distress and inconvenience she has suffered since August 2019. And that this has had a 
serious effect on her health and mental wellbeing.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I wont be changing my decision from that set out in my provisional 
decision. I recognise Legacy did make errors that will have been distressing for Mrs F but I 
think the redress I set out, fairly compensates her for Legacys errors. 
With regards to the crux of the complaint, as I set out in my provisional decision, Legacy did 
tell Mrs F about the option to keep her protected retirement age. And it explained that the 
protected retirement age would be lost if she didnt take up the option of a buddy transfer. It 
was recorded then that her retirement age would be 55  and Mrs F accepted this. So this 
suggests at the time retiring at 50 wasnt something that was important to her. Unfortunately, 
her circumstances changed after the transfer  but it wouldnt be fair to hold Legacy 
responsible for something that wasnt foreseeable at the time of advice.
Mrs F believes it should have been an opt out situation with the buddy transfer and not an 
opt in. Whilst I can understand her point of view, I dont agree. Many people wont want to 
access their benefits before the age of 55 and will therefore see the buddy transfer process 
as an inconvenience with little upside.
Mrs F has pointed to the documentation after the event of transfer, where Legacy continued 
to say she had kept the protected retirement age and could take her benefits  and she says  
equal weight hasnt been placed on this. But this was after the transfer had taken place  so 
the protected retirement age had already been lost. That Legacy then erroneously referred 
to the protected retirement age being kept and led Mrs F to believe she could take her 
benefits  is why I said she should be awarded a refund of all the fees in relation to this plus 
£500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I appreciate that this has been distressing for Mrs F but when considering the award I felt 
was fair  I have to separate out Mrs Fs distress about losing the protected retirement age. 
As I dont believe Legacy is responsible for that or made an error in that regard. So the 
award is in relation only to the mistakes it made later, allowing Mrs F to believe she could 
withdraw a significant amount for a number of months before realising its mistake. Had she 
made commitments that were non-refundable or a loss was suffered due to this, I wouldve considered potentially a higher award but Mrs F has told us that wasnt the case.
Mrs F says this award is insulting based on the financial loss she suffered, but this isnt an 
award for financial loss  I dont think Legacy was at fault for the loss of the protected 
retirement age and therefore the award isnt a reflection of any perceived financial loss. It is 
for its poor service and mistakes made later when Mrs F asked to access her pension. And 
the cost of the advice she received throughout this period will also be refunded. The money 
Mrs F was led to believe she could withdraw, will still be available to her at age 55  it hasnt 
been lost.
I am sorry to hear of the stress and effects losing her protected retirement age has had on 
Mrs F. I fully appreciate that due to changing circumstances that werent foreseen  the loss 
of the protected retirement age has had a big effect on her. But I cant hold Legacy 
responsible for that as Legacy explained it would be lost on transfer unless she took up the 
option of the buddy transfer.
In conclusion I uphold Mrs Fs complaint in part. To put things right Legacy should do as Ive 
set out below.
Putting things right
Legacy should refund all the fees as its offered from November 2018 until it turned off its fee 
on receipt of Mrs Fs complaint  if it hasnt already done so.
It should also pay Mrs F £500 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience its errors and 
poor customer service will have caused her. 
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Fs complaint in part against Legacy Private Wealth Limited and direct it to put 
things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman