DRN-3597781
The complaint
Ms B, Mrs I, Mr W and Mrs W are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) 
declined their request to refund the premium they paid for their travel insurance policy.
Any reference to Great Lakes includes all its agents.
Ms B is the lead complainant on this complaint. I will therefore refer to Ms B throughout this 
decision although there are three further joined complainants on this complaint. 
What happened
Ms B took out a single trip travel insurance policy on 16 December 2021 to cover a 
trip from 23 March 2022 to 14 April 2022. Great Lakes is the underwriter and the 
premium Ms B paid covered all the joined complainants, including declared medical 
conditions.
On 6 January 2022, the cruise provider cancelled the trip so on 7 January Ms B 
contacted Great Lakes to request a refund of the premium theyd paid.
Great Lakes said as the request was outside the 14-day cooling-off period, there was 
no refund due.
Ms B referred the complaint to our service as she was unhappy with Great Lakes 
response. Our investigator looked into it and acknowledged the unique and 
unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. She set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. That 
means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it 
covered during that time. She also concluded that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible 
for the contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started 
on 16 December 2021 and the policy covered various risks. 
Our investigator also explained that Covid-19 was a known event when the policy 
was taken out so Ms B would have been aware that their trip may have been 
cancelled due to Covid-19 and they wouldnt have had full use of the policy.
Ms B disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. So its been passed to me. Ms B says she would have 
expected a pro-rata refund and had she been aware of the cancellation terms, she 
would have sought another provider. Ms B also explained that theres a case study 
on our website with similar circumstances where a prorata refund had been offered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Fs travel insurance policy with Great Lakes outline
their cancellation rights under the contract. These say:
Your right to cancel the policy
Date of effect of cancellation made by you If you ask us to cancel your policy in
writing or by telephone, such cancellation shall take effect on the date the notice
is received, or on the date specified in the notice, whichever is later.
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or
receipt of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any
premium you have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or
have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us
declining to cover your medical conditions.
Like our investigator, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Ms B to receive a full
refund of the premium paid because:
Cover under the policy commenced on 16 December 2021, which is confirmed by the 
insurance documentation Ms B received. Im satisfied Ms B was reasonably made 
aware of the terms that applied to their policy, which are typical of the cancellation 
terms found in most travel insurance policies.
Theres no requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the 
insurer to offer a refund. I say this because its a fundamental principle of insurance 
law that if the insurer had started to bear the risk  for however short a time  the 
premium is not returnable. And, as Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says 
that no refund is due for cancellation outside the cooling-off period. Ms B purchased 
the policy on 16 December 2021 and requested a cancellation and premium refund 
on 7 January 2022. This was more than 14 days outside of the cooling-off period.
Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to 
depart from industry rules and the terms and conditions of Ms Bs contract because 
of the exception and extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
I understand the trip was cancelled due to Covid-19 but this didnt make it impossible 
for Ms Bs contract with Great Lakes to be performed as cover on the policy began 
on 16 December 2021.
The premium Ms B paid covered the risk of them having to cancel their holiday due 
to a number of listed events insured under the policy.
Ive taken into account that at the time the policy was purchased, Covid-19 was a 
known event so I cant fairly say that the risk of having to cancel as a result of Covid-
19 was unexpected or unforeseeable at this point. I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to ask Great Lakes to step outside of industry guidelines or the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Ive considered Ms Bs comments that theres an example of a case which was upheld and had similar circumstances to hers. While I appreciate this, each case is 
considered on its own merits and, in the circumstances of Ms Bs complaint, I cant 
reasonably ask Great Lakes to offer a premium refund. 
The terms and conditions relating to cancellation and the 14-day cooling-off period 
were in the policy document which were sent to her. I appreciate that Ms B may not 
have read them, but the responsibility would have been for her to have done so. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms B but Im not persuaded that Great Lakes has treated 
Ms B unfairly or unreasonably. It follows that I dont require Great Lakes to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Ms B, Mrs I, Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint 
against Great Lakes Insurance SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B, Mrs I, Mr W 
and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman