DRN-3344577
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund £3,050 she says she lost 
as part of a scam. 
What happened
Mrs M holds a current account with Santander. She purchased a vehicle in October 2019 by 
sending the seller £3,060 from her bank account in the following instalments: 
Date Amount
18 October 2019 £1,260
21 October 2019 £840
18 November 2019 £250
6 December 2019 £100
9 January 2020 £100
25 January 2020 £100
25 February 2020 £100
31 March 2020 £100
2 May 2020 £100
28 May 2020 £100
Total £3,050
Mrs M says she took possession of the van on 24 October 2019 after sending the seller the 
second payment for it, and she then continued to pay the seller in instalments. 
Mrs M was subsequently contacted by the police in July 2020 who said the van she had 
purchased should not have been sold by the seller, as it was still owned by the dealership 
under a hire purchase agreement (which the seller had not paid off with the purchase 
monies Mrs M had paid). The police then seized the van and returned it to the dealership. 
The seller was eventually investigated by the police and a fraud investigation remains 
ongoing. Mrs M subsequently complained to Santander as she considers she has been the 
victim of a scam, such that they are liable to refund the money she lost from her account. 
Santander refused to refund the money Mrs M had paid, as they considered her dispute to 
be a civil matter. But our investigator upheld the complaint as he considered Mrs M to have 
been the victim of a scam. Santander disagreed, so the matter was escalated to me to 
determine.  
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in February 2022. I said I was minded to 
reach a different outcome to the investigator as I didnt intend upholding it, and set out the 
following reasons:
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law 
and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Ive also considered the Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the Code), which Santander has committed to follow and 
was in force at the time Mrs M made the payments to the seller of the vehicle.
Under the Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an authorised push payment (APP) scam where (amongst other 
things) The Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed 
were legitimate purposes but were in fact fraudulent. 
But the Code also says it doesnt apply to private civil disputes, such as where a 
Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but has 
not received them, they are defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise 
dissatisfied with the supplier.
With this in mind, in order for me to say that the payments Mrs M made are covered 
by the Code, I need to be satisfied that she really has fallen victim to a scam and that 
the seller was acting with the intent to defraud her at the point the payments were 
made. 
However, having considered the circumstances of Mrs Ms purchase, I dont think it 
can reasonably be said she has been scammed. For example, it cant be said that 
the seller never had any intention of providing the goods Mrs M had paid for, 
because she did in fact receive the vehicle. It was only because the vehicle was 
subsequently taken by a third party that she now finds herself in a position where she 
has spent money on something that she no longer has. 
I understand Mrs M would have been under the impression that the seller was using 
the purchase monies she was paying each month to settle the hire purchase 
agreement. But the fact is that she did receive the goods that she paid for. I accept 
that the police have become involved and that there is an ongoing investigation into 
the seller. But as things stand, there does not appear to have been any formal 
conviction for fraud, and I havent seen enough evidence to suggest that the seller 
was always acting with the intend to defraud her at the point she made the payments. 
So, I do not consider this can reasonably be categorised as a scam, or something 
that the CRM Code was ever envisaged to cover, and Im satisfied that her dispute is 
a private civil matter between her, the seller, and the dealership as to who has better 
title to the property. For example, Mrs M could claim that she has better title (in 
equity) to the vehicle than the dealership who it has been returned to, given that she 
was a bona fide purchaser of it, for value, without notice. And given that she may 
have such an equitable title to the vehicle, it may even be open to her to take action 
against the police for wrongfully confiscating property that she has a claim to. 
However, this service is unable to offer advice in this regard, and Mrs M may want to 
obtain independent legal advice to determine the best course of action for her to take 
in these circumstances. But either way, I consider this to be a private civil dispute, 
and there are a number of factors in the circumstances of this case that do not carry the typical hallmarks of this being a scam  such as the fact that Mrs M met the seller 
of the van, knows his identity, and also took possession of the van after having paid 
him. This being the case Im satisfied the CRM Code doesnt apply. And I cant fairly 
ask Santander to refund the money Mrs M has paid towards the van, as I dont think 
Santander treated her unfairly when it said the payment she made was not covered 
by the CRM Code.
Even if I did consider this was a scam, which for the avoidance of doubt I do not, I 
dont consider I could fairly direct Santander to refund the money Mrs M lost in any 
event. Im not persuaded that if Santander had intervened and spoken to Mrs M 
about the payments that it would have made a difference and stopped her from 
making them. She had no reason to doubt that the seller didnt have the right to sell 
her the van, or that he was not going to use the purchase money to continue paying 
off the hire purchase agreement in place with the dealership. So I cant fairly or 
reasonably say that any intervention Santander might have made would have likely 
made any difference to Mrs M choosing to continue making the payments. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mrs M, and I dont 
underestimate the impact this matter has had on her. But overall, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont intend asking Santander to refund the money she paid to the seller.
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. Santander agreed with my 
provisional findings, but Mrs M disagreed. In summary, she has said she was not aware that 
the seller was paying off a hire purchase agreement, and that the police have confirmed that 
crimes have been committed, of which their investigations remain ongoing. As a result, 
Mrs M maintains that she should have her money refunded as she has been scammed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered Mrs Ms most recent submissions and evidence she has sent 
in. But having done so, it hasnt changed the conclusions reached in my provisional decision 
that I consider this matter to ultimately be a private civil dispute between Mrs M, the seller 
and the dealership.
Im grateful to Mrs M for clarifying certain aspects of her dispute in response to my 
provisional decision, as she has said that she was not aware the seller was using her money 
to pay off a hire purchase agreement. And I appreciate that it wouldnt have been incumbent 
on her to ensure that any agreement was ultimately settled. But that still doesnt change my 
opinion that her claim concerns a private civil dispute that would fall outside of the CRM 
Code.
I appreciate that many allegations have been made against the seller, and that Mrs M says a 
crime has been committed. But at this stage he hasnt been found guilty or been convicted of 
any crime such a fraud. I accept that the seller is now under investigation for fraud. But as I 
set out in my provisional decision, I dont think theres enough persuasive evidence as things 
stand to suggest that the seller was always acting with the intent to defraud her at the point 
she made the payments. 
I understand that Mrs M is no longer in possession of the goods for which she paid. But she 
did still take possession of it from the seller. I appreciate he may not have had the relevant 
title in which to sell the vehicle, but Im satisfied the dispute here ultimately comes down to 
which party has better title over the vehicle  i.e. Mrs M, or the private dealer. The CRM Code was not intended to cover such scenarios, which is why private civil disputes 
are expressly excluded under the code, so that banks cannot be held liable to cover the cost 
of a dispute where the customers money/property could otherwise be recovered through 
other civil means. In this instance, Mrs M was seemingly a bona fide purchaser for value 
without notice. So, irrespective of whether or not the seller intended to defraud Mr M, she 
has a prima facie good title to the property she has purchased, and a valid claim to the 
vehicle that has since been taken off of her. Therefore, this may be something she may wish 
to consider pursuing privately, but it is not something that I consider to fall within the remit of 
the CRM Code. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mrs M, and I sympathise with the 
position she has since found herself in as shes paid for the vehicle in good faith. But I see 
no fair and reasonable basis for holding the bank responsible for her loss in these 
circumstances.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman