DRN-3261603
The complaint
Ms S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a loan in January 2020 on the 
basis that she could reduce her repayments a year later, when her income reduced. She 
wants Lloyds to honour that agreement and reduce her loan repayments to £250 per month.
What happened
Ms S has previously held a number of loans with Lloyds, including a loan in 2018, which 
was replaced with a different loan in 2019.
Ms S had recently returned to the UK after a period abroad. She needed to buy a car and 
set up home so had incurred debt in doing so.
In January 2020, Ms S attended a branch of Lloyds and saw an agent. She took out a loan 
to replace her existing loan, credit card and overdraft. This loan was for around £18,500, at 
a rate of 9% APR. The monthly repayment for this loan was £512, over a period of 42 
months.
Ms S states that when she took out the loan, she told the agent that she was receiving an 
additional £250 per month towards the repayments from her former partner, but that this 
would stop at the end of the year. She states that she was told that she would be able to 
reduce her repayments once the additional contributions from her former partner stopped.
Lloyds carried out an assessment of her income and expenditure and considered the 
loan affordable. The loan was therefore approved and drawn down. Ms S made 
repayments on the loan successfully through 2020.
In 2021, Ms S contacted Lloyds and advised that her income had now reduced and that 
she wanted to reduce her loan repayments. She was advised that this was not possible as 
the loan agreement was for a fixed term and fixed repayment.
Ms S complained to Lloyds. She felt that she had been misled into taking out the loan and 
that it had taken into account her additional wanted Lloyds to honour what she thought had 
been agreed.
Lloyds sent its final response in May 2021. Lloyds was unable to find details of Ms Ss 
discussions when taking out the loan so upheld that she was misadvised. Lloyds offered her 
£100 to reflect this. It rejected that the loan had been mis-sold, however, or that it was 
unaffordable.
Ms S was not happy with this and contacted us.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She thought that the loan was beneficial to 
Ms S as it was at a lower interest rate and was a lower repayment than the debts which it 
replaced.
Ms S did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
I issued a provisional decision in respect of this complaint in December 2021. In that 
provisional decision I explained that I thought it likely that Ms S had told the agent that her 
income would change after 12 months and that she was currently receiving additional 
income. I also thought that the loan was not affordable for Ms S if the additional (temporary) 
had not been assessed, and that the loan was not sustainable on the basis that she would 
not be able to afford the repayments when her additional income stopped. 
I therefore provisionally decided that Lloyds should amend Ms Ss loan so that the monthly 
repayment is £250 per month. The period of the loan should be extended. I also 
provisionally directed that Lloyds should pay Ms S £250 compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience. 
Thats provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment. 
Lloyds has confirmed that it has nothing further to add. 
Ms S has indicated that she accepts the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no comments have been received which change my understanding of the complaint, or 
which dispute my provisional resolution of the complaint, I remain of the view expressed in 
my provisional decision. 
I therefore adopt my provisional decision and reasons as my final decision.  
Putting things right
In order to put things right, I direct that Lloyds should honour the assurance which it 
acknowledges it made to Ms S, and it should amend Ms Ss loan so that her monthly 
repayment is £250 per month. 
The interest rate should remain the same, and the period should be extended to meet the 
outstanding debt. I understand that the loan has been placed on hold while this complaint 
has been considered, but for the avoidance of doubt I direct no adverse information should 
be recorded, or charges incurred, between January 2021 and settlement of this complaint.
I also consider that Lloyds should pay compensation to Ms S. Given the upheaval Ms S 
had been through and that she was trying to address her debt, I think it would have been 
very distressing to learn that what she had been assured would be alright, would actually 
end up pushing her further back into debt. That anxiety will have lasted from January 2021 
up until this complaint is finally decided.
I think that Lloyds should pay to Ms S £250 compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience to reflect this.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Ms Ss complaint and 
direct Lloyds Bank PLC to:
amend Ms Ss loan so that her monthly repayment is £250 per month. The 
interest rate should remain the same, and the period should be extended to 
meet the outstanding debt; and
pay to Ms S £250 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman