DRN-3773595
The complaint
In brief summary, Mr B complained that AJ Bell Management Limited (AJB) was responsible 
for delaying a Bed and ISA transaction - two linked deals where his shares would be sold in 
his dealing account and straightaway bought in his ISA. 
Mr B exceeded his annual ISA allowance when the transaction completed and he blames 
AJB for this. Some of the shares in the ISA account were reversed back into the dealing 
account to bring Mr B back within his annual ISA allowance. This meant Mr B incurred 
additional dealing charges and he was left holding fewer shares than he had before the 
transaction  which was never his intention.
Mr B wants AJB to cover financial loss resulting from extra fees and dealing costs and also 
to pay him £500 compensation to reflect his loss of time and stress dealing with this matter. 
What happened
On 17 June 2021, Mr B had a series of phone calls with AJB.
In the first call, Mr B enquired about opening an ISA with AJB. He requested a Bed & ISA for 
500 shares. 
Mr B made a second call to AJB shortly afterwards seeking clarity on how its fees and 
charges would impact on his ISA allowance if he made a Bed and ISA transaction for 
£20,000. His aim was to fully utilise his £20,000 ISA allowance and he wanted to understand 
how dealing and other fees he would incur would be taken. That call ended after the call 
handler had struggled to answer all of Mr Bs questions satisfactorily and he put Mr B on 
hold while he sought advice. The call subsequently went to the call handlers voicemail 
service while Mr B was waiting for the call handler to resume speaking to him. Mr B 
terminated the call.
Mr B phoned back and was connected to a different call handler. That call was interrupted 
when the first call handler called Mr B back  it was agreed that Mr B would continue on the 
phone with the new call handler. He explained again that he was trying to obtain some clarity 
about fees and charges and how costs would be paid for. 
By this point, although Mr Bs intention was to sell and simultaneously buy back the exact 
same number of shares, the volatility of the stock meant that since his original point of 
instruction when the value was just under £20,000, the value had by now risen above this 
figure. This meant that the Bed & ISA he planned would mean he was oversubscribed on his 
ISA  which isnt permitted by HMRC. The discussion centred around how Mr B could 
achieve his objective of making full use of his ISA allowance without either wasting part of it 
or going over his ISA allowance limit whilst also making provision for the fees he was aware 
he would incur as part of the transaction. During the call Mr B was watching in real time as 
the share price continued to increase.   
This call lasted around half an hour. It was agreed by the end of the call that the Bed and 
ISA would be executed within the next 5 minutes.  
Shares in Mr Bs dealing account were sold for £20,487 and repurchased in his ISA for 
£20,670. 
On 18 June, during the course of three phone calls, Mr B complained about the time it had 
taken to instruct the Bed & ISA and the fact he had ended up with fewer shares than at the 
start of the transaction  480 instead of 500. He wanted AJB to explain how fees had 
impacted on what happened and if AJB would charge him a dealing fee if he was required to 
sell shares in order to put things right. The call handler said that the £183 difference 
(between the selling and buying prices) was part of what made up Mr Bs ISA allowance and 
that HMRC redeem any profits attributed to the oversubscription. He confirmed he would 
query how to correct the oversubscription with AJBs Tax Management Team.
On 21 June Mr B phoned to find out what was happening and a series of calls followed.
On 23 June Mr B corrected his ISA oversubscription by bringing the amount of his 
investment back within the permitted £20,000 allowance. 
On 24 August Mr B phoned to request an update on the status of his complaint. He was told 
to expect a call back later the same day. This didnt happen.
On 25 August Mr B phoned again. He expressed dissatisfaction that he had not received a 
call back from AJBs Dealing Services Team following his request for an update on his 
complaint and he also had not received any of AJBs correspondence in relation to his 
complaint.
On 23 September AJB sent a final response letter to Mr B. It didnt agree that the number of 
shares transferred to Mr Bs ISA was a result of the time taken to instruct the Bed & ISA and 
said it could not be held responsible for market volatility. It said it had already offered to 
refund the £9.95 dealing fee Mr B incurred when a sale was required to correct the negative 
balance on his ISA. AJB said that it could not leave Mr Bs ISA oversubscribed and it took a 
decision that notifying HMRC of the oversubscription was not viable. It apologised for not 
having phoned Mr B back when it said it would and confirmed that feedback had been given 
to the staff member. It could not explain why Mr B appeared not to have received three 
holding letters AJB had sent him updating him on his complaint. Although Mr B had thought 
the content had been misleading, AJB said these were generic letters and not sent with the 
intent of misleading Mr B. 
For these reasons, AJB said it didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. But it said it appreciated it 
provided him with incorrect information regarding transferring funds back to his dealing 
account to rectify the issue and that it did not call him back when it said it would. So, in light 
of this, it offered Mr B £200 as a gesture of goodwill with its apologies.
Mr B didn't feel this offer went far enough and so he brought his complaint to us. Our 
investigator thought that the £200 compensation payment was fair to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience Mr B had suffered but that AJB should also refund charges it applied for the 
transactions when the extra shares in his ISA had to be sold. 
Mr B didnt accept our investigators suggested outcome. And AJB asked our investigator to 
reconsider her view. It told us that it took a rounded view when thinking about its goodwill 
offer and that the £200 payment already offered is fair overall to also cover charges Mr B 
may not have incurred. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision.  What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Ive set out above a brief timeline of the main events that form the background to this 
complaint. I think it is apparent from this, and AJB seems to have accepted (even though it 
didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint) that there was some poor service. 
But the crux of Mr Bs complaint seems to me to be that AJB has not accepted responsibility 
for the fact that:
the Bed & ISA transaction he instructed has left him out of pocket in terms of fees 
he has been left holding fewer shares as a result of what happened 
compensation offered so far does not adequately provide redress for the stress this 
caused him and the time he has had to take off work to deal with the complaint 
issues (keeping in mind that Mr B cant rely on being paid if he isnt working). 
I have thought about what Mr B was reasonably entitled to expect from AJB.
This was an execution only account. So I can understand why AJB has said it expects 
customers to have some knowledge of the services available. I am aware it has information 
on its website, including a page detailing the Bed & ISA process, which sets out details 
explaining the Bed & ISA, the process of execution and the risks involved. AJBs terms and 
conditions, which Mr B signed up to when he opened his dealing account, make clear that it 
does not provide financial, investment or tax advice as part of the services. You are 
responsible for selecting the product and any investments.
But I dont think it is fair for AJB to suggest that Mr Bs enquiry about fees and how they 
would impact on his proposed trade was something he could have looked up the answer for 
himself or should have known already from reading its website. I say this because it seems 
evident that at least one of AJBs own call handlers was unclear about this and he gave Mr B 
some misinformation. In particular, I am thinking about the first phone call on 17 June and 
what Mr B was told about stamp duty and spread costs, which went to the heart of Mr Bs 
concern about how costs could affect the decision he needed to make when instructing the 
Bed & ISA transaction.
I think it is entirely understandable that, from that point on, Mr B felt he had been given 
confusing and contradictory information about how fees would impact on his trade and what 
the best way would be to set things up in terms of moving cash in order to achieve his 
primary goal of having the right number of shares to ensure a £20,000 investment in his ISA. 
I think Mr B made his position very clear. The way Mr B saw things, he said AJB would need 
to sell enough shares to cover the charges so when these were taken from the ISA, he 
wasnt wasting any of his allowance. 
I can see why he thought this should be straightforward. In reality, I think the transaction was 
more complicated. AJB explained that fees could not be taken from the dealing account, only 
from the ISA. And that whilst Mr B could move cash to the ISA for that purpose, this would 
reduce his available ISA allowance. 
As this seems to me to be in line with the account terms and conditions, I cant fairly say that 
AJB provided any wrong information about this  or that it did anything wrong when it took its 
dealing fees for the Bed & ISA transaction. 
But from Mr Bs point of view, having been given some wrong information during a previous 
call, I can understand why Mr B found this frustrating and why he felt he needed to keep pressing for more information. I think it is unfair for AJB to suggest that he should have 
understood the process better before he called, when it clearly was not straightforward or 
fully understood by the first call handler Mr B had spoken to at AJB. And I think AJB ought 
fairly to recognise that when the information it provided to Mr B was contradictory (because it 
was incorrect), unsurprisingly, this was confusing for Mr B and left him with more questions. 
I havent seen or heard anything to suggest that Mr B misunderstood the limits of this being 
an execution only account as AJB seems to have implied. He appears to me to have 
understood enough about the Bed & ISA transaction to have been concerned about the risk 
he would exceed his annual ISA allowance if he wasnt very careful. He was aware that 
there might be some extra foreign exchange charges. He wasnt seeking investment advice - 
he was trying to find out how the way AJB took its costs and fees would impact on him trying 
to achieve his investment goal. 
All in all, I think it's fair to say that AJB should bear some responsibility for the length of time 
it took before Mr B felt he had enough information to instruct AJB to execute the transaction. 
So it follows that it should take some action to put things right because whilst Mr B was 
trying to find out information from AJB, which took a lot longer than it should have done 
largely due to the way AJB dealt with Mr Bs queries, the volatile share price put Mr B into a 
position whereby the Bed & ISA transaction resulted in him being oversubscribed on his ISA 
- which had to be remedied at further cost to Mr B. 
I think that largely happened because, as a result of the way AJB dealt with Mr B, he was 
feeling under pressure to get the execution done before the share price increased further. In 
that frame of mind, he had failed to appreciate fully that buying the same number of shares 
as he sold (which Mr B had mentioned several times was his intention) risked putting him 
oversubscribed. When AJB assured Mr B it would process his order in 5 minutes I think he 
mistakenly took this as reassurance that his sale and buy back wouldnt be impacted by any 
price increase.  
AJB has made an offer to settle Mr Bs complaint by offering a payment that it feels, broadly 
speaking, is sufficient to cover any actual financial loss as well as compensate him for the 
impact on him of admitted shortcomings in its service. Whilst I believe the offer is well 
intentioned, I dont think it goes far enough to recognise the full impact on Mr B of errors on 
the part of AJB. 
I find that AJB gave Mr B incorrect information, which was key to what he was trying to find 
out about costs. This took place against a backdrop of Mr B having long waits on hold whilst 
on the phone and at least one of his calls not being returned as promised. This left Mr B 
feeling it was up to him to have to phone for updates if he wanted to find out information. 
When thinking about what redress is fair in this situation, Ive kept in mind that Mr B was very 
much aware on 17 June 2021 that the market was rising and he was anxious to proceed with 
execution without any delay. Its my view that this likely added to his frustration and 
increased the anxiety he was feeling at the time. I think thats borne out by what I've heard 
on the call recordings from that day. And when he realised he was oversubscribed on his 
ISA, I think it's fair to say the stresses of being in this situation continued. 
In my view, AJB should cover Mr Bs extra dealing costs and any fees or other costs Mr B 
incurred over and above the single dealing fee and any other costs he would always have 
had to pay for carrying out the Bed & ISA execution (and it not taking him over his annual 
ISA allowance). 
As well as this, AJB should pay compensation to reflect the impact its errors had on Mr B. 
He received some unacceptably poor service from AJB which added to the stress of making a significant investment decision. Im mindful that had AJB dealt more effectively with Mr Bs 
legitimate enquiries sooner when he first phoned on 17 June 2021, its likely that much of the 
anxiety and stress he experienced could have been avoided.  
I think £300 is fair compensation in these circumstances. 

What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr B confirmed he had nothing further to add.
AJB told me it accepted the decision and would pay an additional £100 on top of the original 
£200 it had already paid to Mr B plus the fees as detailed in my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to dealing with complaints on our website and Ive kept this in 
mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and AJB in particular for responding to my provisional decision, ahead of the deadline for 
responses, to confirm it agrees with what I said. This means I can now issue my final 
decision.
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, and the parties agree with what I've said, I confirm the conclusions I reached 
in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
AJB should:
refund additional fees and charges applied by AJB which were incurred as a result of 
Mr B being oversubscribed on his annual ISA allowance and 
pay Mr B £300 in full and final settlement of his complaint.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct AJ Bell Management Limited to take the steps I've set out 
above to put things right for Mr B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman