DRN-3520745
The complaint
Mr H complains that Funding Circle Ltd failed to carry out due diligence on investment 
opportunities it promoted on its crowdfunding platform resulting in him sustaining losses.
What happened
Mr H opened a crowdfunding account on Funding Circles peer to peer lending platform. 
Between June and July 2018, Mr H was invested into five loans. The account was 
automated meaning Funding Circle invested in loans on his behalf based on his investment 
criteria and risk profile. 
Between October 2018 and February 2019, all five loans went into default after failing to 
make more than one or two successful repayments. Mr H is unhappy all five loans showed 
as defaulted at the start of August and September 2018. He believes Funding Circle ought to 
have shown all of the loans as having defaulted much earlier on the statements he received 
as he considers a late payment a default.
He says although he accepts the investments were high-risk, he relied on Funding Circles 
assurances that it had undertaken the appropriate due diligence. But he doesnt think it did 
enough to conclude that here, so the five loans it invested him in should never have been 
approved. Because of this, in March 2019, Mr S raised a complaint with Funding Circle.
Funding Circle didnt uphold the complaint. It said whilst the loans did fall into arrears and 
subsequently in default, it had carried out stringent due diligence on its borrowers before 
offering a loan, but this was part of the risk of lending to small and medium businesses. 
Mr H wasnt happy with the response. He referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review. One of investigators looked into the complaint and said she hadnt seen 
enough evidence to persuade her that Funding Circle had failed to carry out sufficient due 
diligence, so she rejected the complaint.
As Mr H didnt agree, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaints centres around five loans that were allocated to Mr Hs crowdfunding 
account through its automated allocation process. Mr H argues that Funding Circle shouldnt 
have made any of these five loans available for allocation to its investors. He says that had 
Funding Circle carried out due diligence correctly, he says he wouldnt have suffered the 
losses he now has on his investment.
Ive considered the wider regulatory principles that are relevant to this case. The Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching 
requirements which all authorised firms are required to comply with. The most relevant 
principles here are:
 PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence. 
 PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
Funding Circle is also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the FCAs 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
 COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
So, what I need to decide here is whether Funding Circle carried out sufficient due diligence 
checks to be satisfied that by allocating these five loans to Mr Hs account, it was continuing 
to act in his best interests.
In order to satisfy itself that it had acted in its clients best interests, Funding Circle would 
have needed to carry out reasonable checks. But what these reasonable checks involve, or 
what they might be, is something which is very much left to each provider to determine and 
would vary according to particular circumstances as set out in the FCAs July 2018 
consultation paper on loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding 
platforms which says: 
It is our view that it will be unlikely that a platform could argue that it has met its obligations 
under Principle 2, Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1.1R) and the clients best interests rule (COBS 
2.1.1R), if it has not undertaken enough due diligence to satisfy itself on the essential 
information on which any communication or promotion is based. 
Whilst the FCAs consultation paper was issued subsequent to Mr Hs investment, I consider 
its content has relevance when thinking about Funding Circles responsibilities because it set 
out the FCAs view on good practice and compliance with existing rules and principles. To 
that point, Funding Circle has evidenced the due diligence it has carried out at a high level. 
Its evidenced that all five loans were subject to full reviews whereby holistic assessments of 
the various documents and credit reports obtained during the application stage were 
conducted. Its provided copies of credit reports, individual credit searches and history 
including searches conducted on guarantors, bank statements in addition to company 
accounts. As such, I havent seen anything that would lead me to think there were any 
failings on Funding Circles part.
However, Mr H has pointed to specific details that he feels were instrumental in causing the 
payment issues on all five loans. He says this supports why the loans should never have 
been allocated. I acknowledge Mr Hs concerns, but I need to view the situation without the 
benefit of hindsight and consider the information Funding Circle reviewed at the time the 
loans were approved for allocation.
Ill refer to each of the loans individually below.
Loan 1
Mr H highlights that loan 1 claimed it had been running its business for six years when the 
publicly available information on the Companies House website suggests it had only been running for three years. He says Funding Circle misled investors with the information it 
provided in the pitch.
Ive set out that Mr Hs account was auto selected, meaning that there wasnt promotional 
material that he relied on to invest. So, the question for me to consider here is whether 
Funding Circle carried out sufficient due diligence checks to ensure it was acting in line with 
the clients best interest principle when it allocated this loan to Mr Hs account, bearing in 
mind the risk category selected.
As referred to by our investigator, there is evidence loan 1 was trading before it had been 
incorporated. That is the information that is shown on the Companies House website and 
explains the discrepancy r H has referred to.  
Funding Circle has told us they considered loan 1s filed accounts, bank statements, risk 
reports, carried out credit checks in addition to requesting personal guarantees. I find that to 
be sufficient in the circumstances, so Im not convinced Ive seen evidence that Funding 
Circle fell short in its due diligence checks or seen evidence to say it wasnt acting in Mr Hs 
best interests.
Loan 2
Mr H believes sufficient checks werent carried out on the personal guarantor linked to loan 
2. He also believes the default date Funding Circle has used for loan 2, as well as the other 
four loans, are incorrect  he says Funding Circle should have shown the default date to be 
within two or three months of each loan starting as this is when each businesses stopped 
making payments.  
Referring to Mr Hs first point, Ive seen that Funding Circle sought information about the 
guarantors historical finances and undertook credit checks as well as a credit scoring 
process before the guarantee was considered. Understandably Mr H is disappointed that 
Funding Circle has failed to recover the shortfall on this loan from the guarantor as is the 
case for the other four loans, but as the Investor Guide states:
Please note, a personal guarantee, or any form of security, does not ensure a full recovery
of outstanding debts will be made if a loan defaults, and there may be instances where no
recovery can be made.
This means despite the checks and balances Funding Circle carried out, there was no 
guarantee of it recovering the shortfall. Most importantly, given the evidence Funding Circle 
has shared, Im satisfied it did undertake appropriate due diligence before approving the 
lending and Im further satisfied it has shown, where possible, that it had taken appropriate 
recovery action in relation to the personal guarantors (for all five loans). It follows then that 
Im satisfied Funding Circle was acting in Mr Hs best interests.
Moving to Mr Hs second point about default dates, Funding Circles statement shows it 
defaulted loan 2 on 28 February 2019. The loan began in June the previous year and during 
that time, only one payment was received for July 2018. I understand Mr H believes Funding 
Circle should have defaulted loan 2 as well as the four other loans earlier. However, I should 
clarify that missing payments are different to a default. A default is a decision made by 
Funding Circle and is not triggered as soon as one or a set number of payments are missed. 
Funding Circle could decide not to default a loan for many months if they felt a payment plan 
was likely to be forthcoming to bring the account back up to date. 
It also important to note that as well as having a responsibility to investors, Funding Circle 
also had consumer credit responsibilities to the businesses it had promoted on its platform and so it needed to consider the interest of the lender as well as the business interests 
when agreeing any action.
Under the lender terms Mr H agreed to, Funding Circle was able to take what action it 
deemed was most appropriate. In this case, its clear it provided loan 2 and the other four 
businesses an opportunity to resume payments or reach a suitable arrangement. But once 
that failed, it considered and, in some cases, began legal proceedings to deliver the best 
outcome for investors before eventually defaulting the loans. So, whilst I recognise Mr Hs 
strength of feeling on the matter, Im not persuaded defaulting the loans earlier would have 
resulted in a better outcome for him.
Loan 3
Mr H doesnt agree Funding Circle carried out sufficient due diligence checks when it agreed 
to consolidate loan 3s existing borrowing and further increase its loan. Funding Circle has 
shown that checks were undertaken before additional lending was promoted. It analysed 
actual performance in the period between the original lending and considered loan 3s most 
current position. Further, it considered the payments loan 3 had made on two existing loans 
 with payments all made on time - up until the most recent additional lending.
Ive thought very carefully about the information Funding Circle had at the time loan 3 was 
approved for allocation in June 2018. Whilst Mr H has directed my attention to the overall 
size of borrowing, and that loan 3 defaulted sometime soon after, the documents show that 
Funding Circle monitored and assessed the results from 2014 to 2017 before approving it. I 
dont doubt Mr Hs disappointment at the reality of the defaulted loan, but having seen the 
information provided at the time, overall, I consider that appropriate checks were undertaken 
before the funding was approved on the platform. As such, Im satisfied that Funding Circles 
action support it was acting in Mr Hs best interests.
Loan 4
Ive noted Mr Hs comments that despite the checks Funding Circle had carried out, it had 
reached the wrong assessment when it allowed loan 4 to be made available to investors. 
Hes made reference to there being existing debt - a directors loan of approximately £16,000 
- in addition to the director drawing a dividend of £12,000 in June 2018.
Mr H says that had Funding Circle sought sufficient bank statements from loan 4, it would 
have known of this debt so in the absence of that, it shows a lack of due diligence on 
Funding Circles part. 
Having looked at the documents provided as part of Funding Circles financial checks on 
loan 4, there is no mention of this outstanding debt. As such, I dont think Funding Circle 
couldve known about it, especially where it hadnt been disclosed in the last filed company 
accounts dated June 2017, nor shown up in the bank statements Funding Circle had 
requested. Moreover, as loan 4s accounting period ran from July 2017 to June 2018 which 
meant it was required to file it next set of accounts by March 2019, it was unlikely Funding 
Circle would have known about at the time of loan 4s application in May 2018.
From everything Ive seen, Funding Circle found no breaches in the application process 
which included obtaining other contemporaneous documents in addition to the above.
As such, I dont agree there is sufficient evidence to say Funding Circle failed to carry out 
sufficient checks during the loan application process. Therefore, in light of the available evidence, Ive not seen anything that suggests Funding 
Circle knew or to have known that there was anything inherently wrong with offering these 
loans to investors.
My final decision
I understand that my decision will come as a disappointment for Mr H, but for the reasons 
set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman