DRN-1821743
The complaint
Mr M complains about the delays that Admiral Insurance Company Limited caused in 
carrying out repairs under his motor insurance policy. Hes also unhappy with the quality of 
the repairs and that further damage to his car has been caused. He wants his car repaired or 
written off. Mr M is a named driver on his fathers multi-car policy. 
What happened
Mr Ms car was damaged and taken for repairs to Admirals authorised repairer. It took 14 
days for the car to be repaired and Mr M said there were further mechanical problems. 
Admiral instructed an independent assessor to inspect the car. He said these further 
problems werent accident-related or due to the repairer but due to wear and tear or the 
battery. This was replaced as a gesture of goodwill. Mr M then noticed that the paint used on 
the repaired panels was different to the rest of car. The garage inspected this but couldnt 
see a difference. Admiral said Mr M should take the car in again when it had been cleaned. 
Admiral agreed that there had been delays in the claim. It paid Mr M £125 compensation for 
this. It paid Mr M a further £100 compensation for further delays caused when it thought the 
car may be beyond economical repair. And it paid him £160 for 16 days delay in escalating 
his complaint as Mr M was without a car in this time. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought there 
had been delays in the claim, but he thought Admiral had reasonably compensated Mr M for 
these. He thought it could rely on the expert opinion of the independent assessor that the 
further faults werent due to the accident or the repairs. 
Mr M replied that he didnt want further compensation. He wanted a car that was working. He 
said it had been immaculate before the accident. He thought the repairer had either made a 
mistake or damaged something. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. So its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has told us that hes no longer concerned about compensation for Admirals delays in 
the claim. Ive looked at these delays and I agree with the investigator that Admirals offer of 
compensation for the trouble and upset these caused is fair and reasonable. This is because 
its in keeping with what Id award in similar situations. So I dont require Admiral to pay Mr M 
further compensation for its delays.
Ive also looked at Mr Ms concern about the repairers actions in seeking the return of its 
courtesy car. But whilst I can appreciate that Mr M was caused upset and felt threatened, I 
think the repairer gave him warning before arriving at his door to seek the return of the car. 
So I dont think Admiral needs to do anything further on this point. 
I can see that the approved repairer didnt tell Admiral about previous poor-quality repairs to 
the car when it first assessed it. If it had, then the car would have been deemed beyond 
economical repair. But, instead, Admiral approved the repairs to be carried out. It later paid 
Mr M a cash in lieu sum for the cost of the unnoticed repairs. So I think this restored Mr Ms 
position as Admiral paid for the cost of all the repairs to his car caused by the accident.
When the dispute arose about the mechanical faults Mr M noticed, Admiral appointed an 
independent assessor to inspect the car. He couldnt replicate the faults. But he attributed 
them to the battery losing voltage. The garage had already replaced the battery as a gesture 
of goodwill. So he thought Mr M should have this further investigated by his own garage. He 
thought the problem may be due to wear and tear or the additional internal lighting fitted to 
the car. But he didnt think it was caused by the accident or the approved repairer.
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
Admiral had an independent engineer inspect the car to resolve the dispute. I think thats fair 
and reasonable as its what Id require in similar situations. His detailed view, already shared 
with Mr M, was that the faults werent due to the repairs or the accident. I cant see that Mr M 
has provide any alternative expert evidence for Admiral to consider. So I think Admiral can 
reasonably rely on the expert evidence of the independent engineer and I think its justified 
its decision to not pay for further repairs. 
Mr M was concerned that some panels are painted with a different type of paint. Admiral said 
he should take the car back to the repairer for further inspection when it is clean. As the 
investigator has explained, if Mr M is unhappy with the result, he should raise this as a 
further complaint to give Admiral a chance to respond before he brings his complaint to us.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman