DRN-2525743
The complaint
Miss F and Mr S complain that it was unfair for TSB Bank plc to apply an early repayment 
charge (ERC) which they say was unclear and excessive. Theyd like the charge refunded.
What happened
Miss F and Mr S had a mortgage with TSB. They took out a fixed interest rate product in 
2017. An ERC applied if the mortgage was repaid before mid-2022.
Miss F and Mr S say the mortgage illustration says theyd have to pay 3% of the amount 
repaid before the end of June 2021, and TSB is wrong to apply the charge to the outstanding 
balance. They say they expected the ERC to be about £340. Miss F and Mr S say theres no 
cash illustration and the ERC is unclear. 
Miss F and Mr S wanted to reduce monthly payments by refinancing with another lender. 
They say paying the ERC limited their options as they had a less favourable loan-to-value 
ratio.
Our investigator said the ERC was clearly set out in the mortgage offer and TSB was entitled 
to apply it.
Miss F and Mr S didnt agree, saying the documents werent clear. Mr S says TSB should at 
least apply the charge after the 10% annual allowance, as their new lender does.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss F and Mr S took out a mortgage with a fixed interest rate product in 2017. Under the 
heading Early repayment the mortgage offer says 
You have the right to repay this loan early, either fully or partially. 
Early repayment charge:
5.00% of the amount repaid on or before 30/06/2018
4.00% of the amount repaid on or before 30/06/2019
3.00% of the amount repaid on or before 30/06/2021
1.00% of the amount repaid on or before 30/06/2022
The maximum early repayment charge you will pay is £13,000.* Should you decide to 
repay this loan early, please contact us to ascertain the exact level of the early 
repayment charge at that moment. 
*I have rounded this number
Miss F and Mr S repaid all of their mortgage in 2020. I think TSB was entitled to apply the 
ERC, that is 3% of the amount repaid on or before 30/06/2021. 
There might be circumstances in which Id consider it fair to require a lender to refund an 
ERC. Thats not the case here. I think the ERC was set out in a clear, fair and not-misleading 
way. 
While Miss F and Mr S say the wording suggests the ERC would only apply to the amount 
already repaid, I dont think thats reasonable. The mortgage offer says the ERC applies to 
the amount repaid before 30/06/2021 which to me clearly includes the amount Miss F and 
Mr S repaid when they refinanced. 
Before they took out the mortgage, Miss F and Mr S told TSB they wanted flexibility after six 
years: they didnt want an ERC after six years as Mr S expected to progress in his job and 
be able to pay in excess of the 10% annual allowance. Theres a cash example provided of 
the maximum amount that could be paid (about £13,000). I dont think Miss F and Mr S were 
misled that the ERC would be a much smaller amount, such as £340. 
Miss F and Mr Ss say their new lender applies its charge after reducing the amount repaid 
by the 10% ERC-free annual allowance. This doesnt mean that TSB has to offer the same 
concession. Theres no suggestion in the mortgage offer that it would do so. 
I think TSB was entitled to apply the ERC when Miss F and Mr S repaid their mortgage. I 
dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require TSB to refund all or any 
part of the ERC.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman