DRN-2723405
The complaint
A Company which Ill refer to as B complains that American International Group UK 
Limited (AIG) unfairly declined a claim under its business protection insurance policy.
Mr R who is a director of B brings the complaint on Bs behalf.
What happened
B holds a business protection insurance policy with AIG. He made a claim on that policy to 
cover his losses arising from his business closure as a result of the national Government-
imposed lockdown in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
AIG declined the claim as it said COVID-19 isnt covered under the terms of the policy. Mr R 
didnt agree. He said he thought the wording of the policy, specifically the wording for 
Notifiable Diseases, meant that his claim should be covered.
B complained to AIG but it explained that, although his policy would provide cover in the 
event of certain diseases causing closure, COVID-19 wasnt one of the named diseases. 
Mr R wasnt happy with its response so brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered Bs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that, 
while he sympathises with Mr Rs situation, he didnt think there was cover available under 
the policy. Mr R didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Mr Rs business, but I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr R is looking to claim on Bs business protection insurance policy. These types of policies 
offer protection from risks common to business but there are a range of business protection 
insurance policies on the market covering a range of different risks. When considering 
whether AIG acted fairly in declining Bs claim, the starting point is to consider the specific 
policy he took out. 
Having reviewed Bs policy, I dont think there are any terms which provide cover for the 
closure of his business as a result of the Governments response to the national pandemic. 
However, I would like to explain why I dont think the parts of the policy which appear most 
relevant provide cover.
Bs policy included cover for Notifiable Diseases. The policy states that it would provide 
cover for business interruption as a result of An outbreak of any Notifiable Disease 
occurring at the Premises or which is attributable to food or drink supplied from the 
Premises, or occurring within a one mile radius.
The policy provides a definition for Notifiable Disease, which sets out a list of specified 
illnesses that are covered under the policy. However, COVID-19 isnt on that list.
I realise that COVID-19 wasnt something AIG would have known about when the policy was 
drafted, but there are other policies that were on the market that do provide cover for the 
pandemic  usually policies that cover all notifiable diseases, which are set out and updated 
on a Government defined list. In contrast, Bs policy sets out a specific list of illnesses which 
are covered by the policy. And having reviewed the policy wording, there is nothing which 
implies that it provides cover for other illnesses, including any new illnesses which might 
emerge. So I think the purpose of the policy is to provide cover in the event of the specific 
illnesses listed and I dont think the policy can or should fairly be interpreted as covering any 
illnesses that arent specified in the list set out in the policy.
Bs policy also provides cover for loss resulting from Damage or Denial of Access. However, 
I dont think anything in that wording extends to damage caused to the business itself by way 
of a specified illness or disease such as COVID-19, or even a Government-imposed act. 
Rather, these terms refer to physical damage or loss and I havent seen anything to indicate 
that COVID-19 caused damage to property  so I dont think these sections cover Bs claim.
Mr R has referred to the Financial Conduct Authoritys test case. Bs policy has a definitive 
list of specified diseases and this kind of policy wasnt the subject of the test case, so his 
comments dont change my decision. And while Im sorry to hear about the financial impact 
the Government-imposed lockdown had on B, having taken everything into account and 
having considered the remaining terms of the policy, I dont think AIG acted unfairly in 
declining his claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman