DRN-3119198
Complaint
Mr S says that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly added overdraft charges to his 
overdraft.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr S concerns. He didnt think that HSBC had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr S disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr S complaint. 
Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the 
various amounts HSBC charged Mr S over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a 
bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get 
involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at HSBCs charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mr S if it applied these interest, fees and charges to her 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been
aware Mr S was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were 
instances where HSBC didnt treat Mr S fairly and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where HSBC continued charging 
Mr S even though it knew he was in financial difficulty or it ought to have realised this. 
Having thought about everything, I dont think that HSBC treated Mr S unfairly or 
unreasonably here though. 
Ive looked through Mr S statements throughout the period concerned I cant see that HSBC 
ought to have steps to remove the facility from Mr S and default the account. Mr S may 
argue his use of his overdraft was in itself an indication that he was struggling. But the 
account regularly received funds and for the vast majority of the time it did return to a credit 
balance, which meant that it wasnt unreasonable for HSBC to conclude there was a 
reasonable prospect of the overdraft sustainably being repaid. 
And while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mr S expenditure, 
nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and 
discretionary transactions being made from the account. So I cant reasonably say that it 
was the overdraft charges that were responsible for Mr S overdraft balance here. 
I accept that all of these things in themselves (or even taken together) dont mean that Mr S 
wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in Mr S transactions in 
themselves which ought to have prompted HSBC to have realised this. So, in these 
circumstances, I dont think that it was unreasonable for HSBC to proceed with the interest, 
fees and charges it added. And I dont think HSBC unfairly charged Mr S in circumstances 
where it ought to have realised that he may have been experiencing financial difficulty.
Having considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr S complaint. I realise 
that this will be very disappointing for Mr S. But I hope that hell understand the reasons for 
my decision and at least feel that his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman