DRN-1345361
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that a used car supplied to him under a hire-purchase agreement by First 
Response Finance Ltd (First Response) was of unsatisfactory quality and not fit for 
purpose contrary to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). He is represented in bringing 
this complaint by his mother Mrs P. 
What happened
In May 2019, Mr P entered into a hire-purchase agreement with First Response for a used 
car. The car was some 14 years old. Its recorded mileage was shown on an MOT certificate 
issued a few days previously as 118,244, although this was incorrectly shown in the hire-
purchase documentation as 108,071.
The cash price for the car was £4,103. Mr P agreed to pay a total of £6,537.96, including 
finance charges, by 33 monthly payments of £198.12 each.
Mr P complained to the supplying dealer (SD) soon after taking delivery about various 
issues including the handbrake, the fitting of the folding roof, windows and mirrors not 
functioning correctly, and air whistling into the car while the roof was up.
SD wouldnt help as it said the warranty it had given expired after the earlier of three months, 
or when a thousand miles had been completed.
In August 2019, Mr P contacted First Response to seek to reject the car. First Response 
couldnt get SD to respond and so arranged for an independent motor engineer (IME) to 
inspect and report on the car.
The report noted the issues Mr P had mentioned. It said, in particular:
the handbrake was operational, but was approaching the point when it would need 
checking;
there was noise from the clutch which indicated its components were nearing the end 
of their in-service life. They would soon need replacement as a result of in-service 
wear and tear, rather than because of any manufacturing fault;
some electric switches for door mirrors and a window were broken, but the mirrors 
and windows could be operated;
the canvas roof material had shrunk. This had resulted in a lack of seal and the 
whistling noise Mr P had noted.
 
In IMEs professional opinion, the overall condition of the car was commensurate with its age 
and recorded mileage. It was generally in a reasonable condition and consistent with its age 
and recorded mileage. At the time it was supplied to Mr P it had just passed an MOT test, 
and so was able to be legally used on the road.He considered that at delivery the car was fit for purpose and of a satisfactory standard. 
Although there were underlying issues with the car, these were a result of natural wear and 
tear through general usage, and only developed into an issue that required rectification after 
delivery.
As the IME concluded that the car was of satisfactory quality at delivery, First Response 
didnt agree that Mr P was entitled to reject the car. In recognition of the problems Mr P had 
encountered so soon after taking delivery, First Response did offer to contribute to any 
repair costs, as a gesture of goodwill, if Mr P obtained an estimate.
It also recalculated the cost of the car to reflect the correct mileage, as the dealership had 
recorded this incorrectly, and returned the difference plus interest. This totalled £37.95.
Mr P didnt accept what First Response was offering and complained to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. CRA made First 
Response responsible for supplying a car of satisfactory quality. But this had to be 
considered in relation to a car which was 14 years old, and had a recorded mileage of over 
100,000 miles.
The expert opinion of the IME concluded that the car was in a satisfactory condition for its 
age and mileage at delivery. So the investigator didnt think Mr P was entitled to reject the 
car. First Response had offered to contribute towards any necessary repairs, and he thought 
this was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs P didnt accept the investigators recommendation. She thought the car was faulty, and 
the investigator shouldnt just rely on one engineers statement. The investigator said if Mr P 
obtained another independent report we would consider this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I have to decide is whether Mr Ps car was fit for purpose and of satisfactory quality 
when he took delivery of it. It was then 14 years old and had a recorded mileage of over 
118,000 miles. So it isnt reasonable to expect it to be in the same condition as a new car.
In considering a question like this, we place much reliance on any expert opinions of 
independent motor engineers that are available. In this case there is such an opinion, 
produced by the IME. 
His report details the condition of the car and says that in his professional opinion the car 
was fit for purpose, and of satisfactory quality, at delivery given its age and recorded 
mileage. Mr P hasnt produced any independence evidence to contradict this. 
In these circumstances, I conclude, on the evidence available to me, that I cant fairly say the 
car wasnt fit for purpose or of satisfactory quality, when delivered to Mr P. So I cant say he 
is now entitled to reject the car.
First Response has offered to contribute to any repairs required if Mr P wishes to obtain an 
estimate for these. I leave it to Mr P to decide if he now wishes to pursue this offer. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against First Response 
Finance Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman