DRN-2564732
The complaint
Ms A has complained that Shelby Finance Ltd (trading as Dot Dot Loans) did not complete 
appropriate affordability checks. Ms A also says there was excessive contact about her 
outstanding balance and sold her loan to a third party once she made a complaint.
What happened
Ms A took one loan from Dot Dot Loans in August 2019. The loan was for £300 and to be 
repaid in three monthly instalments of £151.99.   It appears that Ms A ran into difficulty 
repaying her loan. The loan was then sold to a third party in March 2020.
The last adjudicator to review Ms As complaint explained that he didnt think Dot Dot loans 
were wrong to lend to Ms A based on the information it gathered about her circumstances. 
And as there was an outstanding balance on Ms As loan, the adjudicator thought the lender 
was within their rights to pass her account to a third party. 
The adjudicator also looked at the contact made by Dot Dot Loans to Ms A, but he couldnt 
conclude it was excessive as he didnt have enough information.
It appears that Dot Dot Loans agreed with our adjudicators opinion. 
Ms A disagreed and provided the following points to consider;
Dot Dot Loans did not complete checks and
Ms A had numerous emails and calls on a daily basis to her house and mobile 
number.
More recently, Ms A has told us that this issue has had a detrimental impact on her mental 
heath.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loan was provided.
I want to be clear that this decision only focuses on the actions of Dot Dot Loans, and not the 
actions of the third party who is now responsible for the collection of the outstanding 
balance.  
 
Dot Dot Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms A 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Dot 
Dot Loans should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Ms As complaint. 
Affordability checks 
When Ms A applied for her loan, Dot Dot Loans asked her about her monthly income and 
expenditure, and it completed a credit check. It also verified Ms As income and expenditure 
via a Credit Reference Agency. 
Ms As declared her income as £2,300 which was verified by asking her for a copy of her 
payslip. Ms A also told Dot Dot Loans her monthly expenditure was £1,400. This would have 
left Ms A with a disposable income of £900 from which to meet the repayment, which was no 
more than £151.99 a month. The loan therefore looked affordable. 
It seems Dot Dot Loans was aware of some adverse information showing on Ms As credit 
file  specifically that Ms A had three defaulted accounts. But the credit check results did not 
show exactly when these were applied, except that the defaults had occurred more than 
three months prior to Ms As loan application.  But there was no other concerning 
information, for example, a high number of recently opened accounts. As this was Ms As 
first loan with Dot Dot Loans, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to have provided it. 
Im sorry to hear that Ms A was struggling financially and repaying these loans has been
difficult. And I accept that Ms As full financial circumstances may not have been reflected in
the information she provided. It might be that her full financial position may well have been 
apparent if further information, such as bank statements, had been obtained. 
But I think Dot Dot Loans was entitled to rely on the information Ms A told it at this stage of 
the lending relationship and, based on the information Ms A provided and what Dot Dot 
Loans saw in the credit checks, it wouldve concluded that Ms A couldve afforded the 
repayments she was committed to paying. I also dont yet think it had reached the stage 
where it needed to verify what Ms A was saying about her expenditure (it had verified her 
income) by the way of bank statements.
 Sale of the loan to a third party 
Ms A is also unhappy that Dot Dot Loans sold her loan to a third party shortly after she made 
a complaint. Looking at the timeline of events, it seems the sale to the third party occurred 
around a week after Dot Dot Loans issued its final response letter. 
But I dont think the sale of outstanding balance was wrong. Ms A had taken out a loan, 
which, if repayments had been made on time, wouldve been repaid in November 2019. 
However, Ms A had significant payment problems and so she was significantly in arrears by 
the time of her complaint to Dot Dot Loans in January 2020. 
Ive seen copies of arrears letters sent to Ms A during this time, and Ive also seen a copy of 
the default noticed that was issued at the start of February 2020. I appreciate this is after Ms 
A raised her complaint, but it was likely sent due to the significant arrears that were on the 
account by that point. But I dont think it was wrong for Dot Dot Loans to have issued the 
default notice, as it gave her further time to talk to them about her position and to put 
something in place to repay the arrears. 
It also looks like, from the system notes, that Dot Dot Loan held off reporting the default to 
the credit reference agencies and passing the debt to a third party until after its final 
response letter was issued. Which I dont think was unreasonable.  
But the account was in arrears, and so Dot Dot Loans has an obligation to report this 
accurate information to the credit reference agencies about the loan status, which will 
include details of missed payments and when the account was defaulted. 
Ive not seen a copy of Ms As credit file, so I cant confirm the date the default was reported 
to it. But, based on the system notes that Ive seen from Dot Dot Loans, Im satisfied there 
was no error in defaulting the account, because the loan was sufficiently in arrears. In 
addition, the terms and conditions of the loan allow Dot Dot Loans to pass the loan to a third 
party  which it has done  and the fact it waited until after the final response letter is 
reasonable. Ive certainly seen no evidence that Dot Dot Loans acted maliciously in either 
defaulting, or selling on, the account. So, I dont think it did anything wrong in either relation 
to the default or the sale of the debt. 
Ms A has also said shes been harassed for repayment of this loan. I have little information 
from both parties about the calls Ms A received from Dot Dot Loans. But it has shown that it 
only had Ms As mobile number and not a home contact number. And Dot Dot Loans also 
sent Ms A a number of letters and some emails. However, based on the limited evidence I 
cannot reasonably conclude that Dot Dots Loans contact was excessive.
As I said above, I cant rule out that there has been further contact by the third party debt 
owner, but they are not party to this decision so Im not able to come to a finding on their 
actions. 
I understand that my findings are likely to disappoint Ms A, but I hope my explanation will 
help her understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Ms As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman