DRN-2808912
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as T have complained that Society of Lloyd's (Lloyds) unfairly 
turned down their business interruption insurance claim.
Mr W, a director of T, has brought the complaint to us on Ts behalf. 
For ease of reading, reference to Lloyds will also include anything done by the underwriter.  
What happened
T held a business interruption insurance policy with Lloyds. They contacted Lloyds to claim 
on their policy after their business was impacted by the Governments response to Covid-19. 
Lloyds said the claim wasnt covered, as Covid-19 hadnt caused damage and T hadnt 
closed due to an incident within a one-mile radius of their premises. 
T complained to Lloyds as they thought they should be covered under Public Authority 
Incident. They said they had been required to close due to Covid-19 occurring in the local 
area. However, Lloyds said the term would still require there to be damage and Covid-19 
hadnt caused damage. 
Unhappy with Lloyds response, T brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Ts complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt think 
Covid-19 had caused damage or could be considered an incident within a one-mile radius of 
Ts premises. 
T disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They said they didnt know bold text 
meant words had a specific definition that needed to be read separately, and they had been 
sent a calculator which showed how to work out whether Covid-19 was within a one-mile 
radius of their premises. C added that all financial support had been from the Local Authority 
which showed the closure was a Local Authority issue. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on T. But I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Lloyds has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ts claim.
The business interruption section of Ts policy says:
We will cover Your Organisation for any Loss of Income and Increased Cost 
of Working during the Indemnity Period resulting solely and directly from an 
interruption to Your Organisations business caused by a BI incident.
For the purposes of this cover BI incident means the following
I will comment on the two most relevant incidents in turn.
Denial of access
This states:
Denial of Access: the prevention of access to Your Premises because of 
Property Damage (but excluding Property Damage which prevents or hinders 
the supply of gas, electricity, water or telecommunications) within 1 mile of Your 
Premises up to the limit specified in the Schedule;
Property Damage is defined in the policy as:
accidental physical loss (including theft & robbery) or accidental physical 
damage or destruction of physical property excluding electronic data.
For this to provide cover for Ts claim there would need to be a physical loss, damage or 
destruction of physical property within one mile of Ts premises. As I havent seen anything 
to indicate Covid-19 caused a physical loss, damage or destruction to property within one 
mile of Ts premises which prevented access to their property I dont think this covers the 
circumstances of their claim.
Public Authority Incident
This states:
Public Authority Incident: an incident occurring during the Policy Period 
within a one mile radius of Your Premises which results in a Denial of Access 
in access to Your Premises, imposed by any civil or statutory authority or by 
order of the government or any public authority, for more than 24-hours up to limit 
specified in the Schedule within any one Policy Period
The only place denial of access is defined in bold is as set out above as a BI incident. 
Lloyds said this means there would also need to be property damage for cover to apply. T 
said they didnt realise the bold words had specific definitions. However, even if I was to 
disregard the definition of denial of access in this term and decide it didnt require property 
damage, I still dont think it would cover the circumstances of Ts claim. 
In coming to a decision, Im required to take account of the law. I think the High Court 
judgment on the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case is relevant to Ts complaint 
because the High Court considered a similar term to that within Ts policy and this part of the 
judgment wasnt appealed. 
Paragraph 405 of the judgment says:
 it is a misuse of language both generally and on the correct construction of 
the clause to describe the pandemic as an incident let alone an incident occurring within a one mile radius of the insured premises. It may amount to a 
state of affairs but it is... too geographically dispersed, variegated, prolonged and 
non-specific to amount to an incident
Saying that the pandemic is everywhere does not mean that it is present at
particular insured premises and certainly does not mean that it amounts to an
incident occurring within a one mile radius of the insured premises it is a
misnomer to describe the presence of someone in the radius with the disease as 
an incident for the purposes of the clause.
Paragraphs 406 to 407 of the judgment say:
We consider that this is a narrow, localised cover intended to insure events or
incidents which occur within the one mile radius. The localised nature of the 
cover is even more marked in the case of the alternative wording requiring the 
incident to occur in the vicinity of the insured premises
It follows that there is no cover under [this type of] clause in respect of business
interruption losses caused by the restrictions imposed by the government in
response to the national pandemic.
I see no reason to depart from the judgment as I think this term was intended to relate to 
incidents that were limited to a one-mile radius of an insureds premises. Even though there 
may have been cases of Covid-19 within a one-mile radius of Ts premises and support 
came from the local authority, the Government response to the national pandemic, which 
caused Ts closure, was not in response to a localised incident. As such, I dont think the 
policy provides cover for Ts claim. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment for Mr W, but I dont think I can fairly 
require Lloyds to pay Ts claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman