DRN-2608473
The complaint
Mr A complains that his ISA with Nutmeg Saving and Investment Limited is administered in a 
misleading manner, which led to him losing the opportunity to contribute £5,000 in the 
2018/19 tax year. 
What happened
In April 2017 Mr A opened an ISA with Nutmeg and made a £5,000 contribution, which fell 
within the 2016/17 tax year. He made a further payment of £5,000 in April 2019, in time to 
fall within the 2018/19 tax year. 
But shortly after he discovered that the second £5,000 hadnt been paid into his ISA. He 
complained to Nutmeg, but it didnt feel it had done anything wrong. It explained that 
because Mr A hadnt contributed to his ISA in the intervening 2017/18 tax year, the ISA had 
lapsed. So, as he hadnt selected the option to open a new ISA, the April 2019 £5,000 had 
instead been paid in his general investment account (GIA)  which had been opened by 
default at the same time as his original ISA, in line with Nutmegs terms and conditions.
Mr A didnt accept Nutmegs explanation as he didnt feel that its process was clear. He 
referred his complaint to this service, but our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusion as Nutmeg. He said that that the terms of the account made clear that a GIA 
would be opened in tandem with a new ISA. And that the ISA lapsing for 2017/18 was 
correct and in line with Nutmegs terms. The investigator accepted that other ISA providers 
operated their products in different ways, but he didnt think that Nutmeg had done anything 
wrong in administering its ISA in the way it did. 
Mr A didnt accept the investigators view. He said that regardless of the ISAs terms the 
process was misleading and, as such, Nutmeg had failed in its duty of care toward him as a 
retail client. It was not enough to have water-tight terms and conditions, the platform should 
also be administered in a fair manner. It wasnt reasonable to expect customers to read all 
terms and conditions in fine detail for every transaction they carried out. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the matter was referred to me 
to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Im satisfied that Nutmeg administered Mr As 2019 payment correctly, in line with its terms 
and conditions. At the point he made the payment in April 2019 his Nutmeg ISA had lapsed 
so, as he didnt select the option to open a new ISA, the payment was placed into his GIA. 
That said, I note that Mr A doesnt really dispute that the terms of the account were adhered 
to. Rather, his view is that the practical, day-to-day operation of the ISA is misleading. He 
feels that its not made clear that the ISA will operate in the way it does, and that payments 
will be handled as his second £5,000 was. Ultimately, he thinks Nutmegs ISA is operated in 
a confusing and unfair manner.
Ive looked closely at the relevant processes and operation of the ISA as a whole. But having 
done so, I dont think I can fairly conclude that Nutmeg has done anything wrong. 
Mr A has said that he didnt know that Nutmegs ISA opening process involved the default 
setting up of a GIA to sit alongside the ISA. So, he didnt know there was an alternative 
destination for his £5,000 if it didnt go into the ISA. But I think the information provided by 
Nutmeg makes reasonably clear that this is how its system operates and I dont think its 
unique in setting up a separate non-ISA account as a default process.
I can see why Mr A was under the impression that his payment wouldve been applied to the 
ISA rather than the GIA. There wasnt anything in the process that overtly alerted him to the 
fact that the payment wasnt going into the ISA. But equally, there was nothing that 
confirmed that the payment had gone into the ISA.
I note Mr A has provided details of another providers system that doesnt operate in this 
way, so if a contribution cant be paid to the ISA for whatever reason (such as it having 
lapsed) the account holder gets an alert. But Nutmeg is entitled to operate its system in a 
different way to other providers, as long as it makes clear how its system operates. And 
while I accept Mr A feels that Nutmeg doesnt do this, I dont agree. I think Nutmegs system 
is reasonable, explained sufficiently clearly and not unduly out of line with general industry 
standards. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman