DRN-3882262
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy that Revolut Ltd has refused to refund the money she lost after falling 
victim to a scam.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
In May 2022, Miss D received a call from someone who said they worked for a bank with 
which she held an account but who, ultimately, turned out to be a scammer. The 
scammer persuaded Miss D that she needed to move her money to a safe place. They 
coached her to move a total of £9,900 from her bank account into her Revolut account 
and then on to another account. 
Revolut had concerns about the £9,900 payment Miss D attempted and showed her 
some scam warnings, but she proceeded with the payment anyway. Revolut said it gave 
Miss D sufficient warnings that she might be falling victim to a scam and so refused to 
refund any of the money shed lost. The account to which Miss D sent the payment was 
also a Revolut account, but only £1 remained at the point that Miss D reported the scam 
 this was returned to her.
Our investigator thought Revolut ought to have done more to protect Miss D and prevent 
her losses. But he also thought Miss D was partly to blame. So he recommended that 
Revolut refund 50% of her loss along with interest. Revolut disagreed, so the case has 
come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator, for much the same 
reasons. I think Revolut should refund 50% of the money Miss D lost to the scam (along with 
interest) and Ive reached this conclusion having taken the following into account:
Miss D has had some difficulty remembering exactly what happened during her call with 
the scammer and, at times, shes suggested that she didnt make the payment herself. 
But Im satisfied, from the evidence Revolut has provided, that its more likely than not 
Miss D authorised the payment using her mobile banking app. So although she didnt 
intend the money to go to the scammer, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
and the terms and conditions of her account, Miss D is presumed liable for the loss in the 
first instance. But the matter doesn't end there.
Revolut should also be on the lookout for, and help to prevent, payments that could 
involve fraud or be the result of a scam. But a balance must be struck between 
identifying payments that may indicate a customer is potentially at risk of financial harm  
and then responding appropriately to any concerns  and ensuring minimal disruption to 
legitimate payments.
The payment Miss D made was significantly unusual and out of character given the way 
she usually operated her account and I think it rightly triggered Revoluts fraud detection 
systems. Ive considered carefully the warnings that Revolut displayed and note they 
shared some characteristics with the situation in which Miss D found herself. But Im also 
conscious the scammer was guiding Miss D through the payment and applying pressure. 
So I can understand why the on screen warnings didnt have the desired effect. In the 
circumstances, I think Revolut ought to have done more to satisfy itself that Miss D 
wasnt falling victim to a scam and should have made in-person contact before 
unblocking the payment. 
Ive seen nothing which suggests Miss D wouldnt have been truthful if Revolut had 
made in-person contact with her and discussed why she was making the payment. I 
think she would have explained what she was being told to do in order to protect her 
money. And the situation she would likely have described bore all the common hallmarks 
of a safe account scam. So I think Revolut could have uncovered the scam and 
prevented her losses.
Shortly before the scammer called her, Miss D had disclosed some of her banking 
details thinking she was paying some postage costs, but this was actually a phishing 
exercise. This meant the scammer knew some of her banking details (albeit not ones 
relating to her Revolut account) and they also called from a spoofed phone number. This 
helped the scammer convince her the call was coming from a genuine bank employee. 
So I can understand, to an extent, why she believed her account was at risk and why she 
followed the scammers instructions initially. But, like the investigator, I think she ought to 
have had some concerns along the way about what she was being asked to do. So I 
think she should bear some responsibility for her losses.
I dont think anything relating to the receiving account ought to have prompted Revolut to 
prevent the payment from being made. And I think Revolut did enough, after being 
notified about the scam, to recover the remaining money. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I instruct Revolut Ltd to pay £4,950 to 
Miss D along with interest calculated at 8% per year simple from the date the payment was 
made to the date of settlement.
If Revolut considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
the interest award, it should tell Miss D how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs, if appropriate.
Revolut should settle the matter within 28 days of receiving notification of Miss Ds 
acceptance of my final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman