DRN-3733893
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Societys changes to the executor accounts he 
holds are unreasonable and will have a negative impact on him.
What happened
In 2017 Mr S opened executor accounts with Nationwide. Mr S used the accounts to 
administer the estate of his late parents. Mr S says his late parents had various holdings and 
received dividend cheques in their name, which are paid directly into the executor accounts. 
Mr S would then request cheques from this account to be made payable to himself.
In 2020 Nationwide changed their internal policies regarding executor accounts. The 
changes meant that Mr S would no longer be able to request cheques to be made payable to 
him from the executor accounts. Mr S was advised he could open new accounts with 
Nationwide in his sole name, or the executor accounts could be closed, and he could open 
executor accounts elsewhere. 
Mr S wasnt happy with the changes Nationwide planned on introducing and raised a 
complaint. 
Nationwide looked into Mr S complaint but it didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Nationwide said it had introduced changes to follow guidance and improve internal 
processes. And it had not treated Mr S unfairly as it gave him adequate notice and 
alternative options.
Mr S was unhappy with Nationwides response and referred his complaint to our service for 
review. An investigator looked at Mr Ss concerns. But they didnt think Nationwide had done 
anything wrong and didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr S remained dissatisfied, so his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has made several detailed points about his complaint which I have only summarised 
above. But Id like to reassure him that I have read and considered his correspondence in 
full. And I hope the fact that I do not respond in a similar detail here will not be taken as a 
discourtesy. As an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and 
reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it is not necessary for me 
to respond to every point made, but to consider the circumstances as a whole.
Having done so, while I appreciate Mr S strength of feeling about his complaint and he 
objects to the changes Nationwide has introduced, Im satisfied Nationwide has acted 
reasonably. Ill explain why. 
Mr S says Nationwide has acted unfairly in deciding to change the way it operates executor 
accounts. But, generally speaking, the terms and conditions of an account make provision 
for changes to be made  subject to sufficient notice being provided. And here, I havent 
seen anything that would make me think Nationwide wasnt able to make changes to the 
executor accounts held by Mr S.  
Nationwide has cited various reasons for its decision to make changes to executor accounts. 
And I note Mr S is keen to know the exact regulatory guidance which it is following. 
However, I dont think Nationwide needs to provide him with more details than it already has. 
Nationwide  as mentioned above, is allowed to make changes, but any changes made 
should be done taking into account any regulations that are in place. And I havent seen 
anything that makes me think Nationwide has breached any regulations by introducing the 
changes it has to executor accounts. So, while I appreciate the changes meant that Mr S 
wouldnt be able to function the accounts in the way he had been used to, Im satisfied 
Nationwide was entitled to make the changes it did. 
In considering the complaint, I have looked at whether the changes were clearly 
communicated to Mr S. And, having done so, I think they were. I can see Mr S was informed 
of the changes when he attended a branch to request cheques and he has been given time 
to take the necessary action. Mr S was also given further information when he visited a 
branch to query the changes. And Nationwides letters of 22 December 2020 and 12 
February 2021 also explain the changes.
In addition to the explanation of the changes, Nationwide has provided Mr S with alternative 
options available to him in light of the changes. This includes opening an account in his 
name or opening executor accounts elsewhere. Mr S says these options come at a 
significant inconvenience to him, and cost. 
Ive thought about this, but Mr S hasnt provided details of what exactly these costs would 
be. Im not persuaded opening a new account or arranging for payments to be made to a 
new account would incur a financial loss. And, while appreciate that the opening of new 
accounts will require some time and effort on Mr Ss part, Im not persuaded that this will be 
the extent that a compensation payment is warranted. Particularly, as Ive found that 
Nationwide hasnt acted unfairly by exercising its right to make changes to executor 
accounts. I do understand that this issue has been on-going for some time, but Im satisfied 
that Nationwide has been consistent about its new approach and the options available to Mr 
S going forward both during Mr S branch visits and in responding to his complaint.
So, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, I wont be asking Nationwide to take any further action 
in respect of this complaint. Ill leave it to Mr S to contact Nationwide with his instructions to 
either open a new account or close his accounts so that Nationwide can send him any credit 
balance in the account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman