DRN-2329676
The complaint
Ms M complains that Bank of Scotland plc wont refund money she lost when she fell victim 
to a scam.
What happened
Ms M complains that Bank of Scotland plc wont refund money she lost when she fell victim 
to a scam.
Background
Ms M, through her representative, has told us that in May 2019 she fell victim to a scam. 
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows;
Ms M was looking to have some home improvement work carried out on her bathroom. She 
was contacted by a building firm, following which a price and start date for the work was 
agreed. Ms M paid an initial deposit, via online banking, in May 2019 for £3,500. But ahead 
of the work starting the builders requested the balance be paid upfront, resulting in Ms M 
making two further payments of £3,495 and £995 respectively. In total Ms M made three 
payments, totalling £7,990.
Having made the payments, the building firm informed Ms M there would be a delay of 
around two weeks before the work commenced. Ahead of the work starting, on 25 May 
2019, Ms M contacted Bank of Scotland, as she had become concerned about the 
legitimacy of the builders, having read negatives reviews about them online. At this time 
Bank of Scotland informed Ms M that she should wait to see if the work started on the 
scheduled date, and if it didnt, a dispute could be raised.
No work was carried out and so, on 10 June 2019, Ms M contacted Bank of Scotland again 
to tell it she thought she had been the victim of a scam. Bank of Scotland contacted the 
receiving banks (the banks where the money had gone to), but no funds remained.
Ms M complained to Bank of Scotland, as she didnt believe it protected her and that it failed 
to log details that she was vulnerable (Ms Ms representative explained that in a call with 
Bank of Scotland, in 2017, the bank was informed that Ms M, following illness, was 
vulnerable). Bank of Scotland issued its final response to Ms M on 25 September 2019. It 
said it was unable to uphold Ms Ms complaint. Bank of Scotland said it considered the 
matter to be a civil dispute, between Ms M and the builders. It added that, to assist Ms M it 
did raise the matter as a scam and tried to recover the money shed sent from the receiving 
banks, but it wasnt able to recover any money.
Bank of Scotland did recognise that the service it provided Ms M could have been better, in 
that Ms M was given incorrect information when she first contacted Bank of Scotland, on 25 
May 2019. Bank of Scotland paid Ms M £150 compensation in recognition of this, but added 
that it had checked with the receiving banks, and even if it had contacted them when Ms M 
first raised her concerns, it wouldnt have made any difference, as the receiving banks had 
confirmed that no funds remained, even at that point.
Ms M then brought her complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things. Our investigator didnt think Bank of Scotland could have done anything to prevent 
the scam. She said this as she didnt consider the payments Ms M made to the builders 
were particularly out of the ordinary, or so unusual that it should have raised Bank of 
Scotlands suspicions. And she didnt think Bank of Scotland missed an opportunity to 
identify the payment could potentially have been in relation to a scam. Our investigator was 
also satisfied that Bank of Scotland wouldnt have been able to recover any of Ms Ms 
money, even if it had of contacted the receiving banks, when Ms M first raised her concerns.
Alongside this, our investigator was not persuaded this was a scam. She added that shed 
listened to the calls from 2017, and she hadnt been able to find any evidence of Bank of 
Scotland being told about Ms M being a vulnerable customer.
Ms M, through her representative, didnt accept our investigators view. She considered the 
matter was a scam and explained that criminal proceedings, against the builders involved, 
were being progressed through the courts. Alongside this, Ms Ms representative also re-
iterated they consider Ms Ms vulnerabilities werent taken into consideration, when they say, 
Bank of Scotland, had been advised about this.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
Im mindful that there is dispute between the parties in this case as to whether this is a scam, 
or a contractual dispute between Ms M and her builders. I can see that Ms Ms 
representative has provided documentation within their testimony, indicating that there are 
criminal investigations/court proceedings pending, against the individuals behind the 
business Ms M made her payments to.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Ms M, and I can understand entirely why she feels 
so strongly that this money should be returned to her. But having thought very carefully 
about Bank of Scotlands actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the 
transfers to leave Ms Ms account. I also dont think it could have done any more than it did 
to try and recover the money. In the circumstances of this case, my findings would not differ, 
even if I considered this was a scam  although to reach a fair and reasonable outcome on 
this case, I dont consider it necessary to make a finding as to whether I think this is a scam. 
Ill explain why. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what
is fair and reasonable in this case.But that is not the end of the story and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Bank of Scotland should fairly and reasonably: 
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
I can see that, even though our investigator wasnt persuaded this was a scam, she has still 
considered Bank of Scotlands responsibilities in terms of what she would have expected 
from Bank of Scotland in terms of protecting its customers from the risk of financial harm  
which is what I will also go on to do here. So In this case, even if I were to consider this to be 
a scam, I would need to decide whether Bank of Scotland acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Ms M, when she made the transfers and when she reported the fraud, or 
whether it should have done more than it did.
In making the payments through her online banking, Im satisfied Ms M authorised the 
transactions. Because of this, Bank of Scotland had an obligation to follow Ms Ms 
instructions. But there are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer 
look at the circumstances surrounding the transfers - as Ive explained, I consider that as a 
matter of good practice Bank of Scotland shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out 
of character transactions.
Having looked through Ms Ms bank statements for the twelve months leading up to the 
scam, I can see that there were a number of payment larger in size than the payment in 
dispute, with the transactions ranging up to around £40,000. And, the disputed payments 
didnt consume all of the funds in Ms Ms account  which might have been an indicator she 
was at risk of fraud. The payment was to a new payee, but this alone wouldnt have given 
Bank of Scotland much cause for concern. So, for these reasons, I dont think the payments 
Ms M made would have stood out as being particularly unusual or suspicious compared to 
her normal account activity.
Overall the payments simply dont look so unusual or suspicious to me that I think Bank of 
Scotland ought to have intervened. As a result, I dont think Bank of Scotland acted 
unreasonably in not making enquiries about the payments before processing them. There 
isnt enough here for me to think Bank of Scotland should have suspected Ms M might be 
the victim of a potential scam. 
Ive thought carefully about what Ms Ms representative has said, in that Bank of Scotland, 
following an interaction in 2017, ought to have been aware that Ms M was vulnerable. But from the calls at the time, Ive not seen enough for me to fairly and reasonably say Bank of 
Scotland were aware of any vulnerability Ms M may have. It follows that I cant fairly say 
Bank of Scotland ought to have had reasonable adjustments in place to support Ms Ms 
vulnerabilities. But in any event, for the reasons explained above, I dont consider the activity 
on the account ought to have given Bank of Scotland cause for concern that Ms M may have 
been at risk of financial harm. 
Ive gone on to think about whether Bank of Scotland did what it shouldve done once Ms M 
reported to it that she was concerned shed been the victim of a scam. Ive looked into the 
attempts Bank of Scotland made to recover the money. In order for me to be able to fairly 
ask Bank of Scotland to refund the money to Ms M, I need to be satisfied that Bank of 
Scotland should have acted sooner in trying to recover the money. And if I dont think it 
acted soon enough, I need to decide whether it made any difference.
In this case I can see Bank of Scotland didnt raise the claim against the receiving bank on 
the same day Ms M initially reported her concerns, instead it raised the claim some weeks 
later when Ms M contacted it again. But the receiving banks responded to Bank of Scotland 
to say that, even if Bank of Scotland had raised the claim following Ms Ms initial call, there 
would have been no funds remaining, as they had been cleared from the accounts. So, even 
though Bank of Scotland ought to have acted sooner, it didnt make any difference here and 
it sadly wasnt able to recover the money Ms M had paid.
I understand Ms Ms representative has mentioned a voluntary code. I think what is being 
referred to here is The Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM code). The CRM code was 
introduced on 28 May 2019 and isnt retrospective. Therefore, as these transactions 
occurred before the code came into effect, I cant take it into consideration when deciding 
this complaint.
Bank of Scotland acknowledged that it could have provided a better service to Ms M and in 
recognition of this it offered Ms M £150. I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Its very unfortunate Ms M has lost this money in this way, and I understand the whole 
experience has been deeply upsetting for her and I dont underestimate her strength of 
feeling. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say Bank of Scotland 
should have done more to prevent Ms M from losing this money. So I dont think it would be 
fair for me to ask Bank of Scotland to refund the loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman