DRN-1463766
 
The complaint
Mr G complains about the settlement AXA Insurance UK Plc has paid him for a claim he 
made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G has travel insurance as a benefit of his bank account.  
In June 2019, Mr Gs wife lost a stone from her engagement ring while on holiday. Mr G 
made a claim on his travel insurance policy for the ring.
Mr G asked a local jewellery shop to provide him with a quote for replacing the stone. This 
quote was for around £1100. He sent in the quote to AXA, alongside other claim 
documentation, and one of AXAs call handlers spoke with the jewellery shop, to confirm the 
price. Mr G planned to go ahead with getting the stone replaced.
AXA agreed to settle the claim. It offered to pay Mr G £500  the policy limit for valuables, 
less the policy excess of £40. Mr G was very unhappy with AXAs offer. He said hed spoken 
to around four claims handlers and none of them had told him about the policy limit, although 
theyd stressed the payable excess.
So Mr G made a complaint. AXA acknowledged the claims handlers shouldve told Mr G 
about the policy limit when he first made the claim. It offered him £100 compensation to 
recognise this. It also waived Mr Gs policy excess. Mr G remained unhappy with AXAs offer 
and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. She thought AXA had paid 
the claim in line with the policy limits. She didnt think AXA was responsible for Mr G 
choosing to go ahead with getting the stone replaced before the claim limits had been 
confirmed. And she didnt think AXA needed to pay any further compensation.
Mr G disagreed. He maintained that if hed been told about the claim limit from the start, it 
mightve influenced his choice about the ring repair. He said the complaints manager at AXA 
had been horrified by the service hed received. And he said that compensation had been 
limited to £100 because that was the maximum the complaints manager could award. Mr G 
also said hed never received a copy of the policy from his bank or AXA. So he hadnt been 
aware of the policy limits. He sent us a copy of a letter hed received from the bank the last 
time the policy was updated.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think AXA has treated Mr G fairly. Ill explain why.
I understand how special the ring was to Mr G and to his wife, and how important it was to 
them to get it repaired. So I can understand how disappointed they mustve been when they 
learned that the policy wouldnt cover the full costs of getting the stone replaced. But in 
making my decision, I need to consider whether AXA has acted in line with the terms of the 
policy and whether its applied them fairly.
Mr Gs claim falls under Section E  Baggage and baggage delay. This says:
What is covered
We will pay you up to the amounts shown below for the accidental loss of, theft of or damage 
to:
a) Baggage and valuables (excluding golf equipment) £2500
It continues:
The maximum we will pay for the following items is:
b) The total for all valuables £500
Ive turned to consider the policy definition of valuables. This includes: jewellery, gold, silver, 
precious metal, precious or semiprecious stone articles. Im satisfied the ring (and the lost 
stone) fall squarely within this definition. So Im also satisfied that the valuables limit of £500 
applies to Mr Gs claim. This means I think AXAs liability for the claim was limited to £500.
Mr G says he didnt get a copy of the policy terms and conditions, so he wasnt aware of 
what the policy covered. It was down to his bank to provide him with a copy of the terms and 
conditions of his account and associated benefits when it was sold. 
Hes sent us a copy of a letter he got from his bank in January 2018, to remind him to review 
his insurance cover. This suggested that Mr G check his policy to check it was still right for 
him. It also explained how a copy of the terms and conditions could be obtained if needed. 
Mr G has referred to getting and reading this letter, because hes mentioned noticing the £40 
claims excess. So I think, if Mr G knew he didnt have a copy of the policy terms, hed been 
told how to get them. And it was open to him to do so.
Ive gone on to think about whether AXAs claims handler failing to tell him about the 
applicable policy limits at the outset worsened Mr Gs position. I agree it wouldve been 
helpful if AXA had mentioned the limit when Mr G first let it know about the claim and 
managed his expectations. I dont doubt that learning about the limit some way down the line 
when Mr G had already got a quote for the repairs caused him frustration. Especially given 
one of the claims handlers had spoken to the jewellery shop and knew what the cost was.
But I dont think AXAs failure to let Mr G know about the limit caused him to lose out. AXAs 
notes show that it let Mr G know about the claim limit in mid-July.2019. He was able to agree 
a discounted price with the jewellery shop for the ring repair for September 2019 and booked 
it in to happen then. This indicates that Mr G hadnt had the repairs done while AXA was 
looking into his claim. So I think he couldve still looked around for cheaper options if hed 
chosen to do so.
I appreciate Mr G feels AXA should pay him £500 for his distress and inconvenience and for 
the embarrassment of having to let the jewellery shop know AXA wouldnt be paying the full 
amount of replacing the stone. Ive thought about this. But AXA has already paid Mr G £100 
for not telling him about the limit initially. I think this is fair compensation for Mr Gs loss of 
expectation and so Im not telling AXA to pay anything more.Overall, I think AXA has settled Mr Gs claim in line with the policy limits. And I think its paid 
him fair compensation for the service hes received. So Im not making any award against 
AXA.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman