DRN-3090427
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Mortgage Finance Store Limited (Mortgage Finance) mis-sold 
three separate life assurance policies in 2016. And that he was pressured in to taking the 
policies when he had workplace benefits in place.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S took out a mortgage of £150,000 over a 30-year term. An independent 
financial adviser at Mortgage Finance recommended the following products to Mr S:
A decreasing term assurance policy with critical illness cover for £150,000 with a 
term of 25 years
A family income protection plan that would provide an income of £3,135 per month if 
Mr S died
A level term assurance life and critical illness policy that provided cover of £52,800 
over 24 years
The policies were recommended to be in the name of Mr S only as Mrs S had health issues.  
Mr S complained to Mortgage Finance that these policies were mis-sold and provided 
inadequate cover. Mr S said he had other suitable cover that wasnt considered, and he was 
told the policies recommended were required for the mortgage. Mortgage Finance provided 
a final response to Mr S complaints and didnt uphold the complaints. Mr S was unhappy 
with the response from Mortgage Finance and brought his complaint to our Service.
One of our Investigators looked into things and didnt think the policies sold to Mr S were 
unsuitable for his needs at the time. And he thought it was unlikely Mr S was pressured into 
taking out the policies.
Mr S didnt agree with the Investigator and says he never received a suitability letter or 
signed the fact-find Mortgage Finance is relying on. He says the decreasing term policy 
provided inadequate cover for the term of his mortgage. And Mr S said he had no definite 
plans to make overpayments to his mortgage. Mr S felt the family income plan provided 
more benefit than his monthly income at the time. And in respect of the critical illness policy, 
Mr S felt he already had adequate protection in place. Mr S said if he was off work sick, he 
would be paid six-months full and then six-months half pay.
Mr S asked that an Ombudsman decides his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I address the suitability of each of the policies in turn, I will address Mr S comments 
that he didnt receive a suitability report and that he didnt sign a fact-find. 
The adviser from Mortgage Finance met with Mr S and recorded personal details in a fact-
find. Ive seen that Mr S, and Mrs S, signed a declaration form on 10 May. It confirmed the 
fact-find was a true record of the discussions and there is also a signed copy of a Second 
Meeting Appendix that has the same signatures and dates on it. The Second Meeting 
Appendix confirms Mr S didnt want to consider an income protection policy, that life cover of 
£150,000 was required for the mortgage, and that accident, sickness and unemployment 
benefits wasnt a requirement. 
Whilst I accept the fact-find Mortgage Finance provided doesnt have Mr S signature on it, it 
seems likely to me the information contained in it was obtained by the adviser from Mr S. He 
signed the declaration on 10 May, and this persuades me Mr S was aware of the fact-find 
and more likely provided the information within it.
Ive seen the fact-find recorded more information in the notes section, but it suggests the 
notes were added on 11 May. There are some key notes in this section that support a 
discussion took place about Mr S making overpayments to the mortgage to pay it off before 
retirement at age 70. And that the adviser had discussed additional life and critical illness for 
Mr S. It included notes about a protection policy to replace Mr S gross income over 23 years 
if he passed. 
Mr S has told us he didnt commit to making overpayments but did mention he would like the 
option to overpay his mortgage. So, overall, Im satisfied there was some discussion around 
this area with the adviser. But as Mr S recollection and the advisers notes differ around the 
term of the life policy protecting the mortgage, Ive considered what is likely to have 
happened at the time. In this case Im persuaded that the intention of Mr S was to pay off the 
mortgage more quickly than 30 years. So, Ive decided to give more weight to the notes the 
adviser recorded as its more likely such a discussion took place.
Mortgage Finance provided a copy of a suitability letter they say was sent to Mr S dated 12 
May. It was correctly addressed. Mr S signed the declaration on 10 May. And the illustrations 
for the recommendations were printed on 11 May. So, it seems more likely to me that the 
letter was prepared and sent the following day. Of course, I cant say that Mr S received the 
suitability letter but having seen a copy I consider its more likely Mortgage Finance did send 
it. And I consider its unfair to conclude that it was the fault of Mortgage Finance that Mr S 
didnt receive the report. Ive noted that Mr S did receive a recommendation letter about the 
mortgage product that was also sent on 12 May.
I will now address the suitability of the policies sold to Mr S.
Decreasing term policy £150,000 life and critical illness cover over 25 years
The adviser identified a need to protect the new mortgage. Mr S has referred to having 
benefits from his employer, but any such benefits would be payable only if Mr S remained 
employed with the employer. This could lead to a significant shortfall in protection if Mr S lost 
his job. So, I consider it was reasonable that the adviser recommended a stand-alone policy 
to protect the mortgage, particularly as there was no other suitable cover in place.
The policy wasnt the same term as the mortgage. This would have left a shortfall if there 
was a claim after the policy ended, or a shortfall in cover in the early years because of the 
tapering of the cover to a 25-year term. So, Ive considered the suitability of this policy and 
whether it was mis-sold. 
Generally, I would expect a policy to cover the amount and full-term of the mortgage. But, in 
this case, Im persuaded a discussion about overpayments to reduce the term of the 
mortgage took place. It was documented in the suitability report why 25 years was 
recommended, and Mr S acknowledges over-payments were discussed. The adviser has added notes to this effect. It is unfortunate Mr S didnt receive the suitability report as it 
highlighted the risk to Mr S of taking a 25-year policy, but I consider it likely a discussion did 
take place.
The additional policies Mortgage Finance sold would have ensured there was sufficient life 
cover to pay off the mortgage in the early years. Its important that I consider the shortfall in 
the later years would have been there if the policy and mortgage had run their respective 
terms. But, as Mr S stated objective to make over-payments and to pay off the mortgage 
earlier than 30 years, Im not persuaded the 25-year term was wholly unsuitable in the 
circumstances Ive highlighted.
Ive also taken into account that Mr S has told us hes cancelled the 25-year policy. And he 
says that he would have taken a 30-year policy even if it meant it cost about a £100 a year 
more. However, Im not persuaded this is a reasonable argument for me to consider as it 
would mean he would have paid more for cover hes now decided he doesnt need or want. 
So, as Mr S decided to cancel the policy, it would be unreasonable of me to conclude 
Mortgage Finance should replace it with a 30-year policy. And I cant see that Mr S has 
suffered any loss here because his mortgage was covered for the time he held the policies 
sold by Mortgage Finance.
Family and personal income plan over 23 years
This policy provided a regular income of £3,135 per month if Mr S died. The policy had a 
term of 23 years. The benefit reflects the net monthly payment in line with what Mr S would 
receive on a salary and bonus of £52,800 pa in 2016/17 tax year using the personal tax 
allowances at the time.
Mr S says he already had in place existing pension benefits built up with a previous 
employer between 2011 and 2015. And that, if he had passed, his mortgage would have 
been paid off and his wife wouldnt have needed this much income.
Ive thought about whether this meant Mr S was over-insured. But, Mr S had only four years 
of pensionable service with his previous employer to rely on and Im satisfied this would 
have left a significant shortfall in income for his family if hed died. At the time the policy was 
recommended, Mr S had a son aged about 2 and Mrs S was working part-time. The policy 
was intended to provide a regular income to Mrs S until their son was age 24 and unlikely to 
need any further support with education. This doesnt seem an unsuitable term to me. And 
even though there would be no mortgage payment if Mr S passed, Mrs S would be able to 
take time off work to care for their son without worrying about a regular income.
Mr S has highlighted the mortgage suitability letter he received, dated 12 May 2016, referred 
to a pension with a local authority. And that this should have been considered when making 
recommendation on his life. Ive looked carefully at the fact-find and I could see it was Mrs S 
that had a pension with the named local authority that could be used to repay the mortgage if 
it passed Mr S retirement age. Although, by the time Mr S retired at age 70 he would have 
income from pensions too, but at the time the mortgage was taken out, hed only been in his 
employers scheme a short time.
So, taking all of this into account, I dont consider his policy was mis-sold, or that Mr S was 
over-insured.
Level term life and critical illness plan over 23 years
The policy provided Mr S with £52,800 life or critical illness cover on Mr S life. Mr S says that he already had adequate protection in place if he were unable to work due to 
a critical illness. He says he would have received six-months full pay and 6 months half pay, 
and that an income protection policy would have been more suitable.
This policy isnt designed to replace a regular income if Mr S couldnt work due to a critical 
illness. Its to provide a lump sum payment that could be used to cover any immediate costs 
should Mr S suffer a defined illness or be diagnosed as terminally ill or pass within the term. 
And although its likely the mortgage would have been paid off using the decreasing term 
cover policy, this would provide an additional lump sum for things like treatment or home 
adaptations.
Ive seen that Mortgage Finance did discuss and recommend an income protection policy for 
Mr S, but this was declined because it was too expensive.
So, Im satisfied that it was a suitable policy for Mr S as there was a need for additional 
protection. And that the term was a reasonable one as it ensured the cover was in place until 
Mr S son reached 24 years of age too. I also dont consider this policy meant Mr S was 
over-insured.
Ive considered whether there is anything to suggest Mr S was put under any pressure to 
take the policies. And although I accept Mr S says he felt pressured to take them, I cant see 
the adviser told Mr S the policies were sold to obtain the mortgage. It seems to me that the 
adviser sold Mr S policies he identified a need for, and that although the amount of cover 
was significant Ive not seen anything that suggests Mr S was pressurised to take the 
policies recommended. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman