DRN-2962649
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Elevate Portfolio Services Limited caused an unreasonable 
delay when it was carrying out a transfer of their stocks and shares ISA from another 
business, as instructed by their independent financial adviser. They say Elevates actions 
have had a detrimental impact on their ISA value and it has caused them a financial loss.  
What happened
Mr and Mr J sought financial advice from a new IFA in February 2020. At the time, they held 
a number of ISA investments with five different fund providers. As part of changing advisers, 
the new IFA recommended that they transfer their holdings to Elevates adviser-led 
investment platform. 
Three of the switches took place promptly. However, there were delays with two holdings, 
with Hargreaves Lansdown (HL) and Aberdeen. This complaint concerns Elevates actions 
(or inactions) in respect of the HL ISA transfer.  
Elevate first received the transfer-in paperwork from Mr and Mrs Js IFA on 18 February 
2020. That form noted one fund was to be re-registered and the rest transferred as cash. 
The following day, it acted on that instruction and contacted HL accordingly. 
On 28 February 2020, Elevate received the valuation from HL but it did not include the re-
registration of one (different) fund as noted on the original instruction and it was missing from 
the valuation that had been keyed in by the IFA. That same day Elevate emailed the IFA 
asking him how Mr and Mrs J wanted to proceed. The IFA didnt reply, and so Elevate sent a 
further email on 4 March 2020 to chase this.  
On 5 March 2020, the IFA called Elevate. He said he would seek instruction from Mr and 
Mrs J but that he also wished to lodge a complaint over the time taken to action the transfer. 
He explained that it should be clear to Elevate from the valuation that only a cash transfer 
was needed and there was no longer a re-registration. 
Elevate emailed the IFA again on 12 March 2020, as it had not had any reply to the call of 5 
March in respect of Mr and Mrs Js wishes. That day, the IFA confirmed that Mr and Mrs J 
wanted the one outstanding fund to remain with HL and the rest of the transfer to proceed as 
cash.  
The following day Elevate completed the relevant steps on its online platform as a transfer 
request. It sent the requisite forms to HL for the transfer as cash, the next working day  16 
March 2020. It did so by tracked next day post, and obtained record of delivery to HL on 17 
March 2020.  
As Elevate hadnt heard from HL, a call was placed on 20 March 2020  but HLs telephone 
lines were closed. Elevate therefore sent an email chaser to HLs dedicated transfer out 
email address. As HLs telephone lines remained closed on 28 March and 9 April 2020 (the 
next two occasions Elevate chased the awaited transfer information), it sent two further 
chaser emails as directed by HLs recorded message. 
Mrs Js transfer of £71,824 was received by Elevate on 14 April, and Mr Js of £68,856 on 20 
April. However, the IFA had originally set out transfer values of £87,671 and £84,228. 
Elevate then issued a final response to the IFAs complaint, but it did not uphold it. It 
explained that the first part of the process is to request a valuation from the ceding scheme 
confirming the fund, number of units and unique reference numbers to ensure it can accept 
the transfer. This also allows Elevate to update its system with the number of units being 
registered to it. It explained it could not proceed with the transfer until it had received the 
valuation, which was supplied by HL on 28 February 2020.
Elevate also explained that it accepted Mr and Mrs Js transfer instructions were for the 
higher values quoted by the IFA less the one fund that could not transfer. However, there 
was a discrepancy with one other fund not being included in the valuation HL provided. It 
could not, as the IFA had proposed, simply proceed with the cash transfer and disregard the 
missing fund, as there was only one policy number for each ISA and these had to be 
processed as a whole. 
In May 2020, Mr and Mrs J complained to this service. They said that the incompetency of 
Elevate had cost them a joint loss of almost £32,000 from their ISAs  and they should not 
bear the brunt of personal losses if a business has caused unreasonable delays.  
Our investigator didnt believe the complaint should succeed. She said Elevate had 
reasonably queried the discrepancy over the valuation and the re-registration with Mr and 
Mrs Js IFA. It also had set timescales of five working days to action a transfer from receipt 
and it complied with those. She did not think that Elevate ought to be held responsible for 
any delays by HL or the IFA  particularly noting that Elevate operated an adviser-led 
platform, and it had to take instructions from the IFA rather than Mr and Mrs J. In summary, 
she believed Elevate had acted fairly and reasonably in the handling of the transfer. 
Mr and Mrs J said they disagreed. They said, in summary, that one business has to be liable 
for the delays  a simple transfer should not take three months to complete. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I am also of the view that this 
complaint should not succeed. The points below are a summary of my conclusions:
I cannot consider here the actions of either HL or the issues with the second fund 
provider, Aberdeen, where the ISA transfer remains outstanding  that is because 
the complaint brought here is specifically about Elevates actions in respect of the 
ISA transfer from HL.
To that end, I note our investigator has set up two further separate complaints 
against HL and Elevate in respect of those matters.
I accept that the transfer took longer than Mr and Mrs J had expected (two months, 
not three as submitted) and this led to a significant drop in the value of the funds 
because of the market volatility at the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic.
However, I can only uphold this complaint if I conclude, from the evidence before me, 
that Elevate contributed to the delay or otherwise acted unfairly in its handling of the 
transfer from HL  and I do not find this to be the case. The evidence shows that at all material times, Elevate acted promptly on any action 
or information received  this was usually within one working day. 
In terms of actioning the transfer itself, once Elevate has received the correct 
transfer-in information from the transferring business, it has a standard of five 
working days for that transfer to be made  and again, it took steps within one 
working day of receipt of the forms. 
Elevate hadnt acted unreasonably in querying how Mr and Mrs J wished to proceed 
with the IFA, as the information it received from HL differed from that supplied by the 
IFA.  
Once it had instruction from the IFA, the matter was passed to HL  and Elevate was 
not able to influence the time it took to receive the funds, aside from chasing HL 
periodically  which it did in a timely manner. 
It is incredibly unfortunate that in the week of the request to HL, the impact of 
Government measures in response to the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic 
came into place  but I cannot reasonably conclude that Elevate was at fault for that.
It follows that I do not agree that any consequential losses suffered by Mr and Mrs Js 
ISA fund valuations during the period of global market volatility occurred because of 
any action or inaction of Elevate, such that the transfers could have happened 
sooner on its part. 
As Ive said, the evidence shows Elevate acted promptly at all times from its side of 
the transfer to the adviser-led platform. I cannot therefore uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award in the circumstances.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman