DRN-4142434
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr B applied for a loan in April 2017. Lloyds approved the application and gave Mr B a loan 
for £5000 repayable over 84 months.
Mr B applied for a second loan in November 2017. Lloyds approved the application and gave 
Mr B a loan for £6000 repayable over 64 months.
Mr B complained that the loans were unaffordable, and that Lloyds shouldve realised this if 
it had carried out proper checks at the time. Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had 
carried out reasonable checks and that the loans were affordable for Mr B.
Mr B wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked at both loans. In respect of Loan 1, the investigator didnt think that 
Lloyds had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks but said that if these checks 
had been carried out, they wouldve shown that the decision to lend was fair. In respect of 
Loan 2, the investigator said he didnt think Lloyds had carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks and he didnt think the lending decision was fair.
Lloyds didnt agree. It said that Mr B had used some of Loan 2 to repay his overdraft, which 
reduced the amount of income Mr B was using to repay unsecured debt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering irresponsible and unaffordable lending complaint 
on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Bs complaint.
Lloyds needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to ensure that it didnt lend to Mr 
B irresponsibly. This means it shouldve carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr B could repay the loans in a sustainable way. These checks could take 
into account a number of things such as the loan amount, the repayment amount, the term of 
the loan and Mr Bs income and expenditure.
Loan 1
Mr B declared income of £1059 when he applied for the loan. He declared monthly housing 
costs of nil. Lloyds obtained information from a credit reference agency and used data it 
already held about Mr B to calculate his unsecured credit commitments. Lloyds used an 
internal model to estimate Mr Bs essential living costs. Lloyds used all this information to 
calculate Mr Bs net monthly disposable income as £759.
Lloyds has said that theres no requirement for it to obtain proof of a consumers income. It 
said it relies on consumers to provide accurate information about their income and 
expenditure. There are circumstances where I think its reasonable for a lender to rely on 
what a consumer has told it about his/her income. However, in other circumstances, it will be 
proportionate for a lender to carry out further checks to verify a consumers income and 
expenditure.
In this case, Mr B was applying for a large loan over a long term. Mr B had declared a low 
income. Taking these factors into account, its likely that any changes in Mr Bs income would 
affect his ability to sustainably repay the loan. Because of this, I think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Lloyds to carry out further checks to verify Mr Bs income and expenditure.
Ive looked at Mr Bs bank statements for the period prior to the loan to see what reasonable 
and proportionate checks wouldve shown. Based on what Ive seen, Mr B declared his 
income and housing costs accurately. The statement show that Mr B was paying around 
£190 per month towards his existing credit commitments, and regularly used his overdraft 
facility. The amount that Mr B wouldve been repaying towards existing unsecured debt 
(including Loan 1) wouldve taken around 25% of his income. On balance, and because Mr 
Bs other expenditure was low, I think the loan was affordable. It follows that I think the 
lending decision as fair.
Loan 2
Mr B declared similar monthly income as before. Lloyds carried out a credit search and 
calculated Mr Bs unsecured credit commitments at £293 per month. It used an internal 
model to estimate his essential living costs as £357 per month. Lloyds used all the 
information to calculate Mr Bs net monthly disposable income as £393.
Ive already explained why I dont think these checks were reasonable and proportionate for 
Loan 1. I dont think they were reasonable and proportionate for Loan 2 for the same 
reasons. In addition to what Ive already said about this, I can see that at the time Mr B 
applied for Loan 2, his overdraft facility with Lloyds had increased substantially from £1800 
to £2800 and he was regularly using this. Taking into consideration that Mr B wouldve gone 
from owing Lloyds £6800 after Loan 1 to £13,800 after Loan 2, I think that such a significant 
increase in lending in a short period of time meant that Lloyds shouldve carried out further 
checks.
Ive gone on to consider what reasonable and proportionate checks wouldve shown.
Ive looked at Mr Bs bank statements for the relevant period. These show that Mr B had 
received a large sum from his mother which he used to pay off some of his credit card debt. 
This suggest that Mr B had been struggling to repay his existing debt and had to borrow to 
repay it.
Loan 2 was repayable at £158 per month. This brought Mr Bs total debt repayments to £451 
per month. This was well over 40% of Mr Bs net monthly income. We know consumers who 
use 25% or more of their income to service debt are more likely to struggle to repay.
For these reasons, I dont think Lloyds wouldve approved Loan 2 if it had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks. Ive taken account of what Lloyds has said about Mr B 
using some of Loan 2 to clear his overdraft. However, I cant see that Lloyds knew (at the 
time of the application for Loan 2) that Mr B intended to do this. And even if Lloyds had 
known, I still think the decision to lend was unfair. This is because  even taking Mr Bs 
overdraft out of the equation  the amount of his net monthly income he was using to repay 
debt was very high and made it unlikely that he would sustainably repay the loan. Putting things right
Ive explained why I think Lloyds acted unfairly when it approved Loan 2.
Mr B has had the benefit of the money, so I think its fair that he pays it back. Lloyds should:
Remove all interest and charges from Loan 2
Deduct the repayments Mr B has made from this sum
If this results in Mr B having paid more than he received for Loan 2, all overpayments should 
be refunded together with 8% simple interest calculated from the date the overpayments 
were made to the date of settlement. *
If any capital balance remains outstanding Lloyds should agree an affordable payment plan 
with Mr B
Once the original loan amount has been repaid, Lloyds should remove any adverse 
information relating to the loan from Mr Bs credit file
*HMRC require Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give Mr B a certificate 
showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC must take the steps Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman