DRN-2252559
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Bamboo Limited trading as Bamboo Loans irresponsibly lent to 
him.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties but in summary, Bamboo lent 
Mr O two loans in March 2019 and November 2019. Mr O has repaid loan 1 and as I 
understand it theres a balance outstanding on loan 2.
In its final response letter, Bamboo offered to reduce the term of loan 2 by three months 
thereby saving Mr O over £600 in interest.
When Mr O referred his complaint to this service, it was looked at by one of our 
investigators. Our investigator upheld Mrs Os complaint, but Bamboo disagreed, it said it 
didnt do anything wrong.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Mr Os complaint
Having carefully thought about all the relevant factors in this case, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons:
Bamboos checks at the time of loan 1 suggested that Mr O was paying a high 
portion of income towards credit. Mr O had four credit cards all of which he was 
utilizing and had outstanding balances on.
I can also see the results of Bamboos checks showed that Mr O had three loans with 
other providers and given the 36-month term of this loan, I think it would have been 
reasonable for Bamboo to take its checks further.
Ive reviewed Mr Os bank statement from the time loan 1 was granted and I can see 
that he was incurring daily overdraft fees, and he took out a loan with another high 
cost credit lender only a few weeks before requesting this loan from Bamboo. I can 
also see that his income in February, the month before the loan, was around £2,300, 
less than the £,2500 hed declared. So had Bamboo carried out what I think were 
proportionate checks in these circumstances, it would also have seen that Mr O 
would be spending more than half his monthly income on paying debt, after this loan 
had been granted. 
I think Mr O spending such a significant portion of his income on repaying credit put 
him at a very high risk of struggling to repay the loan over the term. Bamboo ought to 
have been aware of this and shouldnt have lent in those circumstances.
With less than none months into the first loan, Mr O applied for loan 2 in November 
2019. It looks like Mr O repaid the balance on loan 1 from this loan. 
The credit check Bamboo carried out also shows that Mr O had at least six active 
credit cards with a combined outstanding balance of around £7,204 and he still had 
at least one other loan outstanding.
In these circumstances, I would have expected Bamboo to take it checks further and 
had it taken it checks further, its likely to have found that Mr O was around £1,931 in 
the month before the loan was approved and he was still paying more than half of his 
income towards credit.
This again put Mr O at a high risk of struggling to repay the loan over the term and in 
the circumstances, he shouldnt have been lent this loan.
I dont think it was fair for Bamboo to have lent loans 1 and 2 to Mr O in the 
circumstances and I think he has lost out as a result of these loans.
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Mr Os complaint.  
Putting things right - what Bamboo needs to do:
1. Remove interest fees and charges applied to loans 1 and 2.
2. Add up the total Mr O paid towards both loans 1 and 2 and deduct it from the capital 
amount borrowed for both loans.
3. If this results in overpayments, these should be returned to Mr O with 8% simple 
interest from the date of the overpayments to the date of settlement*.
4. However, if theres an outstanding balance, then Bamboo should agree a suitable 
repayment plan with Mr O.
5. Remove any negative information about the loans 1 and 2 from Mr Os credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Bamboo Limited should give 
Mr O a certificate showing how much tax youve deducted, if they ask for one.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman