DRN-2937744
The complaint
Ms W complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc are holding her liable for a loan she says she 
didnt take out. 
What happened
 Ms W befriended a man online who she now believes was a fraudster. He told her he was 
based in the military and wanted to leave.
Over time, the man asked Ms W to help him out with money  he said he couldnt afford to 
eat and was hungry. Ms Ws marriage had recently broken down and she says she was 
going through a difficult time and felt depressed. She admitted she enjoyed the attention and 
the man told her he had feelings for her, and their relationship developed.
As the relationship developed, the contact between Ms W and the man moved to over the 
telephone. The man told Ms W that to leave the military he would have to pay $24,000. Over 
the course of their relationship, Ms W had borrowed money to help the man  so she told 
him she couldnt afford to help him out.  
The man told Ms W the Defence Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) would help with 
the money  but they would pay the money from a loan into Ms Ws bank account for her to 
transfer out to the relevant people who would then release the man from the military. Ms W 
agreed but said she checked with the man she wouldnt be liable for anything.
In February 2019, a loan was taken out in Ms Ws name with Hitachi for £5,000. It isnt 
disputed that these funds were paid into Ms Ws account and that she then paid these funds 
out at the instruction of the fraudster.
In March 2019, Ms W received an arrears letter from Hitachi  because the first monthly 
payment towards the loan hadnt been paid. Ms W got in touch with Hitachi straight away 
and explained the situation. Hitachi said theyd investigate things. In the meantime, Ms W 
asked the man about the loan  he confirmed it was the military who did it and he didnt 
know anything about it.
Hitachi held Ms W liable for the loan. They said there wasnt enough evidence to support 
that Ms W was unaware the loan had been taken out in her name.
Ms W brought the complaint to our service. She complained that she didnt have enough 
money to pay the loan and has provided our service with conversations between her and the 
scammer and a copy of the communication she received from whom she thought was the 
DFAS.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She explained she didnt think Ms W had taken out 
the loan or known about it at the time. She also didnt think it would be fair to require Ms W 
to repay the loan amount because she was satisfied Ms W hadnt been aware of the loan 
and had fallen victim to a romance scam. It was also pointed out that the email address, 
mobile number and employment details for Ms W were incorrect on the application form. Our 
investigator recommended that Hitachi should:
write off the loan and remove all adverse date from Ms Ws credit file;
and pay £150 for the distress caused to Ms W.
Hitachi didnt agree. In summary they said the loan was approved automatically and they 
had no reason to doubt the information supplied in the application. Hitachi also said Ms W 
chose to share her details with the fraudster and send money on willingly  so they thought 
shed been negligent in protecting herself or her details.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, like the investigator, I dont think its reasonable for Hitachi to hold Ms W 
liable for the loan. Ive explained my reasons further below.
Section 83 Consumer Credit Act 1974 outlines that a debtor under a regulated consumer 
credit agreement shall not be liable to the creditor for any loss arising from the use of the 
credit facility by another person not acting, or to be treated as acting, as the debtors agent. 
In simple terms, Ms W cant be held liable for a debt that another person, not acting on her 
behalf, took out. 
Taking the above into consideration, I must first concludeon the balance of probabilities 
whether the loan was applied for by Ms W, or an agent acting on her behalf.
Based on the evidence Ive received I think its more likely than not, Ms W didnt apply for the 
loan herself. I say that because:
Ms Ws screenshots of her conversation with the scammer show she wasnt aware a 
loan was being taken out in her name.
The forged letter from the DFAS clearly explains that the money will be paid into 
Ms Ws account and she is then to pass it on. The letter also names the individual 
Ms W was talking to and referred to him as a Sergeant in the military  which 
coincides with the story Ms W was told.
The letters were sent on headed paper and stated email addresses which could 
appear to be legitimate.
The forged letter also explains that the military will need Ms Ws personal information 
 including her name, date of birth, address and bank details  all of which were 
supplied as part of the loan application.
Ms W was told the money paid into her account would come from a loan  so I dont 
think receiving money from a loan company would have caused her concern.
The email address and phone number dont match Ms Ws genuine information.
There are other inaccuracies in the application in relation to Ms Ws employment 
information  suggesting the individual had limited information about her.
The loan was signed for by an e-signature which holds no resemblance to Ms Ws 
own signature or proof that Ms W signed for it herself.
Hitachi have relied on the fact the loan was automatically approved and checked with 
credit reference agencies about the probability of it being fraudulent  but its not in 
dispute that Ms W did provide her correct personal information. So, I think its unlikely the application would have flagged on any automated system.
On the day the loan funds were received into Ms Ws account  she transferred them 
out. Ive seen from Ms Ws statements the money was sent in three different 
transactions and to people also confirmed on the forged letter from the DFAS.
Ms W is in a different position now from when the funds were first paid to her. She 
has paid them on and no longer has the funds to return. Ms W hasnt benefitted from 
these funds and doesnt have the ability to pay them back to Hitachi.
In light of the reasons she was given by the fraudster for making the payments, Im 
persuaded that Ms W wouldnt have sent the loan funds to the fraudster had she not 
received it into the account first.
Our investigator asked Hitachi if they had access to the IP address where the loan was 
applied from. Unfortunately, Hitachi couldnt provide this information, so I havent been able 
to consider the location of the where the loan was applied for.
Hitachi has referred to the actions of Ms Ws bank. But I dont consider those to be relevant 
here. I say that because this complaint relates to an unauthorised individual taking out a loan 
in Ms Ws name without her knowledge  and Ms W being held liable for them. The loan in 
question was supplied by Hitachi so I dont consider Ms Ws banks actions to be relevant to 
what Im considering.
Based on all of the evidence Ive received, I think its more likely than not an unauthorised 
individual applied for the loan in Ms Ws name. They were able to do this due to the 
information Ms W supplied about herself thinking she was supporting a man she developed 
feelings for and trusted. This isnt unfamiliar when dealing with complaints involving fraud. 
Fraudsters rely heavily on social engineering and persuasive tactics to draw their victims in 
and build trust. Ms W was also a vulnerable victim in that her marriage had recently broken 
down, and by her own admission wasnt in a good place and felt depressed. She admits she 
enjoyed the attention and was persuaded by the fraudster and thought he had developed 
feelings for her and that he had her best interests at heart. 
Considering all the above information, Im satisfied that Ms W neither applied for, nor agreed 
to, the loan in question. Im also satisfied that shed not benefitted from the funds. I therefore 
find that its unfair she be held liable for it when considering the relevant legislation.
Putting things right
 As I see no compelling evidence to support Ms W authorised the loan to be taken out in her 
name or that she benefitted from it, Hitachi should write this debt off and remove any 
reporting of it from her credit file.
I also think Hitachi should pay Ms W £150 compensation. I consider this is a fair reflection of 
the distress caused to her by Hitachi continuing to hold her responsible for a loan somebody 
else took out without her permission, commonly referred to as identity theft.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint. 
To put things right, Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc should do the following;
write off the loan,
remove any information in relation to this loan from credit reference agencies,pay Ms W £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman