DRN-2589631
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as O, complains that HSBC Bank UK Plc declined its 
application for a new account  which meant it couldnt apply to the bank for a Bounce Back 
Loan.
Mr H is Os director and brings the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
O was looking to apply for a loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme from HSBC in May 
2020.
HSBC required customers to hold an account with the bank before it would offer them a 
Bounce Back Loan. And while Mr H held an account with HSBC, O didnt. So Mr H applied 
for a feeder account for O. This type of account is used solely to draw down and transfer 
onward any funds borrowed under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme.
HSBC declined Os application, on the basis that it hadnt met the banks credit-scoring 
requirements. Mr H complained, but the bank stood by its decision. So he referred his 
concerns to us.
Mr H doesnt think its fair for HSBC to have used credit checks in assessing Os application 
for a feeder account, when its only a temporary facility used to obtain a loan under the 
Scheme  and as applications for the Bounce Back Loan itself arent subject to credit 
checks.  Hes also unhappy that a record of the banks credit search wasnt uploaded to Os 
credit file until a couple of months after the application was made.
One of our investigators reviewed Os complaint but didnt think HSBC had done anything 
wrong. In summary, she said:
Although Mr H had an account with HSBC already, O didnt  so it was right for the 
bank to treat the company as a new customer. 
HSBC had the discretion to decide how it would offer Bounce Back Loans to new 
customers. And it was reasonable to require an account to be opened first, so that 
the bank could complete anti-money laundering and Know Your Customer checks in 
line with its legal and regulatory obligations and as required under the Scheme. 
HSBC was entitled to assess applications for a new account against its own criteria, 
and had explained the checks it would make within the account application form. 
HSBC had fairly assessed Os application. Its internal records showed that the 
application hadnt met the banks criteria, and those criteria hadnt been adjusted in 
light of the pandemic. 
There hadnt been an error or unreasonable delay in the record of HSBCs credit 
check appearing on Os credit file. While the application had been submitted in May, 
it was only reviewed a while later due to the volume of requests the bank was dealing 
with. And there would then have been a further wait before the information was 
reported to the credit reference agencies and for them to upload it. 
Mr H still thought HSBC had acted unfairly, so he asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint and it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
While Mr H held his own account with HSBC, his business  O  didnt. As it was O that 
would be applying for the Bounce Back Loan, I think HSBC was right to treat it as a new 
customer. 
As O was a new customer, HSBC required it to open a new account  either a business 
current account or a feeder account  before it could apply for a Bounce Back Loan. Thats 
in line with its standard process. And I think it was reasonable, for two main reasons. First, 
there was no obligation on HSBC to offer loans under the Scheme to new customers at all, 
and it had the discretion to decide the basis on which it would do so. And second, HSBC has 
explained that the account-opening process enables it to complete the various checks 
expected of it  under its legal and regulatory obligations, and as required by the Scheme 
rules.
Ive checked that HSBC hasnt increased its criteria when considering applications for an 
account from new customers seeking a Bounce Back Loan Scheme compared with its 
practice previously. And Ive confirmed that it assessed Os application against those criteria. 
So I think it treated O fairly. And, as Ive seen from HSBCs internal records that Os 
application didnt meet those criteria, I dont think the bank did anything wrong in declining to 
offer O an account.
HSBCs criteria include certain credit score requirements. Mr H doesnt think its fair for 
HSBC to have factored credit information into its decision, as the loan was supposed to be 
available to all businesses. I appreciate his point  while certain criteria do apply, its right to 
say that lenders arent expected to decline applications for the Bounce Back Loan itself on 
the basis of credit-related concerns. But the feeder account is a separate product to the loan 
and is, therefore, legitimately subject to different rules and requirements. As Ive set out 
above, HSBC had the discretion to decide the basis on which it would accept applications 
from new customers  so it could decide the eligibility criteria for the accounts it offered 
them, including its credit-scoring requirements.
Ive considered what Mr H has said about the credit search. Ive not seen a copy of Os 
credit file, but I understand from hes said that a record of the banks search only appeared 
in July or August  despite the application being made in May. But HSBCs records show 
that it only assessed the application in July. So it follows that the credit search only appeared 
after that time. Given the understandable lag between reporting it to the credit reference 
agencies and them then uploading it, I dont think its unreasonable that the credit search 
might only have appeared as late as August.I also understand that Mr H is concerned that HSBCs decision to decline Os application will 
have influenced other lenders decisions on subsequent Bounce Back Loan applications 
made elsewhere. I dont know what those decisions were based on, but Ive not seen 
anything which leads me to think they were the result of an error on HSBCs part. Mr H may 
wish to raise enquiries with the relevant lenders if he retains any concerns about how Os 
other applications were handled.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in how it handled Os 
application. So Im not requiring it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman