DRN-3547433
The complaint
Mr G complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Ald Automotive Limited (Ald).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ald, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says, amongst other things, 
that the car should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Ald, who 
are also the supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of 
goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other 
relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr G. The car here was brand-
new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
The relevant legislation says that when we consider if a car has been of satisfactory quality 
we should also consider whether it has proven durable. I dont think that can fairly be said to 
be the case here.
I think a reasonable person would expect a new car not to need a new clutch and a 
replacement flywheel after only 25,000 miles of driving. I note that Mr G benefitted from a 
maintenance contract so the car would have been maintained within the manufacturers 
guidance. The driver is also an experienced driver whos explained they have about 30 years 
of experience. I dont therefore think its likely the clutch had failed because of their driving 
style. Had the clutch been burnt out in that manner Id expect the issue to have occurred 
much earlier.
Ald have explained that there was bluing of the clutch plates and have said that suggests 
overheating. But I think, in the absence of more compelling evidence, its unreasonable to 
suggest that demonstrates the fault occurred due specifically to driving style. I can see a 
previous error message had been recorded on the car, at 10404 miles, and that suggested 
the clutch had overheated then too. But if driving style was an issue I would expect to see 
similar messages throughout the cars history and that wasnt the case. 
Putting things right
I think Ald should therefore refund the money Mr G paid to have the car repaired.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Ald Automotive Limited to 
reimburse the £1,748.15 Mr G paid to have the car fixed and to add 8% simple interest per 
year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman