DRN-2619633
The complaint
Mr B complains TSB Bank plc (TSB) didnt refund him for a purchase made with his credit 
card.
What happened
 Mr B says he purchased goods from an online retailer using his TSB debit card, when it 
didnt arrive, Mr B raised a chargeback and was recredited by TSB for this. The online 
retailer then sent him the goods a few months later and questioned why he had raised the 
dispute, Mr B then agreed to pay for the goods using his credit card with TSB. Mr B says 
TSB re-debited his bank account for the debit card transaction, as they were told the dispute 
had been resolved. Mr B says he tried to explain the situation, but TSB were unhelpful and 
while they offered him £40 for poor customer service, they never refunded him for the 
duplicated payment he made using his credit card.  
TSB says they have now refunded Mr B with the transaction to his credit card account and 
feel the matter has been dealt with, given they have already paid him £40 by way of 
compensation. 
Mr B wasnt happy with TSBs initial response to his complaint because they never dealt with 
the issue of the refund to his credit card.
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld Mr Bs complaint. She felt 
that while during her investigation TSB had agreed to raise the chargeback and credited Mr 
Bs credit card account the amount of compensation for trouble and upset caused, needed to 
be increased by £50. 
TSB werent happy with the level of compensation awarded by the investigator and asked for 
the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can see that it would have been both frustrating and stressful for Mr B to experience the 
issues he did over the disputed purchase. When looking at this complaint I have considered 
if TSB have acted fairly in the time it took them to understand and deal with Mr Bs complaint 
and whether the compensation fairly reflects the inconvenience it caused him. 
What happened here has been detailed to both parties by the investigator, but to summarise 
Mr B purchased goods online and when they failed to arrive, he raised a dispute on his debit 
card which was refunded by TSB. Mr B then received the goods and agreed to pay the 
online retailer again using his TSB credit card. The original refund for the purchase on Mr Bs 
debit card was then reversed by TSB following notification by the retailer the dispute had 
been settled. As a result, Mr B was out of pocket because he had paid for the item twice, 
through his bank account debit card and his credit card account. 
From the information I have seen Mr B tried to explain the issues to TSB but says the staff 
were dismissive and rude. TSB accepted this and offered £40 by way of compensation for 
poor customer service. Mr Bs issue is that even though he complained, at the time of 
referring the matter to this service, TSB still hadnt dealt with the duplicated payment on his 
credit card.
During the course of this investigation I can see TSB agreed to refund the purchase made 
on Mr Bs credit card and that is what I would have expected to see. That said, this was 
three months after Mr B raised this with TSB and after this service had become involved. 
I understand the point raised by TSB - the issue could have been avoided had Mr B simply 
contacted them before making the payment on his credit card. I have considered this, but I 
am satisfied that Mr B made the payment in good faith believing he had done the right thing 
and he wouldnt be expected to know the problems this subsequently created.
What is important here is when Mr B did advise TSB of what had happened and wished to 
raise a new chargeback, that should have been dealt with at the time and not three months 
later, following Mr B raising the complaint with this service. Its worth saying, Mr B received a 
letter from TSB dated 30 September 2020, in that letter it said they would not be contacting 
him again. I am satisfied it was reasonable for Mr B to have thought he was left with no other 
option, other than to escalate this to our service, given he was directed to do so in that same 
letter. 
So, while I feel TSB did the right thing initially offering compensation for the poor customer 
service Mr B experienced, this is separate to the time it took them to put matters right, 
having been made aware of the issue and the trouble this put Mr B to.
Putting things right
I instruct TSB Bank plc to pay Mr B £50 for the trouble and upset caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I instruct TSB Bank plc to pay Mr B £50 
for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman