DRN-1494045
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd.s handling of the insurance 
renewal for their buildings and contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Bs buildings and contents insurance was due for renewal through Triton in 
September 2019. As they hadnt heard from Triton prior to their renewal date, Mr B 
contacted them to get the quote. Triton initially told Mr B that his current insurer was 
excluding flood cover for the coming year. As this was important to Mr and Mrs B, they 
looked around for an alternative insurer. In the meantime, Triton got back in touch with       
Mr and Mrs B to say that the insurers had now agreed to include flood cover, with amended 
terms on the policy. 
As the premium hadnt increased too much, Mr and Mrs B went ahead with the renewal with 
Triton and transferred the premium by bank transfer. The amount paid was £508.54.
A couple of weeks after renewing their policy, Mr and Mrs B received a letter from the 
insurers. The letter explained to Mr and Mrs B that the insurers had stopped doing business 
with Triton and the policy had been issued in error to them by Triton. The letter confirmed 
their policy wasnt in force. The letter also told Mr and Mrs B to get in touch with Triton. Mr B 
did this, and Mr and Mrs B also took out alternative insurance with another provider.
Mr and Mrs B were concerned their money had been taken fraudulently and they wanted it 
refunded.
Triton replied to Mr B, apologised for their error and said they would refund the premium    
Mr and Mrs B had paid. Mr and Mrs B didnt receive the refund. So, they complained to 
Triton. Triton never responded to Mr and Mrs B, so they brought their complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator asked Triton to provide their response. They didnt so the investigator 
upheld the complaint for Mr and Mrs B. She asked Triton to refund the premium of £508.54, 
pay interest on that amount and pay Mr and Mrs B £100 compensation for the upset the 
matter had caused them.
As Triton didnt respond to our investigators opinion, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the information is incomplete, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities, 
or whats most likely to have happened. In this case, Triton havent provided our service with 
any information, so my decision is based solely on what Mr and Mrs B have provided. I find 
their information plausible and persuasive.Mr and Mrs B paid Triton in good faith to ensure their buildings and contents insurance 
remained continuous. And, once they were aware that they didnt have any insurance cover 
in force, they made sure they sought cover with an alternative insurer. 
Mr and Mrs Bs original insurers cancelled their agreement with Triton in January 2019. 
Unfortunately, Triton havent responded to our request for information so I cant provide
Mr and Mrs B with an explanation as to why the error occurred. But Im satisfied Triton 
shouldnt have offered Mr and Mrs B any insurance cover with the original insurer. And they 
should have refunded the money Mr and Mrs B paid to them.
Given this, its reasonable for Triton to refund the premium paid by Mr and Mrs B. Mr B has 
also shown that Triton agreed to refund the premium to Mr and Mrs B. But the payment was 
never received. Because of this upset, its also reasonable for Triton to pay Mr and Mrs B 
£100 compensation. I think this amount fairly recognises the inconvenience and upset 
caused in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd must:
Pay Mr and Mrs B their premium of £508.54;
Pay interest at eight per cent simple on the amount due from the date Mr and Mrs B 
paid for their insurance policy to the date this amount is paid; *
Pay Mr and Mrs B £100 compensation for the upset theyve been caused.
 
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd deducts 
income tax from the interest it should tell Mr and Mrs B how much has been taken off. Triton 
Insurance Brokers Ltd should give Mr and Mrs B a tax deduction certificate if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman