DRN-4369520
The complaint
Mrs L complains about the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled a claim under
her motor insurance policy
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events.
In March 2022, Mrs L made a claim on her motor policy following an incident with 
another vehicle.
It seems Admiral had some difficulty identifying the third partys insurer, and so,       
Mrs L contacted the Motor Insurance Bureau (MIB) to see if she could further things.
Having identified the third partys insurer, Admiral informed Mrs L that it was settling 
the claim on a 50/50 liability basis.
Unhappy with its decision, Mrs L complained. In summary, she said: Admiral hadnt 
sufficiently investigated the identity of the third party, and she has concerns about 
fraud; the third partys reluctance to exchange insurance details at the scene was
indicative of them being at fault; shed had to spend time investigating matters herself
 involving the MIB and police; Admiral hadnt shared the third-partys evidence with
her.
In its final response, Admiral accepted its service had fallen short because it hadnt
kept Mrs L updated, and it didnt let her know in September 2022 that it had identified
the third partys insurer. So, it paid £200 compensation to recognise this.
But it was satisfied its decision to settle the claim on a split liability basis was fair
because it didnt think it would be able to prove the third party was solely responsible
for the incident if the case went to court.
Mrs L remained unhappy and so, brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator
considered it but didnt uphold it. Because Mrs L disagreed, the complaint has been
passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
How Admiral has settled the claim
Its not this Services role to determine liability in motor insurance cases. Rather, its
to consider whether the insurer has acted fairly and reasonably when reaching its
decision on liability. Here, Admiral has settled the claim on a 50/50 split liability basis,
but Mrs L thinks thats unfair as she said the third party caused the incident.
Admiral has explained that Mrs L says the third party was at fault, and the third party
said Mrs L was. It has explained to Mrs L that because theres no evidence to
support her version of events, it doesnt consider there to be reasonable prospects of
the claim succeeding if it went to court. 
As there isnt for example, CCTV or witness statements to support Mrs Ls version of
events, I dont consider Admirals conclusion to be unreasonable. I understand Mrs L
has concerns about the third partys identity, but Ive not seen anything to persuade
me Admiral hadnt taken reasonable steps to satisfy itself it had the correct insurer
before determining liability.
Mrs L has said Admiral didnt share evidence from the third party with her, but its
confirmed the third party didnt supply it with any  aside from their version of events.
So, I dont agree Admiral has treated her unfairly in respect of this.
Excess
Mrs L says Admiral should refund her the excess she paid when making the claim
because, according to her, she wasnt at fault.
Ive looked the policy document which says Excess  The amount you must pay
towards any claim. So, Im satisfied the policy makes it clear an excess is payable
for any claim. Whilst Mrs L might consider herself to not be at fault for the incident,
she still must pay the policy excess because shes made a claim on the policy - and
importantly, the excess isnt linked to whos at fault.
If the third partys insurer had accepted liability, Mrs L may have been able to reclaim
the excess from it  but thats not the case here as the third party hasnt accepted
responsibility for the incident.
Compensation
Admiral accepts its communication with Mrs L could have been better. And from what
Ive seen, I agree. Because it didnt inform Mrs L at the earliest opportunity that it had
identified the third partys insurer, she unnecessarily spent time contacting the MIB to
try and ascertain if the third party was insured. Admiral has paid £200 compensation
to acknowledge this, and I consider this amount reasonably reflects the difficulties
Mrs L experienced. So, I wont be directing it to pay more.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman