DRN-2059059
 
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Global Kapital Group Limited, trading as MyKredit, (GKG), gave her 
short term loans which were unaffordable. 
What happened
This complaint is about two short term loans GKG provided to Mrs H between October 2017 
and November 2017. Each of the loans was repayable by one repayment. A summary of 
Mrs Hs lending history is as follows:
Loan 
number Date of 
loanRepayment 
dateLoan 
amount Repayment amount 
     1. 27/10/17 14/11/17 £200 £251
     2. 24/11/17 26/9/18 £200 £255.50
In its final response letter, GKG said that the loans were affordable. The necessary checks 
on the credit records were carried out during the application.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said that there 
wasnt anything in the information Mrs H provided or the information GKG should have been 
aware of, which meant it would have been proportionate to start verifying what Mrs H was 
saying. 
Mrs H disagreed. She said she wasnt employed at the time and wasnt in receipt of benefits, 
so she had no means to repay the loans. She said that GKG should have carried out 
appropriate checks and not just have based the lending decision on an application form. The 
checks should have included checking her employment status, outstanding loans and bank 
statements. If these checks had been carried out the loans would not have been issued to 
her.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs H 
and to GKG on 2 July 2020. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that when GKG lent to Mrs H the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
Id said that GKG needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice, this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure   
Mrs H could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that GKG should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors included:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important to say that GKG was required to establish whether Mrs H could 
sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow this 
was the case. This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments sustainably if they were unlikely to be 
able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mrs Hs complaint.
GKG had said that the necessary checks on Mrs Hs credit records were carried out during 
her application for Loan 1. The credit files and disposable income were enough for Mrs H to 
have been approved for its short term loan product and a maximum limit of £200 which had  
never increased.
GKG had also said that it didnt have a copy of its credit checks or a record of Mrs Hs 
income and expenses. But it appeared that GKG had relied on its credit checks in approving 
the loans. 
Mrs H hadnt provided her credit report to us. But she did provide her bank statements and I 
could see from these that there were numerous short term loans around the time of her 
applications and in the months before. I thought it was likely GKG would have seen some if 
not all of this in its credit checks, given the extent of it. This was supported by credit 
reference agency results from around this time that wed seen on Mrs Hs other complaints. 
It was also clear from the bank statements that Mrs H had a very large overdraft that wasnt 
improving. I thought it was likely that GKG would also have seen this from its credit checks.
GKG had said that Mrs Hs disposable income was enough for the loans to be approved. But 
I thought it was likely that GKGs credit checks would have shown that Mrs H was having 
significant difficulties managing her money and unlikely to be able to sustainably repay 
Loans 1 and 2.Subject to any further representations by Mrs H or GKG my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint and say that GKG needed to pay Mrs H some 
compensation relating to Loans 1 and 2 as follows.
putting things right  what GKG needs to do
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mrs H for Loans 1 and 2;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
Remove all adverse entries about Loans 1 and 2 from Mrs Hs credit file.
 *HMRC requires GKG to take off tax from this interest. If Mrs H asks GKG for a certificate
showing how much tax GKG has taken off, it should provide this. 
Neither Mrs H nor GKG has responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Given that neither Mrs H nor GKG has given me anything further to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I 
uphold this complaint and require GKG to pay Mrs H some compensation as set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Global Kapital Group Limited, trading as MyKredit, to:
1. Refund any interest and charges paid by Mrs H for Loans 1 and 2;
2. Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
3. Remove all adverse entries about Loans 1 and 2 from Mrs Hs credit file.
 *HMRC requires GKG to take off tax from this interest. If Mrs H asks GKG for a certificate
showing how much tax GKG has taken off, it should provide this. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2020.
 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman