DRN-2393694
The complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax caused delays in switching his 
mortgage to a new interest rate. 
What happened
Mr F had a mortgage with Halifax which he held jointly with three other people. One of those 
people was Mr Fs father, who died in February 2019. Mr F was named executor of his 
fathers estate.
Mr F contacted Halifax regarding what he needed to do to register his fathers death, for his 
fathers name to be removed from the mortgage and for the mortgage to be transferred into 
Mr Fs sole name. And there were a number of letters between Halifax and Mr F. In 
particular, in April 2019 Halifax explained what Mr F needed to do in order to remove his 
father from the mortgage. 
In June 2019, as part of the ongoing correspondence Mr F said that his current mortgage 
rate would end in August, and he asked for a new rate.
Halifax responded in July 2019. It said that if Mr F wanted to obtain a new product he 
needed to telephone the mortgage helpline or access the Banks website. 
Mr F tried to make an application online but wasnt able to do so. And after further 
correspondence Mr F brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator explained that she could only consider the part of Mr Fs complaint dealing 
with Halifaxs delay in dealing with the switch of the mortgage product. This was because the 
remainder of the complaint had been brought more than six months after the date of the final 
response letter.
The investigator said, in summary:
She felt that the information Halifax had sent Mr F in July 2019 wasnt helpful, as it 
didnt mention that all parties to the mortgage needed to agree to the product 
transfer. Also, as Mr Fs mortgage was on an interest only basis he wasnt able to 
apply for a new rate online. In addition, Mr F had a dedicated point of contact at 
Halifax throughout the process. This person was aware of Mr Fs fathers death and 
that Mr F was already unhappy about previous attempts he had made to have the 
mortgage transferred into his sole name. So she felt that Halifax should have 
provided Mr F with a detailed explanation of what was required for the product 
transfer to be completed rather than just advising him to call or go online;
Mr F had been unsure for some time about whether he would be able to have the 
new rate he requested and it was not until he took the death certificate into branch in 
August 2019 that he discovered that he would not be able to make any changes to 
the mortgage. But Halifax had agreed that, provided Mr F concluded the legalities 
regarding his fathers estate by the end of the year then he would be able to apply for 
the rate he wanted. This was confirmed in a letter to Mr F in September 2019. The 
investigator felt that this was fair and reasonable. 
Mr F had eventually moved his mortgage to another lender and asked for the 
difference in what he would have paid to be refunded to him. But she was satisfied 
that Halifax didnt act unfairly or unreasonably in requiring Mr Fs fathers estate to be 
sorted out before it would allow the product transfer to take place. So she didnt think 
it was fair to ask it to refund the monies;
However, she did feel that clearer information could have been given to Mr F from 
June 2019 when he first requested the product transfer. And she recommended that 
Halifax should pay Mr F £150 compensation.
Halifax accepts with our investigators findings. But Mr F does not agree, and so his 
complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the avoidance of doubt, my decision deals only with the part of Mr Fs complaint 
regarding switching his mortgage product. As our investigator has explained, this service is 
unable to look at the other issues Mr F raised in his correspondence with Halifax as those 
aspects of his complaint were brought to this service too late. 
Ive carefully reviewed all the available evidence and arguments relating to Mr Fs complaint 
about the product transfer. Having done so, I agree with our investigator that Halifax could 
have provided Mr F with clearer information about what he needed to do to switch his 
mortgage rate in its letter of July 2019. In particular, he wasnt able to change the rate online 
as he had an interest only mortgage. And, as there were other people named on the 
mortgage, he needed their consent to a product transfer. 
In the circumstances, I agree that the compensation that our investigator recommended is 
fair and reasonable to compensate Mr F for this aspect of his complaint.
I appreciate that Mr F isnt happy with the compensation that our investigator recommended. 
In particular, he says that Halifax promised to backdate the product if he provided the Grant 
of Probate before the end of the year. And he says it should honour this, and refund him the 
amount he says he has overpaid. 
Ive considered what Mr F has to say but, having done so, I dont agree. Im not persuaded it 
was unreasonable of Halifax to require the grant of probate. But I do agree with Mr F that in 
its letter of August 2019 Halifax offered to backdate the new rate if he supplied the grant of 
probate before the end of the year. However, the letter made it clear that it would need the 
consent of all parties to put in place a new product. And the offer was on the proviso that 
Mr F complete the application by the end of the year. 
Halifax has explained that the grant of probate was sent to it in December 2019, but that 
Mr F didnt make an application for the new product. And it says that no contact was then 
received from him until the request for a settlement figure to redeem the mortgage. I accept 
what Halifax has to say on this issue. And I agree with the investigator that Halifax would 
have honoured its offer if Mr F had made an application. But he didnt do so  and in the 
circumstances, I dont find it reasonable to ask Halifax to refund to Mr F the additional 
monies paid.
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this decision in part. I order Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax to pay Mr F £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman