DRN-4020964
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC surrounding their
restricting and then closing his account following the receipt of money from his father, and
that Barclays later withheld his access to that money for an unreasonable time.
What happened
On 1 March 2022, Mr B received into his Barclays current account a transfer of £124,957.00
that had been sent to him by his father who had sold a property overseas to help Mr B to be
able to buy a property himself in the UK.
Shortly afterwards, Mr B received a letter from Barclays saying they needed further
information about this payment. Mr B sent the requested verifying documents to Barclays via
the channel provided in that letter, but he then received a similar letter from Barclays and so
resent the documents hed already provided. Mr B then called Barclays a few weeks later, at
which time he was told that the documents hed provided werent acceptable because they
were in a non-English language and that hed need to provide copies of the documents
translated into English. Mr B wasnt happy about the service hed received from Barclays up
to this point, so he raised a complaint.
Mr B had the documents translated into English and submitted them to Barclays as
requested. But when he later tried to access his Barclays accounts online, he was unable to
do so. Mr B then received notice from Barclays that theyd taken the decision to close his
accounts with immediate effect and would no longer provide banking services to him.
However, despite closing Mr Bs accounts, Barclays continued to withhold the £124,957.00
sent to him by his father, despite repeated and prolonged efforts by Mr B to have Barclays
release that money to him. Barclays hadnt responded to Mr Bs complaint about what was
happening within the eight-week timeframe they were supposed to, and so Mr B referred his
complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Barclays had been entitled to
make the decision to no longer offer services to Mr B, and therefore to close his accounts as
they had. However, they felt that Barclays had unfairly withheld the £124,957.00 and should
have allowed Mr B to access that money after being provided with copies of the translated
documents by Mr B.
Our investigator therefore recommended that this complaint be upheld in Mr Bs favour on
that basis and that Barclays should allow Mr B access to the £124,957.00 and pay 8%
interest on that amount for the time that theyd held it. Our investigator also recommended
that Barclays should pay a further £150 to Mr B as compensation for the trouble and upset
hed incurred surrounding this matter.
Barclays accepted the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, but Mr B felt
that hed incurred tangible financial losses because of Barclays withholding access to his
money that hadnt been addressed, and that a greater amount of compensation for the
distress and inconvenience hed incurred should be merited. So, the matter was escalated to
an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 10 January 2023 as follows:
Im satisfied that when Mr B received the large sum of money into his account that he
did, that it was reasonable for Barclays to have concerns about that payment and for
it to have been flagged by their automated fraud prevention systems, given that the
amount of the transfer was out of character with how Mr B had maintained the
current account up to that time and that it was being received from an overseas
source.
Fraud prevention systems are used by many financial institutions to flag account
activity that may be of concern and to prevent further usage of an account where its
felt that theres a possibility that fraud or other suspicious activity may potentially be
occurring. And its incumbent on banks to employ these systems with a degree of
vigilance  to err on the side of caution, as it were  which unfortunately means that
there will be instances where legitimate transfers are flagged for further checks by
fraud prevention systems.
When an incoming transfer is flagged by a fraud prevention system, its also
incumbent on banks to contact their customer who has received that flagged transfer
and to ask for the information required by them to verify that transfer to their
satisfaction so that their customer can be allowed access to the incoming funds.
Barclays did that here, and I say this because they sent a letter to Mr B the day after
the transfer was received which explained that Barclays had concerns about the
transfer and which outlined what information Mr B needed to send Barclays to verify
that. And, importantly, this letter explained that if the required verifying documents
werent written in English, translations of those non-English documents into English
must be provided.
This requirement for documents to be provided in English seems reasonable to me,
and I dont feel its unfair for Barclays to place the responsibility for translating any
non-English language documents into English with the individual needing to provide
those documents.
Mr B has confirmed he received the letter sent by Barclays dated 2 March 2022, but
he appears not have recognised, as per that latter, that he needed to provide
Barclays with copies of the necessary documents translated into English, and instead
sent the relevant non-English documents without any translation.
Mr B has also confirmed that he received a second letter from Barclays, dated 8
March 2022, which he states was identical to the first letter he received dated 2
March 2022, but which did in fact explain that the documents Mr B had sent in
response to the 2 March 2022 letter werent acceptable and which again explained
that Mr B would need to send the documents translated into English. However, in
response to this second letter, Mr B again sent the documents to Barclays without an
English translation.
In his response to the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, Mr Bsaid that he feels Barclays should have provided him with feedback of the documents
he initially submitted to them, and that he only learned that translations into English
were required by Barclays when he proactively called them, which it appears from
Barclays contact notes that Mr B did on 18 March 2022.
However, as per the above, Im satisfied that Mr B was informed in both letters he
received dated 2 March and 8 March 2022, that translated versions of the documents
would need to be submitted. And Barclays also have record of an online chat with Mr
B dated 15 March 2022, where Mr B is again told of the requirement for translated
documents, and where Mr B explains that it will be difficult for him to provide
translated documents as required.
I readily acknowledge that providing documents translated into English would have
been a significant inconvenience for Mr B. But I feel that its a necessary
inconvenience, given the obligations on banks such as Barclays to monitor account
transactions in the manner already explained. So, while I can understand that Mr B
may have found it difficult to provide the translated documents, I dont think that
Barclays acted unfairly or did anything wrong by requiring them, and Im satisfied that
the requirement for Mr B to provide translated documents was clearly explained to Mr
B by Barclays from the outset, as explained.
Mr B did then send translated documents to Barclays on 27 March 2022. Importantly
theres then an internal Barclays note dated 28 March 2022 which confirms that
Barclays were happy at that time that the movement of money from Mr Bs fathers
overseas account to Mr Bs Barclays account matches the explanation provided by
Mr B and that therefore Barclays have no issue with that transaction. However, this
note then goes on to explain that during the review of Mr Bs account that took place
to verify the £124,957.00 transfer, Barclays had developed concerns about the
overall management and maintenance of the account such that they were
considering no longer offering banking services to Mr B moving forwards.
Up to this point, I dont feel that Barclays had done anything wrong. And I also dont
that Barclays acted unfairly beyond this point in regard to their taking the decision
that they then did to no longer offer banking services to Mr B and to close his
accounts with immediate effect, given the concerns that they had.
But it does seem to me that, having already noted on 28 March 2022 that they no
longer held any concerns about the £124,957.00 transfer received into the account,
that this amount should have been released to Mr B by Barclays at that time.
But this wasnt the case, and instead a Barclays note dated 4 April 2022 confirms
that the £124,957.00 will be restricted pending proof of funds being received from Mr
B  even though such proof had already been received and reviewed by Barclays
several days earlier.
Mr B feels that the prolonged withholding of the £124,957.00 from him by Barclays 
which continued until 28 October 2022  meant that he incurred significant financial
losses which he feels werent addressed in the view of this complaint put forwards by
our investigator.
First among these is that Mr B wasnt able to purchase the property which he was
sent the money to help him buy, and that mortgage rates are now considerably
higher than he could have achieved had he been able to take that mortgage. And Mr
B has provided this service with a copy of a Mortgage Agreement in Principle, dated
21 February 2022 and valid for three months, which he feels supports his position
here.I can appreciate why Mr B would feel this way. But from an impartial perspective 
which this service takes when considering complaints  a Mortgage Agreement in
Principle can be problematic. This is because it is only an agreement in principle, and
not an actual mortgage offer. Indeed, the Agreement in Principle document provided
by Mr B specifically states: This is not a legally binding offer, and the Lender is not
legally obliged to provide you with a mortgage, and also states This certificate is
issued to inform  how much we may be willing to lend, and although we have credit
scored the applicants, this should not be interpreted as the creditworthiness of the
persons named for non-secured lending.
The reason this is problematic from an impartial perspective is because while Mr B
may believe that it was highly likely that any mortgage application he made following
the Agreement in Principle would have been successful, it cant be guaranteed that
he would have passed the more in depth checks that an actual mortgage application
for a specific property entails. As such, I dont feel that it can be guaranteed that Mr B
would definitely have obtained the mortgage he was seeking in March 2022, even
had the £124,957.00 been made available to him from 28 March 2022 onwards as I
feel it should have been. And this makes it difficult for me agree that Mr B has
incurred a tangible financial loss which Barclays should fairly be instructed to
reimburse him for.
Its also difficult to consider Mr Bs claim for the rent that he had to pay having been
forced to take out a new tenancy agreement to rent a property given that he was
unable to purchase a property because of Barclays withholding the £124,957.00 from
him. And this is not only because theres no guarantee Mr B would have been able to
obtain the mortgage he wanted, but also because any claim that Mr B makes here
must be offset by the fact that if he had obtained a mortgage he would have had to
have made monthly payments towards that mortgage  with the amount of those
potential mortgage payments not being known.
Mr B also states that had he known that he wouldnt have access to the £124,957.00
for such a long time that he would have used other savings he held in non-Barclays
accounts that were also intended to finance his property purchase for other things,
including paying off his student loan, and feels that Barclays should reimburse the
interest hes had to pay on his student loan from the time he would theoretically have
paid it off from.
I dont accept Mr Bs position here, not only because its a purely hypothetical claim
about a savings balance that neither Barclays nor this service have ever had sight of,
but also because I feel that given that Mr B has now received the £124,957.00 that
he had earmarked for a property purchase, and may potentially still use for such a
purchase, that it also makes sense that the additionally earmarked funds that Mr B
refers to may also be used for any future property purchase Mr B may make.
I hold a similar position here in regard to Mr Bs claim that, when the delay in his
receiving the £124,957.00 and the increase in mortgage interest rates during that
delay period made purchasing a property more difficult, he could have used the
£124,957.00 for other investment opportunities such as bonds or currency exchange.
Again, I consider this claim to be hypothetical and to be made with the benefit of
hindsight, and I dont feel it meets the criteria for a tangible financial loss needed for
me consider it. And I also feel that given that the funds had been earmarked for a
property purchase, theres no guarantee that they wouldnt have been used for a
property purchase had a reasonable opportunity arisen.Mr B has also referred to UK inflation rates, which its acknowledged have risen
considerably in recent times. This service usually instructs a business to reimburse
unfairly withheld funds along with 8% simple interest, which is designed to take
account of any loss of spending power that may have incurred. But given the recent
rise in inflation this standard 8% award doesnt feel fair to me, and so Ill instead be
provisionally instructing Barclays to pay 10% interest on the balance instead of 8%.
This increased interest amount is based on the average increase in the Consumer
Prices Index (CPI) for the months April through October 2022, as per the Office of
National Statistics.
Additionally, Ill also be instructing Barclays to pay this interest to Mr B calculated
from 28 March 2022 until 28 October 2022, rather than from 19 April 2022 as
previously recommended by our investigator, given that I feel 28 March 2022 is the
date from which the £124,957.00 should reasonably have been made available to Mr
B.
Finally, I dont feel that the £150 compensation amount recommended by our
investigator goes far enough to recognise the considerable and lengthy trouble and
upset that Mr B has incurred here, not only in regard to the unreasonable time,
frustration and effort that Mr B has had to expend chasing the release of his money,
but also in regard to the worry and distress hes suffered through not being able to
proceed with his plans to purchase a property and the strain that Mr B has explained
this matter has caused between him and his parents, who struggled to understand
why the large amount of money they raised by selling their own property and then
sent to their son wasnt being used as intended.
Accordingly, my provisional decision will also include that Barclays must pay an
increased amount of £900 compensation to Mr B for the distress and inconvenience
hes incurred here, which I feel more fairly reflects the impact that Barclays
withholding this money has had.
Mr B provided a detailed response to my provisional decision letter and explained why he 
continued to feel that Barclays should be instructed to reimburse him for the losses he was 
claiming against them. And Barclays also raised concerns with some of the findings outlined 
in my provisional decision.
This led me to issue an amended provisional decision on 15 February 2023 as follows:
The first part of Mr Bs submission focusses on his request for Barclays to be 
instructed to reimburse him for claimed financial losses arising from the increase in 
mortgage interest rates during the period that Barclays unfairly withheld his money.
In support of his position, Mr B has referenced several legal cases. But this service 
isnt a regulatory body or a Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means it 
isnt within my remit here to declare that Barclays have acted in a non-regulatory or 
unlaw way  such declarations would be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to 
potentially make. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution 
service, with a remit focussed on fairness of outcome.
I can appreciate why Mr B would feel it unfair  having had a mortgage Agreement in
Principle before Barclays restricted his access to the money in question  that 
mortgage interest rates had risen significantly while his access to his money was 
restricted. And I can also understand how Mr B would feel that a fair outcome here 
would be for Barclays to cover the increased cost of his mortgage as he would like.But a key point that this service considers when reviewing claims for financial loss is 
whether it can be said that the claimed loss would definitely have occurred, had the 
error of the business being complained about not taken place. And, In this instance, 
because Mr B only had a mortgage Agreement in Principle, and not an actual 
mortgage offer, I dont feel that it can reasonably and impartially be said that Mr B 
would have definitely been granted the mortgage he was seeking at that time.
Mr B has provided a detailed explanation of why he feels its highly improbable that 
his mortgage application would have been accepted, had he had the funds available 
to have made it. But I continue to feel, even in consideration of Mr Bs convictions, 
that theres no guarantee any formal mortgage application he did make, following on 
from the Agreement in Principle, would have been successful. And so, while I have 
taken on board the points that Mr B has raised here, and while I understand his 
frustration, my position on this matter in my professional capacity as an impartial 
ombudsman hasnt changed.
Ultimately, there is no prior formal mortgage offer to calculate the losses Mr B claims 
here against. This is because Mr B didnt have a formal mortgage offer, and I remain 
satisfied that there was no guarantee that he would have received a formal mortgage 
offer at that time. And, as an impartial party, I dont feel it would be fair to instruct 
Barclays to reimburse a potential loss that Im satisfied cant be confirmed would 
have definitely occurred.
Mr B also feel that my provisional instruction that Barclays must increase the amount 
of compensation payable for the trouble and upset that he incurred because of 
Barclays error to £900 doesnt take full and accurate consideration of the level of 
distress that he experienced here.
Ive considered Mr Bs request for a higher compensation amount to be paid and the 
factors he feels I havent adequately considered. Having done so, Id like to reassure 
Mr B that my provisional instruction of £900 compensation was made after careful 
consideration of the impact of what happened on Mr B, including the distress he may 
have incurred. As such, Im satisfied that the £900 amount I provisionally instructed is 
a fair compensation amount.
Finally, Mr B has also suggested that my award of 10% interest on the balance for 
the period it was unfairly withheld should be increased, and Mr B suggests an 
interest rate of 16.83%.
Barclays also responded to my provisional decision regarding my award of 10% 
interest and asked why I had chosen to award more than the 8% interest amount that 
this service generally awards in circumstances such as this.
Ive considered both Mr Bs and Barclays positions here and having done so Ill be 
amending my provisional instructions to revert the interest amount that Barclays must 
pay to Mr B on the balance for the period it was unavailable to 8%.
I realise Mr B will be unhappy about this decision, but the 8% Im reverting to here is 
a rate that this service uses as standard, and on consideration I dont feel it would be 
fair to instruct Barclays to pay a higher amount of interest here on this one particular 
complaint than the standard 8% rate used consistently by this service.
All of which means that my updated provisional decision remains largely in line with 
my initial provisional decision, but with the interest rate that Barclays must pay on the 
unfairly withheld balance reduced to 8%.My updated provisional instructions are therefore as follows:
Barclays must pay 8% simple interest on the £124,957.00 amount calculated 
from 28 March 2022 to 28 October 2022.
Barclays must also make a further payment of £900 to Mr B as compensation for 
the lengthy and considerable distress and inconvenience that the unfair 
withholding of the money in question has caused.
Barclays confirmed their acceptance of my second provision decision, while Mr B expressed 
his dissatisfaction at my reducing the rate of awarded interest from 10% to 8% and reiterated 
his wider concerns and that he felt Barclays were getting away unscathed.
I can appreciate how Mr B would be disappointed that Ive reduced the rate of awarded 
interest from 10% to 8%. But my initial provisional award of 10% interest was a mistake on 
my part, and this is because, as explained, the 8% rate of awarded interest is a standard 
rate used across this service. I can only apologise to Mr B for my mistake and for giving him 
a false expectation in this regard. 
However, having recognised my error, I dont feel that it would be fair to award Mr B a higher 
rate of awarded interest than that which is standardly awarded by this service. And that is 
why I corrected my mistake by way of the second provisional decision that I issued on 15 
February 2023. 
Ultimately, from an impartial perspective, Im satisfied that if I were to instruct Barclays to 
pay a rate of interest higher than the standard 8% rate instructed by this service, that 
wouldnt be a fair outcome. 
Finally, in response to Mr Bs concerns about the wider implications of this decision, I can 
only reiterate again that this service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of Law, and that as 
such these wider concerns fall outside the remit of what this service can consider.
All of which means that I remain satisfied that the outcome to Mr Bs complaint as outlined in 
my second provisional decision is a fair and reasonable resolution to whats happened here. 
And it follows that my final decision will be that I uphold this complaint in Mr Bs favour on 
that basis accordingly.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr B was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given what 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Barclays must pay 8% simple interest on the £124,957.00 amount calculated from 28 March 
2022 to 28 October 2022.
Barclays must also make a further payment of £900 to Mr B as compensation for distress 
and inconvenience this matter has caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman