DRN-2847151
The complaint
Miss A complains The Carphone Warehouse Ltd (Carphone Warehouse) mis-sold her a 
mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Miss A alleges Carphone Warehouse mis-sold her two insurance policies in May 
2012 and May 2014. She says shes since become aware she may have had 
duplicate cover in place through her home insurance policy.
Carphone Warehouse considered the complaint. It disagreed any insurance was mis-
sold, saying shed made four successful claims across the life of the policies.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. He said Miss A had 
paid around £700 in premiums for the cover but received around £1,130 in benefit 
from the successful claims. And if he agreed the policies were mis-sold, he said he 
would recommend the premiums paid were refunded. But this would mean Miss A 
would need to repay the sums received from the claims  putting her in a worse 
financial situation. So, he didnt direct Carphone Warehouse to do anything further. 
Miss A disagreed, saying Carphone Warehouse couldve told her earlier that the 
successful claims outweighed the premiums shed paid. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Our investigator has previously explained that the typical remedy our service 
suggests for a mis-sold policy would be to refund premiums paid and treat the policy 
as if it never existed. Doing so would put Miss A back into the position she would 
have been in, had the cover never been taken.
If I agreed Carphone Warehouse mis-sold the policies and directed it to take this 
action, I would need to consider Miss As claim history. This means her four 
successful claims wouldnt have taken place had she not had the cover in place.
Put simply  even if I agreed the policies were mis-sold  directing Carphone 
Warehouse to refund her premiums and treat the policy as if it hadnt been in place 
would lead to Miss A owing it around £430. Meaning Miss A would suffer a financial 
loss as a result of our services involvement and this complaint. 
For this reason, Im satisfied Miss A has financially benefitted from these policies far 
in excess of the costs she has paid. And so in these circumstances, Im not 
upholding this complaint or directing Carphone Warehouse to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman