DRN-3938016
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) did not send him a new debit card 
as it had promised.
What happened
Mr K holds an account with Barclays that comes with a debit card. Mr K says that in 
February 2022, that card was refused when attempting to make a purchase and he was told 
that there was a fault with the chip. He contacted Barclays through his online app and was 
told on 20 February 2022 that a replacement card would be sent out. He contacted the bank 
again in March 2022, but the online chat ended without a new card being confirmed as being 
sent. He wrote to the bank on 26 March 2022 to seek an explanation for not receiving a new 
card.
Barclays says that, due to an error by a staff member, no card was ordered for Mr K in 
February. It says that this was human error and that it has taken steps to prevent this 
happening again, but the March chat was ended before all of the necessary questions could 
be answered, and so it was correct that another card wasnt ordered at this point. It says that 
it later attempted to contact Mr K to take him through the steps he would need to get a new 
card sent out, but that these steps were not completed.
When it wrote to him in May 2022, the bank set out the steps he could take to order a 
replacement card through his online banking app. Barclays has offered Mr K £150 to reflect 
the distress and inconvenience it caused him through its initial mistake in not ordering a 
card.
Mr K says that the banks failings have left him without the use of his debit card for a 
considerable period, and that he has been forced to use his credit card in its place. He says 
that this has cost him additional interest on his purchases. 
The bank says that Mr Ks debit card is showing as active, and has been used repeatedly 
since February. Mr K says that this is not the case, and that any apparent card use must 
have been online, rather than using the card in face-to-face transactions.
Our investigator thought that the £150 offered by the bank was enough to put things right 
here. Barclays made a mistake in not ordering a replacement card, but wrote to Mr K to tell 
him how to order a new one on his own. 
Mr K did not agree and so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the online chat which Mr K had with the bank advisor on 20 February 
2022. He provided all of the details requested, and was told that a card was on its way. But 
no card was sent. The bank has agreed, and I am satisfied, that this was a mistake. Mr K 
argues that he was being lied to by the advisor, but I havent seen any evidence that the 
bank advisor was acting deliberately or lying to Mr K. So I think its more likely than not that it 
was simply an error. 
Mr K attempted to resolve the issue again over an online chat, but I can see that this was not 
completed. I cannot say why this was from the information available, but am satisfied that 
the bank advisor did not have the information which had been provided on the last chat, and 
specifically confirmation of Mr Ks current address. So I dont think it was unfair that a card 
was not sent out at that time, where Barclays hadnt confirmed all the necessary details it 
needed to before sending one.
When Mr K wrote to the bank on 26 March 2022, it was clear that he did not have a card, 
and that he wanted a replacement one. As part of the banks response to that complaint in 
May 2022, it told him how to order a new card through his app. I think this was a reasonable 
suggestion. Barclays had not been able to speak with Mr K about the additional information 
that it needed. Mr K had shown that he was able to use the app. It had been his chosen way 
of contacting Barclays. So I think it is fair to say that he could have followed those 
instructions and ordered a new card at this point through his online banking app.
The bank says that Mr K was using his previous card in the meantime anyway. I have 
considered this carefully, and am satisfied that the explanation Mr K gives is more likely than 
not correct - he was using his account and card details for online transactions, but not in-
person. His correspondence on the bank throughout is very clear and focused - he is simply 
asking for a replacement card. It was not until there had been a delay of months that any 
issue of real dispute or the issue of compensation was raised. So while Mr K was using his 
account and card details to still make purchases, it was still inconvenient for him that he 
couldnt use the card for in-person payments.
I have considered what Mr K says about using his credit card in the meantime. But its my 
role to consider complaints impartially  thinking about whats fair to both sides. Barclays 
says that Mr K has access to his credit card transactions through his banking app. Mr K has 
shown himself to use the app and I think that he could have done this, which would have 
mitigated any losses here. 
So, while I realise he may have needed to use his credit card for some in-person 
transactions, I am satisfied that he could have avoided interest charges by paying off the 
transactions immediately through his app. Ive not seen anything to suggest he couldnt have 
done this. It would have been more inconvenient, for which I can award compensation, but 
he could have avoided any interest charges if he had chosen to do so.
The banks mistake was not sending the card as it had promised in February 2022. It took 
steps to fix this once Mr K brought the mistake to its attention by his letter in March 2022, 
and the underlying issue was dealt with by its letter of 11 May 2022. The specific step it took 
was telling him how to order a new card through a system with which Barclays was aware he 
was comfortable with and able to use. I think this was a fair and reasonable way to proceed. 
Barclays has also offered £150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience its mistake caused 
Mr K. I am satisfied that this appropriately reflects the level of distress and inconvenience 
caused. I am not going to ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mr K £150.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Marc Kelly
Ombudsman