DRN-1861607
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Unum Ltd declined a claim he made on his employers group income 
protection policy. 
What happened
Mr H is the beneficiary of his employers group income protection policy. In March 2018 he 
was involved in an accident abroad which caused serious injuries to his spine. Having been 
repatriated to the UK Mr H received intensive treatment. 
Mr H successfully claimed on the policy. Unum agreed to cover the claim until October 2018. 
Mr H said he wasnt able to return to work in October 2018. In summary, he said his job 
involved a lot of sitting and driving, which wasnt possible given the pain he was in. Unum 
said it didnt think the medical evidence supported that he was unable to work. Mr H 
complained to Unum but they maintained their decision to decline the claim. Unhappy, Mr H 
made a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She didnt think it was unreasonable that 
Unum ended the claim in October 2018 based on the available medical evidence. Mr H 
didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. He says, in summary, that 
he is experiencing a lot of pain and cant do his job. He re-iterated the seriousness of the 
injuries that he sustained and said that his treatment is ongoing. So, I need to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the circumstances of Mr Hs accident, which was clearly very serious. 
He clearly sustained serious injuries which required significant medical intervention. 
However, the key issue for me to decide is whether it was unreasonable for Unum to end the 
claim in October 2018.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Unum has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Unum to stop paying the claim in October 2018. I say 
that because: 
I dont think the medical records suggest that Mr H was experiencing ongoing or 
significant pain. For example, during an appointment with his specialist in June 2018 
he said that he was able to use a bike at the gym. Whilst he reported some stiffness 
he said he wasnt in pain and was able to walk daily. He was also allowed to drive, 
although the consultant recommended wearing a back brace for the first few months
Mr Hs medical records dont suggest that he was in regular contact with his GP or 
medical team for assistance with pain relief issues. For example, the majority of 
Mr Hs GP between May and October 2018 with his GP related to a different medical 
condition. I can see that Mr H was prescribed some pain relief, but the notes dont 
indicate that Mr H was frequently in pain or requiring regular medical intervention for 
this
 
Mr H saw his GP in October 2018. The notes say that he needed something to 
provide to his insurance as he was unable to work. He reported to the GP that he felt 
stiff and painful. He also said that he was seeing his specialist soon. The notes from 
the meeting with the specialist say no problems reported or noted with spinal injury, 
neurology or function. The consultant said hed review Mr H in a years time. So, I 
dont think that it was unreasonable for Unum to conclude that Mr H wasnt 
experiencing significant ongoing symptoms at that time which would have prevented 
him from working
I appreciate that Mr H has had further contact with his GP about pain since October 
2018 and I understand hes seeing a specialist on an ongoing basis. But that doesnt 
change my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint as I need to decide 
whether the decision Unum made to stop paying the claim in October 2018 was 
reasonable. I think it was based on the available medical information. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman