DRN-3722146
The complaint
Miss H complains about the service received from Barclays Bank UK PLC when trying to 
transfer funds to a third-party.
What happened
In July 2022, Miss H attempted to make a transfer from her mobile banking app for £1,500. 
The payment was for Miss Hs late partners funeral costs and was going to Miss Hs late 
partners daughter. Miss H said she attempted the payment whilst at work using both her 
phone and laptop, but she couldnt proceed due to poor signal and because she didnt have 
her PIN sentry device to verify the transfer. She ultimately tried again on her banking app 
when she left work.
Miss H said that the banking app then said the transfer had gone through, but she noticed 
the money hadnt been taken from her account. After waiting for a few hours, Miss H said 
she tried to contact Barclays through the banking app. But her access was blocked and 
there was a notice on the screen with a contact number to call to resolve matters.
Miss H called the number and was put through to an adviser from Barclays fraud 
department. The adviser asked Miss H some questions and then said she had passed 
security. However, later in the call, the adviser said he was unable to complete the transfer 
and said Miss H needed to go into a branch with two forms of identification. 
Miss H said she had to ask for emergency compassionate leave from work the next day to 
visit a branch. The transfer was ultimately made and the block on the banking app was lifted. 
But Miss H remained unhappy. She said that shed passed security on the phone and had 
confirmed the payment was genuine, and the adviser initially said theyd be able to proceed. 
But she was then asked to visit a branch. Miss H was also unhappy that Barclays didnt 
explain why it was unable to process the transfer and lift the block on the banking app, 
despite her asking several times.
Miss H also complained about the service received on the phone call. Amongst other points, 
she said the adviser wouldnt put her through to a manager when she asked, and the adviser 
laughed when she said she was going to complain about matters. Miss H also said it was 
distressing to keep being asked what the payment was for, both on the phone and 
face-to-face in the branch. 
Miss H complained through the webchat function. An adviser agreed to raise a complaint but 
asked whether Miss H would be happy if it was closed in Barclays favour. The adviser also 
offered Miss H £25 compensation, but this was withdrawn when Miss H said she wasnt 
happy to close the complaint. Matters were ultimately escalated to Barclays complaints 
team.
Barclays reviewed the complaint and explained that even though Miss H had passed 
security, the adviser had concerns about processing the payment. It said it couldnt provide 
any further information about why this was, but it confirmed that the correct process had 
been followed. It apologised if the service it provided had added to Miss Hs distress at a 
difficult time and offered her £50 compensation. Miss H remained unhappy and brought her 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators reviewed matters. She thought Barclays had followed the correct 
security processes, and it couldnt provide further details about why the transfer wasnt 
processed on the phone because it was commercially sensitive information. But she thought 
that the service provided by the initial adviser on the phone could have been better. She 
ultimately thought Barclays compensation offer of £50 was fair.
Barclays didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Miss H did. In summary, she mostly 
repeated her earlier points and also pointed out that Barclays hadnt provided her with a 
transcript of the call like shed asked. 
Our investigator clarified with Miss H that she thought the £50 compensation Barclays 
offered was fair for all the service issues which occurred, including the initial phone call, the 
issues with the transcript and the conversation on the webchat function. And Barclays had 
since explained how to obtain the call transcript. In summary, Miss H said her complaint 
wasnt about the compensation offered, but in relation to how Barclays managed the 
situation. Miss H also repeated some of her earlier points of concern.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H has provided lots of detail about her complaint, and Id like to thank her for taking the 
time to do so, particularly as I appreciate that she has been through a very difficult time. Its 
important I explain, however, that my findings will only address those matters I consider 
central to the outcome of this complaint. So, while I have considered all the evidence 
provided by both parties, I wont address each and every point that has been raised. I trust 
this wont be taken as a discourtesy, but this reflects the informal nature of our service.
Miss H says she wasnt notified that her payment hadnt been processed. Barclays has 
provided contact notes which show it attempted to contact Miss H by calling her to ask about 
the payment, but it appears the call wasnt connected. So, I do think Barclays made an 
attempt to notify Miss H her payment hadnt been processed. And, in any event, Miss H 
noticed a message on her banking app which asked her to contact Barclays some hours 
later, which she did. So, it doesnt appear that Barclays inability to reach Miss H had any 
prolonged negative impact. 
Miss H says that she then successfully answered the security questions and confirmed the 
payment was genuine on the phone. She said she was led to believe matters would be 
sorted out during the call, only to be told later in the call that this wasnt possible. I can 
appreciate why Miss H would be unhappy, particularly given the circumstances she was 
already dealing with at the time, and the fact that she was attempting to make a genuine 
payment.
That being said, Barclays has a responsibility to keep its customers money safe. And the 
terms of Miss Hs account outline that Barclays might restrict the use of payment tools or not 
process a payment instruction if it thinks its necessary to protect the security of the account, 
or it has concerns that a payment isnt genuine. In this case, whilst Miss H did verify her identity and confirm that the transaction was 
genuine, the adviser still had concerns about processing the payment later in the call. As 
such, he asked Miss H to visit a branch with two forms of identification to complete the 
payment. 
Im mindful that there will be times that genuine payments are stopped, which is what it 
seems has happened here. But this doesnt mean that Barclays actions were unreasonable. 
Im persuaded that the adviser had concerns about the payment being made and that the 
relevant action was taken in line with Barclays duty to protect its customers. It follows that I 
dont think Barclays acted unreasonably here. And, as I understand it, the transfer was 
processed and the block was lifted the next day, following Miss Hs visit to a branch.
I know Miss H wants to know exactly why Barclays decided not to proceed with matters over 
the phone, but Barclays isnt under any obligation to share this information. To explain 
further, its not unusual for firms to have fraud prevention processes in place. And, firms 
generally will keep this information confidential, in order to protect both them and their 
customers. I dont think this is unreasonable.  
As well as issues with the payment and the block on the mobile app, Miss H has also raised 
concerns about the overall service received. Ive listened to the call Miss H initially had. 
Having done so, I can certainly understand why Miss H may have thought the advisers tone 
wasnt empathetic given her circumstances. I also appreciate that the adviser had concerns 
over the security of the account, so I can understand why his tone may have been more 
direct. That being said, I do think the adviser could have been more understanding of the 
situation Miss H was in. And, I do think the overall service could have been better here, 
particularly when Miss H asked to be put through to a manager and this wasnt done.
I also appreciate Miss H was unhappy that the adviser she spoke with on the webchat 
function wanted to close the complaint in favour of Barclays. They also initially offered £25 
compensation, which was then taken away when Miss H wanted to escalate the complaint. 
The contact notes provided by Barclays outline that Miss H was later provided further 
context around this, and it was explained that the webchat adviser would have tried to 
resolve the complaint in the first instance. But because matters were then escalated, they 
were likely trying to explain that the compensation may not be offered once the complaint 
was fully investigated. 
Ive thought carefully about this and, whilst I dont think this was unreasonable in principle, I 
do think this could have been explained more clearly during the conversation on the webchat 
function, and I can understand why this would have caused Miss H some concern about the 
service she was receiving.
I also note Miss H says she asked for a copy of the call transcript and said there had been a 
lack of clarity from Barclays about providing this. Its unfortunate that Barclays didnt provide 
this when requested and I think it couldve been clearer with Miss H about how she could 
obtain this information. But matters have progressed whilst the complaint has been with this 
service, and Barclays has since explained that Miss H can request a copy of the call and the 
transcript through her online banking facility. I also note our investigator has since 
communicated this to Miss H. So, whilst Barclays wasnt sufficiently clear about this 
previously, I consider that its recent commentary explains how Miss H can obtain this 
information, should she still wish to. I think thats reasonable.
In its review of Miss Hs complaint, Barclays apologised for the impact its service had on her 
and offered her £50 compensation. Having considered all the above  including the overall 
service received and the lack of clarity provided about the call transcript  while I think there were some shortcomings in Barclays service, I think the £50 offered is a fair way to 
compensate Miss H for the issues raised. 
In summary then, whilst I think Barclays has acted within the terms of the account when 
restricting the payment and access to the payment tool in question, I do think the service 
offered overall could have been better. But having considered all of the evidence available, 
ultimately, Im satisfied that Barclays offer of £50 compensation is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint, and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Miss H 
£50 compensation for the service it provided her with, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman