DRN-1919428
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Covea unfairly rejected their claim under their home 
insurance policy following a flood. Mr and Mrs Ms daughter is representing them in their 
complaint. 
What happened
In February 2020 Mr M made a claim under their home insurance policy following a flood 
causing damage to their home. The underwriter, Covea rejected their claim as it said it 
excluded cover for flood. 
Mr and Mrs M complained to Covea. But Covea said its decision was correct. Mr and Mrs M 
bought the policy through a broker. Theyd previously insured the property under a landlord 
insurance policy. But in 2019 they returned to live in the property. So the broker arranged the 
private home insurance policy for them. It was at this stage that flood cover was no longer 
provided. 
Mr and Mrs Ms daughter brought their complaint to us. She thought Covea should consider 
their claim under the storm definition of the policy. She didnt think it had been made clear 
to her parents that flood cover was excluded. 
Our investigator thought Covea had acted reasonably. The policy documents provided by 
the broker clearly said that flood cover was excluded. And from the photos provided, she 
thought it was clear that it was a flood that had caused the damage. So it was reasonable for 
Covea not to consider a claim for storm damage. She explained that Mr and Mrs M could 
contact the broker if they were unhappy with the sale of the policy. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They provided evidence of the weather conditions which they 
believe shows the damage to their property was caused by a storm. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Coveas decision to reject the claim for flood damage was reasonable and in line with 
the policy as it was clearly excluded from cover when Mr and Mrs M bought the policy. Mr 
and Mrs have raised a complaint against the broker which we have looked at separately. 
Mr and Mrs M believe their claim should be considered because it was a storm that led to 
the flood which caused damage to their home. There are three questions we ask when 
considering if an insurer should have met a claim for storm damage. These are:
Did storm conditions occur on or around the date of the event?
Is the damage claimed for typical of storm damage?
Is the storm the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to all three questions is yes we generally consider it fair for the claim for storm 
damage to succeed. 
I agree that storm conditions occurred around the time when the flood happened. But its 
evident from the photos provided that the damage Mr and Mrs M claimed for, and the main 
cause of the damage, was caused by flood and not by the storm.
Ive no doubt that Mr and Mrs M have been caused considerable upset and inconvenience  
by the damage caused by the flood  and by the decision Covea made to reject their claim. 
But I cant conclude that Covea has acted unreasonably. I think it was clear from the policy 
schedule and Statement of Fact that Covea wouldnt provide insurance cover for flood. And I 
dont think the damage to their home should be met under the policy as storm damage  as 
the storm wasnt the dominant cause of the damage they claimed for. 
I realise that Mr and Mrs M will be very disappointed with my decision. But based on what 
Ive seen, I think Covea has acted reasonably. This means Im not asking it to do anymore.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman