DRN-4370841
The complaint
Miss K complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) failed to remove her ex-husband 
from their joint account following a visit to one of its branches.
What happened
Miss K and her ex-husband held a joint account with Santander. Miss K says when she 
separated from her husband she completed a form to remove him from the joint account 
which he signed and returned to a branch of Santander as well as providing a copy of her ID.
In March 2023 Miss Ks ex-husband messaged her to say that he purchased an item from an 
online account using their joint card by mistake as that was the card saved on the account. 
Miss K complained to Santander as she was unaware her ex-husband still had access to her 
account.
Santander did not uphold Miss Ks complaint as it didnt believe it had made any errors. 
Santander accepts there was a visit by Miss K to one of its branches in December 2022 as it 
has a digital footprint of this, but cant say what happened during the visit. It says it has no 
record of receiving the completed forms needed to remove Miss Ks ex-husband from the 
account.
Miss K was dis-satisfied with this and brought their complaint to this service. Miss K wants 
Santander to investigate where the form to remove her ex-husband from the account has 
gone, to remove him from the account and acknowledge that her private banking details 
have been shared with him.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ks concerns and reached the conclusion that 
there wasnt enough evidence to say the requisite forms to remove her ex-husband were 
completed by Miss K in branch when she says she visited Santander and so they couldnt 
safely say that Santander received her request to remove her ex-husband from the joint 
account they held. 
But following bringing her complaint to this service Santander have provided the option of 
closing Miss Ks account and opening an account in her sole name and offered her £200 
compensation for any errors made on its part which they think was fair. 
Miss K doesnt wish to accept this offer and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided what Santander have offered to settle 
Miss Ks complaint is fair and Im not going to ask it to do anything more. 
My role is to look at the problems Miss K has experienced and see if Santander has done 
anything wrong or treated her unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Miss K 
back in the position she wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
Miss K is unhappy that her ex-husband remained on their joint account following a visit to a 
branch she made to have him removed.
Miss K says she was never asked for any identification of her ex-husband during the branch 
visit and that she left with the impression that she had done all that was needed to remove 
him from the account. She is upset that she continued to have her salary paid into the joint 
account oblivious to the fact the account was still accessible to her estranged husband.
It is clear from both Santander and Miss K that there was a branch visit but it is not clear 
what was asked for or provided during the visit. But I agree based on the evidence its likely 
something went wrong and Miss K didnt get the outcome expected from the visit. But 
Santander have now offered to close the account in question and open a new account in her 
sole name and compensate her £200 for the inconvenience. So Miss K will be in the position 
she wanted and expected to be in had things not gone as they did.
I accept that having her ex-husband still being a party to the account might have exposed 
her to financial risk but this never came to fruition and Miss K hasnt provided any evidence 
to show me shes suffered any financial loss. Nor is it clear to me what she wants to settle 
her complaint. 
Miss K in some of her correspondence has referred to a data breach  due, she says, to a 
copy of her driving license and account amendment form going missing. But as I explained 
above, based on the evidence Im unable to make a finding on what happened when she 
visited the branch. And this service doesnt supervise, regulate or discipline the businesses 
we cover. And my role isnt to punish or penalise businesses for their performance or 
behaviour  thats the role of the regulator.  
And again, I cant see that Miss K has lost out financially because of this. In any case, things 
dont always go smoothly. And not every mistake warrants compensation. Here, Im not sure 
if or what error Santander made, but were I to find it did do something wrong, I dont 
consider the detriment Miss K alleges sufficient to justify compensation above that already 
offered. So it follows that I think what Santander has offered to settle Miss Ks complaint is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided what Santander UK Plc has offered to settle Miss 
Ks complaint is fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman