DRN-3425965
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) handled his 
request for a refund in relation to a hotel booking he paid for using his Nationwide credit 
card.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr W booked a 10 night stay at a hotel in Greece. The total cost of the 
booking was around £1,871 and Mr W paid a 50% deposit using his Nationwide credit card. 
The booking was for 19 July 2020. 
Mr W booked and paid for separate flights and a ferry to transport him to his destination and 
back.  
Shortly before he was due to depart, Mr W received notifications that his flights and ferry had 
been cancelled because of the Covid-19 pandemic.  Mr W contacted the hotel to explain he 
wasnt going to be able to fulfil his booking and asked for a refund of his deposit. Mr W was 
offered a voucher by the hotel valid for 18 months but not a refund of his deposit. 
Mr W asked Nationwide to help him get a refund as he didnt want a voucher. Nationwide 
said it couldnt help Mr W as the hotel room was available at the time he was due to stay 
there and there were no grounds upon which he could claim a refund. 
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide unfairly declined to meet Mr Ws claim. He said there 
were no grounds under which a chargeback would have succeeded and no valid claim under 
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). 
Mr W didnt agree with the investigator and asked that an ombudsman review his complaint. 
He said that since bringing his complaint to us hed tried to use the voucher to put towards a 
new booking. But he said the hotel hadnt responded to his emails to confirm that he could 
use it. He said this was a breach of contract or grounds for a new chargeback claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A lot of people had travel plans which were affected by the Covid-19 pandemic in one way or 
another, with many flights and holidays being cancelled. And its fair to say that there were 
instances in the early days of the pandemic where suppliers were not refunding customers 
when they should have. 
Where there are grounds to do so, banks commonly have been able to help their customers 
get a refund when suppliers have failed to provide one. But there is no automatic right to a 
refund in all cases and it depends on the individual circumstances of each case. For 
example, its generally less likely that a refund is due in a case where services were/are able 
to go ahead than it is where they have been cancelled by the supplier. 
In this case, I am looking at whether Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in the way it 
handled Mr Ws request for help in getting his money back. This will take into account the 
circumstances of the failed trip and how the supplier has acted, but also things like the card 
scheme rules a bank has to follow and its own obligations.
There are two main ways a bank can help a consumer to recover money paid to a supplier 
who hasnt provided what was promised. It can try to recover the money from the supplier 
through a process known as chargeback. Or it can decide whether its customer has a valid 
claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). 
Nationwide said it couldnt raise a chargeback in Mr Ws case or pay him the cost of the 
hotel booking under Section 75, because the service went ahead. 
Chargeback 
In certain circumstances the chargeback process provides a way for a bank to ask for a 
payment a consumer has made to be refunded. Where applicable, the bank raises a dispute 
with the supplier and effectively asks for the payment to be returned to the customer. 
While it is good practice for a bank to attempt a chargeback where the right exists and there 
is some prosect of success, the circumstances of a dispute means it wont always be 
appropriate for the bank to raise a chargeback. There are grounds or dispute conditions set 
by the relevant card scheme and if these are not met a chargeback is unlikely to succeed.
In this case I find it most likely the hotel was open and able to provide its services to Mr W  
both at the time he told the hotel he couldnt make the booking and also and when he was 
due to stay there. I say this partly because as far as I have been able to tell, the hotel was 
legally able to provide the room to Mr W at the point he was due to stay there.  For example, 
an archived version of the UK Government website from early July 2020 says that hotels in 
Greece were permitted to open. This looks to have been the case from at least 1 July 2020.
Ive also not seen enough that makes me think the hotel was closed for any other reason 
when Mr W was to due stay there. The card schemes guidance set out that where services 
were able to go ahead but travellers were unable to or chose not to travel, no chargeback 
grounds are likely to exist. So, looking at the chargeback rules and scheme guidance, a 
chargeback raised under the dispute condition that relates to services not being provided 
was unlikely to result in a refund for Mr W. 
Ive also looked at the limited information that is available about cancellation and refunds. 
This was set out on Mr Ws booking confirmation email from the hotel. I have not been 
provided with any terms and conditions and there are none on the hotels website. So, the 
cancellation policy on the booking invoice is the best available information about cancellation 
terms. This set out that in the event of cancellation by Mr W, the hotel could keep 50% of the 
total cost of the booking. Or in the event he didnt show up hed have to pay 100% of the 
cost. 
This means that whether Mr W cancelled or not, I cannot see anything in the hotels 
disclosed cancellation policy that would have entitled him to a refund of the money hed paid 
to it if the service was able to go ahead. So, its unlikely a chargeback raised under the 
dispute conditions relating to cancellations or refunds would have succeed either.  
Overall, looking at what happened in Mr Ws case, the relevant refund/cancellation policy 
and considering these carefully alongside the relevant chargeback scheme rules and 
guidance, I do not think a chargeback could have been successfully raised on Mr Ws behalf. 
So, I dont think Nationwide was acting unfairly or unreasonably when it didnt raise one. Section 75
Section 75 provides that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has 
an equal right to claim against the credit provider if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services.
As Ive explained earlier, I havent been provided with a copy of the terms and conditions 
and these arent available on the hotels website either. But looking carefully at what has 
happened here, alongside the limited information that is available about the booking terms, I 
cannot see evidence of a breach of contract. The hotel was able to provide the service as it 
had most likely contracted to do. And it seems it was able to keep 50% of the cost of the 
booking in the event Mr W cancelled and 100% if he didnt show up. So, from what Ive seen, 
the contract did not oblige the hotel to refund the sum Mr W had paid to it in the event he 
cancelled or didnt show up to his booking in circumstances where it was able to meet its 
promise to provide the room.  
With this in mind, Nationwide didnt treat Mr W unfairly by declining to meet his claim under 
Section 75. 
Ive also thought about what Mr W said about not being able to use the voucher. I can see 
Mr W tried to get hold of the hotel to make a new booking without success which Im sure 
was very frustrating. 
Looking at information available online, Greek legislation required travel operators to provide 
vouchers in circumstances where travellers cancelled bookings due to take place between 
certain dates  which included the date of Mr Ws booking. And looking at the 
communication between the hotel and Mr W it appears this was the reason the hotel offered 
one to him. 
Mr W has said he wasnt provided with a physical or electronic voucher from the hotel. He 
has said previously that he didnt want the voucher so this could be the reason he never 
received one. Ive nevertheless considered the position if the offer to use a voucher was still 
open to him. 
Without the voucher I dont know what its terms looked like or whether they had any effect 
on Mr Ws original contract with the hotel. As far as I am able to make out (and I stress I 
havent seen an exact translation), the Greek legislation may afford Mr W the right to a 
refund in the event he hasnt used the voucher to make a booking before the expiry date. But 
Ive not seen enough to make me think this was made a term of Mr Ws contract with the 
hotel or that Mr W was afforded any additional contractual rights in respect of his original 
transaction in the event he couldnt use the voucher. 
All of this means Ive still not seen enough evidence that a breach of contract occurred that 
Nationwide would be liable to Mr W for under Section 75. Mr W may have a claim against 
the hotel in Greek law for a breach of the relevant statute but thats something he would 
need to take separate advice on as the position is not at all clear.
Additionally, the chargeback scheme guidance sets out that there are no dispute rights in 
respect of vouchers issued as a courtesy in circumstances where the original service could 
still go ahead. I think that is in effect what happened here as even though the voucher was 
provided in accordance with government legislation, the original service could still go ahead as the hotel was able to fulfil the booking. So, it seems unlikely a chargeback would have 
succeeded if raised on these grounds.  
Looking at Nationwides overall handling of Mr Ws request for a refund after he submitted a 
dispute form, it appears it gave him an answer about it within the time it said it would via its 
secured message system. Its not clear whether Nationwide contacted Mr W via other means 
such as text message or email to tell him it had done this. But even if it hadnt, I dont think 
this warrants an award of compensation in this case. It looks like Mr W had communicated 
via this channel during the course of his request for a refund.  
Also, while I know Mr W wanted responses to his requests for updates during this time, I 
dont think the timescale Nationwide gave Mr W was unreasonable in this case, or its 
request that he wait this long before contacting it  particularly given the banks were still 
working through unprecedented volumes of refund requests.
I do sympathise with Mr W. His flights were cancelled at what was quite short notice and he 
is out pocket as a result. And I can see he has made efforts to try and arrange for a voucher 
to be used but without success. Overall however, I dont require Nationwide to take any 
further action in respect of Mr Ws complaint as I dont find it treated him unfairly.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman