DRN-1542534
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way JD Williams & Company Limited (JDW) handled his credit 
account. Specifically that JDW liaised with a debt management company and removed his 
credit limit. Mr M also complains about the returns process and the interest charged on his 
statement.
What happened
Mr M had an ongoing credit account with JDW which allowed him to order items online with 
the credit facility. In 2019 he ordered a number of high-value items. Mr M explained this was 
due to his mental health condition. Mr M returned a number of these items.
Around the same time, a debt management company contacted JDW on Mr Ms behalf and 
explained the situation. It said it had run through an income and expenditure assessment 
with Mr M and  agreed a payment plan to ease the financial strain that Mr M was 
experiencing. Later that day, Mr M cancelled the payment plan and paid the balance on his 
account. He explained he borrowed money from family and friends to do this.
Mr M complained because he felt he hadnt authorised the debt management company to 
contact JDW. He said hed called it for help and advice but didnt authorise it to talk to JDW. 
Mr M also complained because hed had trouble returning items. Some of which had been 
redelivered to him at a time when he wanted them to be returned and refunded to his 
account. Mr M lastly complained about the interest charged on his last statement. He doesnt 
feel its fair to charge the interest because hed tried to return everything.
JDW explained that it wouldnt look at the returns process. But it said it had seen a Letter of 
Authority (LOA) from the debt management company so acted in good faith to help Mr M as 
he wasnt in a good financial situation. It also said that it would return £10 of the interest 
charged. But the rest wouldnt be refunded as not all items had been returned within that 
statement period.
The complaint was referred to this service and our investigator felt it should be upheld. She 
explained that JDW had acted correctly in accepting the LOA and setting up a plan. But she 
also explained that it was clear the returns process hadnt worked correctly. And it wouldve 
caused Mr M some frustration and inconvenience to organise returns after items had been 
incorrectly redelivered. She felt JDW should pay £75 compensation for this. The investigator 
also felt JDW should refund the interest charged on the last statement. She explained that 
the credit facility was cancelled because the debt management company had told JDW that 
Mr M was in financial hardship. And this was the right thing to do. But as it was aware of Mr 
Ms circumstances, it shouldve frozen interest at that point, rather than continuing to charge 
it. So she felt it should refund this amount.
JDW disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the file. It felt  the only complaint 
that should be considered is whether the credit facility shouldve been cancelled. It said that 
as Mr M complained about the cancellation of the credit limit and he repaid his balance, that 
he wasnt in financial difficulty and it shouldnt have to do more. It felt we had considered 
more than Mr M was complaining about.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Inquisitorial remit
This service has an inquisitorial remit. This means that when a complaint is brought to us we 
will look at the whole situation to see if something has gone wrong. In this case I can see  Mr 
M experienced a series of issues which caused him to complain. These include JDW 
cancelling his credit limit and liaising with a third party about his account. But hes also 
complained to us, and to JDW, about the issues he was having with returning items and 
getting these items refunded to his account. And hes complained that interest was charged 
on his last statement. As such, its right that I consider all of this when looking at this 
complaint.
Credit limit and liaising with a third party
JDW was contacted by a debt management company on Mr Ms behalf. The debt 
management company had a signed LOA from Mr M so I think its likely that he did instruct 
them to act on his behalf in relation to his creditors. The debt management company 
explained that Mr M was in a difficult financial situation and it arranged a repayment plan. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest that JDW did anything wrong here. It received correct 
authorisation and acted on the information Mr Ms representative told it.
Because JDW was told Mr M was struggling financially it cancelled his credit facility. It said 
that it didnt want Mr Ms situation to worsen. I think this was reasonable given Mr Ms 
circumstances so I wont be asking JDW to do anything differently here. When a business is 
informed that a consumer is in financial difficulties Id expect it to act positively and 
sympathetically to help that consumer. In this case, cancelling the credit facility to prevent 
further debt was a reasonable thing to do.
Interest charged
JDW charged Mr M around £54 interest on his May 2019 statement. But I agree with the 
investigator that this should be refunded. JDW cancelled Mr Ms credit facility because it was 
told he was in financial difficulty. Ive not seen anything to suggest this wasnt the case. It 
follows then that charging interest when this information has been disclosed may not be the 
right thing to do. In Mr Ms case, he has sought advice from a debt management company 
and this led to an income and expenditure form being completed. It was on this information 
that JDW agreed a repayment plan and cancelled the credit facility. So I think it accepted 
Mr M was in financial difficulties at this point. This was April 2019. In May 2019 JDW 
generated interest to the account, after it had accepted Mr M was in financial difficulty. So I 
agree with our investigator it couldve done more here and stopped interest.
I understand that Mr M later called JDW to cancel the repayment plan and pay off his 
balance. Ive considered what JDW has said, that it thinks this shows he may not have been 
in financial difficulty. But as JDW already acted on the information it was given from the debt 
management company, and didnt do anything to reverse its actions, I think its likely it still 
believed Mr M was struggling financially  and it took steps to help him. Its also worth noting 
that Mr M told us he borrowed money from family and friends to repay his account with JDW. 
So, this doesnt suggest to me that he wasnt in financial difficulties. I think it would be 
reasonable in this situation to extend that help and refund the interest it charged Mr M after it 
was made aware of his financial position.Returns issue
Our investigator explained that Mr Ms complaint about the issues he had with returning 
items was something we could consider, as its related to the provision of the credit 
agreement. And the issue Mr M experienced was that he returned his goods to have his 
account refunded and these goods were then redelivered to him. Its clear that Mr M was 
having a difficult time personally and financially. And its clear that when he returned an item, 
this was with the intention that the amount was then credited to his account. So I think that 
when he was redelivered the returned items, something had gone wrong. And this caused 
Mr M some frustration, as well as worry about his financial situation. In addition to this, he 
had to arrange return of these items for a second time. So I agree with our investigator that 
£75 compensation is reasonable for this.
Putting things right
To put things right JD Williams & Company Limited must do the following:
Refund the rest of the interest Mr M was charged on his May 2019 statement  
£44.10
Pay Mr M £75 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused when it redelivered 
his returned items.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I uphold this complaint. JD Williams & Company Limited 
must follow the instructions I've set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman