DRN-2749433
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about the financial loss he says he incurred as the result of applying for a 
payment protection PPI policy at the same time he was taking out a mortgage. URIS Group 
Limited (URIS) is the business now responsible for the sale of the PPI.
 
What happened
 Mr B applied for a mortgage in November 2001 and at the same time filled out an 
application form for a PPI policy. A PPI quotation provided to Mr B shows the policy would 
be paid for by a single premium of £3,050 to provide a benefit of £1,000 per month should a 
claim be made. The policy was selected to run for five years.
Mr Bs solicitors, acting for him in his property purchase and mortgage, have provided 
evidence from its ledgers, to show that the total PPI premium of £3,050 was paid by them on 
completion. 
URIS say the records they have from the time indicate a policy record and number was 
created for Mr B but he was contacted in February 2002 requesting he complete a form 
regarding pre-existing medical conditions, before the policy was activated. But URIS say 
Mr B never responded with the completed form, so the policy was never made active.
In 2004 Mr B tried to make a claim on the policy but was told no policy was in place. 
Mr B has complained that he paid for a policy, at a cost of £3,050, but this was never 
activated, and this cost was never refunded to him. So, he has suffered financial loss of this 
amount as a result of the sale of the PPI policy.
URIS says its records have no indication of receipt of the payment, no response to its 
request for the pre-existing medical information and that the policy was never made active. 
So it isnt responsible for the loss of £3,050 that Mr B is claiming.
Mr B wasnt happy with the response from URIS and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said that the evidence provided indicated Mr B had made a payment of 
£3,050 for the PPI cost, it had never been refunded on non-activation of the policy and so he 
was entitled to have this amount refunded, with interest for being out of pocket. 
URIS didnt agree with this and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The business that sold the policy to Mr B no longer operates. But URIS has accepted it is 
responsible for the sale of the PPI. Therefore I shall throughout this decision only refer to 
URIS.
The evidence I have seen indicates that Mr B applied for and was provided with a quote for 
PPI when taking out a mortgage in November 2001. The records from URIS system shows a 
policy reference number was created for the policy. But URIS say the policy was never 
activated as Mr B failed to return a form about pre-existing medical conditions. URIS also 
says its records do not show receipt of the payment for the premium for the PPI.
Mr B has provided copies of correspondence and ledgers from his solicitors who acted for 
him at the time of mortgage and taking out the PPI. When solicitors are acting in such 
matters, on completion they are required to provide to the consumer a completion statement. 
This shows all costs and transactions related to any mortgage and what payments are made 
from the monies the firm hold on behalf of the client. 
The records from Mr Bs solicitors show that on completion of the mortgage an amount of 
£3,050 was deducted from the money the firm held on behalf of Mr B. This amount is shown 
as the premium amount for a PPI policy.
The solicitors who acted for Mr B have provided records that indicate Mr B authorised the 
payment of £3,050 in total for the cost of the PPI to URIS. The solicitors indicate that they 
received instructions from URIS to pay this £3,050 in two payments. The net premium 
amount of £1,665.30 for the insurance cover to be paid to URIS and the commission 
element of the premium, that was £1,384.70, to the broker. So payments were made for the 
total costs of £3,050, as directed by URIS who is responsible for the sale of the PPI.
The solicitors have said: Our financial records show a cheque made out to [URIS] for 
£1,665 30 which as we've said will have been the net premium, with the remainder being 
sent to [the broker]. As you will appreciate no-one else but the payee can cash a cheque 
and therefore the cheque to [URIS] must have been cashed by them as it was debited from 
our account and not returned. the fact that part of the payment went to [the broker] is 
irrelevant. As It was sent with the authority of [URIS] then they can be treated as having 
received the whole amount.
So the evidence available shows that Mr B paid in total £3,050 to URIS for the PPI. I agree 
with the indication of the solicitors that URIS are responsible for the whole amount, having 
directed how the payments should be made. And clearly cheques were sent and cashed, 
and these could only be cashed by the payee. 
  
The records provided by URIS do not show any payment amounts, but the fact that a policy 
was created for Mr B, with the policy number allocated, indicates that Mr B did apply for PPI. 
And the evidence of the cheque sent to URIS that was cashed does indicate it did receive 
the payment from Mr B. 
It seems from the limited information URIS has available that when processing the policy 
and preparing to activate it, URIS saw that Mr B had indicated on his application he had a 
pre-existing medical condition. So URIS wrote to Mr B asking him to sign a form saying he 
understood the policy would not cover him for any pre-existing conditions. It is unclear if 
Mr B ever received this form, but it seems he did not return it. As a result, URIS never 
activated the policy. 
When Mr B tried to claim on the policy in 2004 he was told no policy existed. Which seems 
to have been the case as the policy was never activated. But the fact the policy was never 
activated does not mean Mr B never applied and paid for the PPI policy. The information he 
has provided from his solicitor clearly shows on completion of his purchase £3,050 was 
deducted from the monies the solicitors had, and this was for the PP premium. The solicitors have also provided copies of ledgers showing cheques were raised and 
cashed from its account which relate to the premium and commission, for the total costs of 
the premium charged. 
No evidence has been provided by URIS to indicate this premium was ever refunded when 
Mr B failed to return the pre-existing medical condition form and the policy was not activated. 
And Mr B says he never received any refund, he had thought the policy was active, hence 
his attempted claim in 2004. 
Therefore, based on the evidence presented by both parties, I am satisfied Mr B paid the 
total amount of the premium of £3,050 for a policy that was never activated, and I am 
upholding this complaint. Mr B has been out of pocket for this amount since the premium 
payment was made on completion of the mortgage on 31January 2002.
Putting things right
As Im satisfied on the evidence provided, that it is more likely than not Mr B did apply and 
pay for a PPI policy that was never activated, I am directing that URIS should refund the cost 
of the PPI premium, that is £3,050, to Mr B. 
Also, as Mr B has been out of pocket for this amount since January 2002, URIS should pay 
8% simple interest per year, for every year Mr B has been out of pocket. That is from 
31 January 2002 to the date URIS make the final payment of the compensation to Mr B.
URIS will have to deduct basic rate Income Tax from the compensatory interest due, as 
required by HM Revenue and Customs. If Mr B requires a certificate of the tax deducted, he 
should request this in writing from URIS and this should then be provided.
My final decision
 For the reasons I have set out above, I am upholding this complaint that Mr B paid for a PPI 
policy that was never activated and the premium paid was never refunded to him. So URIS 
Group Limited must repay to Mr B the premium of £3,050 plus 8% simple interest for the 
whole period Mr B has been out of pocket for this PPI premium.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman