DRN-1863239
The complaint
Mr T complains that FirstRand Bank Limited refused to let him reject a faulty car.
What happened
In January 2019 Mr T acquired a second-hand car costing £16,000 funded by a part 
exchange of £3,000 and the balance by a hire purchase agreement. It was some six years 
old and had done 42,109 miles.
Not long after the acquisition the DPF warning light came on and he took it back to the 
dealer who advised him to drive it at the required speed for a period to clean the filter. A 
mobile mechanic also carried out some work on the car. The mechanic told our investigator 
that as far as he could recall it concerned the DPF and EGR valve. 
In August 2019 Mr T complained to FirstRand and said the paint was flaking off in four 
places and the DPF had failed twice. He also said the turbo charge pipe had been faulty. He 
also had a problem with the steering rack which he said should have been repaired following 
a recall and there was also a hole in the fuel tank cover.
FirstRand spoke to the dealer who said it had only seen the car once following the sale when 
it had advised Mr T about the DPF filter. It had spoken to the previous owner who had 
confirmed that the car had been subject to one recall notice within the first six months. 
An independent inspection was carried out by which time the car had done 65,302 miles. 
The inspector noted the peeling lacquer and the steering noise which he said needed 
attention. However, he said that the steering rack issue was of such severity it was 
extremely unlikely this had been present or developing at the point of sale. He also 
concluded that the car having done 23,193 miles since purchase suggested that the faults 
werent pre-existing.
FirstRand rejected Mr Ts complaint so he brought the matter to this service. It was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. Mr T explained 
that part of the cost of the repair of the steering rack had been meet by a warranty company 
and it had accepted that the cause wasnt wear and tear. He also said the garage which had 
repaired the steering had said the car was most likely faulty when it was sold.
Our investigator reviewed the history of the car in some detail and noted that given the age 
and mileage it was reasonable to expect some wear and tear. She commented on each of 
the faults Mr T had raised and couldnt see there was sufficient evidence to say that they had 
been present at the point of sale. Mr T didnt agree and said a steering rack shouldnt fail 
after 65,000 miles and reiterated that the warranty company and the garage which fixed it 
agreed it wasnt wear and tear.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
FirstRand is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for 
a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
he relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I appreciate the strength of feeling Mr T has demonstrated in pursuit of his complaint, but I 
do not consider I can uphold it. I will explain why.
Mr T has said that the faults which occurred were not down to wear and tear. That may be 
the case, but the question I have to address is whether the faults were present or developing 
at the point of sale. It is quite possible for those faults, if not down to wear and tear to have 
developed after Mr T acquired the car. 
The letter from the garage which repaired the steering rack made no comment on the cause 
of the fault.  When our investigator spoke with the mechanic he didnt comment on the 
cause, but said he wouldnt expect it to fail at the mileage the car had covered. He also said 
that the hole in the fuel tank cover was unusual.   He said the warranty company had initially 
refused to pay, but had been persuaded that it should, but didnt explain why. I think it 
reasonable to presume the warranty company accepted the problem wasnt due to wear and 
tear.
The independent inspector took the view that the main fault, the steering rack, was 
sufficiently dramatic and as such was unlikely to have been present at the point of sale. He 
noted the car had been driven for over 20,000 miles without the fault showing. He suggested 
that it wouldnt have been able to cover that mileage if the fault had been present at the point 
of sale. He also considered the paint issue to be cosmetic and not enough to merit rejection. 
I have noted the other issues such as the DPF light coming on and the damaged fuel tank 
cover and can find no persuasive evidence which shows that these faults were present at 
the point of sale. The only basis put forward for Mr Ts claim is that these should not be 
expected to happen in a seven-year-old car which had done some 60,000 miles. While I can 
understand why Mr T has taken the view that the car must have been faulty, I dont think the 
evidence is clear enough to allow me to say the faults were present at the point of sale. This 
means I am unbale to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman