DRN-3608410
The complaint
Mrs M complained that Bamboo Limited irresponsibly provided her with an unaffordable 
loan.
What happened
Bamboo provided Mrs M with a loan as follows:
Date Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
repayableLoan status
12 June 
2019£2,000 36 months £113.45 £4,084.23 Repaid early - 
February 2020
Bamboo told us that the stated loan purpose was home improvements. 
Mrs M said, through a representative, that Bamboo had an obligation to properly assess 
affordability. She told us that her credit rating was very poor and she desperately needed 
money. 
When Mrs M complained to Bamboo it didnt uphold her complaint.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ms complaint. He didnt think the checks Bamboo 
carried out were proportionate and that reasonable and proportionate checks would have 
shown that Mrs M most likely wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. 
So our investigator felt this was a complaint we should uphold and he set out the steps 
Bamboo needed to take to put things right.
Bamboo disagreed with the investigators view. In summary, it mainly said its checks had 
been proportionate and the loan was affordable for Mrs M. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles and questions I need to think about when deciding 
whether to uphold this complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. Checks must be borrower focused - in other words, it 
wasnt enough for Bamboo to think only about the risk of not getting its money back. 
Bamboo had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs M and think about 
whether repaying the loan would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for her. A 
lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably repay 
the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
 the lower a borrowers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
higher repayments from a particular level of income)
 the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact that the total 
cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments for 
an extended period).
This can mean that, in the early stages of a lending relationship, especially where the loan 
amount is relatively small compared to the borrowers income, less thorough checks might 
be reasonable and proportionate. And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent 
carried out, I need to consider if a loan wouldve been approved if the checks had been 
done. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Bamboo did what it needed to 
before agreeing to lend to Mrs M.
In this case, Bamboo gathered some information from Mrs M before it agreed the loan. It 
asked about her income and what she paid towards her housing costs. Bamboo factored 
into its calculations an amount that reflected the typical monthly expenditure someone in 
Mrs Ms position might reasonably expect to pay according to national UK averages worked 
out by the Office for National Statistics. Other lenders do this too and it can be a useful way 
of assessing likely expenditure. Bamboo also checked Mrs Ms credit file to see how much 
she was already paying to other creditors and gain an understanding of her credit history.
Mrs M told Bamboo that she was earning £4,485 each month. Bamboo verified that income 
using an online credit checking service. She said that her contribution towards mortgage 
costs was £745 per month. Bamboo presumed that Mrs Ms expected normal living 
expenses would likely be around the average figure for someone in similar circumstances  
£576 - which seems fair to me. The results of the credit check suggested that Mrs M was 
paying around £153 each month to service her other debts.
Based on the information Mrs M supplied, and the results of its checks, Bamboo concluded 
that Mrs M should have over £3,000 left over each month after making her repayments on 
the new loan. So I think its fair to say that the loan monthly repayments would have looked 
very comfortably affordable for her. 
Even so, Bamboo still needed to think about the bigger picture. Looking at the credit checks 
that Bamboo acquired, I dont think they revealed enough information for me to be able to 
say it should have put off a responsible lender from providing this relatively small loan to 
Mrs M. I say this because, although it was evident that she had a record of using credit, 
including payday loans some years earlier, there werent any particular warning signs to 
show that she was currently in serious financial difficulty or already having problems 
managing debt. 
The credit checks Bamboo obtained showed that Mrs M wasnt involved in any sort of 
arrangement with creditors, there was no record of any defaults and bankruptcy wasnt 
flagged up. She had no active county court judgements registered against her. 
I dont think her total credit balance shown was excessive for someone with Mrs Ms level of 
earnings and it looked like all her active accounts were well managed. It appeared that 
Mrs M had no other unsecured lending outstanding. Her only new credit account taken out in 
recent years was a mortgage that had started just a couple of months before she applied for 
this loan  her three credit cards and a mail order account had all been running for a number 
of years.
Bearing in mind that borrowers applying for loans of this type often have other credit on their 
record and sometimes even an impaired credit history, there wasnt anything that Id expect 
Bamboo to have been unduly concerned about at this stage.
 I dont think the fact alone that Mrs M had gone just £12 over the credit limit on one of her 
cards was a sign of serious financial difficulty  all her other monthly repayments had been 
made on time. And although she often made just the minimum monthly repayment she did 
also sometimes pay more, which suggested a degree of flexibility in her finances, along with 
the fact that she was operating within her available credit limits.  
I've also taken into account that Bamboo was aware that Mrs M had taken a couple of cash 
advances on one of her credit cards a few months earlier  this is an expensive way to 
obtain cash and so it can be a sign of financial distress. But its also a quick and easy way to 
get hold of spending money in a hurry and theres nothing to suggest that Mrs M routinely 
used her credit cards for this purpose. So I dont think this changes the outcome of this 
complaint.
In coming to my view, Ive thought carefully about the fact that our investigator felt that 
Bamboo should have done more in-depth checks to find out why Mrs M wanted to take out 
this expensive loan when she already had so much disposable income. But Im mindful that 
she had given a plausible reason for wanting the loan  and with this level of disposable 
income, I think Bamboo might reasonably have thought that it could be confident the loan 
would be manageable even if she had extra spending it hadnt accounted for. 
Im sorry that Mrs M had a problem with debt and that making the loan repayments shed 
signed up to was difficult for her. I accept that Mrs Ms actual circumstances possibly werent 
fully reflected either in the information she provided, or the other information Bamboo 
obtained. But its reasonable to expect that Bamboo was entitled to decide Mrs Ms lending 
application based on the information it should reasonably have had available at the time. 
Bank statements Mrs M has sent me appear to be for a joint account. I can see from these 
that further checks could have shown that one of the joint account holders mightve had 
some problematic debt in the past and there were some signs of being financially stretched 
and reliant on using an overdraft. But I dont think it would have been proportionate for 
Bamboo to examine Mrs Ms bank statements before it agreed the loan. And, in any event, I 
am unable to identify from the joint bank statements provided any particular sign that Mrs M 
was in such serious financial difficulty that this loan would be likely to prove unsustainable 
for her. 
To sum up, I dont think proportionate checks for this loan wouldve required Bamboo to ask 
Mrs M to prove what she was declaring or check other information sources (such as her 
bank statements) to verify what she had told them (or omitted to say) about her financial 
circumstances. And I dont think it was unreasonable for Bamboo to lend without making any 
more detailed enquiries into her circumstances as there wasnt anything obvious, in the 
information it had, to suggest Mrs M wouldnt be able to repay the loan sustainably. I think 
the information Bamboo had gathered supported the lending decision it made. 
So I cant fairly say that Bamboo shouldnt have provided this loan. Our investigator didnt recommend paying redress for any other reason. Mrs M hasnt 
commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think Bamboo acted 
unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs M in any other way.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
I heard nothing further from Mrs M.Bamboo told me it had no further comment and would 
await my final decision. 
As the deadline for responses has passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with 
my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in more detail in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman