DRN-3554029
The complaint
S, a club, complains about the way that Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with one of its officials 
when she requested that its account be closed.
What happened
The official went to a branch of Barclays. She spoke to a personal banker and was told that 
she would need to write a letter to close the account. She was told the balance on the 
account. But then that there was no record of her as a signatory. She queued to see a 
cashier and was told she couldnt cash a cheque and saw the letter shed just written being 
torn up. The official heard members of staff discussing her in a loud voice. A manager 
became involved.
Barclays said that it was very sorry for the service and delay in closing the account and that 
feedback had been given. It offered to pay £50.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Barclays do anything more than it had offered to. S 
said that the official involved should have remained on the mandate when it was changed in 
December 2020. But Barclays said that there had been issues with the request. And that S 
hadnt responded to a letter about that. She appreciated the impact of what happened for S 
and as the letter was openly torn up took the view that this was for data protection purposes 
rather than with the intent of humiliating the official. A new mandate had been completed 
after the incident in the branch. The account was closed on 7 February 2022.
S didnt agree. No letter had been received about the mandate change and the official had 
been a signatory for a number of years before. Providing the balance was a data protection 
breach too if the official wasnt a signatory to the account. Barclays hadnt reviewed what 
happened properly and the £50 payment was a standard response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has accepted it provided poor customer service. And I think that tearing up a letter 
the official had written without even explaining why that was being done was unhelpful. It did 
act inconsistently by providing the balance but then not allowing access to the account. But 
there was no real impact as the official always had the authority of S to act for it. A mandate 
request change was completed, and the account then closed although with some delay.
I appreciate that S wants a greater recognition of what happened. I need to take into account 
that the official was acting for the club, a separate entity, and not in her personal capacity. 
And Barclays has apologised and offered compensation. I fully understand the feelings of 
the official about this, but I think that Barclays response is adequate here and I wont be 
asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
Barclays has made an offer to settle this complaint which I think is reasonable in the 
circumstances. So, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay S £50 as it has 
offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman