DRN-3227092
The complaint
Mr M complained about advice he received in 1994 to take out a free-standing additional 
voluntary contribution (FSAVC) plan.
He says that he was given incorrect advice by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Mr M says had he been given the right information about his options, he would have acted 
differently, including using additional voluntary contributions (AVCs) linked to his employers 
in-house occupational pension scheme (OPS)
What happened
In November 1994, Mr M met with a representative of Aviva to take advice on enhancing his 
pension in retirement. 
Aviva completed a fact find, and recorded details about Mr Ms age, employer, salary, marital 
status and finances.
Mr M then agreed to take out a FSAVC plan. The application was signed on 7 December 
1994, and Mr M agreed to pay £35 a month towards it. 
He paid £35 a month between 1 January 1995 to 1 October 1997.
In 2020, Mr M made a complaint to Aviva about the FSAVC plan he was sold. Aviva didnt 
uphold his complaint, so he brought the complaint to this service.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ms complaint and didnt think the advisor had done
everything they should have at the time they sold the plan. They found that had the advisor
done everything they should have Mr M would have taken an in-house additional voluntary
contribution (AVC) policy.
Aviva didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding what is fair and reasonable, Ive also taken into account relevant law, any 
relevant regulatory rules and relevant guidance and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time. 
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator, and uphold this 
complaint and direct Aviva to put things right. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Ive considered what was expected of the adviser as they were a tied appointed 
representative of the company at the time. This meant they could only recommend products 
Aviva offered. They couldnt actively recommend any other products from any other product 
providers including Mr Ms in-house options.
However, a tied adviser was required to follow rules set in 1988  called LAUTRO (the Life 
Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation). The LAUTRO Code said advisers 
should have maintained high standards of integrity and fair dealing, exercise due skill, care 
and diligence in providing any services, and generally take proper account of the interests of 
investors. It added that businesses should: 
 Have regard to the consumer's financial position generally and to any rights they may have 
under an occupational scheme, and 
 Give the consumer all information relevant to their dealings with the representative in 
question. 
So, this means tied advisers should have known that in-house AVC options would most 
likely be available to consumers like Mr M. And in addition to highlighting the benefits of the 
FSAVC, mention of the generic benefits of the in-house options should have been made, 
including that: 
 Money purchase in house AVCs could potentially offer lower charges than the FSAVCs 
 Added years might have been available under a defined benefit OPS 
 The consumers employer might match or top-up the amount the consumer paid into either 
in-house option.
Ive looked at the recommendation completed by the advisor which states;
When advising Mr M to take out an FSAVC, I asked [him] on 23/11/94 to investigate and 
compare the costs and benefits of the past added years and scheme AVC options available 
from [his] current pensions scheme. Having had an opportunity to do this, [he] now wished to 
proceed with the received contract.
There is no other evidence within the document that shows the generic benefits were
discussed, including that it was likely an in-house AVC would be cheaper.
Aviva suggests that this shows that the advisor did enough to make Mr M aware that there 
were other options available  and that it was explained to him to conduct his own research. 
But I dont think that the mention of AVCs as above goes far enough. The adviser should 
have discussed and recorded the generic differences between the proposed FSAVC and 
other in-house options.
Before January 1995 a suitability letter wasnt required. But I would expect to see that the
adviser made a note on file, such as on the fact find, at least to the effect that the
charges under both the FSAVC and the AVC had been discussed  not just that they had
mentioned the existence of the AVC.
Had this been discussed I think it would have prompted Mr M to consider his options in more 
detail and he would likely have taken more time to consider what option would have worked 
best for him.And I think that had Mr M been given the required information from the outset I think it is 
likely he would have opted to take an in-house AVC option as it likely offered him 
substantially the same product at a cheaper cost.
Aviva has said that Mr M would have been aware of the available options and appeared to 
be open to a greater risk with the potential for higher returns. But this doesnt take away from 
Avivas responsibility to have fulfilled its obligations listed above. And as Ive said, I dont 
think Mr M would have taken the FSAVC if it had.
Aviva has also looked at other complaints this service has considered which is says are 
broadly similar in circumstance and have not been upheld. But as Aviva is aware,
each case is considered on its own merits, so this doesnt change my decision.
It follows that I uphold this complaint, and Aviva should take steps to put things right.
Putting things right
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with
the regulators FSAVC review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into
account that data for the CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1
January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So, where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January
2005, Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should use the CAPS mixed with property index up
to 1 January 2005 and the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement 
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss
adequately reflects this.
 My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should put things right as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Claire PughOmbudsman