DRN-1611980
The complaint
Mr Z has complained that hes been financially disadvantaged by the actions of Curtis Banks 
Limited in dealing with both the initial purchase, and then more recent sale, of a commercial 
property into and out of his Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
In particular, Mr Z has said that Curtis Banks failed to ensure that, when purchased by the 
SIPP, the owner of the commercial property  the SIPP trustees - hadnt been recorded on 
the land registry. Hes also said that there have been other administrative issues in the sale 
of the property. Combined, these issues caused delays, which Mr Z said has caused him 
financial harm.
What happened
In 2015, Mr Z sold a post office which he owned to his St Jamess Place SIPP, which was 
administered by Curtis Banks. Unfortunately, due to an administrative oversight, the SIPP 
trustees werent registered as the new owner with the land registry. But this didnt come to 
light until the process for selling the post office out of the SIPP began in 2018.
Once it was realised, Curtis Banks contacted the solicitors who had originally been engaged 
in the transfer of the property into the SIPP  and who had been engaged by Mr Z himself - 
to ensure that this was done. It has said that this didnt cause any delays in the more recent 
sale of the property from the SIPP to a third party. But it did acknowledge that it should have 
checked that the correct information had been submitted to the land registry and so it offered 
Mr Z £100 in respect of its failings in that regard.
There were, however, further delays in processing the sale of the property, which Mr Z has 
said were the fault of Curtis Banks. And in order to ensure that the buyer of the property - 
who was also the tenant - remained interested in the purchase, hed entered into a rent free 
agreement in February 2019 until the property was sold. It was those losses which Mr Z was 
claiming and which he said wouldnt have arisen but for the errors made by Curtis Banks.
As such, Mr Z rejected the £100 offer and referred the matter to this service.
Curtis Banks has, for its part, said that there were issues relating to the sale which were 
beyond its control. It said that the tenant of the property (Mr A) had changed (to Mr P) 
without it being notified and that, before the sale could complete, it needed to complete a 
lease assignment and also ensure that all outstanding rent had been paid.
It further said that there were additional issues relating to agreements over documentation, 
required amendments and difficulties in obtaining loan information from the lender. This all 
contributed to the overall delays in completion of the process.
It conceded that the transaction had taken longer than it should, but it didnt consider that it 
was responsible for the delays.
Our investigator considered the matter and said the following in summary:
He agreed that Curtis Banks had failed to ensure that the trustees were registered as 
the owner of the SIPP. He also noted that Curtis Banks contacted the solicitors in 
August 2018 and that, following communication between it and the solicitors, Mr Z 
confirmed himself in January 2019 that the property had been successfully 
reregistered.
As to the matter of the tenancy of the property, the investigator said that hed seen 
the property questionnaire which was completed by Mr Z when originally 
transferring the property into the SIPP. This recorded the original tenant as Mr A, 
which was consistent with the information held by Curtis Banks.
There was also further evidence, in the form of a letter confirming that the SIPP had 
acquired the property, that both parties understood Mr A to be the tenant.
In conversation with the investigator, Mr Z had said that Mr A wasnt relevant and that 
Mr P was the leaseholder. But the investigator thought that Mr Z should have 
contacted Curtis Banks to ensure that the right tenant was recorded.
In February 2019, he consented to Curtis Banks solicitor communicating with the 
lender directly. Unfortunately, the lender took a while to issue a redemption 
statement, but the investigator felt that responsibility for the delay lay mainly with the 
lender.
The investigator also noted that other concerns were raised by the buyers solicitor 
relating to Mr Zs wish to add a limitation clause to the TR1 document  which 
recorded the transfer of registration.
The investigator concluded that the initial correction of the land registry had taken too long to 
resolve  and that this was a matter for Curtis Banks and its own appointed solicitors. He 
thought that this should have taken no longer than one month. In respect of this, he 
recommended that Curtis Banks increase its payment offer to Mr Z from £100 to £400.
But he considered any delays caused by the change in tenancy, without Curtis Banks being 
notified of this, had been the responsibility of Mr Z, who he felt had had ample opportunity to 
notify Curtis Banks of the change.
With regard to Mr Zs request for compensation for the extended rent free period hed 
negotiated with Mr P, the investigator concluded that this had been Mr Zs own decision and 
not something which Curtis Banks should be held accountable for.
Curtis Banks accepted the investigators recommendation, but Mr Z did not. He said that he 
accepted to a certain extent that that the rent free period was his decision, but hed spent 
several thousand pounds on transferring the property in and out of the SIPP and, as he felt 
that Curtis Banks was the reason for most of the delays, he didnt think the proposed 
payment was sufficient.
As agreement hasnt been reached, the matter has been referred to me for review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To firstly address the matter of ensuring that the proper owner was recorded with the land 
registry, as with the investigator Im of the view that this did take too long. The narrative to 
date has been that, as this process was running alongside the sale of the SIPP, it didnt in 
fact contribute to the delays in completion. But Ive noted from the chronology of whats happened here that, whilst there was fairly 
consistent activity between the 31 July 2018, the date on which Curtis Banks was first 
instructed to begin the process of disposing of the property from the SIPP, and 18 
September 2018, at which point Curtis Banks sought to check the land registry issue, there 
was then a period of inaction on its part up to 6 December 2018, at which point it issued a 
chaser for confirmation. 
This confirmation wasnt then received until 26 January 2019. But I cant see that any other 
part of the process was running alongside the issue of the land registry during that time. And 
Im not certain that it even could, before the land registry issue was resolved.
After that point, the communication between the parties appears to once again have been 
consistent, with no obvious delays. And it was after this that the issues with the tenancy 
were picked up, which then took some time to resolve.
Because Curtis Banks wasnt notified of the change in tenancy, this created additional 
problems which needed to be resolved before the sale could proceed. Mr Z may have 
thought this was irrelevant, but it was a complication which nevertheless needed to be 
overcome.
So by not informing Curtis Banks of the change in tenancy, I think Mr Z himself contributed 
to the delays, but my view is that Curtis Banks was the predominant cause of delays 
between September 2018 and January 2019. 
I therefore need to consider what would be reasonable in determining how this has, firstly, 
financially disadvantaged Mr Z, and secondly, whether Curtis Banks should be liable for any 
financial loss.
Mr Z has said that he negotiated a rent free period with the buyer of the property, who was 
also the tenant at the time. But the available evidence doesnt support the position that 
Curtis Banks was aware of this until April 2019, and that any delays which it might be 
causing would be exacerbating Mr Zs losses. And in the absence of that knowledge, I dont 
think such losses would be reasonably foreseeable by Curtis Banks. 
It wasnt in my view an obvious consequence, unlike perhaps a change in the purchase price 
due to fluctuating market conditions. As such, I dont think that Curtis Banks could in any 
case fairly be held responsible for losses which it couldnt have reasonably known were 
being incurred.
Furthermore, by the point at which Mr Z had negotiated the rent free period, which was from 
February 2019, the process was in any case once again running fairly smoothly, with no 
additional delays incurred by Curtis Banks. So I dont think it held up the process during the 
period when Mr Z wasnt charging his tenant rent.
There is of course the argument that the prior delays incurred by Curtis Banks had the 
knock on effect of completion happening later than it should. But Id only take this into 
consideration if the consequence of that delay was reasonably foreseeable by Curtis Banks. 
And for the reasons given, I dont think in this instance  where rent wasnt being paid by 
way of Mr Zs own choice - that it was.
Putting things right
My conclusion here is that Curtis Banks could certainly have done better, not least in 
resolving the issue with the land registry. I think it would have been troubling for Mr Z to have learned that the transfer of the property into the SIPP hadnt been properly completed and 
that this had been outstanding for three years. 
But, for the reasons given, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold Curtis Banks 
responsible for financial losses which Mr Z may have incurred as a result of the rent free 
period which he negotiated with his tenant  and of which it was unaware - from February 
2019 onwards.
I think that, overall, the proposed payment of £400 recommended by the investigator, and 
accepted by Curtis Banks, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that Curtis Banks Limited should pay Mr Z £400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman