DRN-1781732
The complaint
Mr D1 and Mr D2 are unhappy Tesco Personal Finance PLC t/a Tesco Bank rejected a claim 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mr D2 is the main cardholder of a credit card with Tesco Bank. And his father, Mr D1, has a 
secondary card on the account.
In May 2018, Mr D1 purchased a season pass for £250 with a company, who Ill refer to as 
C, using his card. Mr D2 says after Mr D1 made the purchase, C went into administration. 
As a result of this, Mr D1 was no longer able to benefit from the season pass. Mr D2 has 
asked that Tesco Bank honour his section 75 claim and refund the cost of the pass to the 
account. 
Tesco Bank looked into the matter but didnt think they could help. They said Mr D2 didnt 
have a valid section 75 claim because Mr D1 is the contracting party and the debtor was Mr 
D2  as it was his account being used for the payment.
Unhappy with Tesco Banks response, Mr D1 and Mr D2 brought their complaint to our 
service. Our investigator looked into their concerns. Overall, she didnt think Tesco Bank had 
acted unfairly in rejecting Mr D2s section 75 claim. 
Mr D1 and Mr D2 disagreed. In summary, they said there was nothing in the accounts terms 
and conditions to confirm that the secondary card holder is provided with less protection than 
the main card holder. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide what, if anything, Tesco Bank should do to resolve this complaint. To do
that, I have to decide what I think is fair and reasonable, having regard to (amongst other
things) any relevant law. In this case, relevant law includes section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Section 75 of the CCA says that in certain circumstances the credit card account holder has
an equal right to claim against the credit card provider if there's either a breach of contract or
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. So, in this case, section 75 of the 
CCA makes Tesco Bank responsible for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the
supplier under certain conditions. One of those conditions is that there must be a direct
relationship between the debtor (Mr D2) the creditor (Tesco Bank) and the supplier (C). 
There is no dispute here that Mr D2 is the main card holder and Mr D1 holds a secondary 
card on the account. So as the main cardholder, Mr D2 is the debtor - a debtor is defined 
under the CCA as the individual receiving credit under a consumer credit agreement. And Mr 
D2 has an obligation to make the repayments to the creditor as he is liable for the account. 
Ive had a look at the invoice provided by Tesco Bank of the season pass. I can see the pass 
was for one person and the party named on the pass was Mr D1. So, with this in mind, Im 
satisfied Mr D1 was the sole contracting party with C. And not Mr D2. So, because Mr D2 
wasnt the party who entered into the contract with C, he doesnt have a relationship with 
them.
Taking into account my reasoning above, Im not persuaded the necessary arrangement 
exists for a valid section 75 claim against Tesco Bank. I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr D2, however, Im not persuaded Tesco Bank acted unfairly when 
turning down his section 75 claim.
Mr D2 says the accounts terms and conditions dont make clear that a secondary card 
holder doesnt have the same protection under section 75 as a main card holder does. The 
terms and conditions are specific to the agreement Mr D2 has with Tesco Bank. The 
question of who can make a claim is considered under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974  which is the law. Whilst Tesco Bank are required to consider the claim under 
section 75, I dont think theyve treated Mr D2 unfairly by not making detailed reference to 
relevant consumer protection laws in their terms and conditions.
I appreciate Mr D2 feels strongly about this and has made several representations about the 
actions Tesco Bank would take if he ever fell behind with the repayments on his credit card. 
However, Im unable to comment on what action Tesco Bank may or may not choose to take 
if this scenario occurred. My role is to consider whether Tesco Bank have applied section 75 
fairly and whether they have dealt with the claim reasonably. And as Ive explained, I think 
they have. 
I note Tesco Bank have told us they werent able to consider this claim under the 
chargeback scheme as it was brought outside of the time limits that apply under the scheme. 
Having looked at the information we have, I dont think Tesco Bank did anything wrong in not 
considering the claim under the chargeback scheme as I agree that the claim was made 
outside the applicable time limits. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D1 and Mr D2 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman