DRN-3281511
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs R are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined a 
claim under their home insurance policy for damage to their property which they say was 
caused by poor weather conditions. 
What happened
Both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, so Ive summarised events 
below.
Mr R and Mrs R have a home insurance policy which is underwritten by RSA.
On 28 July 2021, Mr R and Mrs R say poor weather conditions including rain caused 
damage to the roof of their property which led to internal damage. 
Mr R and Mrs R contacted RSA to make a claim on their policy.
RSA sent its surveyors to inspect the damage, after considering the information 
provided by the surveyors RSA told Mr R and Mrs R the claim had been declined 
because there was no insured peril. 
Mr R and Mrs R complained to RSA as they felt the claim should be covered for the 
damage caused to the property and the surveyors hadnt inspected the property 
correctly. They also provided an independent report from their contractor to show that 
damage had been caused by the weather conditions.
RSA didnt agree and maintained the policy didnt provide cover in this situation.
Mr R and Mrs R brought the complaint to this service  they maintained coverage 
should be provided and the damage to the property was caused by the poor weather 
conditions.
Our investigator considered the complaint and she didnt think it should be upheld. 
She concluded that there were no storm conditions around the time of the event and 
so there was no insured peril that would be covered by the policy. She also 
considered whether RSA should have done more to repair the damage under the 
home emergency part of the policy but felt RSA wasnt unreasonable in asking Mr R 
and Mrs R to pay the difference above the policy limit. So, she couldnt ask RSA to 
do anything further to resolve the claim. 
Mr R and Mrs R remained unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me for 
a final decision.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken account of the requirements set by the Regulator which includes that insurers 
must deal with claims promptly and fairly and must not unreasonably decline a claim.
I have considered whether RSA dealt with Mr R and Mrs Rs claim fairly and in line with the 
policy terms, and whether it unreasonably rejected the claim. Having done so, Im not 
upholding the complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr R and Mrs R say their property was damaged following poor weather conditions which 
caused damage to the roof and further damage internally. The starting point is the policy 
document which provides cover in the event of damage caused by storm or flood.
As explained by the investigator, our service generally takes an approach to storm claims 
which involves answering three questions:
Were weather conditions at the time of the incident consistent with a storm?
Is the damage caused consistent with what would be caused by a storm?
Is the storm the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to all three of these questions is yes, then wed normally expect an insurer to 
cover a claim.
RSA havent defined what it means by a storm in its policy. Where an insurer doesnt 
include a definition of what a storm is in its policy wording, wed generally say that a storm 
involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. So, this is what Ive 
thought about when deciding whether there were storm conditions on or shortly before the 
date of Mr R and Mrs Rs claim.
Based on my review of the independent weather reports for the location of Mr R and Mrs Rs 
property, Im satisfied RSA concluded reasonably that there wasnt a storm. I say this 
because at the time of the claim and during the weeks leading up to it, the weather reports 
suggest there was some bad weather. However, the wind speed combined with the amount 
of rain doesnt suggest the conditions were sufficiently severe to constitute a storm.
As Ive been unable to answer question one affirmatively, I cant fairly conclude the damage 
Mr R and Mrs R reported was caused by a one-off identifiable storm event as their policy 
requires. As such, Im satisfied RSA didnt act unreasonably by declining the claim.
For the sake of completeness, I have also reviewed the information provided by RSA and  
Mr R and Mrs R on the damage to the roof. I appreciate Mr R and Mrs R strongly disagree 
with the findings stated by the surveyor and the way in which they conducted the inspection 
of the property, however, as it was completed by a suitably qualified person, I dont think 
RSA acted unreasonably by relying on the recommendations by them. I also agree the 
damage doesnt appear to be consistent with a one-off sudden event like storm damage. 
While its possible the weather conditions may have had some impact on the roof of Mr R 
and Mrs Rs property, I think its likely it simply highlighted its existing weaknesses rather 
than directly causing it. As well maintained properties are usually able to withstand poor 
weather conditions of this nature.
I appreciate Mr R and Mrs R also provided their own report, however, for the reasons Ive 
explained above, it doesnt change things. As even though the contractor says the damage 
has been caused due to bad weather - the weather reports suggest the conditions at the 
time of the claim werent sufficiently severe to constitute a storm. So, no cover is available 
under the terms of the policy.Ive also thought about the possible temporary repair that RSA may have provided under the 
home emergency part of the policy. RSA explained that the policy limit here is £1000 and the 
repairs would have cost more than the limit. It explained that Mr R and Mrs R would need to 
cover the difference if they wanted to go ahead with the repair. Because the costs were 
higher than the policy limit I dont think it was unreasonable of RSA to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
pay any difference before proceeding.
I understand my decision will be disappointing to Mr R and Mrs R. And I sympathise with the 
situation this leaves them in. But while they had a home insurance policy, this doesnt mean 
that RSA will be liable for claims that its policy doesnt provide cover for. I wont be asking 
RSA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman