DRN-3963524
The complaint
Miss K complains about what happened when she applied for a mortgage with Principality 
Building Society. Miss K said Principality should have told her from the start it wouldnt lend 
to her, and while it was making this decision, interest rates went up.
What happened
Miss K told us that she was trying to purchase her first home, and asked Principality for a 
mortgage. She said Principality gave her an agreement in principle (AIP) on 24 May, with a 
rate of 3.1% fixed for 2 years. In anticipation of purchasing her first property, she then moved 
out of rented accommodation. 
Miss K said it took until 27 July for Principality to carry out the valuation, and when it did so, 
the property was valued at £0. She said Principality indicated then that it would be likely to 
decline to lend. Miss K appealed to the underwriter, and her mortgage was finally refused on 
27 September.
Miss K said shed since managed to get lending elsewhere, but shed had to increase her 
deposit. And crucially, interest rates had risen by the time she made her second application, 
so she had only secured a fixed interest rate of 4.4%. Miss K felt this happened because 
Principality wasnt clear from the start that it wouldnt lend on property which had commercial 
property across the road (despite being happy to lend on a property which was above 
commercial property). And if it had been clear about that, then she would have applied 
elsewhere, while rates were lower. So she said Principality cost her time and money, and 
caused her stress. 
Miss K said she would pay around £8,000 more during the fixed interest rate period of her 
mortgage, because of the delay Principality caused. And she said shed spent much longer 
than anticipated in temporary accommodation. She wanted a total of £10,000 in 
compensation, made up of the extra interest she would pay, and a further £2,000 for her 
temporary rent, and for the stress and anxiety for being put in an entirely avoidable 
vulnerable position.
Principality disagreed. It said its lending policy does let it consider making loans secured on 
good quality property above commercial premises, but that is subject to future saleability 
considerations and surveyor comments. And it considered Miss Ks application on this basis. 
The AlP it sent her was specifically subject to a satisfactory valuation.
Principality didnt think it had delayed Miss Ks application. It said that on 31 May part of her 
income was declared as discretionary pay so Principality asked for further payslips and a 
P60. Its underwriting team got those on 6 July, and it booked the valuation for 27 July. 
Principality said the firm it uses to provide valuations are Royal Institute of Chartered 
Surveyors qualified surveyors. The surveyors said that, in their view, the property was 
unsuitable for lending, because it was both adjacent to and above commercial property, 
which could have a detrimental impact on future saleability. 
Principality said it relied on this advice, and decided it wouldnt lend. When it found out about 
Miss Ks concerns, it appealed the valuation, and a different surveyor considered the 
application, but still said the same. 
Principality wanted to reassure Miss K that, as her application was declined on the basis of 
the chosen property, rather than her credit circumstances, it wouldnt impact her credit file or 
future applications for borrowing. And it urged her to speak to her broker again soon. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said lenders are entitled to 
exercise their own commercial discretion in approving or declining any applications. Here, 
Principality had to check that the lending would be affordable for Miss K both now and in the 
future, and that the property provides suitable security for mortgage purposes.
Our investigator said Principality instructed a survey firm, and it was the firm who said the 
property didnt offer suitable security for mortgage purposes. Our investigator said we cant 
challenge that conclusion by the surveyors, they dont fall within the remit of our service. We 
can look at what Principality did, and it had instructed suitably qualified surveyors. When 
Miss K objected, it had appealed, but the survey firm maintained its view. Principality then 
relied on that firms advice. So our investigator thought it was fair for Principality to turn down 
Miss Ks lending application. 
Miss K replied, to say she didnt agree. She said that Principality had failed to clearly 
disclose information regarding its lending policy at the beginning of the application, which 
would have saved her 3 months of work and £10,000 in additional interest, as well as the 
stress of moving out of her home far earlier than she needed to. Because no agreement was 
reached, this case came to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
It seems as if the core of Miss Ks concern is that she wasted time on this application, at a 
point when mortgage rates were rising, because she thinks Principality either knew, or ought 
to have known, from the start that it wouldnt be prepared to lend to her. But I dont think 
thats the case. It looks to me as if Principality has applied the policy it has in place  it will 
consider lending on properties like Miss Ks, but it wants to take account of the valuation, 
and in particular advice it receives on future saleability of the property. So it asked a properly 
qualified surveyors firm for a valuation. 
Miss K said the valuation of zero that Principality got, couldnt be right. Parking spaces in her 
area are worth more than that. But a valuation of nil doesnt mean the property is worthless. 
This isnt a valuation for sale purposes, so its not an indication of what someone would get if 
they put this property on the market. What the valuer is doing is something quite specific - 
assessing whether Principality should lend money on the property.
If a house is likely to appeal to a smaller resale market, or unlikely to generate much 
demand in the market, then lenders want to know this before they offer a mortgage secured 
on that property. In the worst case scenario, if something prevents a borrower from paying 
their mortgage, lenders want to know that they can sell the mortgaged property. And its 
important, in that worst case scenario, for a lender to know that the property can be sold relatively quickly. Thats because if someones not able to pay their mortgage and the house 
needs to be sold, the borrowers debt keeps rising while the propertys waiting to sell.
What this surveyor did, was to look at the area this property is in, and reach a decision on 
the likely saleability of this property. I dont think that Principality was wrong to ask a valuer 
to reach an expert opinion, rather than just saying no to Miss K right away. And when a 
valuation comes back as nil for lending purposes, its not automatically wrong. So its not 
unreasonable for the lender to rely on that expert opinion. 
As to the valuation itself, our service cant question the decision the surveyor made 
Surveyors arent covered by our service. All we can do is look at the decisions that 
Principality made. Here, I think those decision were reasonable.
I can understand that, if Miss K was going to be turned down for lending, then she would 
want to get that decision quickly. Miss K applied for her mortgage in late May, but wasnt 
finally turned down until late August. In this time, shed moved out of her home, and would 
no doubt be aware of rising interest rates. So I think its also worth mentioning that the 
delays I can see here, in coming to a lending decision, do seem to have been caused largely 
by things outside of Principalitys control. 
There was an initial delay, because part of Miss Ks pay was discretionary, and Principality 
asked her broker to send in some further proof of income. Principality does seem to me to 
have been clear about what it needed in its first request, made at the start of June, and it 
doesnt seem to have received that until the start of July. Thats not Principalitys fault. 
Principality booked a valuation promptly once the pay information it needed was received. 
Unfortunately, that couldnt be done until the end of July, but again I think that is outside of 
Principalitys control. 
I know that Principality took some time to respond to Miss Ks complaint, once she knew it 
was unlikely to lend, but I think its important to note that before this, once the valuation was 
received, Principality did give Miss K an indication of its decision within a few working days. 
So, although I know that there was quite a long time between Miss Ks application and 
Principalitys eventual final lending decision, I dont think that is something it would be fair 
and reasonable for me to ask Principality to pay Miss K compensation for, in this case.
For those reasons, I dont think Principality has to pay Miss K for the losses she says shes 
experienced. I know Miss K will be disappointed by this decision, but I dont think her 
complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 July 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman