DRN-2354196
The complaint
Ms M makes a number of complaints about Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money.
  
What happened
Ms M complains that Virgin Money should have closed her account when her account card 
expired. She also says Virgin Money said she had failed its security process when she had 
correctly answered its questions and says it added her mobile telephone number to the 
home/landline telephone section of its records. Ms M complains about the poor service she 
has received from Virgin Money and says it has removed information from her credit file and 
carried out unauthorised searches on it. She also says that her account re-opened after it 
closed and would like her credit file amended and compensation.
Virgin Money says Ms M failed its security questions and didnt provide information about the 
landline number when asked, and so was entitled to take the action it did. It says it produced 
a statement after the account closed due to the conclusion of a chargeback and says Ms M 
inserted her mobile telephone number into the home telephone section when she applied for 
the account.
Ms M brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought that the chargeback process was reason for the statement being 
produced after the account was closed. And thought Virgin Money was entitled to decide 
what its security process was and to conclude if it had been passed. The investigator didnt 
think there was any evidence Virgin Money had carried out unauthorised searches on Ms 
Ms credit file.
Ms M doesnt agree with that view.
Virgin Money has said it hasnt investigated some of Ms Ms complaints about the ending of 
the agreement and the voluntary giving up of the account card. It has provided further 
information following my request about the credit file search. Virgin Money says it didnt carry 
out the search on Ms Ms credit file in August 2020 and says it was carried by Ms M as an 
eligibility search via a third-party website.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold these complaints. I 
appreciate Ms M will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly she feels 
about whats taken place. I also appreciate that Ms M has raised a number of complaints but 
its clear that Virgin Money hasnt looked into some of them and hasnt given us permission 
to look into them as part of this complaint.
So, I make it clear that Im looking into Ms Ms main complaint which is about the failed 
security process and the searches on her credit file. I also confirm that I have listened to all 
of the available telephone call recordings that have been provided to me. And in particular I 
have listened to calls provided by Ms M, but I think they mainly deal with her other 
complaints that Im not looking into.
Im satisfied that a business must have security and fraud processes in order to protect its 
money and that of its customers. Im also satisfied that its up to Virgin Money, in this case, 
to decide what its security and fraud policies are when exercising its commercial judgement 
and not something I can fairly interfere in.
I have looked at the series of questions Ms M was asked, and Im satisfied that Virgin Money 
was reasonably entitled to conclude that she hadnt passed its security process. I can see 
that Ms M was not able to provide an exact answer to at least two questions and in those 
circumstances, I dont think Virgin Money made a mistake or acted unfairly by taking the 
action it did. 
I appreciate that Ms M says it was Virgin Money that added her mobile telephone number to 
the landline section. But I think on balance having looked at Virgin Moneys records that it 
was Ms M that applied for the credit card and inserted that information into the landline 
section. In any event I dont think that factor alone affected Virgin Moneys decision to 
conclude Ms M had failed its security process as there were two other failed questions in 
addition.
I asked Virgin Money to look at Ms Ms credit file and comment on the apparent search in 
August 2020. Im satisfied that its fairly looked at that part of the complaint and has said Ms 
M was responsible for that eligibility search via a third-party website. So, I cant fairly 
conclude that Virgin Money has made a mistake or acted unfairly by searching Ms Ms credit 
file without authorisation. Virgin Money has confirmed that it did search Ms Ms credit file in 
late 2020 in order to investigate the complaint about an unauthorised search. So, I dont 
think that was a mistake or unfair and that I think both searches were soft searches that 
would have no real impact on a credit file.
Overall, Im satisfied that Virgin Money was reasonably entitled to conclude that Ms M had 
failed its security process when she called it. Im also satisfied such matters are for Virgin 
Money to decide upon, and as we are not its regulator, then its not our role to direct it to 
change those processes. I hope Ms M appreciates why I cant comment on other parts of her 
complaints about Virgin Money, but I can see that Virgin Money has now explained why she 
received a statement after the account was closed due to the chargeback process ending.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman