DRN-3252970
The complaint
Mrs W complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) 
failed to properly explain the sum assured on her Over 50s Life Cover would decrease if she 
lowered her monthly premium.
What happened
Mrs Ws Over 50s Life Cover is administered by Royal London. In November 2020, Royal 
London wrote to its customers to offer flexible payment options for those struggling 
financially. One of those options was to reduce the monthly payment.
Mrs W contacted Royal London on 18 November 2020 following receipt of the letter to 
enquire about amending her policy premium. This was actioned the same day with Mrs Ws 
premiums reducing from £16 to £3.95 a month. A letter was also sent to Mrs W confirming 
the changes to the policy.
On 28 September 2021, Mrs W contacted Royal London as she wanted to make changes to 
her funeral provider. During this call, Mrs W became aware that the sum assured in 
November 2020 wasnt in addition to the original sum assured when the policy first began. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs W complained.
Royal London looked into Mrs Ws concerns. It reviewed the calls that took between Mrs W 
and its agent, but it was satisfied she had been given accurate information prior to any 
changes that took place on the policy. Mrs W remained unhappy, so she referred her 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He considered whether Mrs W had been given 
incorrect information in November 2020, but he concluded she hadnt. The investigator felt 
the calls and documentation were clear regarding the reduced sum assured. In view of this, 
he said Royal London hadnt misled Mrs W.
As Mrs W disagreed still, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. I appreciate this isnt the answer Mrs W 
was hoping for, so Ive set out my reasons below.
Both Mrs W and Royal London have shared copies of policy documents and call recordings. 
In my view they provide clear details about how changes to the monthly premiums would 
impact the policys sum assured. The key evidence Ive considered are the two letters Royal 
London sent Mrs W in November 2020 and the two call recordings dated 18 November 
2020. I note the following:
The letter issued in November 2020, which prompted Mrs Ws call to Royal London, 
under the heading Trouble paying? states Reduce your monthly payment. With us, 
you can reduce your payout amount to bring your monthly payments down. You just 
have to keep paying at least £3.95 a month.
A copy of the call recording that takes place between Mrs W and the Royal London 
agent on 18 November 2020 when she first enquires about reducing her premiums. 
During that call, the agent says, If you reduce your payment, then the sum assured 
is reduced as well, but we can talk that out.
The second call recording dated 18 November 2020 which follows when the agent 
calls Mrs W back to clarify she could reduce her premiums down to £3.95. In that 
call, the agent says, The new sum assured would be £335.88 on £3.95 a month to 
which Mrs W says, That doesnt worry me at all and agrees to action the change.
The letter issued on 18 November 2020 headed Your policy has changed in bold 
purple writing. It sets out You recently made a change to your policy. Enclosed is the 
policy document that provides information on thisIf any information isn't right, 
please let us know immediately. The document then goes onto say Payout amount: 
£335. Commencement date: 12 September 2019.
Mrs W explains she doesnt have the expertise to understand every word including in the 
small print. Having reviewed the documentation and call recordings, Im satisfied the 
important points were clearly brought to her attention. In addition, at no point had Mrs W 
been told that the sum assured confirmed on 18 November 2020 was in addition to the 
original sum assured when shed been paying £16 a month. In fact, Royal London had 
issued a new policy schedule which stated the new amount and backdated it to the 
commencement of the policy. So, in light of all the information, I think Royal London did 
enough to explain to Mrs W how the changes to the premium would impact the sum she was 
assured at the end, and specifically that it had reduced to around £335. 
Ive considered Mrs Ws position that the agent failed to talk it out, but having listened to 
the calls, Mrs W appeared to understand and be happy with the information the agent 
provided, especially since he called back to clarify the point Mrs W raised. Furthermore, 
Mrs W received the document setting out the changes to her policy. It was necessary for her 
to read this and ensure she understood everything. It therefore seems to me that she was 
given all the information she would have required at the time to understand what the 
changes could mean for her.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied the information provided in the paperwork and 
calls were clear. So, Im not asking Royal London to reinstate the previous sum assured or 
pay any compensation as I dont think it has treated Mrs W unfairly.
I know Mrs W says she wouldnt have agreed to the premium decrease to keep the original 
sum assured. Royal London has provided her with approximate quotes for additional 
policies. Whilst I understand this will mean an added cost, she does have the option to 
increase the amount of monthly premium to a level that would maintain the cover that she 
initially had.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint 
against The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman