DRN-4383662
The complaint
E, a limited company complains that Barclays Bank Plc unfairly deducted payments from its 
account after chargebacks were raised against it. E wants Barclays to refund the 
transactions to its account.
Mr W, a director of E, brings this complaint on Es behalf.
What happened
E has an agreement with Barclays for merchant acquiring services. In late 2022, Barclays 
sent two notices of chargebacks to E for two transactions after the cardholder said they had 
not authorised the payments. 
Barclays told E that there is always a risk when accepting card not present (CNP) 
transactions. Barclays didnt agree that it had acted unfairly and explained that the card 
scheme makes the final decision in relation to chargebacks.
E is unhappy that Barclays didnt make it aware of the inherent risk in accepting CNP 
transactions. E questions whether the customer received the goods and if the card they used 
was stolen. E thinks its morally wrong that after following Barclays procedures, it has lost 
out.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Es complaint be upheld. In summary, she was 
satisfied that under the terms of Es account, Barclays was entitled to hold E liable for the 
chargebacks. Our investigator thought that Barclays had correctly followed its procedures by 
notifying E of the chargebacks, giving it time to defend them and then putting the defence to 
the card issuer.
Our investigator was satisfied that although E had been a longstanding customer, Barclays 
would have notified it of important changes to its terms and procedures. She also thought 
that the onus was on E to keep up to date with its merchant responsibilities. Our investigator 
said that Barclays provided a link to its website on each monthly statement and that 
information about carrying out transactions was readily available on Barclays website. 
E disagreed with the investigation outcome. Mr W pointed out that E has never had any 
problem with transactions in the past and that it was Barclays duty to update E over the 
years. 
Mr W didnt think that Barclays defence to the chargebacks was robust enough as Barclays 
didnt ask whether the cardholder or any family member, had received the goods that E 
dispatched. 
In response, Barclays said that it notifies customers when there are updates to its terms and 
conditions. Barclays provided a screenshot confirming it had sent E an update in May 2023.
Mr W says that Barclays emails had been sent to his personal email rather than the business 
email. Mr W doesnt think Barclays informed him of the increased risk in accepting CNP 
transactions.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised Es complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt 
mean Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me.
Its unfortunate that E has lost out financially because of the chargebacks but having 
considered everything, I dont think Barclays made a mistake.
Chargebacks are governed by the specific rules of the card scheme. And its expected that 
Barclays will abide by these rules when dealing with chargeback claims. If a card issuer 
requests a refund of money already paid and raises a chargeback, its for the merchant  in 
this case E  to pay the disputed amount back to Barclays.
I appreciate what Mr W says about Barclays not making him aware of the increased risk of 
CNP transactions, but like our investigator, I think it is up to E to familiarise itself with the 
relevant terms and operating instructions. Barclays has also provided evidence that it 
notified E when there were updates to its terms and conditions. I understand that these 
notifications were sent to Mr Ws personal email as this is the email address Barclays had on 
record. If Mr W thinks Barclays used the wrong email address, he would have to raise this as 
a separate complaint. However, the evidence provided by Barclays doesnt suggest that the 
emails were returned as undeliverable, so I would have reasonably expected Mr W to have 
received the notifications. 
The terms of Es account at the time of the disputed transactions, say that authorisation of a 
card payment is not a guarantee of payment and it does not prevent us from recovering a 
chargeback..
Barclays terms set out the circumstances in which a chargeback can occur. These include 
if the cardholder or account holder denies authorising a card-not-present transaction  as 
was the case with the transactions carried out by E.
Barclays merchant procedure guide also warns customers about the increased risks of 
accepting CNP transactions because the customer and card are not present at time of 
transaction and so cannot always be verified.  
Overall, I cant say that Barclaycard didnt make E aware that accepting CNP transactions 
carried risks that E would be responsible for.
Although Mr W thinks Barclays should have done more than it did to defend the 
chargebacks, Barclays, as payment processer, doesnt hold the role of defending 
chargeback  the card issuer is responsible for this. Barclays role is to provide evidence 
from its customer  in this case E  so that it can put forward a defence to the chargeback. 
Barclays has provided evidence that it put forward a defence to the chargebacks but that the 
card issuer rejected this as the cardholder was adamant that their credit card information 
had been used by a third party without their permission. I cant say that this was due to a 
mistake that Barclays has made. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr W but for all the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Es 
complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman