DRN-3307417
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined their claim as 
fraudulent and entered their details on the Insurance Fraud Register (IFR). 
Mr and Mrs G are represented in this complaint by a third party but, for ease, I will refer to all 
actions and comments as those of Mr G. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide an 
overview of key events here. 
Mr G had a home insurance policy with UKI that began on 27 November 2018. It provided 
both buildings and contents cover. The policy included valuables cover, under which a Rolex 
Yacht-Master 2 watch, valued at £14,350, was specified.   
Mr G said he and his family were preparing to return home from a holiday abroad in June 
2019 when luggage containing jewellery, clothes and electrical items went missing from the 
hotel they stayed at. Mr G said he only realised his property was missing when he reached 
the airport, and it was too late at that point to return to the hotel. Mr G informed the hotel that 
luggage was missing, but the luggage was never located.
Mr G contacted UKI the following day and submitted a claim. He said the items in the 
missing luggage included a number of watches, including a Rolex Yacht-Master 2 watch, 
and he estimated the total loss at just over £52,000. 
A meeting was arranged by UKIs loss adjusters and Mr G at his home in early July 2019. 
Amongst other things, the circumstances of the luggage going missing, the items being 
claimed for and Mr Gs employment information were discussed. 
UKI made an interim payment of £5,000, on a without prejudice basis, to Mr G in early 
August 2019. 
A second meeting with Mr G, his loss adjuster and UKIs loss adjuster was arranged for 
2 September 2019. UKI raised concerns with Mr G that the Rolex Yacht-Master 2 watch he 
was claiming for had previously been claimed for by him in 2015 through a different insurer, 
who Ill refer to as Company A. Mr G told UKI that he had owned two identical Rolex Yacht-
Master 2 watches, one bought in 2013 and one bought in 2015. He said the watch bought in 
2013 was the one claimed for in 2015, while the watch bought in 2015 was the one being 
claimed for through UKI now. Mr G said he would provide evidence of the watch purchased 
in 2013.
Mr G complained to UKI in September 2019 about how his claim had been dealt with by it. 
UKI responded on 9 September 2019. It said the information it requested about Mr Gs father 
and his security deposit box was necessary and relevant. It also said it was standard 
practice to ask about criminal convictions. UKI said Mr G was dealt with professionally during 
a later telephone call and that there were no delays in the handling of his claim. 
There was a good deal of correspondence between Mr G and UKI over the following 
months. To summarise, Mr G told UKI that he no longer had any documentation relating to 
the watch that he said he bought in 2013, and which he says he claimed for under the policy 
with Company A in 2015. Mr G said this was because all of the documentation was provided 
to and retained by Company A. 
Mr G said there was a photograph of the receipt for the Rolex Yacht Master 2 watch bought 
in 2015 on Company As claim file, as he was wearing that watch when Company As loss 
adjusters visited him in 2015. And he said he was asked by them to provide the receipt to 
show it was a different watch to the one he had submitted a claim for.  
UKI told Mr G that it had asked Company A whether there was any evidence to support his 
assertion that he owned two of the same type of watch in 2015. It also asked Mr G to see if 
he could provide evidence of the watch bought in 2013. 
In early December 2019 Mr G told UKI that he had looked into obtaining the information it 
requested about the 2013 watch, but was unable to locate anything due to the watch being 
bought on a prepaid card. Mr G recalled the country hed bought the watch in, but not the 
name of the jeweller.  
UKI told Mr G in January 2020 that it would not pay his claim, as it considered Mr G had 
breached the fraud condition in his insurance contract. UKI said: 
The hotel denied responsibility for the loss and UKI was concerned about information 
provided by Mr G regarding how the loss occurred.  
It raised concerns in September 2019 with Mr G that he had previously claimed for 
the loss of the Rolex Yacht Master 2 watch in 2015 with Company A. 
Mr G was unable to provide evidence that the watch claimed for in 2015 was bought 
in 2013.
There was a photograph of the receipt for the watch bought in 2015 in Company As 
2015 claim file. There was no corroboration on Company As claim file that this was 
because Mr G wore the watch bought in 2015 to the interview with Company A and 
was asked to provide the receipt to prove it was not the watch being claimed for with 
Company A. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in relation to the 2015 claim, it was clear there was 
no evidence for the explanation provided by Mr G. And it was satisfied that the watch 
forming part of its claim was involved in the settlement of the claim by Company A in 
2015. 
It was satisfied Mr G deliberately falsified the claim in order to dishonestly make a 
claim he was not entitled to. And in doing so failed to comply with the policy condition 
that deals with fraud. 
Mr Gs policy was cancelled from the date the false information was provided, no 
refund of premiums was given, other active policies were cancelled and UKI said it 
may notify the relevant authorities. 
UKI said it would share details with fraud prevention agencies and this might 
adversely affect Mr Gs ability to obtain financial products in the future. 
It asked for the earlier £5,000 without prejudice payment to be repaid to it, along with 
the costs of investigating the claim. 
Mr G complained to UKI in early January 2020 about the decision to decline his claim and 
about the claim file from Company A going missing for a period of time. UKI responded to 
the complaint on 23 January 2020. In relation to the misfiling of information from Company 
A, it said the file was placed in the wrong teams mail box. But when it was found, it was unopened and in its original state. It apologised for the stress this may have caused Mr G. 
UKI also said it agreed with the decision to invoke the fraud condition on Mr Gs policy. 
UKI contacted the IFR and Mr Gs details were uploaded onto it in May 2020. In July 2020 
the IFR conducted a review of the documentation provided to them and said they would not 
be challenging UKI on its decision to provide Mr Gs details to the IFR.
Mr G was unhappy with the response from UKI and so complained to this service. He said 
UKIs investigation into his claim was poor and there was a clash of personalities that led to 
an unfair decision. He also said his details were placed on the IFR by UKI, despite it knowing 
he intended to make a complaint to this service. Mr G asked that UKI settle the claim, 
provide him with an apology and compensate him for the issues this had caused.  
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Gs complaint and said that UKI acted fairly when it 
declined Mr Gs claim and avoided his policy. 
Mr G didnt agree with the outcome reached by our investigator. Mr G said the investigation 
carried out by UKI was biased. He said he had been in contact with Company A and said 
Company A were entirely satisfied the 2015 claim with them was genuine. He said Company 
A also confirmed that they were provided with the watch box and receipts as proof of 
ownership in 2015 by Mr G, and he questioned how he could have also provided these to 
UKI in 2019, if Company A had retained ownership. Mr G said its because he had two 
watches of the same make and model, while UKI said he only had one. Mr G also said 
Company A had confirmed that they would require more than a photograph of the item in 
order to pay a claim.
As Mr G didnt agree with what our investigator said, this came to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 12 January 2022. I said I didnt intend to uphold Mr Gs 
complaint and that I thought UKI acted fairly when it used the fraud clause to decline his 
claim and void his policy. I also said I was satisfied that UKI acted fairly when it reported this 
matter to the IFR. I gave both parties the opportunity to respond. 
Mr G responded and did not agree with the outcome. He provided information, some of 
which I had already reviewed in full and some of which hadnt previously been sent to me. 
This included: 
A supporting statement from Mrs G. 
A supporting statement from a family friend of Mr G. 
Two statements providing a detailed outline of why Mr G doesnt agree with the 
provisional decision.
Information about claims handling from the jeweller Mr G said dealt with Company 
As 2015 claim.  
A timeline of recent events in relation to Company A. 
A letter from Mr Gs solicitor confirming he has been instructed in relation to the claim 
against UKI. 
A photograph of a social media post which Mr G says shows him wearing a Rolex 
Yacht-Master watch prior to 2015.
A copy of a call recording with a Company A employee. 
UKI confirmed receipt of the provisional decision. 
I am now in a position to issue a final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
I first of all want to let Mr G know that while this service can consider a wide variety of 
complaints about financial services, we arent free to look into every complaint thats referred 
to us. The rules that set out what complaints we can consider are the Dispute Resolution 
(DISP) rules in the Financial Conduct Authority handbook.
One of these rules (DISP 2.8.2) says we cannot consider a complaint, unless the business 
consents, if it was referred to us:  
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its 
final response, redress determination or summary resolution communication; 
unless
In the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2R or 
DISP 2.8.7R was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
Mr G complained to UKI in September 2019 about delays in handling his claim and about his 
unhappiness with the interview carried out by UKIs loss adjuster. UKI issued a final 
response letter on 9 September 2019. Mr G was told in the letter that he had six months 
from the date of the letter to refer that particular complaint to this service. But Mr G didnt 
bring his complaint to this service until 4 June 2020, which is outside the six month referral 
period.  UKI hasnt given this service consent to look into that particular complaint, and this 
means I could only look into it if I thought there were exceptional circumstances that 
prevented Mr G from bringing the complaint on time. And I havent seen anything that 
suggests exceptional circumstances apply here. So, this means I will not be looking at any of 
the complaint points dealt with in the final response letter sent on 9 September 2019.  
But I can look into UKIs decision to turn down Mr Gs claim and avoid his policy, which is the 
crux of Mr Gs complaint. 
I want to assure Mr G at this point that I have taken all of the information provided into 
consideration, even if not every point made by Mr G is mentioned in this decision. And this 
also applies to information provided by Mr G following the provisional decision. Mr G 
provided several statements outlining why he does not agree with my decision. So while I 
have taken what hes said into consideration, I have not addressed each comment hes 
made. Ill only address the comments and evidence I see to be relevant in reaching a fair 
and reasonable outcome here. 
I think its also important to note here that my decision relates only to UKIs actions in 
avoiding the policy and turning down the claim. This is because Mr Gs complaint is against 
UKI and not Company A. So my decision will not address the concerns raised by Mr G about 
Company A in relation to, for instance, document retention and claims handling decisions.  
UKI raised concerns about whether the insured event, so the loss of Mr Gs luggage while 
abroad, happened in the way Mr G said it did. But what UKI has relied on here to decline 
Mr Gs claim is its assertion that one of the watches included in the 2019 claim was the 
subject of an earlier claim in 2015 with Company A. So I dont intend to look any further at 
whether the insured event happened in the way outlined by Mr G. My focus will be on whether UKI acted fairly when it said Mr G had already claimed for the watch in question 
back in 2015.  
Broadly speaking, when a consumer makes a claim with their insurers, its for the consumer 
to provide evidence so that the insurer can consider whether they have a valid claim. And if 
the insurer wants to rely on an exclusion in the policy to decline the claim, then its for the 
insurer to demonstrate why its fair to do this. So its for UKI to have demonstrated that it was 
fair to decline Mr Gs claim on the basis that it was fraudulent. 
The particular term in Mr Gs policy that UKI has relied on to decline the claim says: 
The entire policy will be void if, whether before or after a loss, you or a family member has:
intentionally concealed or misrepresented any material fact or change;
engaged in fraudulent conduct; or
made false statements; relating to this insurance.
To sum up the issue here, during the course of its investigation into Mr Gs claim, UKI 
contacted Company A in relation to the home insurance claim made by Mr G to Company A 
in 2015. Having reviewed Company As claim file, UKI had concerns about one of the 
watches that Mr G submitted a claim for with Company A. One of the concerns was that 
there was a photograph of the receipt for the watch purchased in June 2015  so one of the 
watches that is the subject of the current claim against UKI  in Company As claim file. UKI 
concluded the reason why the photograph of the watch receipt was in the file was because 
Mr G had claimed for its loss in 2015. And this means UKI is suggesting the claim made by 
Mr G in 2019 is the second claim made in relation to this particular watch, and so is 
fraudulent. 
The Rolex Yacht-Master 2 watch which is the subject of this complaint was bought by Mr G 
on 19 June 2015 and cost £12,500. It was specified under Mr Gs policy with UKI for 
£14,350. 
I can see that Mr G took out insurance cover with Company A on 23 June 2015. Following 
the claim he made to Company A in November 2015, Mr G provided them with a signed 
statement in December 2015. In this statement he said In June 2015, I bought a Rolex 
Yachtmaster watch and tried to insure the watch for £12,500, but was told that they [his 
previous insurer] do not insure any single item above £10,000. I therefore looked to change 
my insurance and took out the policy through [Company A] on 23 June 2015, specifying the 
watch at £12,500. 
So, by Mr Gs own account, the watch specified in the policy with Company A was the watch 
purchased by him in June 2015. 
I can see that in his response to UKI after it declined his claim, Mr G said that the purchase 
of the watch in June 2015 made him consider that the value of the watch he says he bought 
in 2013 had increased to above £10,000. And he said he took out the policy with Company A 
to ensure the watch he says was bought in 2013 was adequately covered. So Mr G is saying 
here that the watch specified in the policy with Company A is not the watch bought in June 
2015, but the watch he says was bought in 2013. 
I think its fair to say that this more recent statement made by Mr G in 2019, as to why he 
changed insurers in 2015, is at odds with the signed statement provided by him in 2015. And 
when differing accounts are provided, I think its fair to give more weight to the earlier 
statement, as this earlier account was so much closer in time to the event being discussed 
and is more likely to be accurate. So Im satisfied that Mr Gs signed statement in 2015 about the watch bought in 2015 being the watch specified on the policy with Company A is 
most likely the accurate statement. 
When he responded to my provisional decision, Mr G said that the statement was written by 
the loss adjuster and not Mr G, and so does not reflect the exact words used by Mr G. He 
doesnt think he should be prejudiced by the loss adjusters lack of clarity. However, the 
statement was signed by Mr G, which means he was in agreement that it was an accurate 
reflection of the conversation he had with the loss adjuster. I dont agree that it lacks clarity 
and Im satisfied it can be relied on as an accurate, albeit not verbatim, account of what was 
discussed. 
In the same statement given by Mr G to Company A in December 2015, Mr G also said he 
had prepared a detailed list of the stolen itemsprovided bank statements which show 
some of the purchases, the invoice for my new Rolex Yachtmaster watch. I know that UKI 
has relied on Mr Gs reference to his new watch to be a reference to the watch bought in 
June 2015. And I think it was fair for it to do that. 
I say this because the event that led to Mr G making a claim with Company A happened in 
November 2015 and Mr G is saying now that the Rolex Yacht-Master 2 watch he claimed for 
then was bought in 2013. But I think if Mr G had been claiming, as he said he was, for a 
watch bought in 2013, then I dont think its likely he would have referred to that watch as a 
new watch. At that stage it would have been two and a half years old and he had bought at 
least one other Rolex Yacht-Master 2 watch since then. So I think its much more likely that 
when he talked about his new watch in December 2015, in the email detailing the list of 
stolen items, he was referring to the watch bought around five months before he submitted 
the claim to Company A  so the watch bought in June 2015.
In early December 2015, Mr G sent an email to a senior investigator at Company A, which 
contained a list of the items Mr G said were stolen in November 2015. A Rolex Yacht-Master 
2 is the first item on the list. A copy of this email was in Company As claim file and contains 
handwritten notes. The handwritten note beside the watch says: receipt  19/6/15. The 
senior investigator who dealt with the claim for Company A in 2015 was contacted by UKI 
when it was looking into Mr Gs claim. Ive seen several emails from him. He confirmed to 
UKI that he printed off this claim list email sent by Mr G and brought it to a meeting he had 
with Mr G on 8 December 2015. The senior investigator says the handwritten notes on the 
email, including the reference to the June 2015 watch receipt, were written by him and that 
Mr G didnt mention a Rolex-Yacht Master 2 watch bought in 2013. So this means that a 
senior investigator with Company A has confirmed that the Rolex Yacht-Master 2 watch 
claimed for in 2015 was the watch purchased on 19 June 2015. 
To sum up these points, Im satisfied that when Mr G took out the policy with Company A 
back in 2015 it was, by his own account, to provide sufficient cover for the watch he had 
bought in June 2015. And Im also satisfied that when Mr G submitted a claim to Company A 
in 2015, he stated that he was claiming for the new watch he had bought in June 2015. And 
this is the same watch that he then claimed for through UKI in 2019.
In September 2019, so some months before it declined Mr Gs claim, UKI told Mr G about its 
concerns that the watch he was now claiming for with UKI was the same watch he had 
claimed for back in 2015. It gave Mr G the opportunity to provide an explanation or 
supporting evidence before it might decline the claim. And I think it was fair for Mr G to be 
given this opportunity. 
As already outlined, Mr G told UKI at this stage that the watch he claimed for with Company 
A in 2015 had been bought by him in 2013, while the watch he was now claiming for was 
bought in 2015. I can see that Mr G hasnt been able to provide evidence to show that he purchased a Rolex Yacht-Master 2 watch in 2013. He said this was because he had 
provided the purchase receipt and any other relevant documentation to Company A when he 
made a claim back in 2015. Mr G is unhappy that he feels his claim has been declined 
because hes been unable to prove the existence of the watch he says he bought in 2013.
Ive taken into consideration what Mr G said about why he currently has no documentation in 
relation to the 2013 watch, including looking at the emails he provided recently from the 
jewellers he said dealt with the Company A claim. Mr G is saying here that hes provided 
enough information to show that watch claims would only be validated when all boxes and 
paperwork were received by Company A. To his mind, theres no doubt he provided all 
original boxes and paperwork as otherwise the claim wouldnt have been settled. So, he 
considers it was unreasonable for UKI to expect him to provide that paperwork now. But I 
dont think that UKI has relied on this lack of proof about the existence of the 2013 watch to 
decline the claim and void the policy. Im satisfied that the evidence its relied on, outlined 
above, is enough for UKI to have demonstrated that the watch bought in 2015 was the one 
claimed for in 2015 and so it was claimed for a second time when Mr G made the 2019 claim 
with UKI. 
Nevertheless, for completeness, Ive looked at what Mr G has said about the Rolex Yacht-
Master 2 watch in response to UKI declining his claim.  
Company As claim file contained a photograph of the purchase receipt for the watch bought 
in 2015 and Mr G said this was because he was wearing the watch bought in 2015 when he 
was visited by Company As loss adjusters in 2015. And he was asked to provide the receipt 
as proof that it was not the watch he was claiming for then. 
I can see UKI contacted the loss adjuster who visited Mr G in 2015. He was asked by UKI 
whether he had asked Mr G to provide a photograph of the 2015 watch receipt, for the 
reasons stated above. The loss adjuster said he cannot remember exactly what was said, 
given the amount of time that has passed. However, he said his claim file notes make no 
mention of there being two of the same watches. 
The loss adjuster also said he received an email, with values in relation to the items being 
claimed for, from Mr G which said You have already obtained a copy of the receipt for the 
Rolex Yachtmaster 2, valued at £12,500. The loss adjuster said the email containing the 
photograph was sent by Mr G along with a copy of Mr Gs bank statement which showed the 
deposit paid for the watch bought in 2015. 
To sum up, the loss adjuster did not make any notes in Company As claim file suggesting 
Mr G provided this photo in order to show the watch being claimed for in 2015 was different 
to the watch he was wearing at the meeting with the loss adjuster in 2015. Mr G made a 
reference to the value of the watch in an email sent to the loss adjuster that outlined values 
of the items claimed for. And Mr G supplied the bank statement showing the watch deposit, 
which there would have been no need to do if the only reason for providing information about 
the watch bought in 2015 was to show it wasnt part of the claim. So I dont think UKI acted 
unfairly when it decided not to attach any weight to Mr Gs explanation for why there was a 
photograph of the receipt for the watch bought on 19 June 2015 in Company As claim file. 
Throughout Mr Gs contact with this service, he has placed a lot of emphasis on the contact 
he made with Company A following UKIs decision to decline his claim, and information 
provided to him by Company A about how claims such as the one he made back in 2015 
might be handled. Mr G provided this service with emails and call recordings from Company 
A and said through this contact with Company A, it was made clear to him that his claim 
would not have been settled by Company A unless there was more proof than a photograph 
of a watch receipt to substantiate his claim. Mr G said [Company A] is clear that they have NO evidence to suggest [Mr Gs] claim in 2015 was in any was [sic] disingenuous and that 
[Company A] remain satisfied their claim was genuine and fortuitous.
However, I have not taken this information about Company A being satisfied the claim was 
genuine into consideration. This is, first of all, because the individual members of staff 
spoken to and emailed by Mr G were not involved in the 2015 claim and were largely 
providing generic information about claims handling. But, more significantly, I am aware that 
whatever might have been said by various members of staff in response to Mr Gs questions, 
it does not reflect the current stance taken by Company A against Mr G in relation to his 
2015 claim. 
Because when Mr G responded to my provisional decision, he said he is currently 
challenging the legal action taken by Company A against him regarding the 2015 claim, and 
has a hearing listed in the coming weeks. He said he was unaware of action being taken, as 
letters were sent to a former address. He is hopeful that the case will be dismissed. I have 
no way of knowing what might happen if and when Mr G takes this matter to court. But at 
this point in time, the legal action taken by Company A in relation to the Rolex Yacht-Master 
2 watch suggests its highly unlikely that they are currently, as Mr G said, satisfied their 
claim was genuine and fortuitous. And this is why I havent taken into consideration 
information that suggests otherwise. 
I can see that reference has also been made to the Rolex lost and stolen register. But my 
understanding is that neither party reported the Rolex Yacht-Master 2 watch to the register in 
2015. It is outside my remit to look at why this might have happened  this decision is only 
about UKIs handling of the 2019 claim and not Company As handling of the 2015 claim. But 
this does mean the register doesnt help us in any way to understand which watch was or 
wasnt claimed for in 2015. 
So given what Ive outlined above, Im satisfied that UKI acted fairly when it said the claim 
made to it by Mr G in 2019 is the second claim made in relation to the Rolex Yacht-Master 2 
bought on 19 June 2015, and used the fraud term to decline the claim. UKIs terms and 
conditions allow it to void a policy when a claim is fraudulent, and this is what it has done 
with Mr Gs policy. And given that the policy has been voided, Im satisfied UKI acted fairly 
when it declined Mr Gs claim in its entirety. UKI also told Mr G he would need to repay the 
£5,000 without prejudice payment made to him during this claim, which I think it was fair for it 
to do. And I can see UKI told Mr G it would likely do this if the claim was declined. UKI also 
told Mr G he would need to pay for the cost of the investigation into his claim. On this point, I 
can see that UKI hasnt specified how much it intends to ask Mr G to pay, but this should be 
limited to Mr G paying for any external costs incurred in investigating his claim. 
 
Mr G also complained about UKI reporting this matter to the IFR, in spite of him letting UKI 
know he was referring his complaint to this service. And he talked about the negative impact 
this has had on his financial and emotional wellbeing. I can certainly see how this matter 
being reported to the IFR would have had a significant impact on Mr G. But UKI are allowed 
to report incidences of fraud to the IFR, irrespective of whether a complaint is being brought 
to this service. And given that I have now reviewed Mr Gs complaint and am satisfied that 
UKI acted fairly when it used the fraud clause to decline his claim and void his policy, Im 
also satisfied with UKI reporting this matter to the IFR.  
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
U K Insurance Limited should only require Mr G to pay the external costs incurred in 
investigating his claim.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman