DRN-4083371
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax took his first monthly mortgage 
payment too quickly after it released the mortgage funds. He said this caused hardship. And 
he said that the customer service he got, when he complained about this, was unacceptable.
What happened
Mr A took out a mortgage with Halifax, and received the funds to buy his home at the very 
end of April 2022. But he said only a few days after this, Halifax wanted him to make his first 
monthly mortgage payment. Mr A said there wasnt enough notice of this payment, and he 
was still paying rent at the time. He said hed expected the first payment to be 1 June, but 
instead it was 10 May. 
Mr A said he rang Halifax to complain, and it offered an unreasonable solution, borrowing 
money from family or friends, when all he wanted it to do was change the payment date. Mr 
A said he became frustrated when Halifax wouldnt do this, but he wasnt abusive. He then 
received a letter from Halifax which described him as "exhibiting abusive, threatening or 
offensive behaviour". Mr A said Halifax shouldnt have staff in a customer facing function if 
they couldnt deal with frustrated customers, and he wanted the person involved disciplined. 
He also wanted Halifax to refund him at least two mortgage payments, for the mistake it had 
made. 
Mr A also noted that the second complaint response letter he received said he was out of 
time to complain, although he had six months from the first letter, and this time wasnt yet up. 
Halifax said it had explained to Mr A when he would need to make his first payment. So it 
said it hadnt made a mistake about this, and it wouldnt change the date for him. Halifax said 
it wasnt unreasonable for its agent to have ended the call with Mr A. It said it expected the 
same level of courtesy from its customers that it would look to provide. But it also said that it 
was sorry if it had caused any offence, and that would never be its intention.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Mr A was made 
aware of the payment schedule for the first payment of his mortgage. The mortgage 
illustration sets this out, and the booklet Mr A received with the mortgage includes examples 
of when the first monthly payment will be taken, if the funds are released late in the month. 
Halifax then wrote directly to Mr A, confirming the date that his first payment would be taken. 
So our investigator said that Mr A was told about his payment schedule. 
Our investigator said shed also listened to the call Mr A had with Halifax, and she didnt 
think Halifaxs member of staff was rude or unhelpful. She also didnt think it was 
unreasonable for the agent to have terminated the call. The agent had become 
uncomfortable with the direction of conversation, and Mr A was given warning of this. So our 
investigator said she wouldnt ask Halifax to do any more. 
Mr A said his mortgage offer wasnt clear about when he would need to pay, and he sent us 
an extract from that offer which he said was misleading. He said hed also asked his Halifax 
mortgage advisor when the first payment would be made, and even she wasnt sure. He sent 
us an email exchange he said showed this. Mr A said he wasnt given a booklet telling him 
his first payment would be 10 May. So he said that he had been wrongly advised about the 
payment date. 
Mr A said Halifaxs member of staff was rude on the call, because shed suggested that he 
borrow money from family or friends. He said he found that very rude and humiliating. He 
said he was only asking for something reasonable, to change the payment date to the first of 
the next month. He said it was rude, when asked for help, to recommend alternatives that 
one isnt in control of. Mr A said hed been dealing with the call professionally until she made 
this suggestion, and his actions after this were a reaction to the agents behaviour. 
Our investigator didnt change her mind. And she thought Mr A had received the booklet, 
because hed asked Halifax about its contents. Our investigator said she wouldnt see 
offering or suggesting alternatives to avoid financial struggle as rude or abrasive. She felt the 
agent was just trying to make sure Mr A didnt miss a payment, and didnt mean any offence. 
Mr A wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Halifax said that it had told Mr A clearly when his first monthly mortgage payment would be 
due. It pointed to a number of places where it felt this had been set out for him. The first of 
these was in his mortgage offer. 
Mr A said the mortgage offer isnt clear, and he quoted the section titled Your loan amount 
and mortgage term But that isnt dealing with his first monthly payment. There is a 
subsequent section, on the next page, which does deal with this. I think that the title of Your 
first monthly payment clearly signposts this. 
Ive read this section, and I think it does make clear, as Halifax said, that Mr As first 
payment will be taken in the month after Halifax released the money. It says We collect your 
first payment the month after your mortgage starts. For example, if we release your loan in 
June, we collect your first payment in July. This section of the offer document also makes 
clear that, whilst Mr As payments will usually be made on the day of the month he chose, 
the payment for the first month might be a little later, to give him a bit more notice. And it 
then confirms that a letter will issue, telling him when his first payment is due. It refers to the 
Information about your mortgage booklet, and says this provides an example.
Turning to that booklet, I can see that Halifax offers an example of how the first mortgage 
payment will work if the funds were released late in the month. The booklet explains that the 
first monthly payment will be taken on the 10th of the following month, this is to allow time 
required for notification of the direct debit. This is what happened with Mr As mortgage.
Mr A says that he didnt get this booklet, and that although he asked about this specifically, 
even Halifaxs agent didnt know when the payment would be taken. But hes shown us an 
exchange of emails between him and his mortgage advisor, and I dont think thats quite 
what these emails say. On 27 May his advisor told him that the first payment would be taken sometime in mid-May (not June, as Mr A says he had understood) and confirms that a letter 
will be sent to him shortly, confirming the date and the amount of the first payment. 
The next day, 28 May, Halifax sent Mr A his completion letter. That gave him the exact date 
when his first payment would be taken  10 May  as well as how much this payment would 
be. This letter was sent to his new property. 
I understand that Mr A wasnt expecting to pay his mortgage and his rent in the same month, 
and that this caused him difficulty. But I dont think Halifax made a mistake when it told Mr A 
that his first mortgage payment was due on 10 May 2022, or that it had failed to provide 
clear advance notice of this. I dont think Halifax had to move Mr As first payment to 1 June, 
as he would have preferred.
Mr A also complained about the handling of his call to Halifax. He said the agent was rude 
when she suggested he might borrow money from family or friends rather than miss a 
mortgage payment. Mr A said this was offensive to him, and he then reacted to that 
offensive comment. Ive also considered Mr As comments to Halifax, and to our service, 
where he says he has the right to express his frustration, as long as he doesnt harm 
anyone. 
Ive listened to this call, and I dont think its likely that Halifaxs call handler intended any 
offence by suggesting that Mr A might borrow the money for his first monthly mortgage 
payment. The call handler had explained that Mr As first payment was due in only a few 
days, and shed explained this couldnt be changed for him. Missing a mortgage payment is 
viewed very seriously by lenders, so I dont think it was clearly inappropriate for her to try to 
explore other options with Mr A. 
Mr A has explained he found this offensive, and he reacted to this. But he said he wasnt 
being offensive or abusive, when he did so. Mr A appears to me to have accepted that he 
was angry at the time. And I also have to bear in mind that he was focussed on a particular 
solution  moving his payment to the next month - which Halifax wasnt able to provide for 
him. 
I recognise that Mr A didnt use anything he considered to be offensive language on this call. 
But I also note that Mr A has said he was offended by the call handlers suggestion (which I 
am persuaded wasnt intended to be offensive). I think that does demonstrate that people 
can have quite differing views about what is and isnt offensive. And, having listened 
carefully to what was said on this call, and taken account of the views and positions of both 
sides, I dont think the remainder of the call was likely to have been productive. So I dont 
think it was completely inappropriate for the call handler to provide a warning to Mr A, and 
then to end the call. 
I understand that Mr A considers he was expressing frustration, and its part of the job for 
Halifaxs staff to deal with this. But when Halifax wrote to Mr A, it said that it would like its 
customers to deal with it, with the same level of courtesy that it will offer them. And I think 
thats a reasonable position for Halifax to take. However, I also note that Halifax has 
apologised to Mr A if it has caused any offence. I dont think Halifax has to do more than 
that, in this case.
Mr A also said that Halifax told him his time to complain to our service had already expired, 
when it hadnt. I think this was a simple oversight by Halifax, and we know Mr A spotted that 
this was a mistake right away. This hasnt prevented Mr A from bringing his complaint to our 
service, so I dont think Halifax has to rectify this now.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman