DRN-4135755
The complaint
Mr S complains about the value Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) gave him 
for his car following a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S had a motor insurance policy with Admiral covering his car. 
In December 2022 his car was damaged in a collision which was the fault of a third party.
Admiral assessed his car as being beyond economic repair. It said it would declare it a write-
off and assessed its market value as £2,950.
Mr S didnt agree with this valuation, and he complained about it and Admirals service 
during his claim. He said he wasnt given a hire car and that Admirals communication and 
processes during his claim were poor. Admiral said it would pay £320 for the loss of use of 
his car, and £150 for his trouble and upset caused by its claims handling.
Admiral said itd used trade guides to arrive at a value for the car and it had offered Mr S the 
highest value from the trade guides it used, which were:
Company A: £2,950
Company B: £2,305
It said it wouldnt increase this amount.
Mr S remained unhappy with Admirals valuation and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into his complaint and didnt uphold it. He looked at the trade guides 
and said the amount offered by Admiral was in line with the approach taken by this service. 
He also said he thought Admirals offer of £150 for his trouble and upset and £320 for loss of 
use were fair and reasonable. 
Mr S didnt agree with the view. He points out that he isnt able to buy a replacement car for 
Admirals valuation.
He asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having read the file of evidence, Im not going to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive said above about how Admiral arrived at the valuation of Mr Ss car.
Its approach fits with this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide valuations 
for vehicles, but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable.
Ive done research into Mr Ss car and Ive found these values, provided by different trade 
guides, for the month his car was damaged, which are based on a vehicle with the same 
specification and mileage:
Company A: £2,975
Company B: £2,305
Company C: £2,584
Ive looked at Admirals valuation of his car and I can see it has offered him a value at the 
higher end of the three listed above. 
In its evidence it says there is a limited amount of evidence for these cars in the market, 
which is why it offered this higher amount. 
I asked Mr S to send in more evidence about his car and why he thought it should be valued 
higher, but he didnt respond to my requests.
Without further evidence, I think Admirals offer of £2,950 for his car, plus £320 for his loss of 
use and £150 compensation for his distress and inconvenience, and the approach it has 
taken, is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has already made an offer to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited should pay Mr S (if it hasnt 
already done so):
£2,950 for his car (subject to any excess or policy terms).
£320 for his loss of use.
£150 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman