DRN-4333973
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that Sainsburys Bank Plc wont refund transactions she says she 
didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In summer 2022, two sets of recurring payments were set up on Mrs Ps Sainsburys credit 
card. Mrs Ps credit card was charged around £170 in total.
Mrs P reported these to Sainsburys as fraudulent. She said she entered a competition via a 
link on social media, and she provided her card details to put a deposit down, but she did not 
authorise the recurring payments. She said she didnt receive any goods or services.
Sainsburys offered to raise a chargeback for Mrs P. They explained that in order to do so, 
Mrs P was required to try to resolve things with the merchants first, and to provide a copy of 
her contact with the merchants. But Mrs P was not willing to contact the merchants, as she 
didnt want them to have her contact details. So the chargeback couldnt go through. As a 
gesture of goodwill, Sainsburys waived some interest and fees, and offered Mrs P £25 
compensation for the time shed had to wait on the phone.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs P 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mrs P and Sainsburys a provisional decision on 21 August 2023. In that decision, 
I said the following:
I understand that Mrs P thinks these merchants are scam businesses, and I do appreciate 
that shes found the matter distressing. I should explain that, as our investigator said, were 
here to informally resolve disputes about financial firms, like banks. We dont have the power 
to investigate non-financial firms like these merchants. So I cant say for certain whether 
these merchants were genuine or not. And if they did scam Mrs P, then its the scammers 
who would primarily be responsible for the scam and who would really owe Mrs P her money 
back. But in this complaint against Sainsburys, I can only consider what Sainsburys did.
Broadly speaking, Sainsburys can hold Mrs P liable for the payments in dispute if the 
evidence suggests that she authorised them.
Mrs P has been clear that she gave her card details over in order to make a payment  
though she says she thought this was just for a deposit. Sainsburys say that this happened 
at the same IP address as other genuine payments of Mrs Ps.
Ive looked at the sign-up process for the websites involved, as well as their linked sites. In 
each case, I can see that the websites set out clearly that by entering ones card details, one 
would be setting up recurring payments, with the amounts and timescales set out clearly and 
prominently. It looks like in order to set up these recurring payments, one had to positively 
agree to them. I have not found any examples where it would be unclear that these were 
recurring payments of specific amounts.
So while I accept that Mrs P may not have realised she was entering into these recurring 
payments, it looks most likely that the merchants set things out sufficiently clearly and that 
Mrs P set up the recurring payments nonetheless. So I would consider these payments to be 
authorised. And so under the Payment Services Regulations, Mrs P is liable for those 
payments in the first instance, and Sainsburys are not required to refund them.
Ive then thought carefully about what Sainsburys did to try to recover Mrs Ps money once 
she told them she thought this was a scam. There are methods for trying to recover money 
lost to scams, but aside from the fact that its not clear whether this was actually a scam or 
not, those methods only apply to certain types of payments  like bank transfers. They dont 
apply to card payments. And Mrs P made these payments by credit card. So Sainsburys 
were quite limited in what they could do to help here.
Sainsburys offered to raise a chargeback for Mrs P, and that was the most appropriate way 
to try to get her money back. The chargeback process is voluntary, so Sainsburys didnt 
have to raise one  but its generally good practice to try one, so I think its right that they did.
When a bank tries a chargeback, they have to follow the rules set by the card scheme  in 
this case, MasterCard. Here, Sainsburys followed the right process. MasterCard required 
that in order to proceed with the chargeback, Mrs P had to try to resolve things with the 
merchants directly herself, and she had to provide evidence of her communication with those 
merchants. As Mrs P refused to do so, the chargeback could not go forward. Sainsburys are 
bound by MasterCards rules when trying to do a chargeback. So even if Mrs Ps reasons for 
refusing were understandable, the fact remains that her refusal meant the chargeback could 
not proceed.
Im afraid that it is now too late to reopen the chargeback. Again, there are strict timescales 
in place which are also set by MasterCard. Mrs P says she wasnt aware there was a 
deadline, but I can see that Sainsburys set out the relevant deadline clearly.
So while I do sympathise with Mrs Ps position, I dont think I can fairly hold Sainsburys 
responsible for these payments.
Mrs P pointed out that Sainsburys didnt tell her to get a crime reference number. But they 
didnt need to. There was no requirement to get a crime reference number to proceed with 
the chargeback. And it was always up to Mrs P whether she wanted to report the merchants 
to the authorities or not.
Lastly, I understand that Mrs P was unhappy with the time she had to wait while trying to 
speak to Sainsburys. I can see that in recognition of this, Sainsburys waived some interest 
and fees and offered Mrs P £25 compensation. I find that to be sufficient for that particular 
issue. I dont plan to make a further award there. I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
4 September 2023. But neither Mrs P nor Sainsburys sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
My final decision
I find that Sainsburys Bank Plc have already dealt with Mrs Ps complaint in a fair way. 
I dont make a further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman