DRN-2635102
The complaint
Ms M complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold an Individual Savings Account 
(ISA) product to her.
What happened
Ms M held a Save to Buy ISA product with Nationwide. She took out the product in October 
2015. At that time, she says she was aware the government had announced thered be a 
new product to help first time buyers  Help to Buy ISA. She says she visited a branch of 
Nationwide in October 2015. She told it she was saving to buy her first home and she was 
interested in the Help to Buy ISA that the government had announced.
Nationwide told her the new Help to Buy ISA hadnt been launched yet, but she could take 
out a Save to Buy ISA. She says she was told that nobody knew when the new Help to Buy 
ISA would be launched. Nationwide told her she could open the Save to Buy ISA for now 
and switch it to the Help to Buy ISA when it was launched. She says she explained to 
Nationwide she wouldnt be taking out her mortgage with it because she was eligible for a 
concessionary rate mortgage with her employer.
Ms M opened the Save to Buy ISA. She decided to buy her first home in 2019. But, she was 
then informed she wasnt eligible for any bonus with the product. She said she thought she 
was eligible for the Help to Buy ISA bonus. She says shes lost out on £2600 by way of 
bonus. She complained to Nationwide.
Nationwide investigated her complaint. It said shed taken out her ISA before Help to Buy 
ISAs had been launched. It said shed received annual statements which clearly stated the 
name of the product and shed never provided any authority to switch the account to a Help 
to Buy ISA. It told her she could open a Help to Buy ISA at any time up to 30 November 
2019. Ms M wasnt satisfied with this response. She complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into her complaint. She said that because of the passage of time it 
was difficult to verify what had been said when the account was first opened in 2015. But, 
she wouldve expected Ms M to have checked that the account had been switched to a Help 
to Buy ISA  since that was important to her. If Ms M thought the account shouldve been 
switched to a Help to Buy ISA, shed have expected Ms M to make enquiries about this. But 
she hadnt done that. She didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms M didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M acknowledges that when she attended Nationwide in October 2015 to open the 
account she knew the government intended to launch a new Help to Buy ISA. There was 
limited information about this new product. 
I can see that HM Treasury had published a scheme outline in March 2015 which 
explained in broad terms that the Help to Buy ISA was designed for people who were saving 
for their first home. They could save up to £200 per month and when they bought their first 
home, subject to certain other criteria, the government would top up their savings with a 
bonus of 25% (up to a maximum of £3000).
This information was in the public domain in October 2015. The new Help to Buy ISA didnt 
become available until December 2015. So, when Ms M decided to go ahead with the Save 
to Buy ISA product, she wouldve known that some of its features were different to the new 
Help to Buy ISA. She says she was told if she went ahead and opened the Save to Buy ISA 
in October it would be switched to the new Help to Buy ISA when it was launched. She says 
Nationwide told her it expected the Help to Buy ISA product to be launched at the end of 
2015  which turned out to be correct.
Theres no evidence that Ms M took any action after October 2015 to make further enquiries 
about the Help to Buy ISA. She didnt ask Nationwide to transfer her account to the new 
product. She says she thought Nationwide wouldve done this automatically.
Nationwide says it didnt automatically convert any Save to Buy ISA to the new Help to Buy 
ISA. It says the reason for this was that the two products had different characteristics, terms 
and conditions. And it says it wasnt always the case that such an automatic transfer 
wouldve benefitted customers.
So, when considering whether Nationwides approach not to automatically convert the Save 
to Buy ISA was fair and reasonable Ive looked at how the terms and conditions between the 
two products  the Save to Buy ISA and the Help to Buy ISA  differed. Ive also considered 
how Ms M operated the account. 
The Save to Buy ISA terms didnt limit the amount Ms M could pay in each month. 
This was different to the Help to Buy ISA  it limited the amount to £200 per month. 
Ms M did pay into the account in the period from October 2015 to December 2017. 
But the amounts werent paid in on a regular monthly basis and often were 
considerably more than £200 in any month. It wasnt until 2018 that she started to 
make regular monthly payments into the account. These regular monthly payments 
varied in amount from £50 to £200. If Ms Ms account had been a Help to Buy ISA, 
she couldnt have operated it in the way that she did prior to 2018. 
Ms M also told us she transferred an existing ISA account into her Save to Buy ISA. 
She appears to have transferred funds into the account in November 2015  its not 
clear if this was a transfer in. But the rules for the Help to Buy ISA, when it was 
launched wouldve limited the amount she couldve transferred into the account  she 
could only have deposited a maximum of £1200 (including any transfer in) in the first 
month. Shed been able to transfer in a greater amount than £1200 in November 
2015. And, the balance in the account at December 2015, when Help to Buy ISA was 
launched was greater than £1200. So, Nationwide couldnt have automatically 
converted the balance in the account at that time, without Ms Ms instructions.
The Save to Buy ISA was linked to Nationwides Save to Buy Mortgage. She could 
use her savings in the account towards buying her first home. But she only benefitted 
if she took out the Nationwide Save to Buy mortgage  she was entitled to avail of 
the special terms of that product including cashback up to £1000. She could use the 
cashback in whatever way she chose.This was different to the Help to Buy ISA, when it was launched. The bonus for that 
product could only be used for the particular purposes set out in the rules. So, for 
example, the Help to Buy ISA bonus couldnt be used for the deposit due at the 
exchange of contracts, to pay for solicitors, estate agents fees or any other indirect 
costs associated with buying a home. But there was no restriction on what lender the 
mortgage could be taken out with.
Having considered the differences between the characteristics of the two products, on 
balance, Im satisfied Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably when it didnt automatically 
convert Ms Ms Save to Buy ISA in December 2015 when the Help to Buy ISA was 
launched. It wouldve needed Ms Ms clear instructions to open a Help to Buy ISA account 
and tell it how she wanted to fund it.
Ms Ms application form shows that she confirmed shed been given the terms and 
conditions for the Save to Buy ISA. She says she wouldnt have taken out the product had 
she known the terms stated she had to take out a Save to Buy Mortgage with Nationwide to 
get a cashback. She says she was entitled to a concessionary rate mortgage under the 
terms of her employment contract. Shes provided evidence about her employment contract 
to support what shes said. But, I dont think that means Nationwide gave her misleading 
information. The terms and conditions were provided to her and she accepted them when 
she opened the account.
Ms M also says Nationwide told her in October 2015 that the Save to Buy ISA would be 
switched to a Help to Buy ISA when that product was launched. As our investigator said its 
very difficult to verify what may have been said during a face to face meeting in October 
2015. But, I agree with what our investigator said about what she wouldve expected Ms M to 
have done here. Given how important this was to Ms M, I wouldve expected her to have 
done more to check that the switch to a Help to Buy ISA had taken place. Theres no 
evidence she did make any enquiries or raise any query about why she hadnt been sent 
documentation about a switch to the Help to Buy ISA or been told about the differences in 
the terms and conditions for that product.
 
Ive then considered whether Nationwide did enough, after December 2015, to ensure Ms M 
was aware that her product was a Save to Buy ISA and not a Help to Buy ISA.
Nationwide has provided a copy of a letter it says it sent to its Save to Buy ISA customers in 
December 2015. That letter said that the Save to Buy ISA account was moving to a Save to 
Buy ISA issue 3. This would happen automatically unless the customer objected. The 
account details didnt change but there were some changes. These included the right to 
apply for a Save to Buy mortgage after three months.
Ive noted the letter also mentioned the fact that the new Help to Buy ISA had been launched 
and was now available. Details about the Help to Buy ISA were included in the letter. And, 
Nationwides letter also said that customers could call at any branch to talk through the 
range of savings it offered.
Ms M told us she didnt receive this letter. She says she recalls getting a letter about a 
switch from save to buy to save to buy 2  but she says it made no mention of Help to Buy 
ISAs.  Ive checked the sequence of events here. When Ms M opened her account, the 
account was already known as Save to Buy Issue 2. The change to issue 2 had been made 
by Nationwide in 2013. So, I dont think she wouldve received a letter about a change to 
save to buy 2. And, although she may not recall the contents of the letter, sent in December 
2015, Im satisfied on balance that Nationwide did send it to all of its Save to Buy account 
holders  and that wouldve included Ms M. So, Im persuaded, on balance, that Nationwide did inform her in December 2015 that Help to Buy ISAs had been launched and that she 
needed to take action if she wanted her account to be moved to that product.
Ive also considered other things that wouldve drawn Ms Ms attention to the fact that her 
account had not been automatically converted to a Help to Buy ISA.
Nationwide told us it provided statements of account which wouldve included the account 
name  but its subsequently told us thats not correct. This account was a passbook 
account. Statements wouldnt have been sent. But despite that, Ms M did have the passbook 
and she wouldve produced it when she made lodgments at the branch. 
She hasnt been able to provide a copy of the passbook. Nationwide says it wouldve 
included the name of the account. And, having considered the matter, I think its likely that it 
wouldve stated that the account was a Save to Buy ISA. 
As Ive mentioned above Ms M acknowledges she was aware the Help to Buy ISA was going 
to be launched by the end of 2015. Given that she knew this, and that she continued to 
make payments into the account after that date, I wouldve expected her to make enquiries 
about the status of the account and the account name that appeared on her passbook. 
Ms M says she did do that in September 2019 when she made a withdrawal at a branch. 
She says she asked whether making a withdrawal would affect her Help to Buy ISA and was 
told that it would not. Ms M says when she phoned Nationwide later she wasnt told her 
account was not a Help to Buy ISA. Nationwide says that any query in the branch wouldve 
been answered in general terms. 
Ive listened to the call Ms M made to Nationwide on 26 September 2019. Having done so, 
Im satisfied Ms Ms query was general. She told Nationwide her account was a Help to Buy 
ISA and asked general questions about interest. Nationwide didnt ask her for her account 
number or confirm the status of her account. It answered the query she raised about interest 
on a Help to Buy ISA. Having thought about the query Ms M raised with Nationwide here, I 
think it was general in nature. And, I accept what Nationwide has said about the general 
nature of the response she was given.
Nationwide wrote to Ms M in October 2019. It told her it was withdrawing the Save to Buy 
ISA on 31 March 2020. After that date she couldnt apply for a Save to Buy mortgage with 
Nationwide  so there was no longer any incentive associated with the product. It told her 
she could move funds to a Help to Buy ISA (subject to the £1200 limit) but she had to do this 
before 30 November 2019. Ms M closed her account in July 2020.
Having considered everything here, Im not persuaded on balance that Nationwide misled 
Ms M about the terms and conditions for the Save to Buy ISA account. There were different 
characteristics between the Save to Buy ISA and the Help to Buy ISA. In these 
circumstances, I dont think Nationwide acted unfairly or unreasonably when it didnt 
automatically convert the account to a Help to Buy ISA in December 2015. Im also satisfied, 
on balance, it did send her a letter to tell her about changes to her Save to Buy ISA and the 
launch of Help to Buy ISA in December 2015.
After that date, Im satisfied Ms M wouldve known from the information in her passbook and 
the information shed been given when she opened the account  the terms and conditions 
and the information that the Help to Buy ISA would be launched later in the year - that her 
account was not a Help to Buy ISA. So, although I know it will come as a disappointment to 
Ms M, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to require Nationwide to pay her the 
difference in the bonus she wouldve received if the account had been a Help to Buy ISA.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman