DRN-3459290
Complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) recorded a fraud prevention marker 
against him. 
Background
In March 2021, Mr Gs account received three credits of £200, £150 and £200 into his 
account. Shortly afterwards, Starling received notifications from three different banks, 
responsible for sending the payments, stating that the payees of the funds had reported 
being victims of fraud. By this stage, Mr G had already transferred all of the funds out of his 
account. Starling decided to review Mr Gs account. It decided to close it and also record a 
fraud prevention marker against Mr G.
Mr G eventually realised that Starling had recorded a fraud prevention marker against him 
and made a complaint. Starling looked at Mr Gs complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr G 
remained dissatisfied he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Gs concerns. She didnt think that Starling had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr G unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr G disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Starling has filed with is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr G is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Starling must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Gs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Starling also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr G was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr G allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Gs complaint, I need to decide whether I think Starling had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Gs account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Starling has done this 
here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
When initially questioned about the payments that entered into his account, Mr G told 
Starling that the payments were contributions from immediate family members to save for a 
holiday. After Starling didnt accept this explanation and after he initially contacted us, Mr G 
then told Starling he allowed an acquaintance, who he went to primary school with, to 
arrange for the payments to be made into his account as a favour to him, while he was in the 
process of acquiring a new account. 
Mr G said he was asked to receive these funds and send them to the acquaintance once he 
received the account. Starling asked for further details about this person and also asked      
Mr G whether he opened this account for the acquaintance to use. Mr G said that he only 
had the first name of the acquaintance and it was simply a coincidence that hed opened the 
account on the day he was asked for help as he was waiting for confirmation this account 
had been opened for a couple of days.
When Mr G was subsequently questioned by our adjudicator, he told her that he wasnt 
given a reason for the acquaintance wanting to use his account. But he wasnt able to open 
an account for himself and he needed a facility to pay his wages into. He only realised that 
there was a problem when these random payments came in and he told the acquaintance 
that hed have to have the payments transferred to someone else and he happened to have 
someone else whod be able to receive the funds. 
At this point our adjudicator, pointed out that the funds had been transferred to an account in 
the name of the person he said was the acquaintance. Mr G said that this was when he 
realised that hed been deceived. Mr G also subsequently said that the account was opened 
specifically for the acquaintance to use, rather than it being a coincidence it was opened on 
the same day. Finally, Mr G also provided a message, purportedly from the acquaintance, to 
support what he said.   
Ive thought about what Mr G has said. But even if I exclude the initial account of events     
Mr G provided to Starling, which he said was provided to him by the acquaintance because 
he didnt know what to say, there are still a number of other inconsistencies in what said hes 
throughout the course of the investigation. So its difficult for me to place much weight at all 
on what Mr G is now saying, without anything to corroborate it. 
Im particularly concerned that Mr G initially told Startling that this acquaintance was a 
primary school friend whose surname he didnt know and to whose account he was going to 
transfer the funds received. Yet he then told our adjudicator he was a friend who he more 
recently went to school with but who since more recently left. He also provided a screenshot 
of a message purported to be from the acquaintance which had his full name on it. 
I understand that Mr G says he doesnt have any more messages from the acquaintance, 
because the messaging app, deletes messages after 24 hours. And I know that this can 
sometimes be the case. But this doesnt explain how Mr G was able to retain a single 
message, which doesnt really do much to support his version of events, for a number of 
months. Especially as he says he confronted the acquaintance, through messages, once he realised he had been misled. I find it somewhat odd that Mr G would have taken steps to 
retain a meaningless message, instead of ones which would have helped his case once he 
says he found out hed been misled.   
Finally, Im afraid that Mr G timeline of events doesnt really add up either. Mr G says he met 
the acquaintance in town when he was asked for help. Hes account on what happened has 
differed from him allowing the acquaintance to use an account he was already in the process 
of opening to him opening the account specifically for the acquaintance because he didnt 
have his own one even though Mr G initially told Starling the funds were always going to be 
transferred to the acquaintances account. 
In any event, notwithstanding the inconsistency, it would, in any event, have been a 
remarkably quick sequence of events if Mr G was asked for help by the acquaintance, 
decided to open an account to help him, passed on the details for the account and fraudulent 
funds, from multiple sources, entered the account on the same day without some kind of 
willing cooperation from Mr G. Indeed, this pattern of fraudulent funds entering a new 
account and being transferred is often, but not always, present where an account holder is 
complicit in fraudulent activity.
So Im afraid that the inconsistencies together with the implausibility of what Mr G now says 
is the truth as well as the lack of anything at all to corroborate it, means I cant reasonably 
conclude he was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I think Starling was reasonably 
entitled to conclude that its more likely than not Mr G complicit in fraudulent activity taking 
place on his account. So I dont think that Starling acted unfairly towards Mr G when 
recording a fraud prevention marker against him and Im not upholding this complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr G  especially given the effect Mr G says 
the fraud marker is having on him. But even taking into account Mr Gs age and the impact 
he says the marker is having on him, I cant ignore the fact that he appears to have been 
complicit in fraudulent activity. So I hope Mr G will understand the reasons for my decision 
and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman