DRN-3796580
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy with the service shes received from Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust).
What happened
In 2017 Miss G purchased a table and chairs, and alongside those, a five-year furniture 
warranty underwritten by Amtrust. Miss G made claims under her policy. 
In January 2022 Miss G contacted Amtrust. She said she believed the previous repair, eight 
months prior, had failed due to the way it was carried out. Miss G didnt want the same 
contractor to attend, and instead provided photos of her table. Amtrust reviewed these 
internally but didnt agree it was a failed repair. 
Miss G was unhappy with this, along with the fact Amtrust had discussed the alleged failed 
repair with the previous contractor. She says she explicitly said she didnt want the previous 
contractor to be aware of her dissatisfaction, so she feels Amtrust has breached her 
confidentiality and regulations. Shes also unhappy with the claim process and time taken by 
Amtrust.
As Miss G was unhappy with the service she received from Amtrust, she approached this 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she listened to the calls between 
Miss G and Amtrust, and not making the previous contractor aware wasnt discussed. 
Instead Amtrust agreed not to send the same contractor. So, she said Amtrust hadnt gone 
against Miss Gs request. 
The investigator said she thought it wasnt unreasonable for Amtrust to discuss the previous 
repair with the contractor, as they needed to gather information about the work carried out. 
She also said Amtrust had considered the claim and complaint as she wouldve expected, 
and that Amtrust hadnt acted unfairly by declining to carry out further repairs.
Miss G didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Miss G says she explicitly told Amtrust that she didnt want the previous repair contractor to 
be made aware of her dissatisfaction. And she says that as Amtrust discussed the previous 
repairs with them, that theyve breached her confidentiality, gone against what was agreed 
and breached relevant rules and regulations.
Ive listened to the calls Miss G had with Amtrust, and Im not in agreement. During the calls, 
Miss G outlined that she was unhappy with the repairs as she believed they had failed. And 
she said she didnt want Amtrust to send the same contractor to carry out any further repairs. 
Amtrust said theyd try and allocate a different technician or failing that, they would refer 
internally. Amtrust then asked for photos of the alleged failed repair, which Miss G provided, 
to enable them to consider matters further, rather than sending the same contractor.
Having listened to the calls, whilst Miss G did say she didnt want the same contractor to 
attend, there wasnt discussion about them not being made aware. So, I cant agree that 
Amtrust went against Miss Gs request, or regulations, or that they agreed to not make the 
contractor aware. 
Amtrust has explained that when a failed repair is reported, it is usual practice that they 
would consult that contractor. I dont think thats unreasonable, as the contractor will know 
exactly what repairs were carried out previously, which would then allow Amtrust to 
investigate and consider things further. In addition, the claim forms also outline that Amtrust 
may contact third parties.
As Miss B didnt want the same contractor to attend and inspect the alleged failed repairs, 
they asked Miss G to send in photos. They were then considered internally by a senior 
representative of Amtrust. As part of their consideration, they established the previous 
repairs carried out. And based on the information provided, they didnt conclude the previous 
repair had failed.
Amtrust says the table has faded over time, rather than a failed repair. Whilst I appreciate 
Miss G doesnt agree with this, based on what Ive seen, I dont think the conclusion reached 
by Amtrust is unreasonable, as there hasnt been anything provided which demonstrates a 
failed repair as alleged. If Miss G has any other evidence that the cause is a failed repair, 
such as additional images, she should submit these to Amtrust for consideration, but based 
on what Ive seen so far, I dont think their decision is unreasonable.
Miss G is also unhappy with the claim process and time taken by Amtrust. However, Amtrust 
asked for images as Miss G didnt want the original contractor to attend, reviewed these 
shortly after and then contacted Miss G to relay the outcome. And Amtrust acknowledged 
Miss Gs complaint and issued a final response within the relevant timescales (a business 
has eight weeks to issue a final response in line with the relevant complaint handling rules). 
So, on this basis, I dont think Amtrust have handled matters unreasonably.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman