DRN-2071373
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly 
refused to pay her claim under her pet policy because it said the cause of her claim was 
excluded.
What happened
In February 2020, when walking her 11-year old dog, playing ball, Mrs W noticed her dogs 
mouth was bleeding with her jaw hanging down. So, she took her to vet immediately. The vet 
said her dog had broken her jaw and required surgery. 
Mrs W made a claim to Red Sands for £752.10.  Red Sands said her claim wasnt covered 
because it concerned dental treatment. Mrs W complained and explained her dog had 
broken her jaw. Red Sands said the cause of her dogs broken jaw came from a dental issue 
which meant her claim wasnt covered. This is because her policy excluded dental treatment. 
Mrs W was very dissatisfied, so she brought her complaint to us. The investigator didnt think 
Red Sands has done anything wrong. Mrs W disagreed so her complaint has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
I understand and appreciate Mrs W will be very disappointed with my decision considering 
the impact of this claim has had on her financially given the pandemic. But my role and that 
of this service is to assess whether Red Sands did anything wrong given the terms and 
conditions of its policy.
As the investigator explained, Mrs Ws policy excludes claims in relation to dental treatment. 
Insurers are entitled to decide which risks they want to cover and which they dont. Theres 
nothing wrong with that. Their duty is to explain this on the policy documentation which I 
consider Red Sands did here, as it detailed it both in the Product Information Document 
(PID) and the policy terms.
The exclusion in the PID is as follows:
What is not covered
Significant Exclusions or Limitations:
Any dental or gum treatment including root canal treatment.
The exclusion in the policy says the following:
Section 1 Vet Fees
1.3 Exclusions
The following are excluded from cover
1.3.10 Any dental or gum treatment, including root canal treatment, and any investigation 
costs leading up to a dental diagnosis.
Its clear from the evidence that the injury Mrs Ws dog suffered presented as if she had 
suffered a fracture to her jaw, which must have been very distressing for both her dog and 
Mrs W. Therefore, its very understandable why Mrs W believed Red Sands were wrong.
However, from the vet notes its clear a bit of the maxilla was hanging with some teeth when 
the vet examined her. Following the operation to repair it, the vet sent off two samples to 
check one was soft tissue and the other was bone. The results of those tests were as 
follows: 
Histology report 26/2/2020 (Gum sample)
Diagnosis  Mild active fibrinosuppurative inflammation
Comment  There is evidence of mild acute focal degeneration and neutophilic 
inflammation within the connective tissue and interstitial muscular tissue. Although 
this is not aetiologically specific and a direct cause is not evident, it is consistent with 
recent trauma at the site. No neoplastic tissue is evident.
Histology report 2/3/2020 (bone and gum sample)
Histopathology  No micro-organisms or neoplastic tissue is evident.
Diagnosis  Chronic active inflammation/gingivitis
Comment  This is evidence of gingival inflammation that extends deeply into 
subjacent muscular tissue [my emphasis]. The bone present in these sections is 
benign and well differentiated. This either represents a pre-existing alveolar bone that 
is undergoing mild remodelling (secondary to inflammation/trauma) or meta-plastic 
bone as might be encountered in benign fibromatous epulitides. There is no direct 
evidence of osteomyelitis and other than mild periosteal inflammation, a clear reason 
for the reported osteolysis is not identified.   
On this basis Red Sands concluded quite reasonably in my view, that periodontal disease 
caused the bone to weaken so it fractured when Mrs Ws dog was catching a ball. That is a 
dental disease caused by gingivitis in this instance, which unfortunately simply is not 
covered under Mrs Ws policy as detailed above. 
There is no evidence otherwise and whilst I dont doubt at all Mrs Ws dog is well loved and 
well looked after, but it remains the cause of her dogs fractured jaw on the basis of these 
histology reports is due to dental disease. Red Sands forwarded to us varying explanations 
of gum disease. One of which said:
Gum disease is usually silent. When it starts there are no outward signs and 
symptoms.
Another said:
The ultimate complication  is a pathologic jaw fracture.
So, I dont consider Red Sands did anything wrong in not paying Mrs Ws claim because the 
cause of the claim came from a dental disease.My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman