DRN-2325607
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wrongly advised him to invest too much money, too 
soon and to put this money at too great a risk  in 1991.
What happened
His representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), said:
Mr S was an inexperienced investor
He had just retired and had no ongoing income
He was advised to invest 60% of his retirement lump sum of £16,000, and he needed 
to preserve this money till his pension kicked in
The balanced fund exposed most of this money to equities, meaning it posed a 
significant risk to his capital i.e. too great a risk given his situation
HSBC said Mr S held this investment till 2009 and received back just under £20,000. So he 
had not found he needed to access this money early  before he received his pension. It 
said that given the passage of time it no longer had any documentation concerning the 
original advice but was satisfied this was a reasonable recommendation given the 
surrounding evidence. This included the fact that Mr S held the investment for 18 years; he 
made three further risk-based investments after 1991; and the evidence from 2001 showed 
he had more than £100,000 in savings.
An investigator at this service did not feel there was sufficient evidence to uphold the 
complaint, largely for the reasons HSBC had outlined.
Mr S representative did not agree, saying:
Given Mr S age, situation, lack of investment experience and likely financial plans, 
this was clearly unsuitable advice. Only in exceptional circumstances  such as a 
large lottery win  would it have been appropriate to make such a recommendation
Mr S was retired, living on a small income and with his pension still four years away
He had never invested before and did not seek investment advice but was 
approached by a bank representative
He had very limited savings and should not have been advised to invest 60% of his 
lump sum
At best he should have been recommended a lower-risk product
The fact that Mr S made three further investments does not prove that this advice at 
this time was right; nor does one know if the further investments were appropriate
Equally, the fact that he lived frugally until his pension kicked and did not need to 
surrender this investment doesnt validate the advice
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons.
My role, and that of this service, is to decide whether there is sufficient persuasive evidence 
to safely conclude that a business did something wrong. In this case, whether the 
recommendation was clearly unsuitable given what is known about Mr S overall situation.
In this context, the absence of any documentation about the original advice makes it very 
difficult to be sure about Mr Ss overall financial situation back in 1991. While it appears clear 
that he was advised to invest £10,000 and that this represented 60% of the £10,000 lump 
sum hed received, it seems very unlikely that this was 60% of his overall savings.
While Mr Ss representative claimed he had very little in savings in 1991, HSBCs records 
showed he had £112,000 on deposit in 2001, the time he sought further investment advice. 
Given Mr S had retired by 1991 and had no plans to return to work I think it is more likely 
than not that he had a substantial amount in savings at the time (in order to have more than 
£100,000 10 years later). He also had, according to HSBC, more than £4,000 directly 
invested in stocks and shares.
While I agree, in theory, with Mr Ss representative about further investments not justifying 
earlier advice, in this case the fact that Mr S made four further investments (three in 
balanced-risk products) does raise doubts about his alleged lack of investment knowledge or 
experience. In most cases, a detailed fact find or suitability letter can clarify this issue; in the 
absence of one its not always possible to be certain about these matters.
I also note that Mr S representative refers to Mr S not receiving his pension for another four 
years, without specifying whether he is referring to the state pension. I assume, from the 
dates, he was. From what Ive read about Mr S occupation, it seems more likely than not 
that he would also have received a government pension when he retired (and collected the 
lump sum). Mr S representative makes no mention of this and I think this casts further doubt 
on Mr S true financial situation at the time.
Overall, while I have some concerns about Mr S being recommended a medium-risk 
investment, in the absence of persuasive supporting evidence I am not convinced there is 
enough evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman