DRN-3487814
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) 
irresponsibly gave him a credit card account that he couldnt afford.
What happened
In October 2017, Mr S applied for and was given a credit card account with Barclaycard. 
Mr S was given an initial credit limit of £250. This credit limit was increased to £500 in 
August 2019. 
In 2022, Mr S complained to Barclaycard to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for him because it wasnt affordable and that Barclaycard ought to have made a 
better effort to understand his financial circumstances before increasing his credit.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr S didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Barclaycard will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Ss complaint is that Barclaycard made credit available that was unaffordable. 
Barclaycard has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to 
determine the amount of credit it was able to offer, initially and for the credit increase. Its 
possible that Barclaycard failed to make adequate checks before providing Mr S with credit. 
But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused Barclaycard to think 
the credit was unaffordable.
I say this because Mr S told Barclaycard that he earned a good salary. I say this because 
the initial credit limit and credit increase were modest and the monthly payments for that 
credit would have been relatively modest and subsequently the account was largely well 
managed. And I have not seen evidence of financial difficulties at those times to make me 
think that Barclaycard would have been put off providing reasonably modest credit on 
these credit cards.
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mr S to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that a 
more thorough affordability check would have led Barclaycard to think that the credit it 
provided Mr S was unreasonable. 
I know that Mr S will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Mr S to know that I have 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman