DRN-2248211
The complaint
 Mrs W (represented by a third party) complains that Mutual Clothing & Supply Company 
Limited (Mutual) provided her with loans she couldnt afford to repay. She said the lender 
didnt do enough checks which forced her into a spiral of debt. 
What happened
 Mrs W has complained about a total of 9 loans. A summary of Mrs Ws borrowing, based on 
the information provided to us from Mutual can be found below;
loan 
numberloan 
amountreceived dateactual 
repayment 
dateterm of the 
loan (weeks)weekly 
repayment 
amount
1 £600.00 29/01/2011 21/09/2011 51 £16.47
2 £300.00 04/06/2011 23/11/2011 51 £8.23
3 £600.00 02/07/2011 26/09/2012 102 £9.11
4 £950.00 21/09/2011 06/03/2013 102 £14.43
5 £1,000.00 19/11/2011 outstanding 102 £15.19
6 £1,000.00 26/09/2012 outstanding 102 £15.19
7 £600.00 08/12/2012 outstanding 102 £9.11
8 £700.00 19/01/2013 outstanding 102 £10.63
9 £1,200.00 09/03/2013 outstanding 102 £18.23
The total Mrs W had to repay Mutual could be a combination of the weekly repayments. 
Mutual has also told us that it has written off the balances for loans 5 - 9 and it is therefore 
not chasing Mrs W to repay what is owed. 
After Mrs W complained to Mutual Clothing it issued its final response letter (FRL) which 
didnt uphold her complaint. In this letter it said the loans couldnt be considered because 
they were taken too long ago. So Mutual considered these loans were out of this services 
judication.
An adjudicator reviewed the objection made by Mutual but they didnt think the complaint 
had been made too late. At this time, the adjudicator also thought that Mutual shouldve seen 
that by loan 3 Mrs W was spending a significant amount of her income repaying her loans. 
And from loan 6, the adjudicator thought the pattern of lending in itself was sufficient to say 
that Mutual shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Mutual didnt agree that the case was one we could consider or the outcome that the 
adjudicator reached. So, the case was passed to an ombudsman to deal with the jurisdiction 
element of the complaint. 
A different ombudsman reviewed the complaint and decided the complaint was made within 
the time allowed. 
The case was then passed back to the adjudicator, who reviewed the outcome. She still felt 
that loans 3  9 shouldnt have been granted. 
Mrs W appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings. 
However, Mutual didnt respond once we told it the case was being passed back to an 
ombudsman. But I have considered what Mutual said in response to the adjudicators view. It 
provided some further comments about the approach this service has taken to dealing with 
these types of cases. Mutuals response in summary was;
The FCA has found that long term use or repeat borrowing of home credit loans is 
not harmful
There is no evidence to support the assertion that the length of time a borrower is 
indebted for is an indicator of unsustainable lending in home credit. 
This service hasnt considered levels of discretionary and non-discretionary 
expenditure 
This service hasnt considered what a reasonable check may have shown Mutual
The points made by Mrs Ws representative lack evidence. 
There is no indication that Mrs W was using other high cost credit and or home credit 
providers. 
Mrs W had a good repayment history at the time each lending decision was made. 
Each loan was assessed and within a low band of Mrs Ws disposable income.
There is a substantial body of evidence that Ms Ws circumstances and finances 
changed unpredictably after the loans from Mutual were passed 
In addition to this, Mutual says that Mrs W did encounter repayment problems but that was 
down to a change in circumstances rather than as a result of the loans that Mutual had 
provided. 
As no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me to make a decision on 
the lending. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Mutual has also recently received a number of decisions from this service that outline our 
approach to dealing with home credit cases. They dealt with, amongst other things, the 
broader regulatory and cost arguments that Mutual has made here  in essence, disagreeing 
with Mutual on these points.  Given these have been addressed in some detail before and 
arent unique to the individual circumstances of this particular case, I dont intend to revisit 
these arguments in detail again in this decision. For the avoidance of doubt though, Im not 
persuaded by Mutuals arguments for the same reasons explained to it previously.
All of these loans were taken out while the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) was responsible for 
consumer credit regulation. And the majority of the regulations was contained with the 
guidance it issued in March 2010 on irresponsible lending.
It is important to note that the OFT didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the extent and scope and the types and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the sustainability 
of the arrangement for the consumer. Although the OFTs ILG guidance does provide some 
examples of information a lender may wish to use. 
In other words, the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of 
the risk to the lender of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer of incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequence as a result of the 
decision to lend.
As set out in the ILG, the risk to the consumer directly relates to the particulars of the lending 
and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of 
creditworthiness would likely need to be adaptable to the individual needs and 
circumstances of a consumer. That is to say, what is sufficient for one consumer might not 
be for another, or indeed what might be sufficient for a consumer in one circumstance might 
not be so for the same consumer in other circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with 
the circumstance of each request for credit. In general, Id expect a lender to require more 
assurance, the greater the potential risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit 
in a sustainable way. 
But, certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include, but are not limited to:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to repay a 
given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the agreement (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the 
credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of credit agreements, and the longer the 
period of time during which a customer has been given the credit (reflecting the risk 
that ongoing use of these agreements may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable).
Loans 1  2The adjudicator didnt think it was wrong of Mutual to have provided loans 1 and 2. Mrs W 
appears to have accepted our adjudicators findings about these loans. Mutual also appears 
to have accepted the adjudicators findings  albeit it did provide some comments around the 
checks that it carried out before these loans were approved.
But, taking into account what Mutual knew about Miss W at the time, and the fact it was early 
on in the lending relationship with Mrs W, I dont think Mutual was wrong to have approved 
these loans. 
Loans 3 - 5
The adjudicator however, did think that loans 3 - 5 shouldnt have been provided. This is 
because, in the adjudicators view, the repayments Mrs W was committed to making were a 
significant portion of her declared weekly income. 
Mutual has provided details of the applications for these loans. For loan 3, Mrs W declared a 
weekly wage of £300. The expenditure box isnt completed, but Mutual has told us that this 
meant that there was no change in Mrs Ws circumstances, and the only expenditure it held 
for Mrs W was £200 her mortgage, as well as the outstanding credit commitments that Mrs 
W owed to Mutual. 
For Loan 4, Mrs W confirmed her income was again, £300 per week. This time, Mrs W 
confirmed she had £200 a month of credit commitments and £82 commitment to rent or a 
mortgage. Finally, for loan 5, Mrs W confirmed her income was £750 per month (so around 
£173 per week) and rent or mortgage of £200 per month and £200 for other credit 
commitments. 
I do have some concerns around the type and level of checks that Mutual carried out. For 
example, at loan 5, Mrs W had declared a decrease in her income  with no further 
explanation of this. Equally, it seems that Mutual was aware of some of Mrs Ws living costs 
 but I cant say that it had a thorough understanding of her situation. 
Whilst Mutual needed to have done more, I cant say what further checks may have been 
because I dont have a record of Mrs Ws credit file or bank statements. But, as Ive said 
above, the assessment Mutual needed to have extended beyond checking whether the loan 
would be pounds and pence affordable.
For loans 3 and 4, due to the overlapping loans Mrs W was committed to spending more 
than 10% of her income to repay her weekly commitments. While for loan 5, due to a 
decrease in Mrs Ws income she was committing to spending more than 25% of her 
declared weekly income in order to service all the loans she had outstanding at the time. 
In these circumstances, there was a significant risk that Mrs W wouldnt have been able to 
meet her existing commitments without having to borrow again. By loan 3 this had already 
started to be demonstrated, with Mrs W regularly taking new loans, which had the effect of 
increasing the amount of time she would be indebted to Mutual along with her generally 
increasing weekly credit commitments to Mutual. 
So, I dont think the checks for loans 3 to 5 went far enough and based on what Mutual 
actually knew about Mrs W suggested she would struggle to repay her loans. So it shouldnt 
have given her loans 3 - 5.
I dont think I need to recreate individual, proportionate affordability checks from loan 6 
onwards in this case. Ill explain why in the next section.In addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to Mrs W by 
Mutual, I also think its fair and reasonable to look at the overall pattern of lending and what 
unfolded during the course of Mrs Ws lending history with Mutual. This is because, there 
may come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself demonstrates that 
the lending was unsustainable.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because both the ILG defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time and while meeting other 
reasonable commitments. 
It follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have realised, that 
a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able 
to make their repayments without borrowing further. I think this point was reached by loan 6.
I think Mutual was wrong to have provided loans 6  9 because Mrs W wasnt in a position to 
sustainably repay them for the following reasons:
By loan 6, Mutual ought to have realised Mrs W was not managing to repay her loans 
sustainably. Mrs W had been indebted to Mutual for around 20 months. While I 
accept the first loan was due to run for a period of a year, during this time, Mrs W 
was given further lending. So, 21 months after she started borrowing, with a relatively 
small loan, shed been given a further five loans and only two of them had been fully 
repaid. 
Mrs W started off with a loan of £600 to be repaid within a year and then she 
continued to borrow taking loans of between £300 and £1,000. For loan 6 she took 
out another loan for £1,000  this was the second consecutive loan for this amount 
and was taken before the previous £1,000 loan was repaid. This pattern in my view 
isnt of someone who is able to manage their money, given how quickly they are 
returning for borrowing once a previous loan has been repaid.  Indeed, the sixth loan 
was taken on the same day that loan three had been repaid. And a similar pattern 
was visible when loan four was taken out the same day loan one was repaid. 
I also think that it ought to have been apparent to Mutual that Mrs W was unlikely to 
have been using these loans as a useful means of managing any shortfalls she was 
having  after all she was regularly borrowing over in total just over two years. And 
although each loan was due to run for a period of one or two years she was regularly 
returning for new lending. Which would suggest it wasnt a short-term shortfall but a 
longer-term need. Especially the loan amounts and total repayments werent 
decreasing in any meaningful way over the life of Mrs Ws borrowing from Mutual. 
Mrs Ws first loan was for £600 and her final loan was for £1,200, which was her 
largest loan to date. By this time her weekly commitments were now more than four 
times higher than the time of her first loan, taking into account the overlapping nature 
of the lending. And more than two years had passed since her first loan in which she 
had taken nine loans. 
This pattern shows that Mrs W clearly wasnt reducing her indebtedness with Mutual 
and so, although she was repaying loans in line with the credit agreements, she 
wasnt actually making any headway into reducing her overall capital balance  
because she continued to take further lending. From what Ive seen, I think that by 
loan 6 at the very latest Mutual ought to have thought it was more likely than not that 
Mrs W had an ongoing need for this type of credit and was dependent on it. 
I think that Mrs W lost out because Mutual continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ws indebtedness by allowing 
her to take new credit over an extended period of time.
the number of loans which Mrs W borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mrs Ws ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these loans.
Putting things right
 In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs W from loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs W may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs W in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs W would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mutual shouldnt have given Mrs W loans 3 to 9. But what I do have to consider is that 
Mutual has told us that although Mrs W didnt fully repay loans 5  9 Mutual wrote off any 
outstanding balance that remained. 
Looking at the information Mutual has provided for the loans 5  9 Mrs W borrowed £4,500 
in principal, and based on the table that Mutual has provided Mrs W appears to have repaid 
Mutual a total of £4,639.20 for these loans. So it does seem that even though Mutual wrote 
off some of what was owed, that a refund will still be due for these loans because Mrs W 
repaid Mutual more than she borrowed for these loans.   
A) Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs W towards 
interest, fees and charges on loan 4.
B) Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs 
W which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs W originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) For loans 5  9 Mutual should rework the loan accounts so that all repayments that 
were made go towards the principal that she borrowed. If and when Mrs W has paid enough to repay what she borrowed then Mutual should also calculate 8%* simple 
interest from the date the overpayment arose to the date the complaint is settled. 
D) If after carrying out the above a balance remains, Mutual is entitled to use any 
refund from loan 4 (and any other loan) to offset any principal balance that may be 
owing on any other loan. If Mrs W hasnt repaid enough to completely repay the 
principal on all the loans, then Mutual, in line with what it has already done shouldnt 
chase for any remaining balance. 
E) Remove any adverse credit file information recorded about loans 3 - 5. The overall 
pattern of Mrs Ws borrowing for loans 6 to 9 means any information recorded about 
them is adverse, so Mutual should remove these loans entirely from Mrs Ws credit 
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mutual to deduct tax from this interest. Mutual should 
give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax Mutual has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I partly uphold Mrs Ws complaint. 
Mutual Clothing & Supply Company Limited should put things right for Mrs W as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman