DRN-1739712
 
The complaint
Mr B says Western Circle Limited (trading as Quick Loans Express) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about six instalment loans Quick Loans Express provided to Mr B between 
August 2018 and May 2019. Mr B borrowed amounts ranging between £200 and £450 to be 
repaid in two monthly instalments. There were no significant breaks between the loans and 
they didnt overlap. Mr B repaid his later loans very shortly after taking them out. Mr B repaid 
all his loans. Quick Loans Express offered to refund the interest Mr B paid on his last three 
loans, as a gesture of goodwill. But Mr B was unhappy with this. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Bs complaint in part and thought the loans from loan four 
onwards shouldnt have been given. Quick Loans Express disagreed and it offered redress 
for loans five and six. Mr Bs representative didnt respond to this offer, so the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Loans Express needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Mr B could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Quick Loans Express should fairly and 
reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable). 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quick Loans Express was required to 
establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Quick Loans Express asked Mr B for information about his income and expenditure and it 
carried out credit checks. Mr B said his monthly income was £3,200 and his monthly 
expenditure was about £1,000. For loans one to three, there was nothing untoward in Quick 
Loans Express credit checks that should have prompted further checks. 
I think these checks went far enough for loans one to three. Given the loan amounts, what 
was apparent about Mr Bs circumstances at the time and his history with Quick Loans 
Express, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate to ask him for the amount of information 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the information Mr 
B provided or the information Quick Loans Express shouldve been aware of, which meant it 
wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what Mr B was saying. So I cant say it was 
wrong for Quick Loans Express to have provided loans one to three. 
But, as our adjudicator explained, Quick Loans Express checks for loan four would most 
likely have shown that Mr B was having problems managing his money. This was because 
Quick Loans Express credit check showed that when Mr B asked for loan four, and his 
further loans, he already had three or more short term loans outstanding with other lenders. 
So I think Quick Loans Express should have realised that Mr B would be unlikely to be able 
to sustainably repay loan four or any subsequent loans. 
I also think that Quick Loans Express should have made better checks for loans five and six. 
Mr B had been borrowing continuously for eight months and the amounts he borrowed 
remained the same for his last three loans. I think Quick Loans Express should then have 
looked more closely at Mr Bs finances to ensure he was using the loans as they were 
intended. And, from the information Mr B has provided, I think better checks would have 
shown that Mr B was gambling heavily. I think if Quick Loans Express had seen this it 
wouldnt have provided further loans. 
So I think Quick Loans Express was wrong to have provided loans four to six. 
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr B, I think Quick Loans Express should:refund all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans four to six;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans four to six from Mr Bs credit file;
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Loans Express to take off tax from this interest. 
Quick Loans Express must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Mr Bs 
complaint. I require Western Circle Limited (trading as Quick Loans Express) to pay Mr B 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman