DRN-3838595
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE have turned down his claim under his
travel insurance policy 
What happened
Mr F booked a holiday in February 2022 through a travel agent. He bought a travel
insurance policy underwritten by Great Lakes at the same time to provide insurance cover
for his trip. The holiday was due to start on 9 May 2022. Mr F had been diagnosed with a
medical condition in November 2021 and told he needed surgery. Hed been placed on a
waiting list for the surgery with the NHS. At the end of March 2022 Mr Fs local hospital
contacted him and offered him an operation date of 9 April 2022, which he accepted. He
received a letter confirming this and an accompanying booklet, which made it clear the
operation was routine keyhole surgery, with discharge the same day. In view of this, Mr F
wasnt concerned about recovering in time for his holiday on 9 May.
Unfortunately, the operation didnt turn out to be routine and Mr F suffered complications.
The complications prevented Mr F from recovering normally, and he had considerable
discomfort when he was trying to walk and drive. Mr F desperately wanted to go on his
holiday, but when the time came he knew it wouldnt be possible for him to do so, due to the
long drive.
So, Mr F cancelled his holiday and put in a claim under his policy for the loss hed incurred.
He completed the claim form required and provided all the necessary medical evidence. And
he sent all this off with a copy of the insurance policy document as requested.
The claim administrator, on behalf of Great Lakes, then sent Mr F an email declining his
claim on the basis of a policy term, which they quoted and referred to as under Health
Conditions. They said that theyd relied on this term because the reason for the cancellation
of Mr Fs holiday was known about prior to him booking it.
Mr F wrote back to the claim administrator pointing out that the policy term theyd quoted did
not appear anywhere in the policy document hed been provided with when he bought the
policy. The claim administrator replied a few days later saying that they were maintaining
their decision to decline his claim and offered him the chance to raise a complaint with the
policy administrator, who also acts for Great Lakes. Mr F did this and provided a very clear
explanation of his complaint. The policy administrator then provided him with a final
response letter maintaining the decision to decline the claim and quoting a different policy
term, which also didnt appear in Mr Fs policy.
Mr F asked us to consider his complaint. One of our investigators did this. She explained
that Mr Fs policy didnt actually cover losses resulting from the cancellation of his holiday,
which meant Great Lakes wasnt obliged to settle his claim.
Mr F wasnt happy with the investigators view on his complaint and asked for an
ombudsmans decision. He thought shed moved the goal posts, as Great Lakes
administrators had never suggested that they were turning down his claim because his
policy didnt provide cancellation cover.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 November 2022 in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator is right that the policy Mr F purchased via the travel agent doesnt cover
cancellation. I do of course appreciate that this lack of cover wasnt the reason given by
Great Lakes claims and policy administrators for Mr Fs claim being declined, but our
investigators have to consider the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances for
any complaint. So, I dont think it would have been appropriate for our investigator to
completely ignore this.
And, whilst it was obviously very frustrating for Mr F to find out at such a late stage that his
claim isnt covered for a different reason, it is clear from the policy document it isnt. And I
dont think it would be appropriate for me to ignore this and make Great Lakes pay a claim,
when the policy terms clearly show its not covered.
If Mr F thinks the policy he was sold was inappropriate, then hell need to make a complaint
to the business responsible for the sale of the policy. And he could then ask us to consider a
complaint about this business if hes not happy with their response. Ive already explained
this to Mr F over the telephone.
All this having been said, I think the way Mr Fs claim, and the complaint linked directly to it,
was handled by Great Lakes administrators was terrible. And Great Lakes are responsible
for the actions of these parties. The policy administrators have told us that the wrong policy
term was quoted as a result of human error. And, whilst this can happen, the claim
administrators had two opportunities to decline the claim for the right reason, as Mr F
pointed out to them after the first time they declined his claim that theyd quoted a term not in
his policy. And the policy administrator had a further chance to decline the claim for the right
reason when Mr F complained. Yet, despite this, both administrators maintained the decision
and didnt even address Mr Fs point on the policy term. I think all this caused Mr F fairly
significant distress and inconvenience, bearing in mind the health problems he already had.
After all, hed have been totally frustrated, upset and found it hard to understand why the
administrators couldnt see they were quoting a term not in the policy. In view of this, I think
Great Lakes should pay Mr F £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience he
experienced.
I gave Mr F and Great Lakes until 1 December 2022 to provide further comments and 
evidence. And, neither party has provided any further comments or evidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further comments or evidence, I see no reason to depart 
from the outcome I provisionally decided was fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
It therefore follows that I consider the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Fs complaint is for 
Great Lakes to pay him £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of the poor handling of his claim by their administrators. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Fs complaint against Great 
Lakes Insurance SE and award him £200 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman