DRN-4410735
The complaint
Mr C complains about how AWP P&C SA handled his claim against his travel insurance 
policy. Reference to AWP includes its agents.    
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr C has travel insurance underwritten by AWP as a benefit of 
a bank account. He was on a group trip that had a departure date of 24 February 2023 
and an intended return date of 5 March 2023. Mr C had connecting flights both ways. 
On Mr Cs return journey, his first flight was delayed for over seven hours due to adverse 
weather conditions. That meant Mr C arrived too late to take his planned connecting 
flight to return to the UK. Mr C asked his trip provider to arrange a new return flight, 
which it did. Mr C reimbursed the trip provider for the cost of the new return flight. The 
new return flight departed on 5 March 2023. I understand that Mr C arrived back in the 
UK on 6 March 2023. 
Mr C made a claim against his policy in relation to the cost of the replacement return 
flight and his additional food costs. AWP declined Mr Cs claim. It said that for a 
successful claim for travel delay, Mr C would have had to travel to his point of departure 
and have checked-in
Mr C says that AWP didnt consider his claim properly as it didnt consider what he was 
actually claiming for. He says that his claim is covered under the Missed Departure 
provisions in the policy. Mr C also says that hes been discriminated against as the 
others in his group had their claims settled, including people who had the same policy as 
him. Mr C wants AWP to consider his claim properly, treat all customers the same and 
not discriminate. 
 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said initially that AWP hadnt 
acted unfairly in declining the claim. Mr C didnt agree, and the investigator considered 
the matter again. She said that the Missed departure provisions of the policy cover 
what happened here. The investigator didnt think that AWP had discriminated against 
Mr C. She said that AWP should reconsider Mr Cs claim for missed departure in line 
with the remaining terms of the policy and pay him compensation of £100 in relation to 
his distress and inconvenience. 
AWP said that it was willing to consider the claim under Missed departure if Mr C 
could show that the additional costs were for continuation of his trip and on confirmation 
from the airline of the reason and duration of the delay. 
Mr C confirmed that his claim was for a new flight for his return home and provided 
confirmation that the most significant reason for the delay was adverse weather. He 
maintained that AWP had discriminated against him. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows: 
Section 3  Travel disruption
This section of your policy explains the cover we provide for travel delay, missed departure 
or accommodation disturbance whilst on your trip. []
Missed departure
The benefit provided below is intended to provide compensation if you do not reach your 
point of departure until after the latest time permitted by the carrier for check-in or boarding.
If you arrive too late (as shown on your ticket or itinerary) to board your pre-booked public 
transport at any of your trip departure points as a result of:
1. Public transport services failing to get you to your departure point due to [] adverse 
weather conditions [] 
We will pay you up to £5,000 for:
Your reasonable and necessary extra travel (including up to £200 for taxis and hire cars) 
and accommodation expenses, which are of a similar standard to that of  your pre-booked 
travel and accommodation, to allow you to continue to your trip destination or to return 
home. 
Public transport includes Any publicly licensed aircraft [] on which you are booked to 
travel. 
Has AWP acted unfairly or unreasonably?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AWP has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I uphold Mr Cs complaint 
and Ill explain why:    
I think that AWP acted unfairly and unreasonably in declining Mr Cs claim in the 
first instance. It has now agreed to consider Mr Cs claim under the Missed 
departure provisions Ive set out above. I think its right to do so. 
The policy doesnt define point of departure, so Ive proceeded on the basis of the 
ordinary, natural meaning of that phrase. I think the point of departure here was the 
airport for the departure of Mr Cs final flight home. Mr C didnt get to that airport in 
time for his final flight because the first flight of his return journey failed to get him 
there due to adverse weather conditions. Mr C has provided confirmation from the 
airline that the most significant reason for the delay was adverse weather. 
Mr C asked his travel provider to book an alternative return flight, which it did. He 
has provided this service with evidence to show that he reimbursed his travel 
provider £355 for the additional flight home. AWP should consider Mr Cs claim 
under the Missed departure provisions of the policy.  Theres no cover for additional food costs under Missed departure, so I think that 
AWP acted fairly in declining that part of Mr Cs claim.
What happened here doesnt fall within the Travel delay provisions as theres no 
cover for travel delay unless Mr C had travelled to the point of departure and 
checked-in. That didnt happen here. 
I think theres been confusion in this case. AWP initially declined the claim under 
the Travel delay provisions of the policy whereas it should have considered the 
claim under Missed departure. But I havent seen any evidence that it 
discriminated against Mr C. 
Mr C says that others on his trip had their claims against their insurers settled, 
including individuals who had the same cover as him as a benefit of their bank 
account. I havent seen the detail of the claims by others in Mr Cs party or the 
terms and conditions of the cover in those cases. Even where AWP is the 
underwriter of the policies held by others, there may be different terms and 
conditions. But in any event, I think that AWP made a mistake here in initially 
considering Mr Cs claim under the wrong part of the policy. Based on what Ive 
seen, that doesnt amount to discrimination, although it did, of course, result in a 
different initial outcome for Mr C.  
I think that the confusion and delay in dealing with Mr Cs claim under the correct 
provisions caused him distress and inconvenience. Mr C made his claim in        
March 2023. If AWP required addition information from Mr C it should have asked 
for that from him within a reasonable time. I think that AWP should pay Mr C 
interest on any settlement and compensation of £100 in relation to his distress and 
inconvenience. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, AWP should:
reconsider Mr Cs claim under the Missed Departure provisions and in line with 
the remaining terms of the policy,
pay interest on any settlement at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date Mr C 
made his claim to the date it makes the payment and
pay compensation of £100 in relation to Mr Cs distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I now require AWP P&C SA to take the steps 
Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman