DRN-2878993
The complaint
Mr B complains that the car he acquired financed through a hire agreement with Ald 
Automotive Limited, trading as Ford Lease, was not of satisfactory quality.
 
What happened
Mr B acquired a new car on 3 September 2020 financed through a hire agreement with Ald. 
Mr B contacted Ald on 14 November 2020 as he wanted to return the car. He said the lights 
were too bright, they were outside UK legal parameters and were dangerous. He was told a 
Ford approved dealer would need to establish that there was a fault. Mr B was provided with 
a return quote which did not include the return of his deposit.  Mr B added the car lacked 
power, didnt have any grip on the road and wasnt operating through the gears properly. 
Mr B booked the car in to the dealership and said he was notified by letter of a safety recall 
in relation to a security issue. He then said he was shocked to discover the car had three 
recalls, one related to the gears. The work required for the recalls was carried out on 4 
January. No fault was found with the lights, gears or loss of grip. Mr B complained to Ald. He 
maintained there was a problem with the gears and power on the vehicle and that the car 
was not fit for purpose. He also complained that he hadnt been provided with a courtesy car 
during the two days the car was in the dealership and had only been notified by mail about 
the recalls after the work had been carried out. 
In its final response Ald did not uphold the complaint. It said no fault had been found with the 
car. It went on to say that because the car was in the garage for a short space of time and 
just after the holiday period the dealer had not been able to request a car from the 
manufacturer. In response to his complaint about the recall letters it explained this would be 
down to the timing of letters and if the work had been carried out the letters can be ignored.  
Mr B wasnt satisfied with this response and brought his complaint to this service. He said he 
was offered the option to return the car at no cost but he viewed this as acceptance that the 
car was faulty. And he declined this as he believed his deposit should be returned. Mr B said 
the car required one day and a halfs worth of work and when he shared the power and gear 
problems with the dealership it told him they would not acknowledge the fault unless it was 
visible on the dashboard. Mr B said he was not offered a courtesy car due to the Covid 
pandemic.
While his complaint was with this service Mr B arranged for the car to be re-inspected by the 
dealership. Our investigator concluded there wasnt enough evidence of a fault with the car. 
Mr B did not agree and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr B, but having done so I wont be asking Ald 
to do anything further. 
Mr Bs hire agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service can 
consider complaints relating to it. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says that under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory. It says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So I must consider whether or not 
the car was of satisfactory quality when Mr B acquired it at the point of sale. If I wasnt then I 
might find it is fair and reasonable for him to reject it. As the car was new when Mr B hired it 
its reasonable that he would expect it to be free from faults including any minor defects.
Mr B complained to Ald about a number of aspects of the car in November 2020. From 4 to 6 
January 2021 the car was booked into a manufacturer approved dealership. Mr B said he 
shared the power and gear issue with the dealership when he booked it in and the agent 
said they would not acknowledge a fault unless it was visible on the dashboard. 
There is no paperwork or other record available relating to this visit. Ald has said it spoke to 
the dealership on 6 January. It said the dealership had reported:  
no fault had been found with either the brightness of the lights, changing gears or 
loss of grip. They carried out a transmission control module update, but this was just 
precautionary and done to ease the customers concerns. With regards to the 
brightness of the lights; this is adjustable by a lever accessible from inside the vehicle 
at the drivers seat. The dealer explained to the customers they can be adjusted as 
necessary.
Where evidence is missing, unclear or contradictory I must make my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. That is, what I believe most likely to have occurred. Im not disputing 
Mr B when he said he had concerns about the car nor do I dispute what he said he was told. 
But, in the absence of any other evidence Im persuaded by the above explanation from Ald 
that there were no faults at that time. 
Mr B is concerned that while at the dealership it carried out work on three recall notices 
including oil pump gears, security update and exhaust hardware check. He said he wasnt 
aware of these recalls at that time and had lost confidence in the finance company because 
it wasnt informing him of recalls. He said he raised the issue with power and gears before 
realising there was a related recall. 
I can understand Mr Bs alarm regarding the recalls as well as his concern that he wasnt 
made aware of the recalls prior to 4 January. Ald explained to Mr B:
The Department who send these letters use a system that is updated by the 
manufacturer, and at the time of the letters being sent, the recalls were showing as 
outstanding (it can take up to 6 weeks for the system to be updated). In cases such 
as yours where the recalls had already been carried out at the point the letters were 
sent/received, they can of course be ignored.
Ald also said that these recalls were not related to safety matters. Im satisfied by this 
explanation and that the letters having been sent after the work was done was merely a 
matter of timing. 
Mr B remained concerned about the vehicle and arranged for it to be seen by the dealership 
again in April. The notes from the dealership record mileage of 9,449 and that Mr B has reported a screeching sound from the engine while coming off the accelerator. But despite a 
two-mile road test no fault was found. The report also noted the technician noticed oil on the 
rear diff (differential) and it appeared sweaty. The oil was cleaned off and another road 
test carried out with the car at operating temperature. The car was raised onto the ramp 
again to check for further leaks and none were present. The customer was advised to re-
present the car after 500 miles. 
Mr B told this service the garage didnt have another car of the same make and model to 
compare the sound. It said the mechanic verbally confirmed it wasnt right, so Mr B was 
confused as to why the dealership couldnt rectify the fault. 
Mr B also provided a recording of the car engine to this service. Ive listened to this recording 
several times and Im unable to hear a screeching sound from the engine. 
I dont dispute that Mr B has a concern about the engine noise and he was invited to present 
to this service any further evidence he had, although none was forthcoming. In the absence 
of new information I must rely on the evidence we do have. And Im persuaded by the 
technical report from the dealership that there is no fault and that the car was satisfactory at 
the point of sale. 
Mr B has also complained that he didnt receive a courtesy car in January. Ald has said:
We would expect a manufacturer to keep a customer mobile however, this is done at 
their discretion, when a courtesy vehicle is available at the specific branch.
It went onto explain the dealership would not have had time to order a vehicle in the short 
space of time between making the appointment and the appointment itself. Ald said Mr B 
informed it of the 4 January appointment on 21 December. Given that the Christmas holiday 
period is in between these dates this seems a reasonable explanation. 
In November 2020 Ald provided an early termination quote, which, based on the mileage Mr 
B had completed would have meant him only paying the current months rental. Mr B said he 
viewed this as acceptance that the vehicle was faulty. He said he declined as he believed his 
deposit should be returned. Ive seen a copy of the letter which indicates it is responding to a 
request for an early termination figure. The letter goes on to say that under the agreement 
terms Mr B was able to terminate the agreement early upon payment of the costs indicated 
in the letter.  I dont agree that this letter accepts that the vehicle was faulty, Im satisfied it is 
just a quote for an early termination of the contract. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman