DRN-2323005
The complaint
Mr D complains about the amount hes been paid and how Aviva Insurance Limited dealt 
with his claim on his car insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to Aviva includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr Ds car was damaged in an accident, so he claimed on his car insurance policy with 
Aviva. Mr D drove his car to a garage for the damage to be inspected. The garage inspected 
his car and provided Aviva with a breakdown of what repairs were needed. Aviva said 
because of the amount of damage Mr Ds car had suffered it wasnt worth repairing and 
should be written-off. It offered him the cars market value, in line with the policy terms, to 
settle the claim.  
Mr D didnt agree and complained, he said the garage had cut the front bumper off which 
meant his car was now deemed a total loss. He also said because of this he was unable to 
drive his car anywhere else to be inspected.  
Aviva looked into Mr Ds complaint and didnt uphold it. Aviva said the bumper needed to be 
removed to assess the damage behind it, and that because of damage to the bumper it 
always needed to be replaced. It did acknowledge though that cutting the bumper off was 
not the usual process to remove it and said it was unclear why this was done. Because of 
the failings by Aviva it increased a previous offer of compensation from £100 to £350 in its 
final response. Mr D didnt agree with Aviva and brought his complaint here. 
Our Investigator looked into Mr Ds complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. She 
didnt think there was enough evidence to say Mr Ds bumper shouldnt have been cut off 
and didnt think it made a difference as Mr Ds car would always have been deemed a total 
loss, due to the damage cause in the accident. She found that Aviva had offered Mr D the 
market value for his car, minus 20% for it being a previous total loss, which she thought was 
fair. 
Mr D also raised concerns about the hire car costs which our investigator found was fair for 
Aviva to add to Mr Ds claim as it was recovering them from the third partys insurer. So, 
while Aviva could have handled the claim better our investigator though £350 was fair and 
reasonable compensation for this. 
Mr D disagreed, he said his bumper should never have been cut off and this prejudiced him 
getting a second opinion. He didnt think Aviva was being honest with him and that the 
compensation offered wasnt enough. 
As Mr D didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has made a number of detailed points. Were an informal dispute resolution service, set 
up as a free alternative to the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue in turn. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr D. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, 
its remit and my role in it. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ds policy, like most policies we see, give Aviva the right to 
take over the defence or settlement of any claim, as it sees fit. That means it might make a 
decision Mr D disagrees with. But wed look at whether Aviva made a reasonable decision in 
doing this based on the evidence it had and the circumstances of the case. 
When Mr Ds car went in for an assessment the garage cut the front bumper off, Aviva 
agreed this isnt the normal way to remove a bumper unless its not possible to unbolt it, as 
would normally be done. Because of this Aviva said the brackets must have been damaged 
which meant it was needed to be cut off. Aviva hasnt persuaded me this is the case here, I 
say that because Mr D has provided pictures, and an inspection from another garage, which 
seems to suggest the bumper could be removed without damaging it. 
Ive therefore looked at the impact this has had on Mr D. Hes said he was unable to take the 
car to another garage for a second opinion. Im not persuaded that would make a difference 
here, I say that because the report from the engineer who assessed the damage and repairs 
needed shows the car needed repairs which cost more than the market value of the car. So 
even if the bumper hadnt been cut off, Im satisfied Mr Ds car would still have been deemed 
a total loss. So even if Mr D had it inspected by other garages, I think his car would still have 
been deemed a total loss. 
The terms and conditions of his policy say that if Aviva deem his car a total loss, it will pay 
him the market value. It defines market value as The cost of replacing your car with one of 
the same make, model, specification and condition.
Our service doesnt value cars. Instead we check to see that the insurers valuation is fair
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we use
relevant trade guides. I find these persuasive as theyre based on nationwide research of
sales prices. Im also satisfied that in this case the trade guides are the fairest way to value
Mr Ds car.
Aviva valued Mr Ds car, including the deduction for being a previous total loss, as being 
worth £2,696. Ive looked at four trade guides for cars of similar make, model and 
specification as Mr Ds and the values range from £2,324 - £3,000, including a 20% 
deduction for being a previous total loss. So as Avivas offer is within the range of the 
guides, Im satisfied its a fair and reasonable value for Mr Ds car. 
Ive also considered the £350 compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
Aviva has caused. Im satisfied this is a fair amount to pay in this particular case. I say that 
because Mr D has had to chase Aviva for information, and he also had the distress of finding 
out his car had been damaged further when it shouldnt have been. So, while Aviva should 
have handled the claim better, Im satisfied £350 is fair and reasonable compensation for it 
to pay Mr D. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above Im satisfied £2,696 is a fair and reasonable valuation for 
Mr Ds car and that £350 is fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. If not already done so Aviva Insurance Limited should pay Mr D 
£2,696 for the market value of his car, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of his 
policy, plus the £350 compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman