DRN-3180101
The complaint
Mr J complains about delays by The Prudential Assurance Company Limited in transferring 
his pension plan to another provider.
What happened
Mr J wanted to retire and take his pension in February 2020. He received his tax free cash 
lump sum from Prudential on 18 February. But he was unhappy that there had been some 
delays in obtaining this and complained. 
On 27 February 2020 Prudential gave its final response to this complaint, and accepted 
there had been some delay due to the forms not being sent correctly and issues with Mr J 
and his financial adviser being passed from one department to another when they called. 
Although Mr J received his cash lump sum there was further action needed to deal with the 
pension, which he wanted to transfer. 
Prudential received the transfer request forms from Mr Js financial adviser on 18 March 
2020 with the transfer discharge form received two days later. Mr J called Prudential on the 
same day chasing the transfer funds. Prudential then emailed Mr Js adviser on 24 March  
asking if they still wanted to proceed, as there had been a fall in fund value. This email 
wasnt received by the adviser. Mr J then referred his complaint about the initial delays 
(relating to the lump sum payment) to this service. And he made a further complaint to 
Prudential about the delays in transferring the remaining pension funds to his new provider. 
Two days later Prudential asked Mr J for further information about the transfer. Mr Js 
adviser emailed Prudential on 8 April 2020 asking whether the pension funds had been 
moved into cash funds or were still invested and what the current options were. Prudential 
replied the same day confirming the funds were still invested in the same fund. Prudential 
also confirmed that Mr J could still proceed with the transfer or could cancel the transfer and 
start to drawdown income.
Prudential gave its final response to the second complaint on 15 April 2020. It accepted 
there had been delay dealing with the transfer, confirmed it would seek to ensure Mr J  didnt 
suffer a financial loss, and offered £150 to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused 
to him.
On 1 May 2020 Mr Js adviser confirmed to Prudential that he still wanted to go ahead with 
the transfer. Prudential said there was no outstanding paperwork and the transfer should be 
completed by 14 May.
The transfer was completed on 9 May 2020. The amount transferred to the new provider 
was based on the fund value as at 1 May 2020, the date when Prudential had all the 
information needed to make the payment.
Prudential contacted the new provider on 1 June 2020 saying it had caused a delay of 14 
days and, if that hadnt happened, a higher transfer value would have been sent. Prudential 
asked for further information to calculate the amount it should pay Mr J to put this right. It 
received this on 29 July and calculated that if there hadnt been any delay Mr J would have 
been able to purchase 1,844.6725 additional units in his new fund. The cost of these 
additional units on 29 July would have been £2,591.76 and Prudential paid this on 3 August.
When our investigator considered the complaint, he didnt think it should be upheld. He said:
He didnt think Prudential was responsible for any delay between February and 20 
March 2020, or for the period from 8 April to 1 May when it was waiting for 
confirmation that Mr J wanted to go ahead with the transfer  and although the 
transfer didnt happen until 9 May, as it was based on the pension value as at 1 May 
(the date when it had the relevant information) there was no loss in relation to this.
It was responsible for delay between 20 March and 3 April 2020. If the transfer had 
not been delayed Mr J would have benefited from a higher transfer value, which 
would have allowed Mr J to buy more units in his chosen investment fund. But the 
amount Prudential had paid into Mr Js new pension fund had corrected this.
Although Mr J had been caused some distress and inconvenience, the sum of £150 
paid by Prudential in respect of this was fair.
Mr J didnt accept the investigators view. His adviser said there had been delays well before 
February 2020 - they had originally contacted Prudential in late 2019 with a view to 
completing the transfer in time for Mr Js retirement in February 2020. They provided further 
information about their contact with Prudential, and said there had been numerous attempts 
to pursue matters from early December 2019, but Prudential had delayed throughout this 
period. They said these earlier delays hadnt been addressed.
The investigator reviewed this and requested further information from Prudential. After 
considering all the additional comments he said his view hadnt changed, because:
Although Mr Js adviser started a fact-finding process into his pension in December 
2019, other than information and annual letters sent by Prudential there was little 
contact between Prudential and Mr J or his advisers between the fact find on 2 
December 2019 and telephone calls made on 27 and 28 January 2020.
There had been numerous requests for information from both Mr Js adviser and 
Prudential, including searches by Prudential of its online request log, phone call and 
email records, but neither had been able to provide evidence of any requests for 
information before 27 January 2020. Without this, it wasnt reasonable to conclude 
Prudential was responsible for delays during that period.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where someone is seeking to make a transfer Id expect the business to ensure any 
necessary action is taken within a reasonable time, bearing in mind the duty to treats its 
customer fairly. If any unnecessary delay arising from poor administration causes a loss, that 
should be put right.
Although Prudential accepts there was some delay, it considers the payments it has already 
made were enough to address any loss or harm Mr J suffered. So the crux of the matter is 
whether Prudential has done enough to put things right.
Mr Js financial adviser hasnt disputed the calculation of the sum paid for the delay 
Prudential identified in March and April 2020. But they say there was additional delay earlier 
on, which should also be taken into account. So I will first consider that period. December 2019  February 2020
I dont doubt the intention was for Mr J to transfer his pension for his retirement in February 
2020 and that he started looking into this before 27 January 2020. But despite extensive 
efforts, it hasnt been possible to obtain evidence of delay before then.
Prudential sent an information letter on 5 December 2019, followed by an annual statement 
on 11 January 2020. Call logs for December 2019 and early January 2020 have been 
searched, with no record of any transfer request from Mr J being recorded. 
Ive listened to recordings of the calls on 27 and 28 January 2020. Theres a discussion of 
the options available to Mr J. His adviser says they had requested the paperwork maybe 
three weeks ago. The call handler says it wouldnt be possible to get paperwork for any 
options  they would need to be specific about what they were looking to do. After checking, 
Mr Js adviser says they hadnt requested paperwork to carry out any actions, simply 
information such as the transfer value, which they had requested on the button online. The 
call handler explains that they had received an email asking for information about options  
which is why they have called  but they havent received any request in writing. Theres 
then a discussion about what exactly was wanted. Once the adviser clarifies the information 
they want, the call handler confirms this will be provided by 11 February
Theres no evidence in these calls of exactly when the earlier request for information was 
made, or if it was made correctly. It doesnt seem, from the evidence I have, that the online 
request Mr Js adviser says they made was in fact the correct way to deal with the matter. 
Theres nothing to show they were chasing for information prior to 27 January. And based on 
what Prudential has said about its normal timescale for responding at that time I cant see 
that it would have been dealt with by then in any event.
Things moved quickly after the calls in late January. Prudential sent the retirement options 
pack to Mr Js adviser on 4 February, with policy information sent to Mr J the next day. The 
adviser said it didnt receive that and called Prudential on 7 February to chase for it. 
Although Prudential didnt email the forms to the correct email address initially, this was 
sorted out quickly. 
On 10 February 2020, having now got the required information, the adviser called Prudential 
to request a pension transfer pack, which was sent the next day. The adviser returned the 
form to release the tax free cash lump sum and move the plan into drawdown. They called 
again two days later to chase this. On 14 February Prudential said the form hadnt been 
completed properly and asked for this to be corrected. The papers were signed by Mr J on 
17 February and the tax free cash was paid the next day. Based on this sequence of events 
I dont think there was any undue delay by Prudential during this period. 
I agree some of the phone calls would have been frustrating. But where calls were made by 
Mr Js adviser, rather than Mr J himself, I wouldnt be able to award any compensation to the 
adviser. 
February  May 2020
I dont think Prudential was responsible for any delay between February and 20 March 2020, 
It received the transfer request forms on 18 March and the transfer discharge form on 20 
March. But there was then a delay until 3 April when Prudential contacted Mr J asking for 
information. In the period from 8 April to 1 May, Prudential was waiting for confirmation that Mr J wanted 
to go ahead with the transfer. So I dont think there was any action it should have been 
taking during this period that it failed to take.
Prudential received the relevant information on 1 May. Although the transfer didnt happen 
until 9 May, it was based on the pension value as at 1 May. So there was no loss in relation 
to this.
Mr J wasnt intending to use the pension funds to buy an annuity so there hasnt been any 
missed annuity income. There was a fall in transfer value while the transfer was being dealt 
with, which no doubt was concerning for Mr J. But that wasnt unique to his pension funds; 
due to general circumstances at that time the fund he transferred to would have also 
suffered significant volatility over that period. 
Based on the above, my view is that Prudential was only responsible for avoidable delay 
between 20 March and 3 April 2020  a period of around two weeks, which Prudential has 
acknowledged. That delay affected the value of the funds that were later transferred; if there 
had not been a delay, Mr J would have benefited from a higher transfer value, which would 
have allowed him to buy more units in his chosen investment fund. But Prudential has 
addressed this. It contacted the new provider and obtained details of the relevant values. 
These units were valued at £2,591.76 as at 31 July.  That amount was paid into Mr Js new 
pension fund on the next working day, 3 August . This left him with the correct number of 
units in his chosen investment fund, so it was a fair way of correcting the issue since it put 
him in the position he would have been in, if there had been no error.
Mr J had been caused some distress and inconvenience. I appreciate there was some delay 
but as Ive explained only a relatively short period was down to Prudential. The effect of that 
on Mr J would have been limited. The correspondence was mostly dealt with by the financial 
adviser on his behalf, so he wasnt having to deal with the frustration of being passed around 
different departments himself. 
Taking all these circumstances into account I think the sum of £150 paid by Prudential in 
respect of this was fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman