DRN-3234975
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as D, complains Hiscox Insurance Company Limited 
has unfairly declined claims it made on a Business Protection insurance policy.
What happened
D made a claim to Hiscox for losses it believes stem from dishonest acts of a previous 
director and an employee. It alleges those individuals diverted business away from D to a 
different company they themselves had interests in. D claims for the impact on the business 
of the loss of contracts and referral fees associated with this action. It also alleges the 
individuals dishonestly claimed salaries for hours they had not worked. 
The above is a summary of what has happened and as both parties are familiar with all of 
the details of the complaint, I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving my 
reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The directors of D feel very strongly about what has happened and the way in which their 
business has been impacted by what happened. I want to assure them Ive read and 
carefully considered everything theyve said. However, my findings focus on what I consider 
to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This isnt meant as a discourtesy. But 
the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised or to 
answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by D, and by 
Hiscox, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
I have to decide if I think Hiscox has applied the terms of the policy in a fair and reasonable 
way when declining Ds claims. Having reviewed everything available to me, I think it did, Ill 
explain why.
Like most insurance policies, the business protection policy isnt design to cover 
every eventuality. So, while the directors of D have my natural sympathies about 
what happened, the specific nature of the alleged dishonest acts dont appear to be 
instances the policy was designed to or intended to provide cover for.
The term most relevant to the claims D wants to make says:
If during the period of insurance, and in the performance of your business activity 
within the geographical limits, you discover a loss from the dishonesty of your 
employee other than anyone supplied by you to a client under contract, where there 
was a clear intention to cause you loss or damage and to obtain a personal financial 
gain over and above any salary, bonus or commission, we will indemnify you against 
your direct financial loss provided that the loss was suffered on or after the 
retroactive date.
D has made a claim for the impact on the business the loss of contracts had. So, I 
think it is fair to say it is claiming for a direct loss of revenue relating to those 
contracts. While I understand D alleges the contracts were lost due to dishonesty of a 
former employer and director. The policy contains a further exclusion which means 
claims for any trading loss or trading liability, including those arising from the loss of 
any client, account or business will not be covered. So, I think Hiscox has fairly 
declined this part of the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
The policy term above explains the policy will respond if the intended gain by the 
employee was over and above any salary, bonus or commission. D has alleged the 
employee and director billed for hours they did not work and therefore, I assume, it is 
implying the salaries were dishonestly claimed. Again, I understand Ds position here 
and why it thinks the policy should respond as there was a dishonest act which 
caused a loss. However, it has not provided evidence to Hiscox which suggests that 
D was billed for hours over and above the normal salaries of the individuals in 
question. Based on the evidence available to me, I think Hiscox has acted 
reasonably here in declining this aspect of the claim. 
D previously made a claim for loss of referral fees which it alleges were dishonestly 
directed away from the company accountants and to the individuals personally. 
Hiscox declined that claim as it said it was not a direct loss and therefore the policy 
would not respond. More recently it has refused to consider the matter again due to 
the time that has passed and because D subsequently withdrew the claim. 
Having considered the policy terms, I do think the loss of referral fees could be 
considered a direct loss to the business. However, I still dont think the claim would 
be covered by the policy. The policy provides cover for dishonesty by employees and 
based on the information available to Hiscox and this service, the act of diverting the 
referral fees away from the business was done by the director. Because of this, I 
think based on the information available, its more likely than not, this aspect of the 
claim would have still been declined. 
D has said the Director was also an employee of the business, but it has not provided 
evidence to confirm that was the case. So, I wont be asking Hiscox to reconsider this 
aspect of the claim at this point in time.
Should D wish to provide any further information or evidence to support its claims, 
then it will need to present these to Hiscox for it to consider. 
Based on the information available to me and my reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ds 
complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ds complaint against Hiscox Insurance Company 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman