DRN-1843631
 
Complaint
Mr L and Mrs W say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr L and Mrs W took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in late 2000. Mr L and Mrs W paid for 
the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which did not attract interest. They chose for it to 
cover Mr L, in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr L and Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr L and Mrs Ws case. 
Ive decided that this PPI policy was not mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr L and Mrs Ws mortgage application offered them the choice to apply for PPI or turn it 
down. The option to apply for PPI was ticked, the option to turn it down was left blank, and 
Mr L and Mrs W signed the form to confirm their choices. They also signed and submitted an 
application specifically for PPI, where they asked for it to cover Mr L only. They set up a 
direct debit to pay for the PPI, separately to paying for the mortgage itself  the policy was 
not part and parcel of the mortgage. And it was not a condition of the mortgage, either. Ive 
not seen any wider problems with Lloyds sales process from the time, and I do not have any 
evidence which shows that Mr L or Mrs W were misled into having PPI. So I think that Lloyds 
made Mr L and Mrs W aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to 
take it at the time  though I can understand if they no longer recall doing so after so long.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr L and Mrs W, so it had to check it was right for them. 
And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mr L was the main earner, was eligible for the cover, and wasnt affected by any of 
its main exclusions or limitations.
While Mr L had benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of them and covered 
him more comprehensively, especially when his benefits reduced to just a fraction of his 
normal pay. I also understand he had some savings, though he intended to use them for 
home improvements. The PPI meant Mr L and Mrs W could effectively protect their savings 
and be able to use them for other things, rather than potentially having to sacrifice their 
savings if Mr L was off sick or lost his job. Lastly, Mr L and Mrs W had other cover, such as 
life insurance, but those policies covered different things to the PPI so Im afraid they arent relevant here. Its worth bearing in mind that the mortgage was a very significant, long term 
commitment, and if Mr L and Mrs W fell behind on the repayments they couldve lost their 
home. So it looks like the PPI couldve really been useful for them in protecting their home.
Its possible that the information Lloyds gave Mr L and Mrs W about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr L and Mrs W chose to take out PPI, which 
indicates they wanted this type of cover. As I said above, Mr L wasnt affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for Mr L and Mrs W in 
case something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would 
pay out in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so it did not attract 
interest, and Mr L and Mrs W could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont 
think that better information was likely to have put them off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr L and Mrs Ws complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman