DRN-3099812
The complaint
Miss M complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE withdrew cover in relation to her travel
insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here in full. In summary, Miss M had an annual travel insurance policy for several years.
The annual policy in place at the time of the events complained of started on
8 August 2019.
In January 2020, Miss M received a cancer diagnosis and underwent treatment. Miss M
had trips planned for April and May 2020. She contacted Great Lakes to make sure her
cover was in order and told it about her diagnosis and treatment. Great Lakes said that it
could no longer offer Miss M cover. Miss Ms trips were subsequently cancelled because
of Covid-19.
In June 2020, Great Lakes told Miss M that the policy was cancelled from
23 January 2020 and issued a pro rata refund of £44.21. Miss M wants a refund of the
premium and compensation for the worry and distress this matter caused.
My provisional decision
On 6 September 2021, I sent both parties my provisional decision in which I said: 
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I dont intend to uphold Miss Ms complaint because I dont think that Great Lakes treated
her unfairly. I say that because:
Based on what Ive seen, Great Lakes hasnt shown that Miss M had a pre-existing 
medical condition when she renewed the policy in August 2019. Miss Ms policy 
defines a pre-existing medical condition as:
Any [] cancerous condition [] which has ever been suffered from or for which any 
form of medical advice, treatment or medication has been received; or any medical 
condition which has necessitated hospital inpatient treatment within the past twenty 
four months.
I havent seen anything to support a conclusion that Miss Ms diagnosis in          
January 2020 was a pre-existing medical condition within the meaning of the policy. 
But thats not the end of the matter.
Miss Ms policy provides that she must tell Great Lakes of any changes to the answers 
she gave when she took out the policy. That includes changes to her health. Miss M 
acted in accordance with the policy terms when she told Great Lakes about her 
diagnosis and  treatment.
The central issue is whether Great Lakes acted fairly when Miss M told it about 
changes to her health mid-way through the policy year.
Great Lakes isnt obliged to continue to offer cover if theres been a fundamental 
change in the risk it agreed to cover at the outset. When theres a fundamental 
change, Great Lakes may withdraw cover or change the cover or premium. Here, 
Great Lakes considered the change in the risk Miss Ms condition presented and 
withdrew cover.
In general terms, insurers can decide what risks they wish to take on. Great Lakes 
says that the new information Miss M provided about her health meant that its 
underwriting criteria wasnt met. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Great Lakes 
treated Miss M any differently than it would treat anyone else in the same position.
Where an insurer withdraws cover entirely in circumstances like these, wed expect it 
to offer to cover the costs of cancelling any holiday which has already been booked 
and was due to be taken during the policy year. Even if cancellation isnt medically 
necessary at that point, we think this is the fair and reasonable thing for insurers to do.
Ive seen internal exchanges between Great Lakes agents setting out that Miss Ms 
options were to have a refund, buy another policy with another insurer and make a 
cancellation claim or submit a cancellation claim on this policy. But Miss M says that 
those options werent put to her. Great Lakes was at fault in that the options werent 
put to Miss M, but I dont think that alters the outcome here. Thats because Miss M 
didnt cancel her trips because of the diagnosis she received. As I understand it, 
Covid-19 meant that Miss Ms planned trips didnt go ahead in any event and that 
didnt lead to claims against the policy. So, the only relevant remedy is a refund of the 
premium.
In June 2020, Great Lakes told Miss M that the policy was cancelled from
23 January 2020 and issued a pro rata refund of £44.21. I think thats fair. I dont think 
that I can fairly direct Great Lakes to refund the whole premium, as Miss M had the 
benefit of the policy up to the date she told Great Lakes about her change in health.
Responses to my provisional decision
Great Lakes said that it had nothing further to add. Miss M didnt accept my provisional 
decision. She said, in summary:
The provisional decision is flawed as its based on the fact that Covid-19 interrupted 
travel plans, rather than the actions of Great Lakes.
She was left without travel insurance when the policy was cancelled and wasnt 
made aware of the options open to her. Great Lakes agent was at fault in failing to 
tell her that Great Lakes would continue cover for the holiday shed booked. 
The brokers gave her misleading information.
The documentation didnt cover the possibility that her policy may be cancelled. By the time Great Lakes responded to her, shed had surgery and been told that she 
didnt need any further treatment, so she didnt have a condition.
Great Lakes failed in its duty of care to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the actions of Great Lakes in deciding this complaint. The crux of the matter is 
that Great Lakes isnt obliged to continue to offer cover if theres been a fundamental change 
in the risk it agreed to cover at the outset. I appreciate that Miss M isnt happy about that. I 
mentioned covid-19 as thats part of the background events here and it affected what 
happened in that Miss Ms didnt need to make a claim against her policy, even though her 
trips were cancelled. 
Ive found that Great Lakes was at fault in not putting available options to Miss M after it had 
decided to cancel her policy. But, as I said, that doesnt change the outcome here. Thats 
because covid-19 meant that Miss Ms trips didnt go ahead in any event and there was no 
claim on the policy. 
Miss Ms policy provides for cancellation of the policy by Great Lakes. It says:
We [] may at any time cancel any insurance document [] where there is a valid reason 
for doing so. []
I think that the change in Miss Ms health was a valid reason for Great Lakes cancelling the 
policy, as there was a fundamental change in the risk it had agreed to take on. And that 
remains the case even when theres been successful treatment for the change in health. 
Ive considered whats been said but Ive seen no reasons to depart from the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision. So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision 
and above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman