DRN-1304228
 
The complaint
Mr Fs complaint is about being given a new credit card instead of being approved for a 
temporary credit limit increase on an existing card.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr F is unhappy that Capital One gave him a new credit card on the same day it 
declined to give him a temporary credit limit increase on an existing card. He says 
this was irresponsible lending.
Capital One has explained it uses different criteria to determine decisions on credit 
limits than on applications for new cards. Based on the conduct of Mr Fs existing 
account and all other information it had available it determined it couldnt increase his 
current credit limit but would grant him a new credit card with a lower credit limit than 
the one he had originally asked for.
Capital One is entitled to set the criteria it uses both to assess credit limit increases 
and new card applications. And those arent matters we will interfere with. Although I 
understand Mr Fs frustration I think its applied those criteria fairly and its decisions 
were reasonable. And on balance I dont think Capital One's lending was 
irresponsible as Mr F suggests.
It also reasonably tried to help Mr F in his time of need. After declining the credit limit 
increase it suggested an alternative and equally swift way for him to try to get some 
credit by applying for a new card. That was fair.
 
Overall I dont think Capital One has done anything wrong. For these reasons, I do not 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Capital One (Europe) Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman