DRN-4036915
The complaint
Ms Cs complaint is about her mortgage account with Newcastle Building Society (NBS). 
Ms C says that NBS:
failed to make reasonable adjustments for her disabilities and vulnerabilities, or failed to 
provide information in a format accessible to her;
unfairly reported late payments on her credit file, over a debt of about £50;
failed to respond to her Data Subject Access Requests (DSARs) in a format she could 
access;
either refused to answer or ignored her complaints;
allowed an arrears situation to continue for a number of years in order to apply late 
payment fees  but because of NBSs failure to provide information in an accessible 
format, shes not been able to check this;
refused to allow her to switch to a new interest rate product.
To settle the complaint, Ms C wants NBS to do the following:
remove all adverse information from her credit file;
refund all charges applied without her knowledge or consent;
compensate her for having been on Standard Variable Rate (SVR) for so long;
apologise.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to over 1,500 pages of documents. Ive read 
everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. 
The history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, and in the investigators very 
detailed and comprehensive letter dated 7 February 2023 . All parties have a copy of that 
letter, so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are 
published, so its important I dont include any information that might lead to Ms C being 
identified. So for these reasons, I will not set out the history of the matter, and will instead 
concentrate on giving reasons for my decision.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Many of the issues complained about are now historic, given that the mortgage account was 
closed in August 2021. Briefly, In May 2013 Ms C asked NBS to correspond with her by 
email, as she wasnt staying at the secured property. Thereafter NBS wrote to Ms C at her 
correspondence address, with a copy by email. In January 2017, after an email bounced 
back, NBS stopped sending the emails.
In May 2019 Ms C made a complaint about this to NBS. After NBS acknowledged the 
complaint Ms C told NBS she had a number of disabilities and needed information provided 
in an accessible format. NBS sent its final response to the complaint by email, three times.
In March 2021 Ms C made a DSAR. This was emailed to her by NBS on 1 April 2021 but 
Ms C said she hadnt received it. Another copy was emailed on 28 April 2021.
In June 2021 another complaint was made, this time to a field agent instructed by NBS. The 
field agent had spoken to Ms C, who requested that no approach was made to the property, 
as a tenant was in occupation. Ms C said shed told NBS of her disabilities in 2013, but didnt 
provide the agent with any specific details of these. Ms C said she wasnt able to receive 
mail and said that there was no mailbox at the secured address other than a communal one. 
She wanted all correspondence sent by email. Ms C wouldnt provide a telephone number.
In July 2021 NBS issued its final response. It said that it had first been told by Ms C of her 
disabilities in 2019, but without specific information about what these were, wasnt able to 
provide tailored support. NBS also confirmed that no mail had been sent to the secured 
property. NBS agreed to reverse the field agents fees on the account, as a gesture of 
goodwill.
In August 2021 Ms C repaid her mortgage to NBS.
Ms C brought her complaint to us in January 2022, detailing the issues listed at the head of 
this complaint.
An investigator looked at what had happened, but didnt think NBS needed to do anything 
more than it had already done to assist Ms C. He wrote a very detailed letter giving his 
reasons. However, Ms C didnt accept this, and said the investigators findings were woeful 
and that he had failed to capture the details of her complaint. He asked Ms C to clarify which 
parts of the complaint she felt he hadnt understood, but despite reminders, Ms C didnt 
respond. The complaint was therefore escalated for an ombudsman to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said at the outset, Im not required to comment on each and every complaint point, but 
instead will look at the issues I consider to be at the heart of the complaint.
Failure to make reasonable adjustments/provide mail in accessible format: NBSs 
records show that it wasnt made aware by Ms C of any disabilities until May 2019. No 
specific details were provided as to the nature of the disability or the type of reasonable 
adjustments Ms C needed. NBS, as requested, corresponded with Ms C by email (which 
most lenders do not consider to be a secure medium), as well as sending letters by post to 
Ms Cs correspondence address.
NBS has confirmed that mail hasnt been sent to the secured address and that no mail has 
been returned as undelivered from the correspondence address (which I note from online information has a letterbox  although I acknowledge from what Ms C has told us that she 
might have had difficulties with actual physical mail). 
Ms C told NBS what adjustments she needed  mail to be sent by email  which NBS 
accommodated. Although NBS could have asked for further details in July 2021 about any 
other adjustments that Ms C might need, Im not persuaded shes been disadvantaged by 
this. I say this because the mortgage was repaid the following month and so any 
adjustments that NBS might have put in place would have become redundant once Ms C 
ceased to be its customer.
Credit file information: The investigator set out a very detailed summary of the information 
contained in Ms Cs credit file relating to her mortgage, so I wont repeat the details here. 
However, it is accurate to say that there have been missed mortgage payments which have 
resulted in arrears on the account. 
Ive reviewed the information recorded on Ms Cs credit file by NBS. Im satisfied that the 
account has been in arrears for at least six years, and that the arrears exceed one months 
payments (being around £1,200 at the end of 2016, and having grown to almost £7,800 by 
June 2021). 
NBS is required to report accurate information to credit reference agencies, and from the 
information Ive seen, that is what NBS has done.
DSAR: NBS sent Ms C a DSAR in an encrypted zip file, but Ms C wasnt able to open it. 
There have been various discussions about how NBS can provide a response to Ms Cs 
DSAR, none of which have been acceptable to Ms C, who wants it sent via DropBox. NBS, 
however, has concerns about the security of this format. 
Im satisfied NBSs concerns are legitimate; there have been DropBox hacks, security errors 
and breaches since 2011, and DropBox accounts can be accessed via publicly-accessible 
links. Given this, Im satisfied NBS is entitled to decide not to use DropBox to send sensitive 
information.
NBS has provided a number of other options for Ms C, which I am satisfied are reasonable 
and which would allow her to access her DSAR in a secure format. I dont require NBS to do 
anything further.
Failure to reply to complaints: There are several final response letters on file in relation to 
complaints made by Ms C. However, as complaint-handling isnt a regulated activity, I cant 
consider a complaint about the way NBS has dealt with Ms Cs complaints.
Arrears on the account: Ms C says that NBS allowed the arrears to continue for years 
purely to generate charges for it. However, the fees on the account were as a result of the 
arrears on the account not being paid  which is the responsibility of Ms C, not NBS. In 
addition, NBS had to cover unpaid service charges and ground rent, in order to protect its 
security.
The arrears situation was serious enough for NBS to instruct solicitors on two occasions. Ive 
reviewed the fees added over the last six years, and Im satisfied they are fair, reasonable 
and have been fairly applied in line with NBSs tariff. Ive found no evidence of double 
charging (where charges are applied both for legal action and arrears management). I also 
note that NBS refunded one field agents fee in 2021. 
Because Ive found no irregularity in the charges applied to the account, I dont require NBS 
to do anything further.Interest rate:  After the initial tracker rate on the mortgage expired in 2012, the interest rate 
reverted to SVR. Because the account was in arrears, NBS required these to be cleared 
before agreeing to a new product.  In August 2012 NBS was asked to consider a temporary 
switch to interest-only, but the information it needed Ms C to provide about her financial 
position wasnt supplied. 
Ms C didnt ask for another interest rate product and so the mortgage remained on SVR. I 
dont know if Ms C had been granted Consent to Let, because there was no interest rate 
loading (which some lenders apply where a property with a residential mortgage is being 
rented out). 
Where a mortgage is in arrears, its usually not appropriate to tie a borrower into a new 
interest rate product because of the early repayment charge (ERC). If (as was the case 
here) the arrears increased, this would leave the borrower in a worse position if the property 
was repossessed, because the ERC would increase the amount owed to the lender. 
Therefore, given the arrears on the account, Im not persuaded NBS was under any 
obligation to offer Ms C a new interest rate product. The account has operated on SVR since 
the initial product expired, in line with the account terms and conditions. In the 
circumstances, I dont find NBS has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman