DRN-2159032
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them payment
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a PPI policy at the same time as they applied for a further advance in 
1993. Its likely the sale took place in one of the banks branches. The cover gave them 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs H
disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here) my decision is based on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely given the evidence 
we do have and what we know about how Halifax sold PPI at the time. Halifax no longer has 
a copy of the policy document, so Ive relied on one from the nearest available date.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
I carefully considered all of Mr Hs comments in response to the adjudicators view. In
keeping with our role as an informal dispute resolution service I will comment here only on
those issues I find to be material to the outcome of this PPI mis-sale complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs H say they werent aware they had PPI and asks why cant Halifax show the 
documents they signed to accept the policy, and why werent the mortgage and PPI 
payments ever separated? Also, why didnt they cancel if they understood the policy was 
optional but decided not to use it when off sick and able to claim? 
I cant know what was said in the meeting and Halifax isnt able to provide the documents to 
show how the PPI was presented to Mr and Mrs H. But the sale was over 25 years ago, so 
this isnt surprising or unreasonable. In cases like these where there is limited information, I 
have to decide what I think is most likely. Ive thought carefully about everything Mr and 
Mrs H said but I also have to take into account how long ago the sale was and how that 
might affect what they recall. So without stronger evidence to show Halifax didnt make it 
clear the PPI was optional, and Mr and Mrs H didnt agree to take it out, I cant fairly uphold 
the complaint on this point. I dont think Mr Hs points about the payments not being separate 
(some organisations did separate them, some didnt) and them not cancelling or claiming (I 
cant know the reason for this) are grounds to change this finding.
Its most likely Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H, so it had to check that the
PPI was right for them. They have asked what information we used to decide the policy was 
recommended. Given the limited evidence in this case, Halifax agreed that we could review 
it as a recommended sale. This is to Mr and Mrs Hs advantage as it means the bank had to 
do more. It had to check the cover was suitable. Based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Hs
circumstances, I think that it was. Ill explain why. 
Mr H was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if sick, Mrs H cant recall 
her sick pay entitlement. The PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any work benefits and
for up to 12 months for each successful claim. It also offered up to 12 months
unemployment cover. They told us they had around £6,000 savings, but the PPI would have 
allowed them to use these to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to
keep them intact for their future needs. Mr H told us he had shares but the value wouldnt 
have been certain, it would vary, and the PPI would have meant he didnt have to sell them 
at an inopportune time. 
Mr H said family would have helped out, but thats not suitable alternative protection. Its not 
guaranteed, and peoples circumstances can change. They also told us they had life and 
critical illness cover but these protect against different events and would not help with 
monthly mortgage repayments in the same way as PPI. 
Mr and Mrs H were borrowing money secured on their home. And the effects of not keeping 
up the repayments could have been serious for them. So, overall, I think the PPI would have 
been useful for Mr and Mrs H if their circumstances changed and they were sick, had an 
accident or lost their job(s).
Mr and Mrs H told us Mrs H had been in her job for three years at the time of the sale and 
worked 20 hours a week. More recently they have said she may have been a volunteer in 
1993 and not employed. But without any supporting evidence I cant fairly rely on this 
change in testimony to conclude she wasnt eligible. Based on the likely terms, the policy did 
not require her to be in full time employment. I do think though that given the PPI benefit was 
split 50:50 and Mrs H worked part-time, Halifax didnt set up the cover between Mr and Mrs 
H correctly. 
But Ive looked at the details of the likely policy  and can see that, no matter how the cover 
was set up, the overall cost to Mr and Mrs H wouldve been the same. This is because the 
cost of the policy is based on the benefit it would pay. So although the way the benefit was 
split between them might not have been right for their circumstances, the cost wouldnt have 
changed if the benefit had been shared differently. 
This means that Mr and Mrs H would only be worse off if Mr H made a claim and received 
less than he should have. But Ive seen no evidence this happened. So, as Mr H never made 
a claim on their policy they havent lost out. 
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs H all the information they needed before deciding
to buy PPI. I dont know when the cost was made clear. But the PPI was a reasonable cost 
for the benefit it offered, and it was apparently affordable. Its also not clear that the bank 
pointed out the main things the policies didnt cover. However Mr and Mrs H dont appear to 
have been affected by any of the main exclusions. So I dont think better information about 
the policy wouldve changed their mind about buying PPI.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs H have lost out because of any problems with this sale. 
They referred to Mr H not claiming when he would have been able to, he may be able to 
make a retrospective claim and should contact the bank to find out if this is possible.My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman