DRN-4206135
The complaint
Mr S complains as a director of S, a company, that Nationwide Building Society closed its 
Gross Business Investor Account, without good reason.
What happened
On 23 June 2022, Nationwide wrote to Mr S in respect of S, to advise him that it was closing 
all its Gross Business Investor Accounts. It later confirmed in its final response letter that the 
reason was that over the past few years it had noticed a reduced demand for its Treasurer 
Trust and Investor accounts. And that due to the age of these accounts they no longer 
offered many of the features organisations require. It said that this would be done on 
27 August 2022 and advised how to reclaim the balance on the account. I understand that 
when Ss account closed the balance was £0.06.
Mr S said this was unfair as due to the low turnover of his business, he couldnt open an 
account elsewhere. He didnt accept that Nationwide had given a good reason to close the 
account and felt it was discriminating against businesses. He also said that in a telephone 
call to an adviser at Nationwide he was given a different reason for it closing the accounts. 
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator said that he didn't think 
that Nationwide had done anything wrong or acted inappropriately.
Mr S did not agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should set out initially that I'm considering here Mr Ss complaints on behalf of S, about 
Nationwide closing the business account. Whilst I understand that Mr S has complaints 
about two banks he approached, I can't deal with those here as they involve completely 
separate businesses.
In line with the terms and conditions of the account, Nationwide gave S 60 days notice of its 
intention to close the accounts. It gave as its reasons:
Reduced demand for its Treasurer Trust and Investor accounts.
Due to the age of the accounts they no longer offered many of the features organisations 
require.
Banks and building societies do not have to give reasons for closing an account although we 
would normally expect them to do so. Unless Nationwide acted unfairly, showed 
unreasonable bias or discriminated against Mr S, I don't think it would be reasonable to 
expect Nationwide to reopen the account.
The account in question is an investment account, not a current account, and I understand 
that Nationwide does not provide current accounts for business customers. Mr S says that 
Nationwide allowed him to use the account as a current account, but Nationwide has said 
that it did not agree this and would never have done so. It would be in breach of the terms 
and conditions of the account to allow Mr S to use the account in that way. And it would be 
unfair on other customers who accept that Nationwide only offers savings accounts for 
businesses or who have had their account closed for breaching the terms and conditions.
So whilst I understand that Mr S has been unable to find another business account, 
Nationwides decision should not have stopped him having banking facilities for his business. 
Im satisfied that Nationwide gave him appropriate information about how to find an account.
Bearing that in mind, I don't think that Nationwide acted inappropriately in closing the 
account down. It gave Mr S 60 days notice, and I note that the account only had a minimal 
amount in it when it was closed.
Mr S says that he was told by a Nationwide adviser that it was the FCA (Financial Conduct 
Authority) who ordered the accounts to be closed as the accounts are no longer up to the 
standards of the FCA (regarding money laundering). I don't know whether that's true or not 
but it is not a contradictory reason and would make sense in that Nationwide does refer to 
the age and features of the accounts. I don't think I need to look into that matter any further.
Mr S has referred to discrimination, against its customers and against businesses. 
Nationwide does not have to treat businesses in the same way as it does personal 
customers. And in my view its decision to close Ss account was not done for a 
discriminatory reason.
Lastly, I am aware of the various business standards, regulations, guidance, acts of 
parliament and the other documents Mr S has supplied us with. To the extent they are 
relevant I have applied them, but I don't think it's necessary to go into how and why any of 
them might apply in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I've set out I don't uphold Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman