DRN-4304293
The complaint
Mr B complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, trading as Novuna Business Finance. Ill call them Novuna.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Novuna, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Novuna, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr B. The car here was about 
three years old and had already completed about 26,600 miles.
An old car with a high mileage will not be expected to be as good as a newer car with a low 
mileage, but it should still be fit for use on the road, in a condition that reflects its age and 
price. I dont think this car was very old and I think a reasonable person wouldnt expect 
much to be wrong with it.
When we think about whether a car is of satisfactory quality the relevant legislation says we 
should also consider whether it has proven durable.
I dont think this car has been durable. I say that because I have seen job sheets and 
breakdown reports that demonstrate it has been recovered on several occasions and for 
similar, electrical related reasons. An airbag fault persists, as does an ABS Module fault, and 
the car has failed to start on several occasion. The car was returned to approved dealerships 
for repairs in October 2021, January, March, June, October, November, and December 
2022, and again in January 2023. The most recent information I have suggests the car has 
still not been repaired.
I think a reasonable person would not expect a car of this age and mileage to have exhibited 
so many problems within the first year and a half of ownership.
And, even if Im wrong about the car not being durable, the relevant legislation allows the 
business one opportunity to repair a fault. I can understand it wouldnt have been practical 
for Mr B to return the car to the supplying dealership as it was some considerable distance 
away from where he lived. But he has returned it to approved dealerships and it seems 
those returns have been organised by the manufacturers breakdown service. The initial 
repair was carried out in October 2021 shortly after the car was supplied to Mr B and I 
therefore think its likely the fault was present when the car was supplied. The air bag fault 
hasnt been resolved. It has been a feature of many, if not all, of the breakdown reports Ive 
seen, and that Ive referred to above. As repairs havent been successful I think Novuna 
should now allow Mr B to reject the car and to end his finance agreement with them.
Putting things right
Novuna should collect the car at no cost to Mr B and they should end the finance agreement.
There was a period of about two months up to January 2023 when Mr B didnt have use of 
the car because it was being fixed. Its only fair that Mr B should pay for the use hes had, 
but Novuna should refund two monthly instalments for this period to reflect his lack of use. 
Theyll need to add interest to that refund as Mr B has been deprived of the money.
Mr B hasnt had use of the car since 6 January 2023 so Novuna should refund any finance 
instalments paid since 6 January 2023, with interest.
Theyll also need to refund Mr Bs deposit and they should add interest to that refund.
Mr B has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to escalate his complaint to this 
Service when I think it could have been resolved earlier, and hes had to rely on breakdown 
services on several occasions. Hes explained that he hasnt been able to afford to finance 
another car while hes been financing this one, and hes also explained how thats caused 
problems for him when trying to look after his sick mother who lives alone. In the 
circumstances I think Novuna should pay him £250 in compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and tell Novuna Business Finance 
to:
Allow Mr B to reject the car and end the finance agreement.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr B.
Refund any deposit that has been paid and add 8% simple interest* per year from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.Refund two monthly finance instalments for the period up to 6 January 2023 in 
respect of loss of use. Add 8% simple interest* per year from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement.
Refund all finance instalments paid from and including 6 January 2023 in respect of 
loss of use. If any are due but havent been paid they should be waived. Add 8% 
simple interest* per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr B £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced. 
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Bs credit file in relation to 
this issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest they must 
give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if the consumer asks for 
one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman