DRN-3003485
The complaint
The estate of Mr J complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund a number of withdrawals 
made from its account, which it says it didnt make.
What happened
The estate of Mr J says a number of different cash withdrawals made from Mr Js account 
between May and September 2019 werent made by him. The withdrawals were for varying 
amounts between £50 and £300, totalling around £32,000 and were made at a number of 
different cash machines local to Mr Js address, at an airport and in Spain. There was also a 
cheque deposited into Mr Js account and a cash withdrawal made in branch.
Santander investigated the withdrawals but said it only had an obligation to investigate 
disputed transactions where a claim was raised within 13 months of when the transactions 
were made. It also said the withdrawals were all made using chip and PIN, with a card sent 
to Mr Js correct address. So it didnt agree to refund the withdrawals. It did offer the estate 
of Mr J £100 compensation for not addressing all the points raised in its complaint. The 
estate of Mr J wasnt happy with Santanders response, so referred its complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and said they felt it was likely Mr J had 
either carried out the withdrawals himself or authorised someone else to do so, so they didnt 
ask Santander to refund them. The estate of Mr J disagreed, so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Santander needs to refund the withdrawals to the estate of 
Mr J. Ill explain why below.
Santander has said it only has an obligation to investigate disputed transactions where a 
claim was raised within 13 months of when the transactions were made. The relevant rules 
relating to this are the Payment Service Regulations, which say that a complainant is only 
entitled to redress if they notify the bank of the fraud without undue delay, and in any event 
no later than 13 months after the transaction took place.
The last disputed cash withdrawal was made in September 2019 and the estate of Mr J has 
said Mr J died in December 2020 and the issue was raised with Santander shortly after. 
Santander says paper statements for the account were being sent to Mr Js address so he 
would have been aware of the withdrawals and had more than a year to dispute them. I 
appreciate that were no longer able to ask Mr J why he didnt dispute the withdrawals. But I 
dont think this, or anything else Ive seen, means that it would be unfair for Santander to rely 
on the relevant regulations in not investigating the disputed cash withdrawals.
In any event though, Santander sent us enough evidence to investigate the withdrawals and 
so Ive set out my findings in relation to that evidence as well, in order to address some of 
the points raised by the estate of Mr J.
Generally, Santander can hold the estate of Mr J liable for the disputed withdrawals if the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr J made them himself or told someone 
else they could make them with his card.
Santander has said all the cash withdrawals were verified with chip and PIN. And as the 
withdrawals were all done at cash machines or in branch, I think its likely this is correct and 
so Mr Js genuine card and PIN would have been used to make them.
But the relevant regulations say that this, on its own, isnt enough to allow Santander to hold 
the estate of Mr J liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests its 
more likely than not that Mr J consented to the withdrawals being made with his card.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case. But 
where the evidence available in unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is most likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
Santander has said Mr Js PIN wasnt changed since he was last sent a new one, so its 
unlikely it was an easily guessable combinations of numbers such as a memorable date. 
And given the number of possible combinations, its extremely unlikely someone could guess 
the PIN correctly. So I think its likely whoever made the withdrawals knew the PIN.
Santander has sent us evidence that the card and PIN used to make the withdrawals were 
both sent, separately, to Mr Js correct address. And that the card was ordered in branch. So 
in order for someone else to have used them without Mr Js consent, theyd have had to 
either pass Santanders security procedures in branch to arrange for the new card and PIN 
to be sent out and then intercept both letters without Mr J or anyone else who lived at the 
address noticing. Or theyd have had to later find both the card and the PIN letter and make 
use of the card over a number of months, again without Mr J noticing. And I think its unlikely 
a third party would have been able to do all this without Mr J noticing.
The estate of Mr J has mentioned a cheque deposited into Mr Js account and a subsequent 
cash withdrawal made in branch. But as this cheque appears to have been drawn on 
another account in Mr Js name, I dont think it would have been reasonable to expect 
Santander to have carried out significant further checks before processing these 
transactions.
The estate of Mr J has also said Mr Js age and medical conditions at the time mean he 
wouldnt have been able to make all these cash withdrawals himself, or to travel to Spain 
and make the withdrawals there. But Mr J doesnt need to have physically made the 
withdrawals himself for Santander to hold him liable, only to have consented to them.
And while the estate of Mr J has said the police are involved and some family members are 
the subject of a criminal investigation, I can only look at the actions of Santander.
As I said above, were no longer able to ask Mr J about what happened and, together with 
the time passed since the withdrawals, this unfortunately means were limited in the 
evidence we have available. I appreciate the arguments the representatives of Mr Js estate 
have made and recognise that my decision will come as a disappointment to them. But, 
based on the evidence I have, I think its most likely Mr J consented to the cash withdrawals 
and so I dont think Santander needs to refund them.Santander has offered to pay the estate of Mr J £100 compensation for not initially 
addressing all the points raised in its complaint. And I think this offer is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. If this offer has not yet been paid and the estate of Mr J would now 
like to accept it, it should contact Santander directly.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr J 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman