DRN-1591388
The complaint
Mr H is complaining Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) hasnt refunded money he paid to a 
company for some drainage work. He brings the claim under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
In March 2018 the drain in Mr Hs rear garden became blocked. He contacted a company  
who I shall refer to as T  to attend to resolve the issue. T quoted around £1,700 to carry out 
the work. Mr H initially agreed to the work but shortly after the work started he remembered 
he had an insurance policy which he thought may have covered the work. 
Mr H says he highlighted this with T, but he says Ts employee told him the insurance policy 
wouldnt cover the work as it would say the damage was down to wear and tear. Mr H says 
he was also told the insurer would only cover blockages at the front and not the rear garden. 
So Mr H told T to complete the work. He paid for the work on his BOS credit card.
Mr H says he contacted his insurer the next day and he says the insurer told him it would 
have completed the work without charge. Mr H complained to T about the information it had 
given him about the insurance policy. T didnt respond to Mr H, so he contacted BOS to look 
to recover the amount he paid under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75). 
BOS initially responded to Mr H and told him he would need to recover his outlay from the 
insurer. Mr H says he initially contacted the insurer and he says it said it would refund what 
he had paid. However, Mr H says the insurer ultimately didnt give him a refund so he 
contacted BOS again to restart his S75 claim.
BOS didnt uphold the S75 claim as it said there wasnt anything to show there was a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation. It said any incorrect information T gave was about the 
insurance policy and not about the service T was providing. It said it was only liable for any 
false statement of fact about the actual service T provided. 
Mr H didnt agree with BOSs response and he also complained about the way it had 
handled his S75 claim  in particular he referred to the following:
1. It had taken a significantly long time to respond to his claim;
2. BOS hadnt acknowledged any correspondence hed sent;
3. He was continually asked to provide information hed already sent; and
4. There were a number of grammatical errors in the correspondence it sent him.
BOS maintained that it didnt have any liability under S75, but it acknowledged there had 
been a number of service failings throughout the claim. And, in total, it paid him £335 in 
compensation. Mr H still didnt agree with the outcome BOS had reached and he referred his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she didnt think T had given a false statement 
of fact about the service it provided. She acknowledged it may have used a strong sales 
technique to persuade Mr H to continue with the contract, but she didnt think it amounted to 
a misrepresentation. She also didnt think there was enough to show T had breached the 
terms of its contract with Mr H. However, she acknowledged BOS hadnt handled the S75 
claim as well as it should have done, but she thought £335 was fair compensation.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint 
for the following reasons:
1. He thinks T took advantage of him and he made a mistake while under pressure;
2. He said T are connected to a company exposed as deliberately looking to mislead 
customers and unfairly force them to enter into contracts;
3. The insurer says T couldnt have done the work it had charged him for in the time it was 
at his property;
4. He says T did make a false statement of fact about the service it was providing him; and
5. He highlighted T didnt respond to BOSs request for its comments about the claim, so he 
thinks the claim should be found in his favour.
As Mr H didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has raised a number of comments and concerns about the actions of both T and BOS. 
Ive read and considered everything Mr H has provided, but Ive not commented on 
everything. Instead Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues I need to decide. No 
discourtesy is meant by this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of this service.
Mr H paid for the drainage work on his BOS credit card. S75 sets out that in certain 
circumstances, as the finance provider, BOS is jointly liable for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. Im satisfied those circumstances apply here. 
Misrepresentation
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) implies a term into Mr Hs contract with T that T  
and, in turn, BOS  may be liable for any losses incurred as a result of anything that it told 
Mr H about itself or the service it was going to provide, which Mr H reasonably relied upon 
and induced him into entering into the contract.
I dont think its in dispute that Mr H discussed with T whether the insurance policy may 
cover the work. And I also think its accepted that its likely the policy would have covered the 
work had Mr H contacted the insurer first. But the issue for me to decide is whether T made 
a false statement of fact about itself or the service it was contracted to provide which 
induced Mr H into continuing with the contract.
As I said above, any false statement of fact T makes needs to be in reference to either itself 
or the service it was going to provide. Mr H is complaining about a statement T made about 
the insurance policy and not specifically about the work it was contracted to do. So its 
arguable that, even if I considered there to be a false statement of fact, it wasnt about T or 
the service it was going to provide. If that is the case, BOS isnt liable for any losses arising 
from this under S75. But, I dont think I need to make a finding on this because Im not 
persuaded there was a false statement of fact and Ill now explain why.I think its important to highlight that theres a clear distinction between T making an express 
statement that the policy wouldnt cover the work and it simply offering an opinion as to what 
the insurer might do. BOS may be liable for a false express statement, but it isnt responsible 
for any opinion Ts employee expressed.
Naturally, as Mr H is referring to a verbal statement made by T, there isnt anything definitive 
to set out exactly what was said and discussed. So Ive thought about what Mr H has told us 
and whether I find his testimony that he was given a definitive statement to be plausible and 
persuasive  i.e. Ive thought about what was most likely to have been said and discussed. 
I should first state that its for Mr H to show there was a misrepresentation, not for BOS to 
show there wasnt. Im particularly conscious Mr H initially told the investigator he didnt 
recall the specific wording T used. I dont dispute its likely T gave Mr H the impression the 
insurance policy wouldnt cover the work. But Im not persuaded hes given us enough for 
me to conclude T specifically told him the insurance policy wouldnt cover the work.
Im conscious T wouldnt have seen the wording of the insurance policy and it was for Mr H 
to look into and understand what the policy did and didnt cover. I think its most likely that 
Ts employee would have expressed an opinion about the likelihood of whether the 
insurance policy would have covered the work or not. But I dont think this would be 
considered a misrepresentation. So it follows that I dont think it was unfair for BOS to say it 
isnt liable for anything T may have said about the insurance policy.
Breach of contract
The CRA also implied a term into Mr Hs contract with T that T must act with reasonable care 
and skill in carrying out the work required. Mr H says the insurers investigator suggested the 
amount of work T says it carried out was unnecessary. But Im conscious this suggestion 
was made after all the work had been completed. So I cant say this is a fair inspection of the 
work that was required.
Ive reviewed Ts invoice and estimate of the work required. This sets out that T initially 
investigated the issues by inserting cameras into the pipes to understand the extent of the 
issues. Following this it compiled a report which it presented to Mr H, together with the price 
involved, for him to decide whether to agree to have T do the work. And Mr H agreed to 
enter into the contract on these terms.
Ultimately, theres no dispute T resolved the problem and there isnt anything for me to say 
the work Mr H paid T to carry out was unnecessary. So I also dont think it was unfair for 
BOS to say there isnt anything to show T didnt act with reasonable care and skill.
Customer service
While I dont think it was unfair for BOS to not uphold Mr Hs S75 claim, I do think it could 
have handled the claim better. In particular, I note the following:
1. There were at times delays in BOS responding to Mr Hs correspondence because it was 
emailing the incorrect email address;
2. It didnt acknowledge Mr Hs correspondence; and
3. T didnt put a hold on the repayment Mr H had to make on the payment he made to T.
I do think BOS has caused Mr H some unnecessary distress and inconvenience. But it has 
already paid him £335 in compensation which is more than I would have awarded in these 
circumstances. So I dont think it needs to pay Mr H anything further.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that Bank of Scotland plcs offer of 
£335 is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience its caused in the way its 
handled the S75 claim. I understand it has already paid this to Mr H, but if it hasnt it should 
pay it to him directly. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman