DRN-3960490
The complaint
Mr F complains about the service he received from Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F had a current account with Halifax. In May 2022 he asked Halifax to help him with a 
dispute with an internet games company on the basis he hadnt received what hed paid for  
which I understand was in-game content. Halifax  as I would expect  asked Mr F to 
provide evidence to support his dispute, so that it could follow the chargeback process in line 
with card scheme rules and requirements.  
Mr F was unhappy with this, so he complained. I dont find Halifax acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here. While I accept Mr F has communication challenges, Halifax did what it 
practically could to facilitate the provision of evidence. And I wouldnt expect Halifax to 
pursue a dispute  or refund Mr F  without some evidence. Especially as the dispute was 
over various transactions over months, totally about £650. 
Later in May 2022, Mr F complained Halifax had blocked payments to a merchant. I 
understand the block was placed because Mr F had previously had disputes with the 
merchant and had asked for it. So I dont find Halifax made a mistake here. And while it took 
about two days for the block to removed, I dont find that an unreasonable timeframe.
In June 2022 Halifax decided to close Mr Fs accounts because it found he was behaving 
improperly. Having listened to some of the calls Mr F had with Halifax, I agree his behaviour 
was improper, repeatedly. While I accept Mr F was vulnerable and increasing frustrated with 
Halifax, I find its decision to close his account was in line with the account terms and 
conditions, and fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr F says when Halifax closed his accounts it stole his money. Im not persuaded this was 
the case as a cheque for Mr Fs balance was sent to him, as is common practice when 
accounts are closed because of improper behaviour. And following input from our service, 
Halifax paid the balance to Mr Fs account elsewhere electronically. The money paid to Mr F 
equalled the amount showing on his bank statements. So Im satisfied Halifax paid Mr F the 
money he was owed.
Mr F made a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) and is unhappy with how long it took. 
As I understand it, this was completed in October 2022. While perhaps later than Mr F would 
have liked, I dont find this caused him material detriment as our service was already 
investigating his complaint and at this time had received  or was in the process of receiving 
 relevant information, including numerous call recordings.  
Halifax accepted it could have provided Mr F with better customer service during parts of 
their contact over the above matters and offered him £150 compensation. Our investigator 
agreed Halifax could have been more accommodating to Mr Fs needs and recognised on 
occasion Mr F was given misleading and/or incomplete information, albeit said information 
was soon corrected. She recommended Halifax offer Mr F £400 compensation. I agree this 
is a fair and reasonable sum to reflect the distress and inconvenience Mr F was caused. 
Related to this matter are two other complaints. One about the closure of Mr Fs childrens 
accounts. And one about a branch allegedly releasing sensitive account information to an 
unauthorised third party. These are being considered separately and therefore do not form 
part of this decision.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to pay Mr F £400 
compensation, in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman