DRN-2900637
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Phoenix Life Limited mis-sold her a whole of life policy. And that the 
offer of redress made by Phoenix Life Limited would mean her policy would be cancelled if 
she accepted it. 
The complaint has been brought by a representative who Ill refer to as L.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 1997 Mrs P was advised to set up a whole of life policy by a firm Phoenix Life has since 
acquired liability for. It provided an initial sum assured of £50,000 with premiums starting at 
£36.02 per month. The policy included 10% indexation for the first five years and was 
invested in a managed fund. 
L complained on behalf of Mrs P to Phoenix Life in June 2020 about the sale of the policy. 
They raised the following concerns:
No alternatives were discussed with Mrs P.
No assessment was made regarding affordability in retirement.
The adviser didnt ask Mrs P how much risk, if any, she wished to take with her 
objective.
The adviser didnt ask Mrs P how long cover was required for.
The signed declaration says the policy will provide a sum assured of £50,000 for a 
premium of £36.02 escalating up to £54.02 per month after five years but level 
thereafter. This is clearly misleading as there is no mention of the cover reducing. 
Phoenix Life upheld the complaint. They said the whole of life policy was reviewable, which 
was explained within the illustration provided to Mrs P. In respect of affordability in 
retirement, Phoenix Life noted that Mrs Ps retirement age was recorded on the point sale 
paperwork as 60 but shed continued to pay premiums, and maintain the policy, beyond this 
(up to being 68 years of age at that time). They said this suggested affordability wasnt an 
issue. 
Phoenix Life however said while they were satisfied there was a need for life cover, it was 
unclear as to why it was needed on a whole of life basis. And so, in view of the life cover still 
being in force, they offered to refund the premiums Mrs P had paid, less the cost of cover 
plus gross interest at 8% simple (less basic rate tax). If Mrs P accepted the offer the policy 
would be cancelled with no surrender value payable. 
The complaint was referred to our service. L didnt think it was fair that the policy would end 
if Mrs P accepted the offer made by Phoenix Life. They explained that sourcing alternative 
cover now would be very expensive for Mrs P.
One of our investigators looked in to the complaint but he didnt think Phoenix Life had to do 
anything further. He said it wasnt in dispute that Mrs P had a need for life cover. But while 
he thought it was unclear how long cover was needed for, he considered it most likely that it 
wouldve been up to the anticipated retirement age of 60 that was recorded in the fact find. 
However, given Mrs P had maintained cover past this and L says she wants it to continue 
going forward, he considered this instead supported the recommendation of whole of life 
cover. So, he didnt think he could reasonably conclude the whole of life policy was mis-sold. 
And because of this, he didnt think the offer of redress can be considered unreasonable  
as Mrs P has the option of declining it if she wants to retain cover.
L disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. They remained of the view 
that Mrs P should be allowed to maintain the policy if she accepts the redress offered. They 
explained that the fact find states Mrs P wanted cover for the duration of her life and the 
policy remaining in place supports this. L considered it unreasonable for Phoenix Life to say 
cover should cease. But they added that they would be within their rights to cancel the policy 
if they were offering a full refund of premiums plus interest. 
Before I set out the reasons for my decision, Im aware that L has referred to other cases 
that our service has dealt with which they consider support their argument for Mrs Ps 
complaint. While Ive noted this, Ive looked at the individual circumstances of Mrs Ps 
complaint when making my decision. And so, I wont be referring to other cases here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It hasnt been argued that Mrs P shouldnt have been sold life cover. But while in the point of 
sale documents its recorded that Mrs P wanted whole of life cover, there isnt any 
explanation or reasoning as to why. Her anticipated retirement age is also recorded as 60. 
And so, if it were to be argued that a whole of life policy wasnt suitable, then I think its most 
likely that a term assurance policy which provided cover up to age 60 wouldve been most 
appropriate for Mrs P. L has however argued that Mrs P wanted whole of life cover when the 
policy was sold and wants cover to remain in place going forward. 
Taking this in to consideration, it seems that Mrs P did indeed have a need for whole of life 
cover. And so, while I understand Ls dissatisfaction with the offer of redress made by 
Phoenix Life, I dont think I can fairly conclude it is unreasonable given the sale of the policy 
seems suitable as it met Mrs Ps need of providing cover for her entire life (and beyond a set 
term of which I think would most likely have ran to age 60). 
In raising the complaint to Phoenix Life, L has highlighted concerns about affordability in 
retirement and the level of risk involved in relation to Mrs Ps objective. I cant be sure what 
was discussed between Mrs P and the adviser when the policy was sold. But given Mrs P 
has maintained the policy for several years past retirement age, and had the option of 
reducing the sum assured, I dont think I can conclude it was unaffordable. In any event, a 
whole of life policy wouldve been the only appropriate option to Mrs P in providing cover for 
her entire life. And while the fund was invested, the primary aim of the policy was to provide 
life cover and not to be an investment vehicle. I also havent seen anything to suggest a 
managed fund was inappropriate for Mrs P at the time.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think the policy was mis-sold and so it follows that I 
dont think the offer made by Phoenix Life is unreasonable. Mrs P does however have the 
option of declining the offer and retaining cover if she chooses. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman