DRN-4009213
The complaint
T complains that First Data Europe Limited trading as Clover has incorrectly applied charges 
for not being PCI-DSS compliant. 
What happened
Between September 2020 and January 2021 Clover charged T PCI-DSS non-compliance 
fees. But Mr V, Ts director, has explained he was unable to upload the documents required 
to prove compliance to Clovers website. On Ts behalf, Mr V raised a complaint with Clover 
and when he was unable to resolve the issue referred the matter to this service. 
The complaint was ultimately referred to an ombudsman who issued a final decision in 
August 2022. The ombudsmans final decision said Clover should refund the PCI-DSS non-
compliance fees it charged T between September 2020 and January 2021. The ombudsman 
noted their decision only covered PCI-DSS non-compliance fees up to January 2021. 
Mr V went on to contact us again on Ts behalf. Mr V explained that Clover had failed to 
comply with the previous decision, issued in August 2022. Mr V also said Clover had failed 
to assist in making arrangements for PCI-DSS compliance documents to be supplied and 
had continue to charge PCI-DSS non-compliance fees totalling £70 a month. 
In October 2022 we contacted Clover and asked it to look into Ts complaint. We also asked 
Clover to supply its case file. Clover contacted us in early November 2022 and asked for 
confirmation about whether this was a new complaint. Both the investigator for this new 
complaint and the investigator that dealt with Ts previous case emailed Clover and 
confirmed this was a new complaint that related to PCI-DSS non-compliance fees charged 
after January 2021. The investigator sent further requests for Clovers case file and 
supporting evidence in December 2022 and January 2023 but no response or information 
was provided. 
In the absence of responses from Clover, the investigator reviewed the information on file. 
The investigator upheld Ts complaint and said Clover should refund the PCI-DSS non-
compliance fees charged. The investigator also recommended that Clover pay T £100 for 
the inconvenience caused. 
Despite further attempts at contact with Clover and confirmation that, in the absence of a 
response the complaint would be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision, we didnt 
hear back. As a result, Ts complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive noted above, another ombudsman has issued a decision that covered PCI-DSS non-
compliance fees charged up to January 2021. As another ombudsman has already made a 
decision about those fees, Im not going to comment on them further in this decision. My 
decision relates to PCI-DSS non-compliance fees applied from February 2021. The decision 
will cover fees applied until January 2023. 
Ive used this timescale as in November 2022 we clarified to Clover that the current 
complaint was separate from the previous complaint T raised that was dealt with by way of a 
final decision. Businesses have eight weeks to respond to a complaint. So Im satisfied that, 
had Clover responded to the new complaint, it shouldve considered PCI-DSS non-
compliance fees that were applied until that point. As Clover had until January 2023 to issue 
a final response, I think thats the point at which we can look at PCI-DSS non-compliance 
fees T was charged. 
I appreciate T has likely been charged fees in the months that followed this date and may 
still be having charges applied. But because of the rules that we operate under, we cant 
consider issues that a business hasnt already been asked to investigate. Ultimately, T may 
need to ask us to look at the fees applied from February 2023 onwards as a new complaint.
Weve been limited in terms of the investigation completed as Clover hasnt responded to 
our request that it investigates a new complaint for T or complied with information requests 
sent by the investigator. Despite the investigator issuing their view that Ts complaint should 
be upheld, chasing a response and notifying Clover the matter would be referred to an 
ombudsman no further evidence or information has been supplied. Im satisfied the nature of 
Ts new complaint has been made clear. And Im satisfied Clover has had sufficient time to 
respond to Ts new complaint and provide its case file and supporting evidence to us. 
On Ts behalf, Mr V has supplied evidence that he wanted to submit to Clover to verify T is 
PCI-DSS compliant. Mr V has supplied certificates that show Ts been professionally verified 
as being PCI-DSS compliant between 2020 and 2022. The information Ive seen appears to 
be compliant with the terms and conditions of Clovers user agreements with T. And Im 
satisfied that Mr V has confirmed hes experienced similar difficulties trying to submit Ts 
evidence of compliance as previously raised. 
In the absence of evidence to the contrary, Im not satisfied Clover has fairly charged T PCI-
DSS non-compliance fees. As I havent seen any evidence that shows the PCI-DSS non-
compliance fees have been reasonably charged, Im telling Clover to refund them, along with 
8% interest from the date each fee was applied to the date of refund. 
Im also satisfied the ongoing difficulties T has experienced submitting the documents Clover 
requires to verify PCI-DSS compliance has caused an unreasonable level of inconvenience. 
So Im also telling Clover to pay T £100 to recognise the additional work and inconvenience 
caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ts complaint and direct First Data Europe Limited trading as 
Clover to refund all PCI-DSS non-compliance fees charged from February 2021 to January 
2023 along with 8% interest from the date of each fee to the date of settlement. I also direct 
First Data Europe Limited trading as Clover to pay T £100 for the inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman