DRN-4188474
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank gave 
her poor customer service when she was unable to use her card on holiday.
What happened
Mrs H says that her M&S Bank credit card didnt work when she went on holiday. She says 
she tried to use the card several times, but she was unsuccessful. She says she made 
phone calls to M&S Bank, and she was told there was nothing wrong with her card. Mrs H 
said this ruined her holiday, caused her so much stress and embarrassment, and the 
customer service on these calls wasnt good. Mrs H made a complaint to M&S Bank.
M&S Bank upheld Mrs Hs complaint and they initially paid her £50 compensation. They also 
ordered her a replacement card. Mrs H asked them to reinvestigate her complaint, which 
they did, and they credited her account with another £250 compensation due to identifying 
they told her incorrect information at times. Mrs H brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator said M&S Bank acknowledged they provided incorrect information which led 
to Mrs H making trips to the Automated Teller Machine (ATM) and calling them numerous 
times whilst on holiday. This resulted in Mrs H having to contact them again and has caused 
her trouble, stress and upset. So she said M&S Bank should increase their offer of 
compensation to £450. Mrs H asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She said 
M&S Bank should refund the whole cost of her holiday as this was ruined by what happened. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the authorisation transaction screens M&S Bank have provided our service 
from when Mrs H was last able to successfully use her credit card to make a purchase on 7 
March 2023, until 18 March 2023 which was two days after the last call she made to M&S 
Bank when she was on holiday. The transaction screens show that there were no 
authorisation attempts. So it would appear M&S Bank didnt decline the attempted 
transactions, but they werent aware Mrs H was attempting to make purchases.
As Mrs H wasnt able to successfully complete the transactions she was wanting to make 
while abroad, she rang M&S Bank. While this would inconvenience her, this would always be 
a step she would need to take in order to see if there was any problems with the card. But 
the call handler let Mrs H down with the information they gave her, and Ill explain why.
M&S Bank would not be aware the card was potentially damaged at this point, as there 
could be a faulty terminal with the merchant she was trying to purchase items with, and M&S 
Bank systems did not detect any transaction requests. But as Mrs H had tried the card 
several times in the store, this ought to have aroused suspicions that there could be 
something wrong with the card, or they could have asked her to use a different terminal to 
see if there was just a faulty terminal in store. In the event of signalling issues in the store, 
they could have suggested to her to see if she would be willing to make a small purchase in 
a different store, and if this didnt work, then on the balance of probabilities, her card would 
likely have been damaged and she would need a replacement card ordering. 
But instead, the call handler advised Mrs H to go to an ATM to withdraw cash. The call 
handler shouldnt have advised Mrs H to do this as not only would this incur a cash 
transaction fee, she could have also incurred an ATM fee, and also cash interest on the 
amount she withdrew until this amount was repaid in full. Mrs H was caused inconvenience 
by the call handler suggesting this as she acted in good faith with what the call handler told 
her and tried to make the withdrawal, but this was unsuccessful. 
So Mrs H was inconvenienced to ring M&S Bank back. Im persuaded that the call handler 
should have realised at this point that while her system was showing no card attempts, as 
Mrs H had told her she wasnt able to successfully use the card in store or at an ATM that 
the card was likely damaged. But the call handler placed Mrs H on hold to speak to her team 
leader. If the call handler would have realised the card was likely damaged on the call 
without having to place Mrs H on hold, then a replacement card could have been ordered for 
Mrs H there and then. While this would not help Mrs H while she was on holiday, at least it 
would have been clear what the situation was.
Unfortunately, when the call handler returned to Mrs H, after a brief conversation, the call 
was interrupted by a phone ringing on Mrs Hs end and the line went silent and the call 
handler couldnt hear Mrs H, so she asked Mrs H if she was there, but there was no 
response, so the line was disconnected. I can see from M&S Banks system note that the call 
handler tried to call back Mrs H twice and she left a message on her voicemail for her to ring 
back. She also put a note on the system advising that a possible new card needed ordering 
as her team leader had suggested Mrs Hs card could be damaged. 
Mrs H rang M&S Bank back. The call handler told Mrs H incorrect information which would 
lead to further distress and inconvenience. I say this because he told her incorrect 
information that the card had not been activated. He should have known this wasnt true as 
Mrs H had made a purchase on 7 March 2023, and its not clear why he told Mrs H this. He 
told her that because the card wasnt activated, this was the reason she was having 
problems with the card, and now he had activated this, he reassures her she can use the 
card successfully. 
So Mrs H will have left this phone call distressed that the previous call handlers didnt 
identify the same issue as the call handler who said her card wasnt activated and he could 
activate this. She will have been frustrated that something apparently so simple hadnt been 
put in place, yet she had been sent to the ATM and had to call M&S Bank back. 
But the reality is, the card activation wasnt the issue. And the call handler who told Mrs H 
about the card not being activated didnt see the system note that the previous call handler 
left on the system about the potentially damaged card. So M&S Bank missed out on the 
opportunity to try and resolve the issue for Mrs H. The impact of what M&S Bank had told 
continued after her holiday. As the previous call handler told her that her card was now 
activated and he reassured her that she could now use her card successfully, she tried to 
pay for her shopping on 3 April 2023, after she had returned from her holiday.
But the attempt failed. So Mrs H was inconvenienced again by having to ring M&S Bank 
while she was still in the store. The store assistant told M&S Bank that the transaction was 
rejected, and the terminal hadnt asked Mrs H for her Personal Identification Number (PIN). It 
was at this point that M&S Bank finally ordered her a replacement card.
So if an earlier call handler had identified the card could have been potentially damaged while they were on the phone to Mrs H, then they could have ordered a replacement card for 
her which may have been waiting for her when she returned from holiday. So the incident on 
3 April 2023 would not have occurred. Mrs H has told us about the embarrassment she felt 
when her transactions kept being declined. And while M&S Bank would not have been 
aware of the reason why this was the first time she contacted them, Im satisfied that they 
missed opportunities to mitigate what happened here.
So Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. M&S Bank have paid 
Mrs H £300 for what happened here. But I need to assess the impact that their errors had on 
Mrs H, taking into account Mrs Hs individual circumstances at the time. Im persuaded that 
due to Mrs Hs individual circumstances that £300 is not proportionate for the impact the 
errors had on her. 
I know Mrs H wants M&S Bank to pay for her holiday, but Im not persuaded that this is 
proportionate either. Mrs H was not ringing M&S Bank every day of her holiday, and while I 
sympathise with her concerns about not being able to use the card, thankfully she had 
access to other methods to pay for things while she was on holiday, even though I 
appreciate this was not what she wanted to do. A damaged card meant there was little that 
M&S Bank could do while she was on holiday, and as the card worked on 7 March 2023, 
then it would be out of M&S Banks control if the card became damaged after this 
transaction. A damaged card would naturally be distressing, and she would have needed to 
contact M&S Bank about this regardless of if she was on holiday or not.
So Im persuaded that a fair outcome of this complaint is for M&S Bank to pay Mrs H an 
additional £150 to total £450 compensation. I know Mrs H wants more compensation than 
this, but our awards are not designed to punish a business. I do think the impact of what 
happened here did contribute to Mrs Hs holiday not being as enjoyable as it should have 
been and M&S Bank were directly responsible for some of this such as sending her to the 
ATM and giving her wrong information about the card not being active. Im persuaded they 
caused her embarrassment when she tried to use the card on 3 April 2023, and this was 
entirely avoidable if the call handler would have read the note on the system and recognised 
her card had already been activated in January. So it follows M&S Bank should put things 
right for Mrs H.
Putting things right
Our investigator suggested that M&S Bank pays Mrs H a further £150 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience to total £450, which I think is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank 
should pay Mrs H an extra £150 to total £450 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman