DRN-3958385
The complaint
Miss L has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted irresponsibly offering her an 
overdraft and allowing her to increase the limit rapidly in a matter of months causing her 
financial hardship. 
What happened
Miss L held an account with Lloyds. In September 2017 Miss L was granted an overdraft 
with a limit of £50 which increased to £3,000 by October 2018. 
Miss L took out a loan for £3,200 in November 2018 to pay off her overdraft but by May 2019 
Miss L again had an overdraft with a limit of £800. Miss L took a further loan of £4,834 to 
consolidate her debt and closed her account in December 2021.
Miss L complained to Lloyds that allowing her an overdraft at a young age and to increase 
her overdraft limit was irresponsible and unaffordable for her and led to financial difficulty.
Lloyds didnt uphold Miss Ls complaint. It says from the information Miss L provided all 
overdrafts were affordable and all applications passed its internal and credit checks. Lloyds 
believes the overdraft was manageable as the statements show it was non-essential 
spending that caused the account to become overdrawn. 
Our adjudicator looked at all of this and thought that based on the pattern of lending it 
indicated that the overdraft borrowing wasnt manageable and that Lloyds shouldnt have 
allowed a further overdraft from 1 November 2018 when it became apparent Miss L had to 
go into more debt to pay her existing debt.
Lloyds agreed to settle Miss Ls complaint in-line with our adjudicators recommendation and 
offered to refund all interest and charges applied to her account from 1 November 2018 
which amounted to £127.18. Lloyds would add 8% simple interest on any overpayments 
from this date (if they were made) to the date of settlement.
Miss L didnt wish to accept this offer. She wants all interest and charges to be refunded 
from when the lending started. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Miss L is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. But for complaints about funds which shouldnt have been provided this isnt straight 
forward as the funds were provided and, in most cases  such as here, have long since 
been spent.
So we look to try and find some other way to put things right. And where a business 
increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should have 
realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd 
be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This means wed 
normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit from the 
point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those interest and 
charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case after reviewing Miss Ls statements and information Miss L provided about her 
incomings and outgoings in her overdraft applications up until October 2018 (around the 
overdraft review date and near the point where Lloyds has agreed to refund overdraft 
charges), that there wasnt anything in the information Lloyds had which suggested Miss L 
wouldnt be able to repay the overdraft within a reasonable period of time had she chosen to 
and that she shouldnt be approved for the overdraft limit increases requested. 
The overdraft application for Miss Ls highest limit shows she reported incomings of £2,500 
and had no outgoing commitments. And Miss Ls statements show that although she did use 
her overdraft, she also managed to see a credit balance regularly until around May 2018 and 
that the credit turnover was sufficient to service the overdraft. And while I acknowledge from 
this point until the Miss L took out the loan in November 2018 Miss L used her overdraft 
more, going from the bank statements, I dont think it can be said that there were obvious 
signs of financial difficulty. I say this as her statements show she had a regular healthy 
salary coming in and that she had little or no priority or essential bills coming out and that the 
spending on her account was predominantly on retail and leisure activities. 
But I agree with our adjudicator that when Miss L took out a loan in November 2018 to pay 
off her overdraft that ought to have been a sign that she wasnt able to manage her overdraft 
and was having to go into more debt to pay off her existing debt.  
Lloyds has already agreed to settle Miss Ls complaint from this point and in-line with what 
Id expect. I understand Miss L wishes to be refunded all overdraft interest and charges from 
the point she stated borrowing. But I dont agree that it was unfair prior to November 2018 
for Lloyds to charge Miss L for an overdraft facility she requested and benefited from. And I 
dont believe that the interest, fees and charges left her with a debt that she wouldnt 
otherwise have been left with. 
So bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Lloyds has already offered to do to put 
things right for Miss L is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her case so Im not 
requiring Lloyds to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Miss L to decide whether 
she wishes to accept Lloydss offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds UK Plc has already agreed to 
do to put things right for Miss L is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. So 
Im not requiring it to do anymore.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman