DRN-3238930
The complaint
Miss H complains that Old Mutual Wealth Life & Pensions Limited (OM) didnt follow her
investment instructions for her pension and she lost out.
What happened
Miss H said she made several transfers into her retirement account, but OM didnt follow her
instructions for phasing the investment and rebalancing.
OM said that it didnt make a mistake and its terms made clear that it wasnt possible to do
both phasing and rebalancing. The initial phasing instruction was cancelled in line with its
terms and conditions.
I have set out below the relevant provisions of the terms and conditions and the paperwork
from the various application.
OM terms and conditions for its collective retirement account say the following: -
7 Phased investment
7.1 you can instruct us to phase a .. transferred investment into funds (excluding the default
cash fund) in your account. We will hold your investment in the default cash fund then phase
your investment into your chosen funds over a 3, 6 or 12 month period as specified in your
instruction.
7.2 you can choose the month in which you want the phasing to start.
7.3 If you do not specify a start month, we will calculate your first instalment on the first
working day of the month after we receive your instruction. However, if we receive your
instruction less than ten workings day before the first working day of the next month, we
cannot guarantee that your instruction will take effect for that month.
7.4 we will calculate each phased investment instalment based on the entire amount in our
default cash fund, not just the amount that you invest at the time of giving the instruction.
7.6 your instruction to phase will continue until completed or cancelled
7.7 Your instruction to phase will also be cancelled if:
(a) we receive an automatic rebalancing instruction
9 Automatic rebalancing
9.1 You can instruct us at any time to start rebalancing your whole account as long as you
meet the minimum account value. We will calculate the switches to bring the proportional
value of your funds back to the percentages you have specified and send these switch
instructions to the fund manager(s) on your behalf. We will rebalance your account at 3,6 or
12 monthly intervals, as specified in your instruction.
9.2 you can choose the month you want the rebalancing to start. We will calculate the
switches needed to rebalance your account on the 15th of that month. However, if we
receive your instruction less than ten working days before the required start date, we cannot
guarantee that it will take effect for that month.
9.3 If you do not specify a start month we will calculate the switches needed to rebalance
your account on the 15th of the next available month for your chosen frequency
9.10 your instruction to rebalance your account will continue until cancelled.
9.11 your rebalancing instruction will also be cancelled if the following events occur:..
(a)
(b) we receive a phased investment instruction
Transfer applications
Miss Hs financial adviser (FA) made transfer applications and associated instructions on the
following dates.
16 September 2019 the FA wrote to OM to say Miss H wanted to open a collective
retirement account to receive two transfers from different sections of her occupational
pension scheme. It said that
application ending 2535 is to be phased over 12 months and application ending 7464 is to
be invested immediately
as discussed with x we would like both applications amalgamated into one Collective 
Retirement Account. We have added six monthly rebalancing for the
defined contribution application and after the 12 month phasing has finished we
would like this to include all monies,
There were several applications for the new account. I have seen the following: -
Application ending 2536
On 17 October 2019, copy submitted new investment application, (application ending 2536) 
New investment application for around £95,000, 15 funds were selected for investment in
different proportions.
Phased investment was selected over a period of 12 months starting on 1 November 2019.
Application ending 7464
16 September 2019 (10.05 am) - screen shot of the generated paperwork from OM system
for application number ending 7464 application type top-ups stage date 02/01/20.
16 September 2019 (10:17 am) - Screen shot of the generated paperwork for application
from OM system for application number ending 8505 created on 16/9/19 for super app
number 7464 marked as a rebalancing application, stage date 2 January 2020.
16 September 2019 (10.19am) Copy collective retirement account online confirmation
application number ending 7464,
Phased investment this option was not selected,
Rebalancing option
Effective every 6 months from 1 January 2020,
Portfolios are reviewed on the 15th, or the first business day thereafter of the month
you select.
2 January 2020, copy submitted top up application (application ending 7464) around
£43,000 transferred in, Phased investment: marked No
Application ending 7270
25 February 2020, copy submitted top up application (ending 7270) around £33,000
transferred in, phased investment marked No,
OM said that the initial application was set up with phasing and the first two months
investments were phased as per the original phasing application (ending 7243 and linked
new business application ending 2536). The next transfer in application received in January2020 didnt select phasing.
My first provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this case. I said the following.
From the papers I could see that when Miss Hs FA first applied in September 2019 she
wanted there to be one retirement account that would receive all of the proposed transfers
in. She wanted the first transfer in of about £95,000 to be invested in a phased fashion over
12 months. Once the phased investment was completed after 12 months the FA wanted this
amount to be subject to rebalancing.
The FA wanted the second transfer in, invested immediately and then to be subject to six
monthly rebalancing.
In reality, it seemed that for the first two months the initial transfer was invested in a phased
manner in November and December 2019. However, after that the second investment was
made on 3 January 2020 (of around £43,000 which was invested immediately) the whole
account was rebalanced such that the second transfer in and the remainder of the initial
£95,000 (being around £79,000) was invested on 17 January 2020. Further investments
totalling around £33,000 were invested immediately as intended.
I need to consider whether what happened reflects the terms and conditions for the account.
Having looked at the terms I dont think it was possible for OM to implement the investment
in the manner the FA requested in her email. I say that because the initial investment was
phased. However, the terms say in section 7.7 Your instruction to phase will also be
cancelled if:
(a) we receive an automatic rebalancing instruction
I thought that the receipt of the second transfer with its associated rebalancing instruction
cancelled the phased investment instruction put in place for the first transfer in (as the
provisions of section 7.7 say that the phased investment will be cancelled by an automatic
rebalancing instruction). This is what happened because only the first two months of phased
investments happened.
I next considered whether the rebalancing was implemented in the way instructed.
The account confirmation says Effective every 6 months from 1 January 2020, This stated
both the frequency and the start date.
The terms at section 9.2 say you can choose the month you want the rebalancing to start.
We will calculate the switches needed to rebalance your account on the 15th of that month.
I thought that from 1 January 2020 referred to in the account confirmation meant when the
rebalancing was to start (referred to in 9.2). Section 9.2 was clear that the rebalance will be
calculated on 15th of that month. It didnt say it will start in the month after the first
frequency interval (in this case 6 months). I thought to apply a June 2020 start date it would
need to say that, but it didnt. So, on balance I thought the more natural interpretation was
that the first rebalancing would be calculated starting from 1 January 2020. I thought that
interpretation was also supported by what happened as the systems set up by OM applied it
in this manner.
This may not be what Miss H and her FA intended but that isnt OMs fault and I have not
seen evidence that there was agreement to do what they wished. I thought that is what the
terms meant, and that is what OM did. The applications were subject to the terms, so OM
was entitled to apply those terms.
For those reasons I didnt think OM made a mistake in the rebalancing and I didnt proposeto uphold the complaint.
OM had nothing further to add.
Miss H didnt agree. She said:-
the document dated 17 October 2019 for the application ending 2536 referred to the
online application in respect of the transfer of around £95,000 from Miss Ms
occupational pension scheme. This was the primary transfer and so set the path to
follow. The document stated it had made a clear instruction that the transfer should
be phased into the investment funds selected over a 12 month period starting
1/11/2019. It was clear from the application that automatic rebalancing had not been
selected.
In addition, a letter gave clear instructions that this element was to be phased but
subsequent transfers were to be invested immediately. There was no mention of
automatic rebalancing and this was not contrary to the terms and conditions.
Miss Hs FA said it was correct that automatic rebalancing and phased investing
cannot operate together.
The document dated 02/01/20 for the application 7464 referred to the online
application for the transfer of around £43,000. This clearly stated that phased
investment was not chosen and there was nothing on this application to indicate
automatic rebalancing was chosen as per the first application dated 17/10/2019.
This was not contrary to the terms and conditions so phasing should still be
instructed for the initial transfer.
The document dated 25/02/2020 for the application 7270 for around £33,000 stated
phased investment was not chosen. There was nothing in the application to indicate
automatic rebalancing was chosen as per the first and second application of
17/10/19 and 02/01/2020. This was not contrary to the terms and condition and
therefore phasing should continue for the initial transfer and immediate investment
should apply to this specific investment.
There was no mention of whether or not there should be any automatic rebalancing
or not on either the second or third application. Had the option been there during the
online process the FA would have made a decision one way or the other. As
automatic rebalancing had not been selected on the initial application there was
categorically no mention of it on the second and third applications and therefore no
automatic rebalance was instructed which would have applied and cancelled the
phased instruction. There should not therefore have been any rebalance in January
2020 and this was done in error. It believed an error on the part of OM caused the
rebalancing option to be instigated. In the absence of clear evidence that the
automatic rebalance was instructed by the FA it must be OMs error and the
complaint should be upheld.
It also said that the application received did not show that the FA had selected
automatic rebalance on any of the transfers and therefore it must be a user error by
OM. The output from the OM system that the FA received also confirmed this.
The ability to phase one investment and immediately invest the others was within OM
terms and the subsequent investments could not have cancelled the initial phasing
instructions.Without any evidence that the automatic rebalance was instructed by the FA the
complaint should be upheld.
The FA said that if its instruction conflicted with OMs terms then it was their
responsibility to tell the FA rather than proceed in a way that was different to the
manner it had requested. It could have kept the two submissions separate until they
could be amalgamated into one plan. The FA said there was clear discussion with
OM as to how best to implement the plan. There was a desire to have one plan but
not at the expense of the investment instructions. It didnt think OM had treated Miss
H fairly because it didnt ensure no action was taken which would contradict a clear
instruction without first seeking clarification. If OM couldnt follow the clear
instructions, it should have contacted the FA which could have meant the plans were
held separately until they could be amalgamated.
It also questioned why it wasnt possible to set up two separate accounts with
different investment instructions. It said this was clearly what was attempting to be
achieved and clearly instructed in its covering letter. It felt clarity was clearly
provided in its letter of 16 September 2019 which it said was clear and unambiguous
as to how to treat the two separate and simultaneous applications.
It also put forward arguments on interpretation of the terms which it said were not
relevant to Miss H. (I have not therefore set them out or considered them).
My second provisional decision
In the light of the further arguments I issued a second provisional decision. I listened to the 
call between the FA and OM regarding setting up the new applications and the parties were 
supplied with a transcript in my second provisional decision. 
I also re considered the copy email dated 16 September 2019 (sent at 11.12 am) by
the FA to OM regarding the application for a collective retirement account that it had posted
next day delivery that day. It said the first transfer of around £95,000 is to be phased and
the second of around £43,000 to be immediately investment. It also said
as discussed with x we would like both applications amalgamated into one
 we have added six monthly rebalancing for the defined contribution application (£43,000)
and after the 12 month phasing has finished we would like this to include all monies
Based on these it seemed to me, there was an expectation that the two investments could 
go into one place and one be invested immediately and one phased. Based on the call 
recording this was exactly what the FA and apparently also Miss H wanted. So, to now argue 
that OM should have put the investments into separate accounts would counter the express
instructions in the call and follow up email. So, I didnt think OM did anything wrong in putting
the applications into one account.
There was no discussion of rebalancing on the call. However, the follow up email gave an
express instruction regarding rebalancing that was not discussed. For that reason, I didnt
think OM gave confirmation that this could operate alongside phased investment in one
account, as the issue was not discussed at all.
Based on my previous analysis it was the conflict between phasing and rebalancing that
caused the problem not the conflict between immediate and phased investment. Based onthe call OM did not expressly confirm that this was possible within one plan. It therefore
seems that the FA introduced an additional requirement in the follow up email that was not
discussed on the call with OM and in respect of which OM gave no express confirmation.
The email provides clear evidence that the FA did instruct rebalancing despite arguments
that it had not done this on the applications it completed.
I also didnt agree with the FAs analysis of the application 7464. I said that because the
Collective retirement account online confirmation for 7464 transfer for £43,000 issued on
16/9/19 at 10:19 said phased investment was not selected but rebalancing was confirmed
effective every 6 months from 1 January 2020. If this was not what was wished it should
have been questioned when the confirmation of order was issued. However, given the email
sent in September and the lack of challenge from the FA, it seems most likely that this did
reflect the intention at the time i.e. that there would be rebalancing.
Even if the FA is right and other applications didnt direct rebalancing the email sent at the
outset would have still applied, so it would not have made a difference.
I considered whether OM should have got clarification about how to invest if the
phasing and rebalancing conflicted, but I cant say that it should have. I say that because I
thought it was up to the FA to give clear instructions to OM. The FA knew what its aim was 
and to ensure it was implemented as it wished at that time. OM could not have known this, 
and the call did not put it on notice of the rebalancing.
For those reasons I didnt change my view and remained of the view that OM didnt do
anything wrong in implementing the phasing and rebalancing in accordance with its terms.
I didnt propose to uphold this complaint.
Neither Miss H nor OM made any further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the light of the absence of any further comments I have not changed my mind. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman