DRN-3709791
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that UCB Home Loans Corporation Ltd (UCB) failed to remove a 
charge it had over their property which they redeemed in 2006. They complain that because 
of this they have incurred a loss of £69,229.28.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S mortgaged their property to UCB between 2002 and 2006. In 2006 they took 
out a new mortgage with a different lender redeeming the UCB loan. In July 2021 Mr and 
Mrs S agreed to sell their property and in the course of so doing learned that the UCB loan 
was still showing on the title to the property at the Land Registry. Mr and Mrs S said this 
caused delays to their sale, from August to November, leading to the financial loss and for 
which they believe UCB should be responsible.
In August 2021 Mr and Mrs S wrote to UCB asking whether they still held any title deeds 
relating to their property. UCB said they didnt. Mr S called UCB in September advising that 
UCBs original charge was still showing on the title to the property at the Land Registry and 
as a result UCB took action to see that it was removed - which it was in November 2021.
UCB have denied that it is at fault for the failure to remove the charge. It has explained that 
when the mortgage was redeemed in 2006 they wrote to Mr and Mrs S solicitors to advise 
that they had lodged the electronic Notification of Discharge with the Land Registry who 
were then dealing with the removal of the mortgage from the title to the property. 
UCB have said that the responsibility for ensuring the removal of the mortgage lay with Mr 
and Mrs S conveyancer who was dealing with the legal work in 2006. It accepted that it had 
notified the Land Registry in September 2021 that the mortgage had been redeemed but 
reiterated that this was an action Mr and Mrs S solicitors ought to have undertaken in 2006. 
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with UCBs final response and so approached this service to 
see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that UCB hadnt done 
anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly. Mr and Mrs S didnt agree and asked 
for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because I dont need to comment on every 
individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Ive taken account 
of both sides views and Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available 
evidence. 
The accepted facts are that Mr and Mrs S redeemed their mortgage with UCB in 2006. 
UCBs mortgage was not removed from the charges register to the title of the property held 
by the Land Registry until November 2021. The mortgage was removed as a result of UCB 
notifying the Land Registry in September 2021. 
Mr and Mrs S have said that their sale was delayed as a result and I think that is probably 
likely, since their purchasers solicitors would necessarily require it to be removed before 
they would complete on the purchase. 
The crux of this complaint turns on whether it was UCBs or Mr and Mrs S conveyancers 
responsibility in 2006, to remove the UCB charge from the title to the property. The answer is 
found in established and accepted conveyancing procedure. 
In my view it was Mr and Mrs S solicitors who bore the responsibility for ensuring, in 2006, 
that the UCB charges were removed so that the replacement mortgage could be registered. 
In order to do this, it required the lender, in this case UCB, to provide evidence that the UCB 
mortgage had been redeemed and their charge upon the property released. This UCB did 
when they notified Mr and Mrs S solicitors that they had lodged an electronic Notification of 
Discharge with the Land Registry. The Land Registry confirmed receipt of that document, 
and beyond that there was no further obligation on UCB to ensure the charge was removed. 
That became a matter for Mr and Mrs S solicitors. I know Mr and Mrs S have said there 
were two parcels of land against which this mortgage was registered and of course that 
would have been a factor their solicitors must have known about at the time since they were 
dealing with the redemption of that very mortgage. So, if in fact the mortgage remained 
registered against one or both parcels of land, that is something their solicitors ought to have 
spotted and resolved.
Mr and Mrs S believe UCB were dilatory in correcting the error, but I dont agree. First, I 
dont think UCB made any error as they did all that they had to do, so any action they took 
thereafter has to be viewed in the context of them assisting Mr and Mrs S, when in fact they 
had no obligation to. Secondly, the action they did take in notifying the Land Registry in 
September 2021, was taken promptly when they were alerted to the problem, and so the 
delay in removing the charge was not as a result of UCBs inaction.   
So, although Mr and Mrs S will probably be disappointed with my decision I cant say UCB 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman