DRN-2540431
The complaint
Mr L complains that he was mis-sold cover for his boiler by BIG Warranties Ltd.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr L contacted BIG Warranties to arrange cover for his boiler. His previous
policy had covered him for boiler maintenance and an annual service, and he wanted to
arrange similar cover. He was given a quote of £136.70 for an annual policy, but this didnt
include an annual service, which he added to his cover for a further £89. Mr L thought he
was buying annual maintenance cover, and he made a payment of £225.70 for a years
cover starting on 1 November 2019. At the time Mr Ls boiler was 11 years old and he was
told BIG Warranties could cover it until it was 15 years old.
During the sales call Mr L was asked whether he wanted to add home emergency cover to
his policy, but he didnt, as he told BIG Warranties he had this cover through his former
employers. After Mr L purchased his policy BIG Warranties said that hed be sent a copy of
the policy and schedule by email. Mr L has confirmed he received these documents.
The policy document is headed Home Emergency Cover. Its clear from the terms and
conditions that although the policy covered Mr Ls boiler and central heating system, cover
was limited to emergency situations, as defined in the policy. And Mr L wasnt covered for
maintenance of his boiler. Mr L accepts that he misunderstood what the policy covered when
he took it out.
On 20 February 2020 an engineer attended at Mr Ls property to carry out his annual boiler
service. The engineer couldnt complete the service as the boiler was faulty and needed
some parts replaced. The engineer reported this to BIG Warranties and was told to ask Mr L
to call them and theyd put him in touch with the company that dealt with claims or help him
with the repair.
Mr L called BIG Warranties and was transferred to the company who handle their claims.
Hes told us that he explained what hed been told by the engineer and was surprised to be
told he wasnt covered for the repair, as he only had home emergency cover, and he wasnt 
covered as his boiler was still working. Mr L was referred to the terms and conditions of his
policy, and the person he spoke to agreed to email him a copy, when he said he hadnt
received one following a change of underwriter.
Mr L contacted BIG Warranties the following day to tell them he wanted to cancel his policy,
as it didnt provide the cover hed expected, and he requested a pro-rata refund of his
premium.
BIG Warranties called Mr L the same day and he again told them that he wanted to cancel
his policy. He said he thought he was buying a maintenance contract, not home emergency
cover. He was advised to raise a complaint, rather than cancelling his policy, as if the policy
was cancelled there might be problems arranging a refund. So Mr L agreed not to cancel his
policy and raised a complaint.
Mr Ls complaint wasnt upheld. BIG Warranties said that as hed raised a claim, he wasnt
entitled to a refund of any of his premium. And they didnt cancel his policy as hed
requested.
Mr L then complained to our service. Our investigator considered his complaint and
recommended that it was upheld. He said that the policy made it clear that it covered Mr L
for emergencies, where thered been a complete breakdown of his boiler, and it didnt cover
him for day to day maintenance. And Mr L had the opportunity to cancel his cover, once he
received the policy documentation, if the cover wasnt appropriate for him. So he didnt think
the policy had been mis-sold to Mr L.
But he felt Mr L was entitled to a pro-rata refund. He accepted that Mr L had intended to
make a claim on his policy but hadnt been able to do this, as the policy didnt cover him for
maintenance of his boiler and the repair that was required. So he said BIG Warranties
should cancel Mr Ls policy from 20 February 2020, provide a refund of his premium for the
remaining period of cover, and pay him £50 compensation for the trouble and upset hed
experienced.
BIG Warranties didnt accept our investigators opinion as they maintain that as Mr L made a
claim, he isnt entitled to a pro-rata refund of his premium. And as they havent done
anything wrong, they say he isnt entitled to any compensation.
So the case came to me for a decision. 
I issued my provisional decision on 15 January 2021. And in it I said -
Its clear from his initial conversation with BIG Warranties that what Mr L wanted was a
maintenance contract, and this was what he thought he purchased. But the policy
documents Mr L was sent make it clear that what he purchased was home emergency
cover. The policy document is headed Home Emergency Cover so I think it should have
been clear to Mr L that he didnt have the cover hed wanted. Mr L has never disputed that
he misunderstood what the policy covered when he took it out.
If the policy wording wasnt so clear, having listened to the sales call, Id have said the policy
was mis-sold. But the policy wording is clear, so I cant say this. If Mr L had checked his
policy documentation when he received it, I think it should have been clear to him that he
didnt have the cover he wanted, he could have cancelled the policy within the 14 day
cooling off period, and hed have been entitled to a full refund of his premium.
But this didnt happen, and Mr L only became aware that he didnt have maintenance cover
when he called to make a claim. When he was told that he wasnt covered for the repair his
boiler needed Mr L told BIG Warranties he wanted to cancel his policy. He was advised to
raise a complaint, rather than simply cancelling his policy, as the policy said he wasnt
entitled to a refund as hed made a claim.
The original policy document Mr L was sent states that if the policy doesnt meet his
insurance needs, he should return it, within 14 days of purchase or of receiving his policy
documents, and on the condition that no claims have been made his premium will be
refunded in full. The policy then deals with cancelling the policy after 14 days. It says a
customer paying annually, as Mr L had, is entitled to a pro-rata refund of the premium paid,
but theres an administration charge of £30 payable. Theres no mention of not being entitled
to a refund if a claim has been made.
After Mr L took out his policy BIG Warranties updated their policy terms and conditions. Mr L
hadnt been sent a copy of the update. He was sent one when he spoke to the company whohandle claims for BIG Warranties. Under the section headed Cancellation the policy now
states Please note no refund will be made for any policies where a claim has been made or
is pending. As Mr L hadnt been notified of the changes to his policy terms and conditions, I
dont think its fair they he should be bound by these.
Even if Mr L had received a copy of the updated policy, and Ive seen no evidence that this
had been sent to him until he asked for a copy, I dont think its reasonable for BIG
Warranties to say Mr L had made a claim. I accept that he called them to make a claim, but
he was told the repairs his boiler needed werent covered as his boiler was still working, so
hed need to fund the repairs himself.
BIG Warranties have made much of the fact that theyve recorded a claim against Mr Ls
policy. Regardless of how theyve recorded it, Mr L wasnt covered for repairs, so I dont
think its fair or reasonable for BIG Warranties to say he made a claim and refuse him a pro-
rata refund of his premium on that basis. BIG Warranties shouldnt have recorded a claim for 
something Mr L was never covered for.
So I dont think BIG Warranties have treated Mr L fairly and to put things right I require them
to cancel his policy from 20 February 2020 and provide a pro-rata refund of his premium. I
also think they should waive the £30 administration fee. The policy says that no
administration fee is payable if a customer is paying for their policy monthly. So its unfair
that Mr L should be penalised for paying for a years cover in advance. And as BIG
Warranties didnt cancel Mr Ls policy as requested or provide him with the updated policy
terms and conditions, hes experienced unnecessary trouble and upset for which he should
be compensated. Our investigator suggested £50, but I dont think this reflects the journey
Mr L has had, and I think £100 is the correct level of compensation.
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Mr Ls complaint.
Mr L has told us that hes happy with my provisional decision. But hes made a few 
comments about the service he received from BIG Warranties. Hes said that had BIG 
Warranties agreed to a pro-rata refund of his premium and waived the administration fee, 
hed have been entirely satisfied. He accepts that it was his fault that he hadnt appreciated 
the terms of the policy. But as they chose not to do this, theyve both had to spend time 
dealing with this complaint.
Hes also told us that in November 2020 BIG Warranties took an unauthorised payment for a 
renewal premium for his policy despite his ongoing complaint. And he thinks theyre poorly 
run and unconcerned with providing good customer service.
BIG Warranties have said that there appears to have been a misunderstanding about the 
terms and conditions of Mr Ls policy. They say these were never changed, and his claim 
was rejected based on the terms and conditions he agreed to when he took out his policy. 
And that the previous policy Mr L has referred to is with another company, so they have no 
knowledge of it.
Theyve also said that they provided the correct policy terms and conditions and read all 
summary scripts correctly. And that Mr L found their policy online where its clearly 
advertised as Breakdown Cover.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Its unfortunate that after having to bring this complaint to us Mr L has had further problems, 
as BIG Warranties renewed a policy hed clearly told them he wanted to cancel. If this hasnt 
been sorted out, hell need to raise a new complaint with them. And if it isnt resolved to his 
satisfaction, he can bring a new complaint to our service. I hope this wont be necessary, but 
I cant consider what hes now told us as part of this complaint. 
There has certainly been some confusion about whether the terms and conditions of Mr Ls 
policy were updated, or not. BIG Warranties have provided us with a further copy of the 
terms and conditions they say were in force when Mr L took bought his policy. And they say 
these havent changed in the time Mr L has had cover with them. The terms and conditions 
Mr L told us he was given when he took out his policy, refer to a different underwriter and a 
different claims handler. BIG Warranties say that Mr L is referring to a previous policy with 
another company, of which they have no knowledge. This cant be correct as the first line of 
the terms and conditions says, This insurance is arranged by BIG Warranties Ltd.
The difference between the two versions of the terms and conditions, which is relevant to Mr 
Ls complaint, is that the one hes provided, when dealing with cancellation after 14 days, 
makes no reference to there being no entitlement to a pro-rata refund of the premium if a 
claim has been made, although the one BIG Warranties have provided does.
But even if Mr L was sent the correct terms and conditions when he bought his policy, this 
doesnt change my opinion. Ive said that BIG Warranties shouldnt have recorded a claim 
against his policy, for something he was never covered for. So it doesnt matter if the terms 
and conditions stated he wasnt entitled to a pro-rata refund if hed made a claim, or not. 
BIG Warranties have also said that theyve read all summary scripts correctly. Ive said that if 
the policy terms and conditions werent so clear, having listened to the sales call, Id have 
said the policy was mis-sold. While BIG Warranties call handler may have followed their 
script, he didnt listen to what Mr L was saying. If he had done, hed have realised the policy 
he was selling Mr L wasnt suitable for his needs.
So I havent changed my mind and my opinion remains that BIG Warranties havent treated 
Mr L fairly, by refusing to provide a pro-rata refund of his premium.
To put things right I require them to cancel Mr Ls policy from 20 February 2020 and provide 
a pro-rata refund of his premium, waiving the £30 administration fee.  And to pay him £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset hes experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Ls claim against BIG Warranties Ltd. And to put things right I require them to 
cancel Mr Ls policy from 20 February 2020 and provide a pro-rata refund of his premium, 
waiving the £30 administration fee.  And to pay him £100 compensation for the trouble and 
upset hes experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman