DRN-2200141
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that esure Insurance Limited (esure) unfairly declined their home 
insurance claim for storm damage. 
As Mr S has led this complaint, Ill just refer to him throughout this decision. In addition, all 
references to esure include that of its representatives on the claim unless specified.
What happened
In February 2020, following a storm, Mr S contacted esure to make a claim for damage 
caused to covered structure in his garden (described as a pergola and a canopy by the 
business) and outbuilding. 
esure accepted a storm had taken place and sent a loss adjuster to inspect the reported 
damage. Around a month later it declined the claim saying the covered structure was 
excluded from cover, and the damage to the outbuilding was caused by general wear and 
tear, which is excluded under the terms. Mr S also reported a crack to his outbuilding wall 
which esure said was instead the result of heave. 
Mr S challenged esures decision to decline the claim and said he wasnt kept updated. Our 
investigator didnt uphold this complaint, saying he felt esure had fairly declined the claim 
and its decision was supported by the loss adjusters investigation and photographs. 
Mr S responded to say he didnt agree. He said his shed had been described as a pergola 
by the insurer to escape the claim, and that his outbuilding had been in good condition prior 
to the storm. Mr S also said esure had provided no evidence to show the crack in his 
outbuilding wall was caused by anything other than a storm.
Our investigator considered Mr S points but didnt change his mind. He said the collapsed 
structure in question met the definition of a canopy under the policy, and that the reported 
damage to the outbuilding render wasnt in keeping with high winds or rain. But he said he 
would reconsider the complaint if Mr S provided an independent report that gave a differing 
view of the likely cause for damage  which he didnt do. So the complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator.
Mr S feels the damage hes claimed for was caused by a storm and therefore covered under 
this insurance policy. When considering claims arising from storm damage, we look at 
whether there is evidence of a storm occurring, whether the damage claimed for is typical of 
storm damage and also whether the storm is the main cause of the damage sustained.
In this case, there is no dispute that a storm took place in the area of Mr S home as winds of 
around 63 mph were recorded. So Ive gone on to answer these remaining questions for 
each area of damage.
Covered garden structure
Having looked carefully at the reports and damage reported, it seems the damage to the 
structure was consistent with storm damage. However esure has said its policy specifically 
excludes damage to canopies under the storm cover.
Mr S has referred to this structure as a shed. But having reviewed the photos Im satisfied 
that this isnt an accurate description as it appears to be a covered shelter. And instead, as it 
is a covering, I think esure has fairly referred to it as a canopy. And because canopies are 
excluded under storm cover, I think esure has acted fairly in declining the damage caused to 
this structure.
Outbuilding
esure has said the damage to the outbuilding wasnt caused by the storm. From the report 
and photos Ive seen, the damage to the render and the crack in the wall dont seem in 
keeping with damage Id expect to see from heavy wind or rain. So Id agree with esures 
decision to decline the cover on this basis.
However I think damage to the outbuilding roof could be considered as in keeping with a 
storm. So Ive gone on to consider whether the storm was the main cause of the damage 
sustained.
esure has provided a copy of the policy terms which say damage caused by wear and tear, 
lack of maintenance and loss or damage that happens gradually over time isnt covered. 
These exclusions also extend to other areas of cover under this policy (including accidental 
damage).
Mr S has insisted his outbuilding was in good condition before the storm. But esure's loss 
adjuster disagreed, saying instead the cause of the damage was existing rot in the roof that 
had been simply highlighted by the storm. And the inspection showed that water ingress had 
been ongoing for some time. So, it said it wasnt covered by the policy and would fall under 
the wear and tear exclusion. From what Ive seen this seems the most likely reason for the 
damage, and agree the photos provided suggest this damage was long standing. So I think 
esure has acted fairly in reaching its conclusion to not cover the damage.
Overall
Mr S has said he believes the loss adjuster wasnt sufficiently experienced and wanted to 
decline the claim, but hes not presented any evidence to substantiate this. From what Ive 
seen, this allegation seems unfounded as the report its provided is suitably detailed. Mr S 
was given the opportunity to provide his own professional report to show a different cause of 
damage, but he didnt. 
So overall, Im satisfied that esure has acted fairly in declining cover for the shed and the 
cracking to the outbuilding and applying the exclusion for wear and tear and gradual damage 
for the damage to the outbuilding render and roof.
For the sake of completeness, Ive also considered whether the claim might be covered 
under the accidental damage cover included in Mr S policy. Having done this, I can see that claims for wear and tear are also excluded under this cover, so Im satisfied this damage 
isnt covered under this part of the policy either.
Ive seen Mr S has also mentioned a tile on homes roof was damaged. I cant see this was 
covered in the loss adjusters report or that esure has made a decision on this. So, if Mr S 
would like to claim for damage to the tile, he will need to confirm this with esure as our 
investigator has said previously. 
Finally, Mr S has said esure acted unfairly in accepting his claim to begin with (only to later 
decline the claim) as well as not keeping him updated. From what Ive seen esure accepted 
there was a storm but needed to validate the claim by investigating the damage. This is in 
line with what Id have expected it to do. It also seems esure gave Mr S an answer on his 
claim within a month, so I dont agree it failed to keep him updated. 
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman