DRN-2280952
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax), mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2001, which they paid a monthly 
amount for. The mortgage was in joint names, but the policy was solely for the benefit of    
Mr W.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case. 
Ive decided that Mr and Mrs Ws PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs W say they cant remember being made aware of the PPI and that they should 
have had a choice. But I think that Halifax did make Mr and Mrs W aware they had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it  and in the name of Mr W only. 
I say this because I have been given documents from the time of the sale including the 
Mortgage Repayments Insurance Application form which Mr W has signed as well as the 
Mortgage Application itself. On that form there is a section headed Accident, Sickness and 
Unemployment Insurance and Mr W has signed to say Yes, I would like to take advantage 
of Mortgage Repayments Insurance. So, I think Mr and Mrs W knew about the PPI and 
decided to take it knowing they had a choice about it, and particularly because they made a 
decision that the policy would be of most benefit to them in the name of Mr W only. I note 
that he was the higher earner at the time, so this doesnt seem unreasonable.  
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W, so it had to check it was right for Mr W. And 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. Mr W was employed 
and was entitled to redundancy pay. He initially told us he wouldnt receive any sick pay if he 
was too unwell to work but later informed us he would, but didnt give us any details.            
Mr and Mrs W also told us about the critical illness and life policies they had.   
But the terms of the policy show that it would have paid the benefit for up to 24 months if 
Mr W was too unwell to work or was made redundant. And the policy would have paid out 
over and above any employee benefits he may have received, and for longer bearing in 
mind what Mr W has told us. So those employee benefits could have been used for other 
essential household costs. So, I think the PPI policy would have given Mr and Mrs W a 
financial benefit they wouldnt otherwise have had. 
I dont know how the policy was presented to Mr and Mrs W, but I see that the costs are 
clearly detailed on the paperwork. And it also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, the 
policy would have been useful for Mr and Mrs W if something went wrong. 
Its possible that Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy wouldnt cover  a pre-
existing medical condition as an example. But Mr W doesnt appear to have been affected by 
any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ws comments, including what they have said about their 
other critical illness and life policies. But those policies would have provided a different 
benefit than that offered by the PPI policy  the monthly repayment of their mortgage and an 
additional 25% for mortgage related costs  so I still think they would have found the policy 
useful and in what could have been a difficult time if Mr W wasnt able to work. I think it 
would have given them peace of mind. So, because of what Ive said, these points dont 
change my mind. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Ws to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman