DRN-3978107
The complaint
Mr F1, Mr F2 and Mrs F trade as a business that Ill refer to as F. They complained that
Aviva Insurance Limited undervalued their business interruption insurance claim.
Mr F1, Mr F2 and Mrs F have complained through a representative. For ease of reading, Ill
refer to F throughout.
What happened
F held commercial insurance with Aviva for two premises which Ill refer to as B and C. F
claimed on its policy for its losses after C was broken into on 9 February 2020.
Aviva settled Fs claim for loss of stock and material damage. They also accepted Fs claim
for business interruption and paid £8,282.43.
F thought that the claim for loss of stock and material damage had been settled fairly.
However, it thought it should have been paid more to settle its BI claim.
Aviva said they had reduced the claim settlement by applying an average to the claim due to
C being underinsured. Aviva also said that, as F had closed on 23 March 2020 due to the
restrictions put in place as a result of Covid-19, they had established Fs losses up to that
point.
F didnt think it was underinsured. It said the premises had one till and it was impossible to
split the turnover between them, so it didnt know how Aviva had established it was
underinsured.
Aviva said they had based the calculation on the profit and loss information provided by F in
support of its claim. They added that they had also applied an average to previous claims
made by F and had made it clear during those claims that F was underinsured.
F also didnt think Aviva had considered that its internet sales were likely to have increased
during lockdown if it had the stock available. It made it clear that it wasnt claiming for losses
as a result of the store being closed due to Covid-19.
Aviva said F would have found it difficult to restock due to Covid-19. However, F said that
the production of the type of stock it sold was always limited and therefore it wouldnt have
been able to restock irrespective of Covid-19.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 6 January 2023. In that I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Underinsurance
Aviva have said that F was underinsured as the sum insured for C was less than it should
have been. Because of this they applied a clause in the policy which says that where the
sum insured is less than the annual income, a policyholder will be considered to be its own
insurer for the difference and bear a rateable share of the loss. As such, Aviva paid F a
proportionate settlement.
The starting point is therefore for me to consider whether C was underinsured. Having done
so, I dont think it was. Ill explain why.
The accounts provided indicate that the total sum which should have been insured for the
two premises was £1.35 million. I understand that Aviva based their view that F was
underinsured on the accounts that F provided to Aviva to demonstrate the losses to C.
However, it seems to me that there was misunderstanding as the information F provided
related to the accounts for both B and C, rather than only C.
F has been consistent throughout its complaint that there was only one till and that the stock
moves between B and C which are treated as one premises. I have been provided with an
email from Fs accountant which says that to the best of my knowledge there was only one
till which generated the invoicing and information for the quarterly VAT returns.
F indicated a sum insured of £1 million for each premise. The overall sum insured is
therefore adequate and even if 70% of the stock was in C, the sum insured would have been
adequate. On balance, I think its likely that the sum insured for each premises was
adequate and therefore F wasnt underinsured.
I have considered Avivas point that there had been previous instances of underinsurance
and, in light of this, I think F could have done more to explain how the premises were linked
so Aviva knew what risk they were covering. However, Aviva have been unable to show
whether they would have done anything differently even if they had known this at the time,
so I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to allow Aviva to make any reduction
to the settlement for this.
Therefore, I intend to require Aviva to pay F the difference between what they should have
paid without making any deduction for underinsurance and what they did pay to settle the
claim. As F has been without money it should have had, Aviva should add interest to that
amount at our usual rate of 8% simple from the date they paid the rest of the settlement to
the date they make payment.
Internet sales
The basis of settlement section of Fs policy says that the policy will pay the amount by
which Fs income falls short of the amount it would have received during the indemnity
period if not for the damage  which in this case was the theft.
Income is defined as, The money paid or payable to You for goods sold and delivered and
for services rendered less the purchase cost of stock or materials.
I understand that Aviva applied a negative trend to the settlement due to trend of the
business. Although that doesnt form part of this complaint and therefore I have not
considered it.
F has been clear that its not claiming for losses due to Covid-19, so I also havent
considered that when reaching an outcome. However, F believes that the level of
internet sales should be taken into account as these would likely have increased during
lockdown. However, Aviva didnt think F had sufficiently demonstrated the split of sales
or that the theft was the proximate cause of the loss. Aviva also said that the policydoesnt have a departmental clause.
I recognise that the policy doesnt have a departmental clause, but when looking to
work out what Fs income would have been without the damage, it seems to me that
there were unusual circumstances at the time of Fs loss. While the premises were
required to close from 23 March 2020, in my experience, many people were shopping
on the internet during the lockdown period. And in my view, the figures F has provided
from its system support that its internet sales increased. I think that the unusual
circumstances at the time of the losses meant that it was very difficult for F or Aviva to
find an accurate trading period for comparison and I do think that Fs online business
would continue to have been impacted after 23 March 2020.
Therefore, I asked F to provide further information about its estimated sales to consider
what it would likely have made if the stock was available.
In response, F said its margin is the same online as it is instore. It provided a breakdown of
the proportion of goods it thought it would sell at full price and the proportion it would sell at a
discounted price. F said it would have sold all the stolen stock, but some of it would have
been sold at a discount. However, I dont think it has substantiated these figures  either the
proportion of each stock line which would have been discounted, the level of the discount or
that all stock would have sold.
F has provided information on the split of sales between store and online in the period
leading up to the store being closed due to the Government restrictions and afterwards, but I
dont think that is enough to substantiate what the sales would likely have been. I asked F for
further information about the amounts it thought it would sell items for and it said that it had
used its knowledge of the brands and many years of previous experience to reach a figure.
However, I dont consider that this is sufficient to demonstrate its loss for this claim.
It is for F to demonstrate its losses and I dont think it sufficiently did that either during
the claim process with Aviva or when asked for further information. As such I dont
intend to require Aviva to pay anything further for this part of the claim.
Aviva accepted my provisional decision. F accepted the decision in relation to 
underinsurance but not my findings on the internet sales. F provided further information from 
its accountant for me to consider. 
On 9 February 2023 I sent an email to both F and Aviva via our investigator. In that email I 
recognised Avivas point that there isnt a departmental clause in the policy and that they 
should only be required to pay what is covered under the policy. However, I said that in 
usual circumstances the store would have remained open and the loss from the theft would 
have been more readily apparent as the other income and outgoings would have remained 
broadly similar, save for any trends in the business. I said that by considering Fs losses in 
the way that they did, I didnt think Aviva had treated F fairly or reasonably in the unusual 
circumstances of the time. This is because the way they considered the losses did not fairly 
reflect the amount by which the businesss income fell short of the amount it would have 
received during the indemnity period if not for the theft.
I said that at the time of my provisional decision I did not think that F had sufficiently 
demonstrated its losses. However, I changed my mind in light of the further information F 
provided. I provided Aviva with a copy of the information F provided. 
I said that, with regard to being able to restock the items which were stolen, F had explained: 
there are two buying seasons; Summer Season  buying carried June to September, and 
Winter Season  buying December to February. The Ratio of Winter to Summer Purchases is 65% Winter, 35% Summer. As the theft took place in February there was no time to 
replace the winter stock purchased previously, as end of season. Given the high end nature 
of designer stock sold, there is no chance of replacing this, Winter stock is also more 
expensive (relates to coats etc). This is a well-known fact within the designer clothes 
industry, and can easily be verified.
I said that this sounded plausible and, in the absence of information to persuade me 
otherwise, I was persuaded by this. I believed that the proximate cause of the loss of income 
was the theft and not the inability to restock due to Covid-19.
I said that F had already provided a split of the stores sales which occurred at the premises 
and those which occurred online. I thought that these figures supported that Fs online sales 
increased from March 2020 and I said it was likely that there would have been a significant 
increase in online sales during the lockdown period. I said that it was impossible to know 
exactly what would have happened if Fs business hadnt experienced the theft but my role is 
to consider what is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. I didnt believe that it was 
fair or reasonable for Aviva to limit the claim to 23 March 2020 on the basis that the store 
closed due to Covid-19.
F had estimated its businesses losses to be £74,362 and provided information from its 
accountant as well as sales invoices to support that the average mark-up on the items was 
x2.18. 
However, I noticed an error in Fs calculation for some of the products stolen. F confirmed 
this error and restated its loss was £63,372.
I also thought Fs calculation over-estimated the loss for the following reasons:
The theft took place in February, which as F has said is at the end of the
winter season. To calculate the average mark-up of x2.18 which F had stated, the 
accountant had used as the benchmark sales of some of the items from December 
2019, and some sales from early January 2020. Given that the majority of these 
sales were before Christmas, when there is little discounting, I thought this would 
overstate the average mark-up which would apply in the Spring of 2020 when the 
stolen stock would have been sold.
From 23 March 2020 onwards, when the store was closed due to the Covid-19 
restrictions, some sales would have transferred online but some would have been 
lost. Therefore, for the stolen stock to be sold, a higher level of discounting would 
have been required than usual.
Some of Fs customers in late February - April who would otherwise have bought 
stolen items will have purchased a different item from the store instead, so the sale 
wasnt lost but transferred to a different item. If these other items hadnt been sold, it 
would have been necessary to discount the price of these items to achieve an 
additional sale.
The spring of 2020 was generally warm and people were unable to leave their homes
            so there was reduced demand for winter clothing.
I also took into account that, while the store closed for four months, it would have
reopened in July 2020 and, if the stock hadnt already sold online, it would have been 
available to buy in store at that time.
Overall, I said that it was impossible to calculate these effects precisely, but I believed the 
mark-up applied by F in its calculation of the loss of profit from the stolen stock was too high. 
I thought that a fair and reasonable reduction in the sales value would be to apply a 20% reduction to the mark-up rate. I recognised that F could possibly have made more money 
than that on the items, but equally it could have made less, so I thought a 20% deduction 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I therefore replaced the mark-up of x2.18 with 
a mark-up of x1.744 and applied Fs calculations on that basis. This showed a loss of 
income of £36,658.
I said that Aviva had already paid F £8,282.43 for its business interruption losses as part of 
this claim. As I had calculated Fs losses from the loss of income on the stock itself, I said 
that Aviva could deduct what they had already paid when settling Fs claim.
This meant that Aviva should pay F a further £28,375.57 to settle its claim. As F has been 
without money it should have had, I said that Aviva should add interest at 8% simple to
this amount from the date they paid the initial claim to the date they make payment. I said 
that no deduction to this could be made for underinsurance.
I also said that F had included an invoice from its accountant which includes VAT. The policy 
says that professional accountant fees are covered by the policy where they are needed to 
substantiate a claim. Therefore, I thought that the accountants fees were covered by the 
policy, so I said that Aviva should reimburse F for this cost. I said that if F is VAT registered 
Aviva did not need to reimburse it for the VAT element of these fees.
F accepted my decision but Aviva didnt agree.
With regard to underinsurance, Aviva said they had accepted this in order to settle the claim. 
However, they said F was aware of the underinsurance, which had resulted in a deduction to 
previous claims, and F had made no effort to rectify or clarify the position.
With regard to the sales, Aviva said that the policy essentially provides cover for the 
reduction in profit due to the incident over the indemnity period. They said that in only 
allowing for the profit on the stolen items, I had ignored any profit the business would have 
received from restocking, or alternative purchases from the stores range. They said that it 
could be argued that by the end of February, the purchase window for winter stock would 
have passed so these items would have had to be heavily discounted or sold the following 
winter. Aviva said that if they were sold the following winter then the loss of profit in the 
indemnity period would have been reduced. If they were heavily discounted then the loss of 
profit would have been reduced further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the points Aviva have made but Im not persuaded to depart from my 
provisional findings and email of 9 February 2023. Underinsurance 
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I remain of the view that it is not fair or 
reasonable for Aviva to apply any reduction due to underinsurance. I have considered 
Avivas point that F had previously had deductions applied to claims due to underinsurance 
and did not take steps to rectify or clarify the amount. However, Aviva havent shown what 
they would have done differently at the sale of the policy if they had known that the stores 
were linked, so I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to allow them to make any 
deduction for this. 
Internet sales
As I said in my email of 9 February 2023, its impossible to know exactly what Fs losses are 
as a result of the theft. This is because of the unusual circumstances which occurred in 
March 2020  i.e. the store being required to close as a result of the Governments response 
to the Covid-19 pandemic. This is why, in this particular case, I think it is fair and reasonable 
to require Aviva to depart from their usual way of considering the claim value and to consider 
the profit that F would have made on the stolen stock at that time. 
Furthermore, its impossible to know exactly what profit F would have made on the stolen 
stock. However, its my role to reach a decision based on what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances when considering all of the evidence available to me. 
In the absence of an alternative suggested deduction from Aviva to the mark-up suggested 
by F, I remain of the view that 20% is a fair and reasonable amount. I believe that this fairly 
takes into account the circumstances of the time including the closure of the store, the time 
of year and for alternative sales made by Fs store. As set out in my email of 9 February 
2023, I believe that F was unable to restock the items so I dont think my decision ignores 
any profit made from restocking. 
Aviva have not commented on reimbursing the accountants fees so I have not changed my 
findings on this. F has confirmed it is VAT registered and I can see that the accountant has 
added VAT to the invoice. Therefore, Aviva do not need to pay the VAT element of the fees. 
Therefore, it remains that I think the fair and reasonable outcome to Fs complaint is for 
Aviva to put things right as set out in the section below. 
Putting things right
To put things right Aviva should pay Mr F1, Mr F2 and Mrs F (who collectively trade as F):
£28,375.57 to settle their claim, without making any deduction for underinsurance. 
Interest on this amount at 8% simple per annum to the date from the date Aviva paid 
the initial claim to the amount they make payment. 
£960 for their accountants fees. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited 
to pay Mr F1, Mr F2 and Mrs F the amounts set out in the Putting things right section 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F1 Mr F2 Mrs F 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2023. 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman