DRN-2284435
The complaint
Mr L complains that Funding Circle Ltd unfairly introduced a transfer payment on his
crowdfunding account.
What happened
Mr L opened a loan-based (peer-to-peer) crowdfunding account with Funding
Circle in April 2018  held within an Innovative Finance ISA wrapper. Funding Circles
platform allows investors to lend money to prospective borrowers in return for interest
payments. An investor agrees to lend a proportion of the total loan a borrower is looking to
borrow, and in return an investor receives interest on their loan part. At the time of Mr Ls
complaint, Funding Circle provided an auto-sale tool on its platform. This provided a way for
investors to access their funds early by selling their loan parts to other investors by way of a
secondary market.
Mr L raised a complaint with Funding Circle about a new transfer payment it was introducing
in December 2019. This 1.25% transfer payment applied to the sale value of all loan parts
sold on the secondary market and acted as a discount to investors who bought the individual
loan parts. Although Mr L wasnt opposed to the transfer payment applying to new loans on
the platform, he didnt think it was fair for Funding Circle to apply it retrospectively to existing
loans. He had put his loans up for sale in October 2019, before the transfer payment was 
introduced, and so he felt it shouldnt apply to his loans. He also said that, in his view, the 
transfer payment was simply an incentive to new buyers, allowing Funding Circle to attract 
new business. 
Funding Circle didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. In summary it said:
The ability to sell loan parts on the secondary market has never been guaranteed.
The transfer payment isnt a fee that Funding Circle receives and instead is a 
payment made to the buyers of the loan parts.
Its not a mandatory payment and is only triggered if an investor decides to exit their 
investment before the maturity date of the loans.
Its confident the changes were fair and in the best interests of the vast majority of 
investors. And the changes would provide an improved overall service, as investors 
selling loan parts would begin to receive some funds back faster and more regularly.
Its terms and conditions allow it to make general product and service changes 
without Mr Ls consent, but these changes were communicated clearly with fair notice 
given.
Mr L didnt accept this and so he brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ls complaint but didnt think Funding Circle had
done anything wrong. In short, she said:
When agreeing to lend money to a business or individual through crowdfunding, an 
investor agrees and commits to lend this money for a set term. Funding Circle had 
put in place a secondary market to allow investors an opportunity to withdraw funds 
before this set term, but there is no regulatory requirement to have this facility 
available.
Funding Circles terms and conditions allow it to make amendments, such as 
introducing the new transfer payment, and it had given Mr L enough notice of this.
Funding Circle introduced the transfer payment in order to adhere to the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (the FCA) regulations in ensuring the price offered for exiting a 
peer-to-peer agreement was fair and appropriate.
She said market conditions had become quite challenging as demand from buying 
investors had slumped. And queues to sell loan parts on the secondary market were 
getting longer. As a result of this, the perceived risk to potential buying investors 
wouldve also been increased as their ability to exit lending agreements early 
wouldve also been compromised or delayed.
The new 1.25% transfer payment is not a charge that Funding Circle receives  
instead it acts as a discount to potential buyers. So she was satisfied this was a price 
adjustment rather than a fee.
Ultimately, there was no guarantee that Mr L would have sold all his loan parts if the 
changes werent made and he had the option to take the loan parts out of the sales 
queue if he wasnt happy with the changes.
Whilst Mr L accepted some of our investigators points, overall he didnt think Funding Circle 
had treated all its investors fairly. He said investors like him, who bought their loan parts 
before the changes were made, never receive the benefit of having the 1.25% discount 
applied to the loans they were invested in. However, investors who buy loan parts after 
introducing the changes will receive the benefit of the discount, albeit they will have to pay 
this back if they decide to sell later on the secondary market. Mr L said this creates two 
classes of investors which is inherently unfair. And he reaffirmed his belief that the changes 
were made to indirectly benefit Funding Circle as it encouraged new investors to the 
platform. 
And so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator. I understand this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr L, but Ill explain my reasons why. 
Funding Circle sent Mr L an email in October 2019 explaining it was introducing the
transfer payment, which would apply from 2 December 2019. The email also explained that
Funding Circle would be updating its terms and conditions to reflect this.
The new terms and conditions explained:
10.8 When a Loan Part is transferred to another Investor on the secondary market,
a Transfer Payment will be deducted from the proceeds of the sale of that Loan Part,
to the benefit of the purchasing Investor.
Funding Circle says it was able to make this change as there was the following term in its
previous terms and conditions:
16.1. We may make changes to these Investor Terms and Conditions from time to
time without your consent for any of the following reasons:[...]
to make changes to the products or services we offer or provide to you, to
 introduce new products or services or to withdraw products or services we
no longer offer;
This type of term is known as a variation clause and its common practice for financial
businesses to include these in its terms and conditions. I understand that Mr L accepts that 
Funding Circle was able to introduce the transfer payment by way of this term but hes 
unhappy that it applied this retrospectively to loans already up for sale on the secondary 
market and, in doing so, it hasnt treated all investors fairly. 
I think its important to clarify that the transfer payment is a re-pricing instrument applied to 
loans which are sold on the secondary market. I say this as Funding Circle has confirmed it 
doesnt receive any money from the transfer payment. Instead its paid directly to investors 
who purchase the individual loan parts on the secondary market. Acting as discount 
incentive to these buyers. In June 2019 the regulator, the FCA, published its policy 
statement on Loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms: 
Feedback to CP18/20 and final rules. In this, the FCA provided clarity around when and how 
often crowdfunding platforms should re-price loans. It implemented this by way of introducing 
new rules into COBS which came into force in December 2019.
COBS 18.12.16 R explains that:
Where a firm determines the price of a P2P agreement it must review the valuation
of each P2P agreement in at least the following circumstances:
[]
(4) where the firm is facilitating an exit for a lender before the maturity date of
the P2P agreement.
And COBS 18.12.17 R goes on to explain that:
Where a firm that determines the price of P2P agreements is facilitating an exit for a
lender before the maturity date of a P2P agreement, the firm must ensure that the
price offered for exiting the P2P agreement is fair and appropriate.
The FCA added that this is a non-exhaustive list as the frequency of re-pricing will depend
on a platforms business model. It is therefore for each individual platform to determine in
light of its business model and the offer it is making to investors.
In Mr Ls case, Funding Circle is facilitating an exit for him by way of selling his loan
parts on the secondary market prior to them maturing. So its clear that Funding Circle has a
regulatory requirement to ensure that the price for Mr Ls loan parts are fair and
appropriate on the secondary market. Funding Circle has applied a blanket transfer payment 
of 1.25% to all loans which are sold by way of the secondary market. So in order to 
determine whether this is fair and appropriate, its important to understand what 
considerations Funding Circle made before introducing this.
Funding Circle has provided our service with information regarding its considerations,
including information which was shared with the FCA before making the changes. Funding
Circles considerations included:
The interests of all those who use their platform, including those looking to sell loan 
parts, those who may do so in the future, and the investors who buy the loan parts.The payments, discounts and fees applied by other crowdfunding platforms  the 
1.25% transfer payment aligns Funding Circle with other lending platforms in the 
market.
The impact of implementing a transfer payment and selling tool would have on both 
the buyer and seller of loan parts on the secondary market.
As well as these considerations, its clear that sales queues on the secondary market were 
increasing and it was taking much longer than anticipated for investors to sell their loan parts 
in this way. And the introduction of the transfer payment, along with the new selling tool, was 
clearly intended to combat these queues and to reduce the time investors, such as Mr L, 
must wait in order to sell their loan parts on the secondary market.
Funding Circle has explained that these longer timeframes were due to several factors,
including increasing uncertainty at a macro-economic level - impacting both the amounts
being invested and the amounts being withdrawn on the platform. Also, that results
published to the market alongside growth forecasts in July 2019 prompted an increase in
loan parts sale requests. So although the risk profile of the loan parts hadnt changed, there
was clearly a shift in investors perceived risk. And this uncertainty in the market is an
important consideration for Funding Circle re-pricing Mr Ls loan parts. I say this as
Funding Circle must ensure that the price offered for the loan parts are fair and appropriate
not only to Mr L, but also to the investors who intend to purchase them from him. It follows
that if the loan parts are perceived to be riskier due to overall market conditions, then
Funding Circle must ensure the price offered reflects this. So, taking this all into account, Im 
satisfied it was fair for Funding Circle to re-price Mr Ls loan parts on the secondary market 
and it appropriately considered the impact this would have on Mr L before implementing the 
transfer payment.
Whilst I appreciate Mr L believes the transfer payment was introduced to indirectly benefit 
Funding Circle by way of attracting new investors to the platform and that only these new 
investors benefit from the discount, Im afraid I dont agree. Although Ive already set out 
above why I think Funding Circles actions were fair and reasonable in all the circumstances,  
its also apparent that its not only new investors who join the platform who can benefit from 
the discount. Existing investors, such as Mr L, can also purchase loan parts on the 
secondary market and, as a result, benefit from the discount. 
Its also important to consider Mr L doesnt have to sell his loan parts on the secondary
market if he doesnt want to incur the transfer payment. As Funding Circle has explained,
the transfer payment is only triggered if Mr L decides to exit from his investment before
the maturity date of the loans. So he is able to avoid the transfer payment by cancelling any
requests to transfer loan parts; switching off the reinvestment option; keeping the loan parts
until they mature and withdrawing his monthly repayments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint against Funding Circle Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman