DRN-2205603
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Santander UK Plc wouldnt process a chargeback claim. 
They are also unhappy with the mixed messages that Mrs M received from Santander which 
initially led her to believe theyd be setting up the claim.
What happened
In February 2019 Mrs M bought a pair of boots online for £99.37. When the boots arrived, 
she realised that they werent the pair shed wanted. At first, she tried to contact the online 
company to request a refund, however it was at that point she realised she could no longer 
find the company, believing it no longer existed. She contacted Santander hoping to set-up a 
claim for a chargeback as she used her Santander Mastercard to buy the boots. Although 
Santander seemed willing to help, Mrs M explained that she didnt receive any paperwork 
from them to progress her claim. 
In January 2020 she chased Santander about the claim. After some initial confusion about 
whether the claim would be re-opened or not, she received a letter from Santander 
explaining that as 120 days had passed since the transaction, it was too late to put in a claim 
for the chargeback, and that there was nothing more they could do. Santander offered Mrs M 
£30 for the inconvenience of the initial mix-up.
Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint here because they werent happy with the response 
Mrs M received from Santander. One of our investigators looked into their concerns but 
didnt think that Santander did anything wrong, and so didnt uphold their complaint. Not 
happy with the investigators response Mr and Mrs M have asked for an ombudsman to 
provide a final decision on their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached much the same conclusion as the investigator.
When reviewing this complaint, Ive had to consider whether Santander acted fairly and 
appropriately when handling Mrs Ms request for a refund. To make things simpler, Ive 
referred mainly to Mrs M in my letter as shes been the main complainant in administering 
this complaint.
The process followed by card issuers when theyre informed about a dispute with something 
bought with their card, such as Mrs M, comes under the guidance and rules of chargebacks. 
In this case Mrs M used a Santander Mastercard. Mastercard sets its own rules and 
guidance which the cardholders bank, the retailer and their bank should follow.
On 4 March 2019 Mrs M raised the dispute with Santander who sent a disclaimer form out to 
her on 23 March 2019. The disclaimer form is required by Santander to gather all the 
necessary information to process the claim.
Ive not disregarded Mrs Ms comments that she believes she did contact Santander prior to 
January and March 2020, I havent seen any evidence to confirm this was the case. Rather 
Santanders log shows that the next time Mrs M spoke to them about this was in January 
2020.  Mrs M confirmed in a phone call to Santander on 21 January 2020 that she had 
initially called to report an un-authorised transaction on her card. As part of that call Mrs M 
decided to ask about the refund for the boots she bought in February 2019. Mrs M said that 
shed never received any paperwork about this. 
During the next month or so there were several phone calls between Mrs M and Santander. 
Having listened to the calls, I can see there was a considerable amount of uncertainty about 
whether the claim for a refund would be re-opened or not; this was mainly due to the time 
that had passed since she bought the item. On one occasion in March 2020, Santander re-
sent the disclaimer paperwork for Mrs M to complete which led her to believe she would get 
her refund.
 
In February 2020 Santander wrote to Mrs M to explain that as more than 120 days had 
passed since she bought the boots, they were unable to progress her claim for a refund. 
Later that month Santander sent their final response letter to Mrs M confirming their position 
on the refund but offering her £30 in recognition of the confusion regarding the re-opening of 
her claim.
In March 2019 when Santander were informed of the transaction, they sent out the required 
disclaimer forms which needed to be completed. I can see the forms were sent to the correct 
address, and within a reasonable timescale. so, although Mrs M said they hadnt received it, 
I cant see that Santander did anything wrong at his stage. 
Approximately ten months later Mrs M reminded Santander about her claim and explained 
that shed not received any paperwork to complete. I acknowledge that Mrs M hadnt been 
well during this time and had even been in hospital for surgery. So, I appreciate its more 
than likely that her mind would have been mainly on her health and wellbeing. I do however, 
think 120 days allowed enough time for Mr or Mrs M, or a representative to let Santander 
know that they hadnt heard anything since March 2019, or of any extenuating 
circumstances. This may have provided an opportunity for the claim to be put back on track 
and progressed on their behalf.
As I referred to above, the rules for chargebacks are put in place by Mastercard. For 
transactions like Mrs Ms, Mastercard has a strict time limit of 120 days. Refunds are never 
guaranteed, and the final decision is up to Mastercard. I dont think its fair to expect 
Santander to have re-opened the claim, because the timescales are not their discretion. 
Santanders role in this would have been to facilitate Mrs Ms claim against the retailers 
bank within the given timescale. I believe they took as far as they could be expected to.
I do however acknowledge that it would have been quite confusing for Mrs M in early 2020 
when Santander gave her mixed messages about the claim, so, I think it was fair for 
Santander to offer £30 in acknowledgement of this. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2020.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman