DRN-1349087
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mr D says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BoS) mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 1997 Mr D took out PPI around the same time as taking out a mortgage. Mr D says he 
can't remember how things happened, but according to BoS' records this was a branch sale.
The policy provided protection for Mr D's mortgage payments (the benefit was around £500) 
in the event he couldn't work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy 
would pay out for up to12 months per claim and it cost just under £25 a month.
At the time of the sale Mr D was employed, and he said he would've been paid indefinitely 
by his employer if he was off work ill through an income protection benefit. He said he had 
several thousand pounds in savings he could've used to make his repayments - he also said 
he was entitled to redundancy pay. In addition, Mr D said he was in good health at the time.
BoS' records show the mortgage account ended in 2001.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought it 
likely Mr D chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or 
inappropriate for him.
Because Mr D disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr D's complaint.
Having done so, while I know this isn't the answer Mr D was hoping for, Ive decided not to 
uphold his complaint. My reasons are set out below.
 
did Mr D have a choice about PPI? 
did he agree to take it out?Mr D says he was unaware he was paying for PPI - it must have just been added to the 
mortgage payment. I've therefore thought about this matter carefully.
BoS doesn't have any paperwork from the time of the sale. And this isn't surprising given 
how long-ago things happened  businesses don't have to keep records indefinitely. Its also 
been almost 20 years since the mortgage account closed.
So, while I hear what Mr D says, given the passage of time and because there's nothing to 
support what he says happened, I can't fairly say that BoS more likely than not 
misrepresented the policy as not being optional or that Mr D didn't agree to take it out.
the advice
BoS says that because this was a branch sale it recommended the PPI to Mr D. And while 
Ive not seen anything to support this, because it doesn't disadvantage Mr D in any way  if 
anything its more favourable to him  Im happy to consider this was an advised sale. This 
means BoS had to check that the PPI was right for Mr D  and based on what Ive seen of 
his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, he was eligible for the cover; 
he wasn't affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover such as those for 
existing medical conditions or unusual employment circumstances; and notwithstanding his 
existing means, I still think he had a need for the cover.
Mr D describes an employee benefits package, which included sick pay that would've been 
paid up until retirement if he couldn't work. And I accept Mr D's employee benefits could 
reasonably be described as generous. But I find it highly unlikely this would've paid out Mr 
D's salary in full indefinitely.  Mr D might've received full sick pay for a period of time, 
but typically this type of income protection paid out around 70% of salary as a maximum at 
the point it kicked in. So at some point I think Mr D's sick pay would've reduced.
So, if things went wrong and Mr D found himself unable to work for an extended period, at 
some point his income would've dropped. I therefore think that, given he was solely 
responsible for a not insignificant debt secured on his home, the policy would've proved 
useful to him had the insured risks become a reality. It would've paid out in addition to and 
regardless of any existing means - for up to 12 months per claim - relieving pressure on Mr 
D's overall household budget / other fixed expenditure. In these particular circumstances I 
don't think it was wrong for BoS to have recommended it to him.
the information  
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information BoS gave Mr D 
about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve been. But as I found above, I think it's unlikely  
he didn't choose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And as I also 
said above, based on his circumstances at the time it doesn't appear that it was 
inappropriate for him - it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have likely put Mr D off taking out the cover. 
conclusion
In light of the above findings, this means I dont think Mr D has lost out as a result of having 
PPI. So, BoS doesn't have to pay back to Mr D what he paid for PPI.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr D  has said - including what he said in response to 
the adjudicator's assessment. But these points dont change my decision. For the reasons 
I've set out above, I don't uphold this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons above I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman