DRN-4238861
The complaint
Mr P complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company Europe Ltd (Casualty) declined 
his claim as a result of delays it caused, under his pet insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr P says Casualty initially declined treatment for his dogs foreleg lameness because a vet 
noted it had a sore neck in July 2020, before the inception of his policy. Mr P says the sore 
neck wasnt related to the lameness issue. But Casualty declined his claim anyway and this 
delayed the clinical investigations and treatment his dog needed. 
Mr P complained to our service about Casualtys decision to decline cover based on the pre-
existing condition. We upheld his complaint in June 2022, which is separate to this 
complaint. Our service didnt think Casualty had shown the sore neck was linked to the 
foreleg lameness issue. We said it should pay the claim, subject to any policy limits. 
Casualty says on renewal of Mr Ps policy it added an exclusion that says:
Excludes cover on all claims with respect to anything to do with the Fore Limb Lameness 
that occurred on the 22.05.2021 and Associated Conditions with Effect from 22.05.2022. 
It says this means no cover is in place post 22 May 2022 and so it wont now cover any 
costs relating to the lameness issue.
Mr P didnt think this was fair. He says it took Casualty over nine months to confirm its initial 
decline decision for his dogs existing sore neck condition. He says this delayed a specialist 
examining his dog and ultimately the surgery that was needed to resolve the issue. He says 
this shouldve been concluded much sooner. Mr P says Casualtys incorrect decline 
decision, and the delay this caused, is why the treatment wasnt received within 365 days of 
the problem first presenting. Because he disagreed with Casualtys decision, he referred his 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Ps complaint. She says had the initial claim been accepted 
earlier the required treatment would most likely have commenced earlier, and within the 365-
day limit specified by the policy. Our investigator says Casualty should settle the claim in line 
with the remaining policy terms and pay £75 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.     
Casualty didnt agree. It says Mr P agreed to the exclusion when his policy renewed in 2022. 
It says it agrees with the £75 compensation but doesnt think it should pay the claim. As our 
investigator didnt change her view, Casualty asked for an ombudsman to consider Mr Ps 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding Mr Ps complaint, let me explain. 
Mr P made a claim to Casualty after his dog showed signs of lameness in his right foreleg. I 
can see from the clinical notes that this occurred in May 2021. Casualtys decision to decline 
this claim was subject to a previous decision made by another ombudsman. Our 
ombudsman concluded it was unfair for Casualty to decline the claim, which it should now 
pay. This decision was issued in June 2022. 
I wont be going over the points already considered by our service in Mr Ps original 
complaint. My focus is on the events after this.  
Ive read Mr Ps policy terms to understand what cover he has in place. The terms say:
Our Essential Products are often referred to as Time Limited policies. This means that You 
can claim per Condition up to the Benefit Limit as shown on Your Schedule for a maximum 
period of 12 months from the date the first Symptom and/or Clinical Sign was noticed, or 
Treatment started, whichever happens first. Once the 12 months has passed, or the Benefit 
Limit has been reached no further cover will be provided for that Condition, even for future 
renewals. There is no limit as to the number of Conditions You can claim for, however as 
stated cover for a Condition will cease once the 12 months has passed, or the Benefit Limit 
has been reached, whichever happens first.
I think the terms are clear that cover is limited to a 12-month period, which starts when the 
condition or symptoms are first identified. Mr Ps dog was assessed by a vet in May 2021. 
This is when the right foreleg issue was identified. In this case the terms say cover is 
provided, subject to the policy limits, for any claims relating to this issue up to May 2022. 
From the clinical records I can see that Mr Ps dog underwent investigations and surgery 
after this 12-month period had elapsed. So, on the face of it there was no cover in place at 
this time. 
That said Casualty delayed Mr Ps claim by declining it unfairly. As confirmed in our services 
earlier decision. I can see Mr Ps dog underwent surgery in June 2022. Shortly after the 12-
month period had elapsed. Based on what Ive read its probable that the care Mr Ps dog 
required will have been completed within 12 months of the issue being identified. So, I dont 
think its fair for Casualty to rely on its policy term to decline cover in these circumstances. It 
should now pay the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
Ive thought about the impact this has had on Mr P. I can see that he has received 
compensation for distress and inconvenience relating his earlier complaint. I think a further 
payment is appropriate to acknowledge the additional distress and inconvenience Casualty 
caused him. I agree with our investigator that £75 is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Casualty & General Insurance Company 
Europe Ltd should:
settle Mr Ps claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions; and
pay Mr P £75 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 20 August 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman