DRN-4348699
The complaint
Miss K complaints that Curve UK Limited wont refund payments she didnt make. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons: 
Curve declined to refund these unauthorised payments under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs) because it asserts Miss K failed with gross negligence to 
comply with the terms of the account and keep her personalised security details safe.
In saying that, its submitted that Miss K shared an activation code with a fraudster. 
To decide this, Ive reflected on the circumstances of the scam.
Miss K received a message on WhatsApp  it came from a mobile number but the 
picture showed Curves logo. Curve argues that she shouldve been concerned by 
this method of contact, given its not contacted her that way before. But I wouldnt 
expect her to know, off the top of her head, an exhaustive list of how Curve would 
contact someone  to realise this must be implausible. And in the circumstances 
when Miss K was a customer of Curve, and they were suggesting shed been a 
victim of fraud, I can see why she responded. 
Curve also suggest Miss K ought to have been alarmed by the spelling and 
grammatical mistakes they made. But even legitimate businesses make these errors. 
So I dont think this was significant enough to suggest something must be amiss. And 
I note Miss K challenged the sender by asking how shed know the call was 
genuinely from Curve, which they said they would cover in the call. 
When they called, Miss K said they knew several pieces of her personal information 
and took her through launching an investigation into how the fraudulent transactions 
happened. Given the familiarity and apparent professionalism, I can see how she 
trusted the caller. I think lots of other people wouldve done in these circumstances. 
Curve submit that Miss K ought reasonably to have googled their number and 
searched the Financial Services Register to check it was Curve. But the test here 
isnt whether she did everything she could have, or even reasonably ought to have 
done. Its whether her actions meant she failed with gross negligence. For the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont think she seriously disregarded an obvious risk when 
she was duped by their familiarity. 
Im also not persuaded by Curves argument that this finding makes the fraud 
deterrent aspect of the Financial Services Register redundant. Because making a 
finding that someone wasnt grossly negligent in the specific circumstances of a 
particular scam doesnt render something ineffectual in all circumstances. 
Ive gone on to consider how the fraudsters gained her activation code. While I 
recognise Miss K says she didnt share the activation code with them, I note she 
initially reported to Curve that she did  she explained she was told it was to verify 
her and didnt recognise it was an activation code for Google Pay. Given this 
testimony was given just after the scam, I consider it to be more reliable. Moreover, 
theres no other plausible explanation for how the transactions couldve happened 
without her sharing the code. 
Ive considered that the message received from Curve told her it was a code to add 
Curve to a Google wallet and warned her not to share it. But Im mindful Miss K 
believed she was talking to Curve  something that was likely reinforced when she 
received a message from them when shed been told to expect it. And shed been 
misdirected into thinking it was for a different purpose. Ive also considered that Miss 
K was ignorant to how these fraudsters already had her card details and had 
completed the initial steps of setting up Google Pay.  
So, in the heat of the moment when she trusted the caller and was worried about the 
safety of her money, I can understand how she simply focussed on the code and 
shared it. Im not persuaded this one act meant she acted with very significant 
carelessness. Afterall, people are now accustomed to these codes, that are 
legitimately used for a variety of reasons. While it may not be perfectly reasonable, 
Im equally not surprised to learn that someone didnt stop to read the wider context 
of the message, and instead trusted it was for what they were being told. 
Ive reflected on Curves points about its and others fraud and scam warnings  
which they believe holistically act as an effective warning that ought to have 
prevented this. But I dont think these mean she seriously disregarded an obvious 
risk. These fraudsters werent chancers. Instead, it was an organised, sophisticated 
scam designed to trick her into believing this was an urgent situation. Therefore, I 
can see how Miss K didnt feel shed the time to reflect on general warnings shed 
been given in the past.  
Taking this all into account, Im not persuaded Curve has shown she failed with gross 
negligence. It follows that, in line with the PSRs, I dont consider Miss K can be fairly 
held liable for these unauthorised payments and Curve needs to put things right  by 
refunding her losses from the payments alongside 8% simple interest per year to 
compensate her for the time shes been out of pocket. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ks complaint. Curve UK Limited must:
Pay Miss K the total of the unauthorised payments, less any amount recovered or 
already refunded.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
payments to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman