DRN-4194656
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, didnt provide her 
information she needed to be able to login to her account in a timely manner, which she 
feels resulted in her being unable to transfer the money held in her Virgin account to a 
different provider and thus receive a better rate of interest that the rate offered by Virgin.
Mrs S is also unhappy that the difficulties she encountered when trying to contact Virgin to 
request help in gaining access to her account.
What happened
On 7 September 2022, Mrs S tried to telephone Virgin to request help logging into her Virgin 
savings account but was unable to get through despite several attempts. Mrs S wasnt happy 
about this, especially as she wanted to check the interest rate provided by the Virgin account 
and potentially move her savings to another provider if it transpired that the other provider 
offered a higher rate of savings interest than Virgin. So, she raised a complaint.
Virgin responded to Mrs S and said that they didnt feel theyd denied Mrs S access to a 
potentially higher rate of savings interest as she contended because they noted that Mrs S 
had been able to log into her Virgin account online previously and because her login details 
hadnt changed since that time. However, Virgin did apologise to Mrs S for the lengthy hold 
times shes experienced when trying to call them, and they offered to pay £75 to her as 
compensation for any trouble and upset shed incurred because of this. Mrs S wasnt 
satisfied with Virgins response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt the response Virgin had issued to 
Mrs Ss complaint already represented a fair resolution to what had happened. Mrs S 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Virgin have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
I can appreciate Mrs Ss frustration at not being able to get through to Virgin when she tried 
to contact them on 7 September 2022. And Mrs S has explained that following her being 
unable to get through, she sent an email to Virgin stating her dissatisfaction and explaining 
that she was unable to access her account online.
Unfortunately, because Mrs S titled this email as being a complaint, it was handled by Virgin 
as being a formal complaint. There are several consequences of this, the first being that how 
a business must respond to a formal complaint is mandated by the Dispute Resolution 
(DISP) of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook, which includes that a 
business which receives a complaint must respond to it within eight weeks. This means that, 
having received Mrs Ss complaint, Virgin had eight weeks to provide a formal response to it. 
Mrs S may point out that Virgins own complaint process  as per their website  declares a 
different timeframe by which a response should be provided. And I note that Mrs S has 
pointed out to this service that Virgin didnt respond to her complaint in compliance of their 
own stated complaints process.
But another consequence of Mrs S raising this matter with Virgin as a complaint in the first 
instance is that this service is unable to consider complaints about how a business has 
handled a complaint  even a complaint about a financial matter such as this. Instead, we 
can only consider this matter in a general sense with a focus on fairness and with Virgins 
obligations as per the DISP section of the FCA Handbook in mind. And, in this instance, 
Virgin did contact Mrs S within eight weeks of receiving her complaint and helped her to log 
into her account.
Mrs S may argue that Virgin shouldnt have handled this matter as a complaint and that it 
should have been clear from the content of her email that she needed a response quickly. 
But Mrs S did title her email as being a complaint. And so, I dont feel that it was 
unreasonable for Virgin to send her email to its complaint team which Virgin have explained 
handle complaints in the order that theyre received, and which had a backlog of new 
complaints awaiting responses at that time. So, while I feel that the fact that Virgin handled 
Mrs Ss email as a complaint was unfortunate, I feel it was because of how Mrs S herself 
had titled her email, and so I dont feel that it was unfair. 
Mrs S has explained that she needed the information because aspects of her login details 
had changed since the last time that shed logged in. But Virgin have confirmed that this 
wasnt the case, and theyve demonstrated that Mrs S had logged into her account the 
previous year  most recently in December 2021 when she renewed her ISA declaration  
using the same details that were confirmed to her by Virgins complaint handler when they 
called Mrs S in response to her complaint. 
What had changed was the login page on Virgins website. And Mrs S has explained that 
she had trouble understanding how to login on being presented by this unfamiliar login page. 
But its for Virgin to update their website  including their login page  how they see fit. And 
Virgin have explained that the only new aspect of the login process was that account holders 
had to select, from three possible options, the first two digits of their account sort code.
Ive reviewed Virgins online account login page and I dont feel that it can reasonably be 
considered as being unfairly complicated. And I note that the login page contains a link to 
information to help an account holder find their sort code if theyre unsure what the first two 
digits of their sort code are.
Additionally, while I appreciate that Mrs S may have wanted help from Virgin on how to login 
to her savings account, I cant see that she attempted to contact Virgin about this after her 
initial telephone attempts and complaint email sent on 7 September 2021. 
All of which means that I dont feel that Virgin should fairly or reasonably be considered 
responsible for Mrs S not being able to transfer her money to a different provider and obtain 
a better rate of interest during the time she couldnt access her Virgin account as she would 
like. And this is because Im satisfied that Mrs Ss login details hadnt changed, that Virgins updated login page wasnt unreasonably complicated, and because Mrs S doesnt appear to 
have chased Virgin for the assistance she wanted  as I feel she reasonably could and 
should have done, had that information been important to her.
Finally, Virgin have apologised to Mrs S for the lengthy hold times she experienced when 
trying to telephone them in the first instance, and theyve offered to make a payment of £75 
to Mrs S as compensation for the trouble and upset she incurred as a result. Matters of 
compensation can be subjective, but this offer of £75 compensation for the difficulties Mrs S 
experienced when trying to telephone Virgin does feel fair to me for that specific trouble, and 
I can confirm that its commensurate with what I might have instructed Virgin to pay, had 
they not already offered to do so.
As such, while I will be upholding this complaint in Mrs Ss favour, Ill only be doing so on a 
limited basis to instruct Virgin to pay the £75 to Mrs S that theyve already offered to pay. 
And I wont be issuing any further instructions to Virgin beyond this. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs S was wanting, but I hope shell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Virgin must make a payment of £75 to Mrs S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as 
Virgin Money, on the basis explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman