DRN-3147170
The complaint
Mrs P complains that the interest rate on her Sainsburys Bank Plc loan is higher than 
advertised. 
What happened
On 17 December 2020 Mrs P applied for a loan online with Sainsburys Bank. Mrs P says 
she thought she was applying for a loan with an interest rate of 3%. 
The loan was approved with an interest rate of 7.9% and Mrs P accepted an online credit 
agreement. The loan funds were paid to Mrs P the next day and Sainsburys Bank sent a 
welcome letter that confirmed the monthly payment. 
Mrs P says she realised the interest rate was too high in January 2021 and complained to 
Sainsburys Bank. But Sainsburys Bank didnt agree it had made a mistake and said the 
interest rate was subject to Mrs Ps application and confirmed in the credit agreement. 
Mrs P referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Sainsburys Bank had dealt with Mrs Ps complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do 
anything else. Mrs P asked to appeal and said she hadnt been given a copy of the credit 
agreement and wasnt aware of the higher interest rate following her application. As Mrs P 
asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sainsburys Bank has explained that the representative rate provided in its adverts is subject 
to the circumstances of an application and the borrower. Sainsburys Bank says the 
application process provides information about the representative rates used in its adverts 
and the credit agreement Mrs P accepted confirmed the interest rate approved. Mrs P says 
Sainsburys Bank failed to confirm her interest rate until she received a statement in January 
2021. Ive looked at the process Sainsburys Bank followed and information it provided. 
Sainsburys Bank has sent us screen shots showing the information Mrs P was given during 
the application process. The application contained information about the representative 
interest rate quoted in the adverts and included a loan example. Under the example, 
Sainsburys Bank gave the following information: 
We treat all customers and their applications on an individual basis. At least 51% of 
accepted loan applications will be offered the Representative APR advertised for the 
particular loan amount and term, or a lesser APR. All other accepted applications will be 
offered a higher rate. The APR we offer is determined by the details you supply and the loan 
you are applying for, along with an independent verification of your repayment history. 
The screen shots show Mrs P had to confirm shed read the information provided by 
Sainsburys Bank in the application in order to submit it for approval. Im satisfied 
Sainsburys Bank made it clear the interest rate quoted in adverts was representative and 
not guaranteed. 
Mrs P says she wasnt sent a credit agreement that gave her interest rate. But the 
application was completed online. As a result, Mrs P accepted the credit agreement online 
on 17 December 2020. Ive looked at the information given by Sainsburys Bank in the credit 
agreement and Im satisfied the amounts payable and interest rate were all clearly noted. 
Under the heading How much you will have to pay the credit agreement says:
The amounts you have to pay and the Annual Percentage Rate (APR) are: 
-£280.48 per month 
-Assuming you pay all your agreed monthly payments as they fall due the total 
amount you will have to pay (the loan plus interest and other costs) is £10,097.28.
-The APR is 7.9%
The above information is noted on the first page of the credit agreement. I havent found the 
information about Mrs Ps APR was hidden on buried in the loan documents Sainsburys 
Bank sent her. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs P but as Im satisfied Sainsburys Bank made the interest rate 
clear during the application process. As I havent found that Sainsburys bank misled Mrs P 
and Im satisfied it dealt with her complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman