DRN-1856208
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC gave him notice that it was going to close his 
business account meaning he incurred legal costs and was caused distress.
What happened
Mr A is a long-standing business customer of Barclays and lives abroad. Barclays wrote to 
him in April 2019 giving him notice that it would be closing his account. This was because his 
trading and main address were recorded as being outside this country. It said he should get 
in touch if this was not correct or his account would be closed on 24 July 2019. Mr A said he 
tried to get in contact using the number supplied but was either unable to do so or to pass 
security. He asked his legal representative to help him. On 10 July 2019 Barclays called him 
and accepted that he had a business operating out of this country so his account would not 
be closed. Barclays said it had not made any error but offered him £25 because of the 
inconvenience caused. It said it would not pay his legal costs then of £536 and 
compensation of £250 he requested.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that Barclays had 
provided more than the minimum notice required under the terms and conditions before the 
account could be closed. It was acting in line with its policy not to provide banking to 
businesses trading outside this country. In order to make changes to his address at Barclays 
Mr A needed to be able to pass security. He appreciated Mr As distress at what happened, 
but he did not think Barclays had made a mistake. It was Mr As choice to instruct a legal 
representative to help him. He didnt see the payment of compensation as any admission of 
liability on the part of Barclays. The account was never closed or restricted.
Mr A, who is represented in this complaint did not agree. He said our approach had been too 
legalistic. The representative considered Barclays should have acted in a courteous and 
efficient way. Mr A had attempted to respond and was let down and the compensation was 
insufficient. He did not think that six points raised on Mr As behalf had been answered and 
these were in summary that:
1) Barclays need not have given notice before giving Mr A the opportunity to provide the 
information.
2) Barclays should have acted more sensitively for an account it had held for over 50 
years.
3) It should have anticipated the anguish it could cause.
4) It should not operate with lower standards than any other business.
5) Mr As ability to contact it was seriously compromised and it should have realised 
that.
6) Compensation of £25 given the circumstances and expenses of this case adds insult 
to injury.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr As position here as a long-standing business customer of Barclays. His 
representative indicates he was not able to travel to this country any more but that he relied 
on income and payments made to his business account here. He didnt appreciate being told 
his account would close and then found it difficult to deal with this. 
I do agree with our investigator that the processes that Barclays puts in place are a matter 
for it to decide upon. This service is not the regulator and so I dont have a basis to say 
Barclays made a mistake in deciding to give notice of closure before asking for information 
from Mr A. The information it had based on the address details led it to think that his 
business was trading or based outside of this country. And it had made a commercial 
decision not to offer banking to such businesses in future and applied a common approach.
As his representative indicates we look at what is fair and reasonable not just terms and 
conditions. Im afraid I do think that Mr A was given a reasonable period to respond to the 
letter. I appreciate that any business in this position would want and need to respond and 
that Mr As residence abroad made this more difficult. But I dont see I can reasonably hold 
Barclays responsible for that. It was clearly possible for contact to be made with Barclays 
even if some attempts failed and an issue seemed to be that Mr A was having difficulty 
passing security. He decided to ask his representative who has shown he has a power of 
attorney from Mr A to deal with this for him. I agree that this was his choice to do so and not 
something I can reasonably ask Barclays to pay for. His account as has been said was 
never restricted and I think he knew from the start that he had a basis to keep it.
Barclays did offer Mr A compensation which I know he thinks is derisory. But looking at its 
first final response it didnt accept it made any error. So, I think that this was an admittedly 
small gesture of goodwill for inconvenience even though it later seemed also to be described 
by Barclays as payment for not responding to the complaint in a reasonable time period.
That offer I understand remains open to Mr A if he wants to accept it and he should contact 
Barclays if he does. But for the reasons Ive given and having considered everything said on 
his behalf I dont find a basis to uphold his complaint. I can understand that Mr A will be very 
disappointed with this outcome.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman