DRN-3210356
The complaint
Mr O complained that Lendable Ltd lent to him irresponsibly and provided him with an 
unaffordable loan.
What happened
Lendable provided a loan to Mr O as follows:
Date 
takenLoan 
amountTerm Typical 
monthly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
payableLoan 
status
29/07/2019 £4,400 36 months £177.84. £6,404.95. outstanding
When Mr O complained to Lendable it didnt uphold his complaint so he brought his 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Lendable 
shouldnt have provided the loan. Our adjudicator explained why she was recommending 
that the complaint should be upheld and set out directions indicating what Lendable should 
do to put things right. 
Lendable disagreed. It mainly said that its checks showed the loan was affordable and it 
didnt feel our adjudicator had properly considered that the loan purpose was debt 
consolidation  in other words, Mr O said he would use the loan to repay other debt.  
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Having done so, I am upholding 
Mr Os complaint for broadly the same reasons as our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
Lenders must work out if a borrower can sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside 
other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include more than just 
checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a 
proportionate check might also require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Lendable told us it verified Mr Os income using third party data and was satisfied these 
checks showed it could rely on his average earnings being around £2,193 each month.
Lendable also carried out its own credit checks. Lendable saw that Mr O had four credit 
cards with outstanding balances totalling £3,218 and he was overdrawn on his current 
account  making his total indebtedness £4,107.
Like our adjudicator, I think Lendable should have been concerned to see that when Mr O 
applied for this loan the credit checks it obtained showed that all his credit cards were at or 
over their limit. It could also see that he had been making what looked like minimum monthly 
repayments only to his cards for some months. I think its fair to say that this effectively 
serves mainly to extend the debt and it adds very significantly to the long term cost of that 
credit  repayments at that level are insufficient to make any meaningful inroads into card 
balances. So I think this was an indication that Mr O was already under financial stress  
borne out by the fact that he was seeking a loan in order to repay other debt. 
Debt consolidation can be an expensive option so it isnt something Id expect someone on 
top of their finances would be likely to want to do. 
Lendable hasnt shown me that it considered Mr Os living costs and other regular 
expenditure in any detail. I think this was something it needed to understand in order to 
make a fair lending decision. Keeping in mind also the loan term and amount, I think 
Lendable needed to do more to ensure it had a proper understanding of Mr Os overall 
financial situation to be satisfied he could afford the loan sustainably for the next three years. 
So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown.
Bank statements provided by Mr O are a useful guide to understanding his overall financial 
situation at the time. These show that in the three months running up to him applying for this 
loan, Mr O was making full use of his £2,000 arranged overdraft limit  typically starting and 
ending the month around the account limit. It was also evident that he was exceeding the 
account limit from time to time and paying extra charges for this. And there were also 
numerous returned direct debits shown  which added to the fees Mr O was already paying 
for his arranged overdraft.   
I think, had Lendable completed what I consider wouldve been a proportionate check, it 
would likely have seen the signs that Mr O was already in serious financial difficulty and, 
despite what its affordability assessment might have shown, realised that Mr O was unlikely 
to be able to afford its loan. 
I've taken into account that Lendable understood that the loan was intended for debt 
consolidation. But Lendable didnt have control over how Mr O used the loan as it paid the 
loan balance to him. And half the loan amount would have been needed just to return Mr Os 
current account to a nil balance  so that didnt leave enough to pay his credit cards. I dont 
think its likely that the loan monthly repayments typically meant that Mr O would be making 
any monthly saving on the amount he already needed to pay towards his credit 
commitments  so its hard to understand how even with debt consolidation this loan was 
going to improve Mr Os day to day financial situation.Having seen the extent of Mr Os money problems, I think it shouldve been apparent that 
there was a real risk he would use the loan instead to meet his immediate financial 
demands. And even if Mr O had used this loan to repay some existing debt, I dont think 
Lendable had sufficient reason to think this wouldve improved his overall position sufficiently 
to achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in his financial situation  given his 
outstanding indebtedness overall and reliance on using credit cards  which of course would 
make available more credit if he paid the balances down. 
So all the indications were that he would most likely remain in serious financial trouble 
regardless. And I believe that if Lendable had done a proportionate check it ought 
reasonably to have been aware that this loan was likely to be detrimental to Mr O and 
recognised that it shouldnt have provided it. 
So, I am upholding Mr Os complaint that he should not have been given the loan. 
Putting things right
 think it is fair and reasonable for Mr O to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid extra for lending that should not 
have been provided to him. In line with this Services approach, Mr O shouldnt repay more 
than the capital amount he borrowed.
If Lendable sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. Otherwise, Lendable should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve 
the results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr O received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Mr O made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mr O having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement)
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then Lendable should try and 
arrange an affordable payment plan with Mr O bearing in mind its obligation to 
treat Mr O sympathetically and fairly if he still needs further time to pay
whilst its fair that Mr Os credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, its 
unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded about 
a loan that was unfairly provided. So Lendable should remove any negative 
information recorded on Mr Os credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lendable to deduct tax from this interest. Lendable 
should give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Lendable Ltd to take the steps I've set out above to put 
things right for Mr O.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022. 
 Susan Webb
Ombudsman