DRN-2038111
 
The complaint
Mr T has complained about HSBC UK Bank Plc, and his complaint can be broken down into 
two broad areas:
How HSBC resolved his previous complaint about his first mortgage.
The redemption of his second mortgage.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision in June 2020, the findings of which stated:
The rules that I must follow are set out in the Dispute Resolution rules, which can be 
found online in the Financial Conduct Authority's handbook. In particular, DISP 2.3 sets 
out the activities we can consider complaints about.
Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. That means weve no power to consider a 
complaint about how a regulated business has handled a complaint. I could consider it as 
part of this complaint if it was ancillary to the complaint I am considering here. So here I 
could consider how HSBC has handled the second complaint as the complaint handling is 
ancillary to the issue; that is, Mr T would be complaining about both the redemption and 
how HSBC dealt with his complaint about the redemption.
But here they relate to two completely different transactions on two separate mortgage 
accounts. The only common factors are that both involve Mr T and HSBC.
The first complaint was resolved at the time by a mediated settlement by an investigator. 
It wasnt the subject of an ombudsmans decision. What that means is we can reopen the 
first complaint and deal with how it was resolved as part of that. Thats the process we 
should have followed when Mr T expressed his dissatisfaction about the resolution of the 
first complaint, and again I apologise to both parties for that oversight. Ive asked for the 
first complaint to be reopened and someone will be in touch with both sides about that. I 
wont be mentioning anything relating to the first complaint any further, and it will no 
longer be part of this complaint.
Here all I will only be considering is the second complaint, that is the redemption of the 
second mortgage.
Its not in dispute that Mr T called HSBC on 30 September 2019 and was given a 
redemption figure for his mortgage; an amount Mr T paid off that same day. The problem 
that occurred is that Mr T wasnt told his direct debit would still be taken the following day 
 1 October  as it was too late to cancel it. But the redemption figure didnt take into 
account that payment would be made, as a redemption figure can only take into account 
payments that are already on an account.
So, the actual process wasnt wrong. HSBC could never have given Mr T a redemption 
figure to take into account the payment that had not yet been made, nor could the direct 
debit collection process have been stopped either by HSBC or by the funding bank.
But what could have happened is that HSBC could have given information to Mr T that 
was clear about the process and that the direct debit would still collect, leading the 
account to be in credit if Mr T paid the full redemption amount that day. Had that 
happened its likely Mr T would either have paid slightly less to take into account the fact 
the direct debit would still be collected (so the account would then be redeemed the 
following day upon receipt of the direct debit) or he would have delayed making the 
payments until after the direct debit had been collected.
Mr T is also unhappy about how long it took for the money to be returned to him. Just for 
future reference (although Id hope Mr T will never need to arrange for a direct debit to be 
refunded again, either by HSBC or by another bank) the quickest and easiest way for that 
to be arranged is through the bank the direct debit was collected from (rather than the 
bank that collected the direct debit). As I said, I hope Mr T will not need to use that 
information in the future, but I mention it simply for completeness.
The direct debit was collected on 1 October. HSBC couldnt return it straight away as it 
needed to ensure the payment cleared first (that is, wasnt returned as unpaid). Once 
HSBC was sure the money had been collected it raised the request for the direct debit to 
be returned. Whilst I understand Mr Ts point that it should be an immediate thing it 
unfortunately is an automated process that takes a few days to be completed. Its 
generally considered that a period of up to two weeks for a direct debit to be returned in 
this way isnt out of the ordinary. Here it was ten days from when the direct debit was 
taken to it being back in Mr Ts account.
The direct debit return process was run in line with normal industry practice and thats not 
something I can interfere with. If Mr T would like to raise any general concerns about that 
process, he can contact the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority. They dont deal 
with individual consumer disputes so they may not respond directly, but those concerns 
can be considered as part of any broader reviews into the banking industry.
HSBC hasnt currently offered any compensation for the direct debit issue as its final 
response letter breaks its compensation award down to be £100 for not sending a letter of 
apology about the first complaint and £50 compensation for call waiting times and Mr Ts 
branch being closed for refurbishment.
Having considered everything, Im currently minded to award £100 compensation to Mr T 
for the fact things werent made clear to him on the call, as if they had been made clear 
Im satisfied Mr T would have taken action to avoid this situation occurring.
Whilst I can order HSBC to apologise to Mr T, Im sure Mr T will agree that an apology 
made in such circumstances would have little meaning, as it would be an apology under 
duress. I leave it to HSBC to decide if it feels an apology is appropriate, but to be clear 
that apology forms no part of my order or award.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. HSBC accepted my provisional decision, and Mr T disagreed with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my opinion hasnt changed. Whilst Ive considered everything Mr T has said 
in response to my provisional decision, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I 
dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I cant consider the first point as part of this 
complaint as its not allowed under our rules. Unfortunately, thats not something Ive got any 
discretion over however unfair and illogical Mr T may find it.
Mr T has said my provisional decision misses the point. He said the redemption issue must 
happen frequently so it should be possible for the banks to mention it, and that it shouldnt 
take so long for banks to return the money. He also said there was no risk of the payment 
not clearing as hed never had any payment issues over the course of the mortgage.
As I said in my provisional decision, were not the regulator (thats the Financial Conduct 
Authority). My role is to look at whats gone wrong and put consumers back (as far as 
possible) in the position theyd be in if things hadnt gone wrong. I can also award a sum in 
recognition of any distress or inconvenience caused. I cant fine or punish a business, and 
any award I make wont be punitive.
Based on that theres little I can add to the explanations I provided in my provisional 
decision. I agreed that HSBC should have told Mr T when he phoned that the payment 
would still collect so he could decide what to do. But as I explained the direct debit return 
process takes time as its automated. Thats not something I can interfere with however much 
Mr T thinks I should and irrespective of him saying there was no risk of the direct debit being 
returned as unpaid.
Finally, Mr T said Surely it is fair that they apologise for the errors they have made. My 
opinions on the validity of this apology surely have no relevance to whether they should or 
should not do so. If HSBC feels it should apologise then it can do so, but thats not 
something Im going to order it to do. I understand how strongly Mr T feels about this. But 
having reviewed everything Im satisfied with the findings I reached in my provisional 
decision and the award of £100 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and order HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay £100 compensation to 
Mr T. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman