DRN-3797827
The complaint
Miss C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) lent to her irresponsibly 
when it gave her two credit cards which she says she couldnt afford.
What happened
Miss C also complained to this service about six separate loans provided to her by NatWest 
and overdrafts on her current accounts; the loans and overdrafts were addressed by 
different adjudicators in separate views. These matters were resolved informally by this 
service with NatWest and it has agreed to pay compensation to Miss C, but I mention them 
here because it is relevant to this complaint for reasons I will explain later.
My decision here only considers Miss Cs complaint in relation to two credit cards NatWest 
provided to Miss C in 2009 and 2015. second loan, taken in September 2020.
Miss C says that if reasonable checks had been completed that NatWest wouldnt have 
provided her with the credit cards or subsequent credit limit increases on one of the cards. 
She says she was so indebted elsewhere it was clear the lending would not be affordable for 
her and she wouldnt be able to sustainably repay the borrowing.
 
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint about the credit cards. Miss C disagrees. 
Specifically, she says that as her other complaints were effectively upheld, and the use of 
the credit cards spanned the same period (and so her circumstances were the same), it is 
logical to consider that the credit card lending was unaffordable too.
Our investigator reviewed the points Miss C made but concluded it didnt make a difference 
to their view. As Miss C didnt agree with the investigators view his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Miss Cs complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as that of our investigator. I will explain 
why I have reached this decision.
While this service deals with cases on their individual merits I find that to explain my decision 
clearly I need to refer to the outcome of  Miss Cs other complaints about the affordability 
and continued management of her overdraft and the provision of the loans. I say this 
because Miss C had a lending relationship with NatWest as a single institution  the loans, 
credit cards and overdrafts were all with NatWest. 
In the cases of the overdrafts and loans NatWest didnt agree with our adjudicators rationale 
in their views, but NatWest agreed to settle Miss Cs complaints in the way the adjudicators 
suggested without formal decisions being made by an ombudsman. It agreed to re-work 
Miss Cs overdrafts and to pay back the interest and fees paid on both the overdrafts from a 
set point and the interest and fees on the majority of the loans. Miss C accepted this 
resolution. I will explain why this is relevant later in this decision.
NatWest needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss C 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Miss Cs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that NatWest should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss C. These factors include things 
like understanding Miss Cs income, the total amount Miss C borrowed, and the length of 
time Miss C had been indebted. There may even come a point where the lending history and 
pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
Credit card account opened in 2009
Miss C took out this credit card when she was a student. It was part of a student package 
and had a very low limit of £500. NatWest knew that Miss C was a student and she told it 
that that she was living with her parents. Given the time which has passed since then there 
is little information about the checks that were done at the time. I havent seen anything to 
suggest Miss C was in financial difficulties and as she was living at home I think its likely 
she would have been able to repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time had 
she used the whole limit. So I dont think I can fairly say that NatWest acted unfairly in 
providing this credit.
Credit card account opened November 2015
The original credit limit was £2,900. At this point Miss C was no longer a student and was in 
employment. She declared a net monthly income of £2,400. Her personal circumstances 
were the same  she was living with her parents and had no dependants. Despite this, 
NatWest estimated housing costs of around £600 and credit checks showed she had 
external unsecured borrowing of around £5,600. Even taking into account Miss Cs essential 
spending the repayments to repay the credit card within a reasonable period of time, even if 
the entire credit limit was used, would have been well within Miss Cs budget. 
First credit limit increase  January 2016
Two months after Miss C took out the credit card her credit limit was increased by £1,100. In 
the time since opening Miss C had paid significantly more than the minimum repayments off 
her balance. I havent seen the results of any checks but there is nothing to suggest that this 
increase was not affordable for Miss C.
Second credit limit increase  July 2018
Miss Cs circumstances had begun to change by the time of this credit limit increase of £750. 
Miss C had taken out a number of personal loans with NatWest; some for consolidation and 
some for other reasons like holidays and home improvements. She had four active loans at 
the time of this increase. NatWest had a good understanding of Miss Cs circumstances as 
she banked with the business and had taken out the loans with it. Miss C had made some late payments and incurred some overlimit fees in the second half of 2017 but had only one 
overlimit fee in 2018. In the months where Miss C was late making a payment she still paid 
more than the minimum required. 
Miss C was significantly overdrawn in both her current accounts. Miss C supplied her credit 
file from this time, and it shows that there was no evidence of any missed payments, payday 
loans, IVAs, CCJs or bankruptcies.
 
The credit limit increase was modest - £750. If Miss C used all of this increase and made 
repayments at a sustainable rate of 5% a month, this would have increased her repayments 
to £37.50 a month. At the same time Miss Cs borrowing each month on her personal loans 
was reducing at a rate of nearly £600 a month as she made her repayments. Miss C has 
also as a result of her complaints been placed in the position shed be in had she not taken 
out her loans and her overdraft. Given Miss Cs income and essential expenditure and the 
other products required different monthly payments, I think that the modest credit limit 
increase, which required smaller monthly repayments was affordable when taking into 
account Miss Cs income and essential outgoings.
Third credit limit increase  January 2019
There was another £750 increase provided in January 2019 which brought Miss Cs credit 
limit to £5,000. Miss C had taken out a further small loan of £1,000 the month before, but 
she had paid off more of her other loans. Her credit record was the same, with no missed 
payments or other adverse information. Her total repayments for all loans was £637 which 
still seemed affordable given knowledge of Miss Cs income and essential expenditure.
Fourth and final increase  March 2022
Miss Cs credit limit was increase by £500 to £5,500. By this time she had paid off several of 
her loans and her combined monthly repayments for those remaining was only £118. Miss C 
had paid more than the minimum required on her credit card for the six months leading up to 
this increase and her external credit was being managed appropriately. In the same month 
Miss C paid off the balance of her credit card and reduced her credit limit to £350. Again, it 
seems that the additional lending was affordable.
 
I think NatWest made appropriate checks before each occasion it increased Miss Cs credit 
card limit and I think it used the information it had about Miss C fairly, too.
 
Even if I were persuaded that the credit limit increases were not affordable after Miss C 
became quite heavily indebted, the effect of that over-indebtedness has already been 
corrected.  And if I were to uphold Miss Cs complaint in relation to her credit card accounts 
and direct that compensation be paid, then it would suggest that none (or very little) of Miss 
Cs borrowing had ever been affordable for her. This is clearly not the case. Miss Cs net 
income was in the region of £860 a week at its highest. Her essential expenditure including 
credit repayments was significantly lower than this and Im satisfied that she could afford to 
repay the credit which she hasnt already been compensated for. 
On balance, I do not think Miss C lost out as a result of anything NatWest did wrong.
My final decision
I do not uphold Miss Cs complaint and so it follows that National Westminster Bank Plc does 
not have to do anything further.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman