DRN-4018740
The complaint
Mr C complains about poor advice and poor communication when he took mortgage advice 
from an appointed representative of First Complete Ltd (trading as PRIMIS). He says his 
main complaint is that PRIMIS told him it submitted his application to his lender in April 2022. 
It didnt submit the application until early May 2022, which meant he didnt qualify for an 
early repayment charge (ERC) refund or to port his product. 
What happened
Mr C re-mortgaged and took out a five-year fixed interest rate product in late 2021, 
recommended by PRIMIS. 
PRIMIS says it didnt know when it recommended the product that Mr C intended to move 
home. Mr C says PRIMIS knew he was selling his house. Mr C sold his house and repaid his 
mortgage on 1 February 2022. 
Mr C could only apply via a broker to port his mortgage product if this was for a simultaneous 
sale and purchase. He could qualify for an ERC refund if he made a mortgage application to 
his lender within three months of redeeming his mortgage. PRIMIS says it told Mr C this in 
late 2021 and January 2022. 
Mr C contacted PRIMIS in late April 2022. He says PRIMIS told him his application was 
submitted in April 2022  within the lenders time limit to qualify for an ERC refund. The 
lender said it didnt receive the application until 3 May 2022 and declined to refund the ERC 
or port the mortgage product.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, saying in summary:
The product recommended by PRIMIS was portable, and was suitable based on what 
Mr C told PRIMIS about his needs at the time
The reason the new application wasnt submitted within the lenders time limit was 
because Mr C wasnt ready to proceed. He hadnt found a property to buy.
Mr C didnt agree. He said PRIMIS confirmed the application had been submitted in April 
2022. He said advice and communication from PRIMIS was poor. He said PRIMIS didnt 
provide information about interest rates or the recommended mortgages, didnt carry out a 
fact find or provide information about its services in writing. He said he had to rely on text 
messages and telephone conversations.
Mr C said he wouldnt have taken out a new product in late 2021 if hed been properly 
advised.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems key discussions between Mr C and PRIMIS were in person or by phone and were 
not recorded. The parties dispute what was said. I should explain that where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities 
 in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Was the mortgage recommendation in late 2021 suitable?
Mr C took mortgage advice from PRIMIS in October 2021. Mr C says no fact find was carried 
out, and his meeting was short and informal as he popped into the brokers office when 
passing. He says PRIMIS knew he was trying to sell his property.
PRIMIS provided documents to us, including a fact find and a suitability letter issued in 
October 2021, a mortgage illustration and mortgage offer. 
PRIMISs fact find says Mr C wanted consistent payments for a longer period, and had no 
intention of selling his property or moving home in the near future. Its suitability letter set out 
its reasons for its recommendation, including:
You stated you preferred to have consistent mortgage payments for a longer period 
as you have no intention to sell the property or move home in the near future and 
longevity of consistent mortgage payments was one of your stated priorities.
You have confirmed that you do not intend to repay this mortgage in part or full 
within the period that early repayment charges would apply and you understand the 
reduced flexibility caused by having a mortgage with early repayment charges.
I think its unlikely PRIMIS would record this and recommend a five-year fixed rate product 
with an ERC if Mr C had told it he was selling his property. 
PRIMIS had to make a mortgage recommendation based on what it knew about Mr Cs aims 
and circumstances. I dont think, on balance, that PRIMIS was aware when it made the 
recommendation that Mr C intended to sell the property within a short period of re-
mortgaging and, therefore, that a mortgage product with an ERC might not be suitable.
PRIMIS says prior to completion of the re-mortgage Mr C told it there was a possibility he 
might sell the property at a later date and they discussed porting. PRIMIS says it told Mr C 
he could only port the product if his sale and purchase were simultaneous, but could qualify 
for an ERC refund if he made a new application within three months. Mr C went ahead with 
the re-mortgage. There isnt a recording of this call. I dont think, based on the evidence that 
is available, I can fairly find that PRIMIS gave Mr C incorrect information on the call. 
Was PRIMIS responsible for Mr Cs application missing the lenders deadline for an ERC 
refund?
Mr C contacted PRIMIS in January 2022 for further information about porting. PRIMIS says it 
gave Mr C the same information  that he could only port the product if the sale and 
purchase were simultaneous, but would be eligible for an ERC refund if he applied within 
three months.
Mr C contacted PRIMIS in late April 2022 to say hed found a new-build property to buy. 
PRIMIS says Mr C told him he sold his property on 1 February 2022 and his mortgage 
account was settled on 3 February 2022. PRIMIS says it had no access to Mr Cs closed mortgage account so had to rely on this date being correct.
PRIMIS gave Mr C a list of documents needed for an application. Mr C provided pay slips 
and bank statements on 25 April 2022. There were issues with affordability based on these 
payslips. Mr C emailed a further pay slip to PRIMIS on 29 April 2022. 
Mr C provided details of the property to PRIMIS on 29 April 2022. He said he hadnt at that 
point reserved the property, but intended to do so later that day. PRIMIS says it isnt required 
to obtain a copy of the reservation, and given the urgency accepted what Mr C said.
PRIMIS says the application was reviewed internally and there were outstanding queries, 
which meant the application was submitted on 3 May 2022 (the next working day). 
When the lender instructed a valuation, it came to light that the property in the application 
hadnt been reserved by Mr C. PRIMIS says it asked Mr C about this and he said he didnt 
reserve the property as he didnt reach agreement with the developer about the purchase 
price. Mr C later said the problem was due to PRIMIS recording the address incorrectly. 
We asked Mr C for evidence that hed reserved the property, but he didnt provide this. On 
balance, I dont think Mr C had reserved the property.
To meet the lenders criteria for an ERC refund a full application had to be made within the 
three-month time limit. The lender said Mr Cs mortgage had been redeemed on 1 February 
2022, so he had until 1 May 2022 to submit the application. This had to include details of the 
property on which the mortgage would be secured.
I dont think its fair and reasonable to require PRIMIS to pay compensation to Mr C for the 
application being submitted outside the lenders time limit for an ERC refund. 
First, I dont think its fair to say that PRIMIS caused delays. It submitted the application 
promptly after receiving the necessary information from Mr C. 
Second, Mr C hadnt reserved a property or had an offer for a property accepted by 1 May 
2022, and so he wasnt in a position to submit a mortgage application. 
Mr C provided a screen shot of messages between him and the broker on 1 May 2022. The 
broker confirmed the application had been lodged with Halifax on time. Perhaps the broker 
(who thought the deadline was 3 May 2022) meant it was on schedule to meet the time limit. 
While this turned out not to be the case, it didnt change the outcome. Mr C wasnt in a 
position to submit a mortgage application before 1 May 2022. The incorrect text didnt 
change this.
For completeness, Id note that Mr C could have made a porting application direct to the 
lender, provided this was made within the same three-month time limit. It seems PRIMIS 
didnt know this. However, Mr C hadnt found a property to buy and wasnt in a position to 
make an application by 1 May 2022. So this doesnt change the outcome of this complaint.
Mr C says PRIMIS didnt provide information about interest rates or the mortgages it 
recommended, didnt carry out a fact find or provide written information to him about its 
services. 
PRIMIS provided a copy of the fact find completed on 25 October 2021 to us. This says 
disclosure documents were issued the same day and the meeting was in person. 
PRIMIS provided a copy of its suitability report and covering letter (dated 29 October 2021). The letter said they had discussed its disclosure document and a copy had been provided. 
The letter said Mr C should let it know if he wanted a copy of the fact find. PRIMIS said it had 
provided a mortgage illustration to Mr C. This would have set out details of the mortgage and 
interest rate product applied for. 
PRIMIS provided a copy of a fact find dated 20 April 2022. It provided a copy of a suitability 
report dated 3 May 2022 and covering letter. The letter said Mr C should let it know if he 
wanted a copy of the fact find. The letter said they had discussed its disclosure document 
and a copy had been provided. The report set out the recommended interest rate product. 
Theres a note that Mr C wanted the cheapest rate available from the lender, and this was 
the one recommended. 
A further suitability report and cover letter were issued in mid-June 2022. This was because 
when the application was updated with the details of the property Mr C agreed to buy, the 
product previously selected was no longer available. A new product had to be selected. 
PRIMIS provided copies of mortgage illustrations, which set out details of the mortgage and 
interest rate products applied for.
From what Mr C has said, he disputes that fact finds were carried out, that he was given 
information about the available rates and recommended mortgage products and didnt 
receive any of these documents. Its difficult when the parties dispute what happened and 
what was said  especially when there arent recordings available. 
Other than the recollections of Mr C and the broker, the only evidence I have of what was 
discussed during their meetings and calls are these documents. PRIMIS provided copies of 
the documents Id expect to see. Theres nothing in the documents that suggests to me they 
arent an accurate record of what was said. PRIMIS says these documents are system timed 
and dated and cant be edited retrospectively. It provided records to support when the 
documents were created. PRIMIS says the illustration and suitability letter were sent to Mr C 
by post.
While Im sorry if Mr C didnt receive these documents, I dont think, based on the available 
evidence, I can fairly find that PRIMIS didnt produce them and (where appropriate) provide 
a copy to him. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman