DRN-3194600
The complaint
Mr T complains about the way Society of Lloyds (SOL) have dealt with his claim under his 
travel insurance policy.
For ease, any reference to SOL also includes its agents.
What happened
In late January 2020, Mr T travelled abroad and was due to return back to the UK towards 
the end of March. On 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development 
Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all 
but essential travel abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic. On 19 March 2020 his return flight 
was cancelled by the airline and so he rebooked onto another flight returning on 4 April 
2020, after his original planned return date. Unfortunately, this flight was also cancelled 
meaning Mr T had to make other arrangements. 
On 23 March 2020 the FCDO instructed all UK citizens travelling abroad to return home. 
Due to government restrictions in the country he was visiting, most commercial flights were 
no longer available, but Mr T managed to secure a seat on a government repatriation flight 
back to the UK on 8 April 2020. 
Mr T returned home and contacted SOL to make a claim. He was advised this would be 
considered under the catastrophe section of the policy. He submitted his claim for the cost to 
rebook his return home. He also claimed for additional accommodation costs he incurred for 
his extended stay abroad, along with food and drink expenses. 
SOL refused his claim. It said the claim didnt fall under any of the relevant sections of the 
policy, including the catastrophe section. Unhappy with this response Mr T made a complaint 
to SOL. He said he should have been told the claim wasnt covered. SOL said that it was 
right to decline the claim, but it should have made it clear to Mr T earlier that his claim 
wouldnt be covered. It agreed to pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience this caused.
Mr T remained unhappy with this outcome and brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the matter but said SOL didnt need to do anything further. She 
found there wasnt a section of the policy which provided cover for the circumstances Mr T 
encountered  so the decision to decline the claim was fair and reasonable. She said SOL 
could have informed Mr T earlier that his claim wouldnt be covered but she felt that the 
compensation offered was fair, as Mr T would have had to incur these costs regardless of 
what SOL had told him.
Mr T disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said he didnt think the compensation 
amount was sufficient. As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ts complaint.
Has the claim been declined fairly?
Mr Ts claim relates to additional travel, accommodation and living expenses incurred as a 
result of his extended stay abroad due to the Covid-19 outbreak and the government 
restrictions imposed as a result. Mr T has said that he was told his claim would be 
considered under the Catastrophe section of the policy.
 
Ive looked at this section of the policy and I can see that cover is provided for additional 
travel and accommodation costs incurred to continue with the trip, or to return home if this 
isnt possible, if it is necessary to move from the pre-booked accommodation as a result of 
several listed reasons, including medical epidemic or local Government directive. However, 
Mr T wasnt forced to move from his accommodation, in fact he remained there until after his 
initial planned return date. Im satisfied that this section doesnt provide cover for the 
situation faced by Mr T and therefore the decision by SOL to refuse the claim under this 
section is fair and reasonable.
Ive also looked at the remainder of the policy wording to see if there is any other section 
which would consider Mr Ts claim, but the circumstances Mr T found himself in dont appear 
to fall within any of the other sections of cover provided. Im therefore not persuaded that 
SOL needs to pay Mr Ts claim.
SOL service 
Mr T is unhappy that, when he contacted SOL, he was told his claim would be covered 
under the Catastrophe section of the policy, but the claim was later declined. SOL has 
accepted it could have explained to Mr T earlier that his claim wouldnt be covered and has 
paid him £100 in compensation. However, Mr T feels this amount isnt sufficient.
Ive thought about what Mr T has said very carefully. SOL has accepted it should have 
explained to Mr T, during a conversation on 16 April 2020 when discussing the claim, that 
his expenses wouldnt be covered. Im sure this was incredibly frustrating for Mr T, especially 
as he has told us it took some time to collate all of the information for the claim. 
Mr Ts flight home was cancelled by the airline and so he had no other option but to make 
alternative arrangements for his return. So regardless of any advice provided by SOL, Im 
satisfied that Mr T would have incurred these expenses in any event. And whilst SOL did 
misinform Mr T of the likelihood of success of his claim in April 2020, this wasnt until after he 
had incurred these costs.
And whilst it may have taken some time to let him know the claim wouldnt be covered, I 
must also bear in mind that SOL was dealing with an unprecedented situation at the time. 
Covid-19 has had a significant impact on the travel insurance industry given the number of 
customers whose travel plans were impacted by the disruption to travel. And so, I dont think 
its unreasonable that may have had some impact on their normal levels of service. 
Taking all of this into account, while I appreciate Mr Ts strength of feeling on the matter, Im 
satisfied that the sum of £100 that SOL has offered in compensation is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. I dont require it to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman