DRN-3676280
Complaint
Mr S has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background 
Mr S bought solar panels for his home in September 2016. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr S alleges that the installer misled 
Mr S into believing that the panels would be self-funding.
Mr Ss complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the 
documents from the time of sale (which Mr S signed) made it clear that the benefits of the 
solar panel system would not cover the purchase price and therefore the system would not 
be immediately self-funding in the way Mr S says he was led to believe. So, the adjudicator 
did not think a misrepresentation had taken place.
Mr S disagreed. He said (through his representatives) that the sale was conducted based on 
verbal representations and it wasnt fair for Mr S to be expected to check the documents to 
verify the information he was provided with verbally.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our adjudicator, Ive been asked to make a
decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained
by the adjudicator, I do not uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr S was provided with the sales documents, as his representative sent us 
a copy. It seems likely that he wouldve seen these at the time of sale, as he has signed the 
document.
The contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cash price of the solar panel system 
(£10,995) next to the annual benefit amounts £79.99, (generation payment), £43.89 (expect 
payment) and £112.64 (savings on electricity bills) provided by the solar panel system. It 
also sets out that Mr S was to fund the purchase using finance. This section says that Mr S 
was to use a 120-month loan (i.e. 10 year) provided by Ikano and the finance amount (i.e. 
the amount he was borrowing) was £10,995. 
 
These figures are not hidden away in small print, but are, in my view clearly visible. And 
Mr S has signed directly beneath this section  So, I think he wouldve, at the very least, 
seen this comparison when he signed the document. 
This section sets out that Mr S was taking a loan for £10,995 repayable over 10 years  so, 
in my view, its clear that he would need to pay £1,099.50 per year to meet his annual loan 
payments. I think its apparent that the annual benefit amounts listed in this section (£79.99, 
£43.89 and £112.64) wouldnt cover the annual cost of his loan repayments which would be 
over £1,000. 
I have thought carefully about Mr Ss representatives comments that Mr S should not be 
expected to look through documents to check whether the verbal representations made by 
the installer was true. And he was, instead, entitled to rely on what he was being told. 
But as explained above, he would not have had to look through the entire document, these 
figures are set out immediately above where he signed the document. And although, I 
appreciate he now says that he was told the solar panels would be self-funding, I think its 
unlikely that hed agree to such a significant a purchase without at least discussing what he 
was likely to receive in benefit before agreeing to the purchase. And, I think this document is 
reliable evidence of the information Mr S was likely given at the time of sale.
Overall, I think its more likely that it was made clear to him that the solar panels would not 
be self-funding. And, if Mr S had been told something different, on being asked to sign this 
document, I would have expected him to have questioned what he had been told. Ive seen 
no evidence that he did, so I think that suggests that the document most likely did not 
contradict Mr Ss understanding, at that time. 
The document described above, in my view, clearly displays the expected benefit Mr S 
would receive against the cash price  which shows the solar panels would not be 
immediately self-funding during the term of the loan. Mr S then went on to take out finance to 
fund the purchase of the solar panel system, further increasing his cost, as he agreed to pay 
not only the cash price of the solar panels, but also interest on top of the amount borrowed. 
As it was clear the benefit provided by the system would not be sufficient to cover the cash 
price of the solar panels,  I think he ought reasonably to have known that the benefit 
provided by the system, would also not be sufficient to fund the monthly finance payments 
which included interest on top of the cash price of the solar panels. 
While Ive carefully considered Mr Ss testimony, I find the documents from the time of sale 
to be more persuasive in terms of what information he was likely given at the time of sale. 
So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman