The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr and Mrs S say The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Britannia (Co-Op) mis-sold 
the PPI.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S were sold the PPI when they applied for a mortgage. The policy covered Mr 
and Mrs S against being unable to work due to an accident, sickness or unemployment. The 
policy cost £77.08 per month. The cover was split 70/30 between Mr S and Mrs S. in the 
event of a successful claim by Mr S the policy would have paid £898.32 per month for up to 
12 months. The policy benefit for Mrs S was £385.00 per month.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
The sale took place 16 years ago. Where there is limited information, I will make my decision 
based on whats more likely to have happened, taking into account the evidence available, 
what both parties have told me and what we know about these types of sale.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold because:
The mortgage was arranged, and the PPI sold during a telephone call. Following the 
telephone call, the mortgage application and PPI application form was sent to Mr and Mrs S 
for them to check, sign and return.
Due to the time that has passed Co-Op has not been able to give us a call recording or a 
script that its representative may have followed.
Mr and Mrs S say that during the telephone call the PPI was presented as being part of the 
mortgage package and wasnt optional. Co-Op say Mr and Mrs S would have been given a 
choice over whether to take out PPI.
Ive thought carefully about this. Ive listened to Mr and Mrs Ss recollections and Ive looked 
at the paperwork available from the time.
DRN-1865256Ive seen a copy of the mortgage application form that was sent to Mr and Mrs S after the 
telephone call.
I can see most of the form has been pre-populated, most likely it was filled in by the Co-Op 
representative during the call. Some parts of the form have been corrected by hand probably 
by Mr and Mrs S. For example Mrs S current address has been amended and some details 
of Mr and Mrs S current mortgage have been filled in by hand.
So I think Mr and Mrs S checked the form carefully before signing it and returning it to Co-
Op.
The form has a section titled Protecting Your Home. I can see the section about home 
insurance was pre-populated with Home Builder Silver selected. But this has been crossed 
through and a hand-written note added to say the quote was under consideration. This 
suggests that Mr and Mrs S were aware they could decline the home insurance at least and 
that it wasnt compulsory, even though it was pre-populated on the form.
The section on PPI has been pre-populated with the level of cover given as Accident, 
Sickness and Unemployment.
But immediately below this is a statement in large, bold letters that reads, If cover is NOT 
required please sign the declaration below. I can see the declaration has been left blank.
I also see that there is a separate application form for the PPI that has been signed the 
same day as the application. So it looks like the form was included with the mortgage 
application form. Again, this form is mostly pre-populated but has some handwritten 
amendments so I think Mr and Mrs S checked this for before signing it.
I cant know what was discussed during the telephone call. But all the paperwork Ive seen 
suggests the PPI was presented as optional and that Mr and Mrs S could have chosen not to 
take out the PPI policy.
Taking everything into account I think Co-Op made it clear that Mr and Mrs S didnt have to 
take out the PPI and they chose to take it out  although I can understand why they cant 
remember this after so many years.
Mr and Mrs S say Co-Op recommended the policy to them. Co-Op say it just gave 
information about the policy.
From experience I am aware that Co-Op didnt give formal advice on this type of policy. 
However, the telephone call arranging the mortgage would have been lengthy and would 
have involved the Co-Op representative asking many questions about Mr and Mrs S 
circumstances. So I can see how Mr and Mrs S may have thought they were receiving 
advice.
I dont think Co-Op did give advice but even if it had done, it would not make a difference to 
the outcome of this complaint. I say this because if Co-Op had given advice it would have 
had to make sure the policy was right for Mr and Mrs S. And I think it was right for them, I 
say this for the following reasons:
Based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
either of them were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. For 
example, neither had any medical conditions which would not be covered. So they couldve 
claimed if they needed to.Both Mr and Mrs S would have received sick pay from their employers if they could not work. 
But the PPI policy could have paid a monthly benefit in addition to any sick pay and for up to 
12 months. Which I think is likely to have been longer than their full sick pay would have 
lasted. So I think they would have found it useful if either had become too unwell to work, 
particularly if they were unwell for a lengthy spell.
The policy would also have paid a monthly benefit if either Mr or Mrs S had lost their job. So 
they would have been able to use any redundancy pay towards other living costs.
Mr and Mrs S did have some savings. But they decided to keep those savings rather than 
apply for a smaller mortgage. So the savings were likely earmarked for something or 
important to them. And the PPI policy would mean they wouldnt need to dip into their 
savings to pay the mortgage if things went wrong.
And Ive not seen any evidence that the premiums were unaffordable.
Its possible that Co-Op didnt give all the information it should have done during the 
telephone call. But thats not enough to uphold this complaint. I next need to decide whether 
or not Mr and Mrs S would have changed their mind about buying the policy if they had been 
given better or clearer information. I cant say they would have done. I say this as the policy 
seems right for them and it looks from the paperwork like they were interested in the cover.
So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs S off taking out 
the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs S have said. Including what theyve said about the 
correspondence they received in the years following the sale of the policy. But Ive looked at 
what happened in 2004 when they were sold the policy and I dont think it was mis-sold.
Which means Co-Op doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Co-Op has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S because:
Co-Op got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because Co-Op didnt tell Mr and Mrs S, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Co-Op has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Britannia does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Britannia does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs S 
any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I 
understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman