DRN-2736607
The complaint
Mr A firstly complains about an instalment loan that he took out with Western Circle Limited, 
trading as Cashfloat, (WCL), which he said was unaffordable. He is also unhappy that WCL 
applied missed payment markers to his credit file rather than a default.
What happened
Mr A was given one instalment loan by WCL on 27 May 2015. The loan was for £200 and 
repayable by two monthly repayments of £137.19. The loan wasnt repaid on the due date 
and was ultimately repaid on 28 April 2017.
Mr A said that WCL had provided him with a loan he could ill afford. Mr A said that as WCL 
knew that he had multiple loans at the time and that he was in part time agency work whilst 
being a student, he should never have been accepted for it.
In its final response letter, WCL said that Mr As declared income of £1,000 left him with 
sufficient funds to comfortably cover the agreed repayments without jeopardising his existing 
declared credit commitments and priority living expenses. It noted that Mr A was living with 
his parents. WCL also said it couldnt amend Mr As credit file as it needed to report all credit 
activity to the credit reference agencies it reported to.
Our adjudicators view
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. With regard to the 
loan being unaffordable, the adjudicator said that there wasnt anything in the information   
Mr A provided or the information the lender shouldve been aware of, which meant it 
wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what Mr A was saying. And he didnt think that 
the number of loans Mr A took, the loan amount or the period of time over which Mr A was 
borrowing meant that his loan history, on its own, shouldve shown WCL that Mr A mightve 
been experiencing underlying financial difficulty. 
With regard to the second aspect of Mr As complaint, the adjudicator didnt think that it 
would have been appropriate for WCL to apply a default after Mr A had missed two 
repayments as it appeared that a repayment arrangement had been agreed. The adjudicator 
did think WCL was correct to report missed repayments on the revised agreement, as it had 
a responsibility to report accurately to the credit reference agencies.
 
Mr A disagreed. He said that at the time of the loan he was a student, and that it wasnt  
appropriate for a student to receive a payday loan without a pay day. Mr A also disputed the 
reporting of the missed payments because there was no mechanism or written agreement
as to when WCL would report any missed payments.
The adjudicator responded to say that he thought it was reasonable for WCL to rely on the 
information that Mr A gave it. The lender said that Mr A had told it that he was working at the 
time of taking this loan. With regard to the missed repayments, the adjudicator referred to 
WCLs adequate explanations document which said that it may report any non-payment to 
credit reference agencies and that this could impair the borrowers credit rating and make it 
harder to obtain credit in the future. The adjudicator said that this statement covered what 
WCL was required to tell a borrower with regard to how it reported to credit agencies. As 
such, the adjudicator didnt think WCL needed to do anything more.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
investigate.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr A 
and to WCL on 4 March 2021. I summarise my findings:
I said that as the evidence was incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, Id reached my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what Id considered was most likely 
to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Id noted that there were two aspects of Mr As complaint and said that I would deal with 
these separately.
Irresponsible lending
When WCL lent to Mr A the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The CONC 
contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
WCL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I thought less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might point to the fact that WCL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors included: 
 the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing might 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable). 
There might even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable. 
I thought that it was important for me to say that WCL was required to establish whether     
Mr A could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow that this 
was the case. This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments sustainably if they were 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr As complaint.
Id thought about whether WCLs checks were proportionate for the loan. I could see that the 
information Mr A gave WCL about his income and expenses indicated that the loan 
repayments would be affordable. But Id also noted the results of WCLs credit checks. As 
WCL had carried out a credit check, I thought it should have taken into account the 
information set out in it.
The credit checks showed that Mr A had six active loans and that hed opened one credit 
account in the previous six months. Twelve credit searches had been made in the previous 
three months which I thought showed that Mr A was likely to be actively seeking credit 
during that period. The checks also showed that Mr A had three delinquent accounts in the 
12 months prior to his loan application. And hed exceeded his current accounts overdraft 
limit in the previous two months and hed also exceeded the credit limit on his credit card.  
Mr A had also withdrawn £370 in cash advances from his credit card in the previous           
12 months. Id said that this could be a sign of financial difficulties. Id noted that the three 
delinquent accounts were all home credit accounts. Whilst one had been repaid in      
January 2015, Mr A had been repaying the other two by monthly repayments of £10 since 
December 2014. 
Id thought that the results of WCLs credit checks ought to have given it concerns that Mr A 
already had a recent adverse credit record and that his finances might be under pressure. 
He already had two repayment arrangements on other debts and was only making relatively 
small repayments to these. He also had two accounts that were over their respective credit 
limits.
So, I thought that WCL should have realised that it couldnt safely rely on the information   
Mr A was providing about his finances. And I thought it should have taken steps to 
independently verify Mr As true financial position before agreeing the loan. I couldnt see 
that it did this. 
So, I needed to think about what WCL wouldve seen if it had carried out proportionate 
checks. 
Wed asked Mr A for copies of his bank statements and credit report so we could see what 
better checks would have shown WCL. He didnt provide these to us. So, I didnt have 
enough to say what WCL would have seen if it had made better checks. And it followed that I 
wasnt able to say that better checks would have shown WCL that it shouldnt have lent to  
Mr A. 
So, I didnt intend to uphold this aspect of Mr As complaint. 
Credit file
Mr A also complained that WCL hadnt applied a default to his credit file. He was unhappy 
that WCL had applied missed payment markers to his credit file rather than a default. He 
said that a default would have been highly accurate as hed faltered on repayment of the 
loan and WCL was entitled to register a default after three consecutive failed payments.Id noted that in response to WCLs final response letter, Mr A had asked whether a default 
could be added to his credit file instead of missed payments. Hed said that it was unfair that 
WCL had added missed payments even though he was making the payments as per their 
repayment arrangement. WCL responded to say that it was duty bound to report the 
information factually. Mr A again asked that a default be applied to his credit file at the onset 
of his first missed payment. Hed noted that WCL had refused to do this which he said was 
not fair. Mr A said that missed payments stayed on file for six years, so hed be experiencing 
the negative connotations of this account even though hed closed his account a while 
before. 
Id also noted that Mr A had said in response to the adjudicators view that there was no 
mechanism or written agreement as to when WCL would report any missed payments. But I 
could see in the loan agreement between WCL and Mr A that there was a box headed Use 
of Your Personal Information on Page 3 of the agreement. This said that that WCL could 
add to Mr As record with the credit reference agencies details of his agreement with it, any 
payments he made under it and any default or failure to keep to its terms. 
Id asked the adjudicator to ask WCL for more information about Mr As payment history and 
its recording of that history on Mr As credit file. Id also asked the adjudicator to ask WCL for 
a copy of correspondence between the parties which appeared to be missing from the 
information this Service had already received. WCL had provided more information.
WCL said Mr A had contacted it on 11 June 2015 to say he needed more time to pay. The 
repayment schedule was amended so that he repaid £145 in late July and August 2015.
In mid-July 2015, Mr A had contacted it and offered to pay it £10 per month. WCL received       
Mr As first payment in early August 2015.
WCL said that there were a number of further payment arrangements made during the life of 
Mr As loan. The lender said that Mr A had gone into arrears on a number of occasions, but 
new arrangements had been agreed with him and the account never reached the stage 
where a default needed to be registered. WCL had said it would prefer to agree new 
affordable repayment plans with a customer as quickly as possible, rather than registering 
defaults.
WCL also said that although Mr A had taken longer to repay his debt than originally agreed, 
it had accepted repayments totalling £273, which meant that Mr A had paid no extra money 
for the additional time hed taken to repay his loan. WCL believed it had demonstrated 
forbearance in the dealings with Mr As account and treated him fairly.
I could see that WCL appeared to have issued a notice of default to Mr A in November 2015 
and January 2017. Id asked the adjudicator to ask WCL to clarify why it hadnt applied a 
default to Mr As credit file following service of those notices in view of Mr As failure to 
remedy the breaches or agree an arrangement by the dates set out in those notices.
WCL responded to say that Mr A was in an agreed payment arrangement and in regular 
contact with it at the time. It was felt reasonable not to register a default at this time.
Although a £10 payment was not received in February 2016, Mr A did make a payment of
£5 showing his intent to repay his debt and a further £10 was received both on 7 March 2016 
and 31 March 2016.
I said that I needed to decide what was fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances 
of this complaint. Overall and on balance, I thought WCL had acted with forbearance and I 
wasnt persuaded that it had acted inappropriately by not registering a default. So, I didnt 
propose to uphold this aspect of Mr As complaint.Subject to any further representations by Mr A or WCL my provisional decision was that 
I didnt intend to uphold this complaint.
WCL hasnt responded to my provisional decision.
Mr A responded to my provisional decision to say that he didnt accept it and he felt that it 
didnt matter what he said. But he hasnt provided any further information for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
I appreciate that what Id said in my provisional decision has disappointed Mr A. Id like to 
reassure him that I considered everything he told us in reaching my provisional decision. 
But given that Mr A and WCL have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I dont 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman