DRN-3823936
The complaint
Miss B has complained that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) unfairly declined her claim.
What happened
Miss B bought a private medical insurance policy with AXA on 1 February 2021. She called 
AXA on 9 February 2021 to ask for cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT). But AXA declined 
the claim as it said Miss B was being treated for a pre-existing condition which was excluded 
under the terms of the moratorium.
Miss B complained but AXA maintained its decline. So she referred her complaint to this 
Service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that AXA treated Miss B unfairly. She 
recommended that AXA should reconsider Miss Bs claim and pay £250 compensation for 
the distress caused by its actions. 
AXA disagreed and in summary, made the following comments:
Miss Bs treating specialist contradicted her original report and changed her plan 
from treating anxiety to treating depression only. 
It hasnt received all of Miss Bs medical records from either the GP or the treating 
specialist.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued my provisional decision on 26 October 2022 which Ive set out below in full:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly 
and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy confirms key things membership doesnt cover including:
Treatment of medical conditions you had, or had symptoms of, before you joined.
The policy defines pre-existing conditions as follows:
A pre-existing condition is any disease, illness or injury that:
You have received medication, advice or treatment for in the five years before the 
start date of your cover, or
You have experienced symptoms of in the five years before the start of your 
cover;
whether or not the condition was diagnosed.
Miss B claimed for mental health issues which she says are new and symptoms she has 
never experienced before. But AXA has said Miss B had symptoms of her illness before 1 
February 2021 based on her initial telephone call to AXA and the report from the specialist in 
April 2021 which confirmed Miss B would need to be treated for anxiety. 
Ive summarised the key timeline and evidence below.
April 2019  GP records note Miss B was generally anxious and would contact her 
private medical insurer for CBT.
September 2019  Miss Bs GP records show her anxiety was improving with CBT, 
shed had 12 sessions and was due to have 6 more.
November 2019  Miss B was referred to a psychologist for likely anxiety. 
March 2020  Miss B asked her GP for medication for anxiety. Her notes show she 
was stressed with overwork.
February 2021  Miss B made a claim for low mood and depression which was 
triggered by work related stress and lockdown. Her symptoms included feeling 
negative and down.
April 2021  cognitive behavioural psychotherapist met with Miss B and wrote a letter 
to confirm Miss Bs problems were consistent with depression, generalised anxiety 
disorder and aspects of low self-esteem. Miss B wanted to manage her anxiety, 
negative emotion, resolve negative beliefs, manage low mood, eliminate need to be 
perfect, manage worrying thoughts, learn strategies to manage stress, increase self-
confidence and improve poor sleep hygiene.
AXA said it thought Miss Bs symptoms were present before 1 February 2021 and so the 
claim wouldnt be covered. But it also asked her GP and specialist for records from her CBT 
sessions in 2019. Both the GP and the specialist said they didnt have any records from 
those sessions. 
I asked Miss B whether she had those records or if she could ask for a copy from her 
previous insurer. She said she could ask for them if it would help her claim. 
Having considered everything above, I dont think AXA unfairly declined the claim. I think it 
was reasonable for AXA to look further into Miss Bs symptoms. And AXA is entitled to 
request and review medical evidence to determine whether Miss Bs symptoms were new or 
pre-existing. A diagnosis of depression after the start date of the policy doesnt necessarily 
mean the symptoms werent present before the start date. And AXA is entitled to review and 
investigate this especially as the specialists report dated April 2021 mentions both 
depression and anxiety. 
Miss Bs previous CBT reports should paint a clearer picture of what Miss B was treated for. 
If there is medical evidence available from her previous insurer, I would expect her to 
request and provide this to AXA for it to fully consider her claim. 
Customer service issuesOur investigator recommended £250 compensation to Miss B as a result of service issues 
and particularly a phone call which took place in May 2021. Our investigator said the adviser 
was unsympathetic and should have passed Miss B to the mental health team as requested 
rather than repeating that Miss Bs claim wasnt covered. Ive listened to the phone call in 
question and I disagree that the adviser was unsympathetic. The adviser explained to Miss B 
that the mental health team wouldnt be able to change the decision. When Miss B became 
upset, the adviser apologised immediately and passed Miss B through. So I think the 
apology was sufficient. I think the adviser was simply trying to explain what the policy limits 
were and managing expectations. 
However, AXA did tell Miss B that it would listen to this call and investigate her concerns 
about being shouted at but didnt address this in its final response letter. 
Our investigator also said AXA gave Miss B the impression that her claim would be covered. 
I agree that the adviser during the call of 23 March 2021 could have been clearer and gave 
the impression that Miss Bs claim would be covered. So when Miss B was later told her 
claim wasnt covered, this would have come as a shock and disappointment to Miss B. 
Taking both of the above issues together, I agree some compensation for distress is due to 
Miss B as a result of the failure to respond to her concerns about the phone call and also for 
the disappointment Miss B felt when she was told her claim wasnt covered. This could have 
been avoided if the adviser had been clearer on the 23 March 2021 and explained that 
further treatment after the initial appointment would be considered and wasnt guaranteed. 
So I think £100 compensation is appropriate taking into account that these issues werent 
long standing or repeated. 
In summary, I dont think AXAs actions in declining the claim have been unfair or 
unreasonable. It is entitled to rely on all the information available to it. If Miss B is able to 
provide her previous CBT reports to AXA, I would expect it to review these as part of its 
usual process. And for its service failures, I think it should pay Miss B £100 compensation.
Since issuing my provisional decision, Miss B has provided some further medical evidence 
to AXA. AXA has made further submissions about the medical evidence to me and says it 
still hasnt been provided with all of the relevant evidence. And even if it reassesses the 
claim, that doesnt necessarily mean it will accept it.
As my provisional decision said, it is up to Miss B to provide the evidence to AXA and for 
AXA to assess it in line with its usual process. That would also mean AXA providing 
appropriate guidance and information about what else it would like to see. And if it still 
doesnt think the claim is covered, then it should explain this to Miss B. If Miss B is unhappy 
about any further decline, that would be subject to a new complaint.
Based on the information which was available to AXA at the point Miss B referred her 
complaint to this Service, I dont think it unfairly declined her claim. However, I do think there 
were some customer service failings for which I think £100 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. And so I dont see any reason to depart from my 
provisional findings which I adopt as my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited to pay Miss B £100 compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman