DRN-3783195
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 21 February 2022, Miss C was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase 
agreement with MotoNovo. She paid a deposit of £1,000, and the agreement was for 49 
months; with monthly repayments of £285.75. At the time of supply the car was around 8 
years and 9 months old and had done 105,321 miles. The car was also supplied with a 
dealer three-month or 3,000-mile (whichever was the sooner) warranty.
Two days after being supplied with the car, a water pipe burst. The car was recovered by the 
dealership and repaired under warranty. The car broke down again on 25 April 2022, due to 
a broken timing chain. At the time of this breakdown the car had done 116,168 miles  
10,847 miles in the two months since supply.
Miss C contacted the dealership who initially agreed to repair the car if it was recovered to 
them. Which Miss C arranged. However, the repairs werent completed by the dealership 
before the three-months of the original warranty expired. And Miss C wasnt supplied with a 
courtesy car for this full period, meaning she had to arrange for her own transportation. 
However, a courtesy car was provided for three weeks, during which time Miss C drove an 
additional 4,000 miles.
Miss C wasnt happy with what had happened, and she complained to MotoNovo. MotoNovo 
arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent engineer. And this engineer didnt 
think the issue with the timing chain was present or developing when the car was supplied to 
Miss C. Because of this, MotoNovo didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Miss C wasnt happy with MotoNovos response, and she brought her complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator said that, although the car had failed within the three-month warranty 
period, it was outside of the maximum 3,000 miles allowable under the warranty. And the 
dealership werent aware of this when they initially agreed to repair the car. The dealership 
also said they wouldnt have provided a courtesy car if theyd been aware of the mileage.
Because of this, the investigator didnt think that the dealership had done anything wrong by 
not repairing the car, and she didnt think theyd delayed the repairs just so the warranty 
could expire. And, because the dealership had provided a courtesy car when they werent 
required to, and given Miss C had driven this car 4,000 miles in three weeks (which was well 
above any average expected mileage), she didnt think the cost of the recovery should be 
refunded to Miss C.
The investigator also said that, had the timing chain been failing at the point of supply, it 
would be unlikely that Miss C couldve travelled almost 11,000 miles before it actually failed. 
So, she thought it was reasonable for MotoNovo to rely on the independent engineers 
report. The investigator also said that Miss C hadnt had the car serviced within 
manufacturer guidelines. As such, she thought the car had failed due to age related wear 
and tear, and not because it was of an unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply. And she 
didnt think MotoNovo needed to do anything.
Miss C didnt agree with the investigator. She said that she hadnt covered 4,000 miles in the 
courtesy car, and there was no mileage recorded on the courtesy car paperwork. Miss C 
also provided an email from a manufacturers specialist, who had inspected the car. The 
specialist said that this make and model of car was renown for having timing chain issues. 
He also said that the damage to the timing chain had developed over time and most likely in 
the previous person/garages ownership. This hadnt happened instantly and definitely not 
after a few hundred miles  with the total damage found, this was something that had 
progressed over time and not just instantly.
Because of the mileage the car had travelled since supply, the investigator didnt think the 
email from the specialist changed her mind. Miss C still didnt agree and has asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss C was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
MotoNovo are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless MotoNovo can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Miss C to show it was present when 
the car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Miss C took possession of it, and this made the car 
not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask MotoNovo to put this right.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied there was a fault with the car, and that this fault 
occurred within the first six months after supply. However, I need to consider whether this 
fault made the car of an unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply.Ive seen a copy of the independent engineers report dated 13 June 2022, when the car had 
travelled 116,168 miles. The engineer confirmed the timing chain had failed and said, due to 
the mileage the vehicle has covered since purchase, we do not consider the reported fault to 
be present or developing at the point of finance inception.
The engineer also confirmed that their duty is to the courts, and not to whomever instructed 
or paid for the report. Given this, Im satisfied its reasonable to rely on this report.
Ive also considered the email from the manufacturers specialist that Miss C has supplied, 
along with the photographs of the damage to the car. The specialist was clear in that a fault 
with the timing chain is something that develops over time and not instantly and definitely 
not after a few hundred miles. Because of this, the specialist thought that the fault mustve 
been present or developing when the car was supplied.
However, the specialists opinion is based on the car having travelled a few hundred miles 
since supply. But this wasnt the case, and the car had actually travelled 10,847 miles. While 
I appreciate this took place over a two-month period, the wear on the engine due to the 
mileage travelled is the same regardless of how long it actually took to cover the mileage. 
Whats more, the car had already travelled over 105,000 miles at the point of supply, and the 
lifespan of a timing chain is usually in the region of 80,000 to 120,000 miles. And the timing 
chain failed at 116,168 miles  close to the upper end of the expected lifespan of the part.
Having reviewed the manufacturers guideline, Ive seen that the car had conditional based 
servicing, which is where the car indicates what type of service is needed, rather than there 
being a strict mileage interval between services. However, the manufacturer recommends an 
oil change every 18,000 miles.
Miss C has said that the car was last serviced at 99,000 miles, which would mean it wasnt 
overdue for an oil change when the timing chain failed. And Ive not seen any evidence of 
any conditional servicing requirements being ignored. As such, Im satisfied that the timing 
chain didnt fail due to a servicing issue.
However, based on the independent engineers report (and Ive already explained why its 
reasonable to rely upon this); the specialists email being based on a mileage of a few 
hundred miles, not the almost 11,000 miles the car had travelled; and the lifespan of the 
timing chain on the car; Im satisfied it was more likely than not that the timing chain failed 
due to age and mileage related wear and tear. And not because of a fault that was present 
or developing when the car was supplied to Miss C.
Given this, and while I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Miss C, I wont be 
asking MotoNovo to arrange to repair the car or allowing her to reject it.
Ive also considered the actions of the supplying dealership. Ive no doubt they agreed to 
repair the timing chain under warranty, and provided Miss C with a courtesy car, in good 
faith based on the breakdown happening within three-months of supply. But I havent seen 
anything to show me that Miss C advised them of the mileage at the point of failure. And, 
had she done so, the dealership wouldve been entitled to refuse to repair the car under 
warranty, or supply a courtesy car, given the mileage that had been done was almost four-
times that allowable under the warranty.As such, I dont think the dealership did anything wrong by not repairing the car once they 
became aware of the mileage the car had done since supply. Whats more, as the warranty 
had expired, and because Miss C hadnt provided them with the information that wouldve 
allowed them to know this when they asked her to recover the car to them; I dont think that 
either the dealership or MotoNovo are responsible for reimbursing the recovery costs.
Ive also noted Miss Cs comments about the mileage she did in the courtesy car. While Ive 
seen no evidence that this was 4,000 miles, shed travelled almost 11,000 miles in the car 
supplied under the hire purchase agreement in about two months. Which would equate to 
around 4,000 miles in three-weeks. Given this, Im satisfied its more likely than not that the 
courtesy car travelled around 4,000 miles in the three-weeks it was supplied to Miss C.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint about MotoNovo Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman