DRN-3428417
The complaint
Mr E complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to cancel a credit card debt which 
he said he hadnt incurred.
Mr E wanted the debt cancelled, an apology, the debt removed from his credit history, and 
compensation.
What happened
In 2014, Mr E let out his property to tenants, and moved abroad. He returned in 2019, and 
discovered from correspondence to his home address that a County Court Judgment had 
been filed against his name. He checked his credit file, and discovered that a number of 
credit accounts had been opened in his name while hed been abroad.  
One of these was a Barclaycard. This had been opened in January 2016 in Mr Es name, 
and had a balance of over £10,000. Mr E said he wrote to Barclays in January 2020, though 
Barclays said it never received this. Mr E said he wrote again in early March.
What had happened was that Barclays had closed the account for non-payment in 
November 2016, and had sent it to a debt collection agency. The debt collection agency 
received Mr Es complaint, and referred it to Barclays on 5 March. Barclays logged the 
complaint and referred it to its fraud team. The fraud team tried to ring Mr E, but the number 
which had been registered to the account didnt belong to Mr E so it couldnt get through. 
On 11 March, Barclays wrote to Mr Es registered address, asking him to phone its fraud 
team. It also gave referral rights to this service.
Mr E didnt ring Barclays. He got in touch with this service. He said he wanted Barclays to 
confirm he wasnt liable for the £10,887 debt, and an apology for the negligent way it had 
handled his case. He said victims of identity theft must have more protection and he held 
Barclays entirely accountable for the impact it had on his life. He wanted all traces of the 
debt removed from his credit file. He also wanted compensation, and said that a payment of 
equal amount to the debt wouldnt be anywhere near a true figure of what hed lost but would 
possibly be acceptable.
Our investigator asked Mr E for supporting evidence to show hed been abroad between 
2014 and 2019, and for other information. Barclays reviewed the information provided, and 
as a result it arranged to mark the account as fraudulent. It also said it would remove the 
account from any credit reference agencies, and write off the balance to ensure no further 
adverse data would be reported. 
But Mr E wasnt satisfied. He said Barclays hadnt given him the information he wanted, so 
he could report this to the police, and it certainly hadnt been an apology. Nor had it said the 
debt collectors would be called off. He said Barclays needed to do more and pay for what 
theyd done. He said hed had to sell his house because he couldnt re-mortgage because of 
his credit score. 
Our investigator didnt think that Barclays had done anything wrong. She said that Barclays 
had limited information when it wrote to Mr E on 11 March. To investigate a fraud claim, 
Barclays would have needed Mr Es testimony, and his contact details, date of birth and 
supporting evidence. She said it would have helped if Mr E had contacted Barclays when 
hed received its 11 March letter, to provide Barclays with the information it needed.
The investigator also recognised that Mr E wanted to know how anyone had been able to get 
credit in his name. She said that as Mr E believed it was someone he knew personally, it 
was likely theyd had the personal information needed to open the account. Barclays had 
verified the application using Mr Es personal details and a credit search which included Mr E 
being on the electoral roll to verify the details on the application. The investigator said this 
was quite normal for an applicant to be verified in this way.
Mr E didnt agree. He sent comments in response to each paragraph of the investigators 
view. These included:
- he had a mortgage and current account with Barclays, which included his mobile 
number, but Barclays hadnt checked this against the number on the application;
- Barclays hadnt written, or emailed, in response to his letters. Instead it had sent a 
standard letter, and it should have written personally;
- he hadnt wanted to contact this service but had wanted to get it sorted and to have 
the perpetrator prosecuted;
- his ex-wife had only had his name, address and date of birth. As the phone number 
and email hadnt matched his, that should have raised flags with Barclays;
- he maintained Barclays had conducted no Know Your Customer checks, so they 
had facilitated the crime.
Mr E also said that the debt was still showing on his credit file 
Mr E asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E has raised multiple points in his submissions to the service. Ive understood and looked 
into all of those, but Ive commented on what I think is vital to my conclusions. Im also aware 
of other complaints he has with this service, but here I have to consider the circumstances of 
this individual complaint against Barclays.
Ive first considered the application, and whether Barclays ought reasonably to have realised 
at that stage that it wasnt Mr E who was applying, but a third party. Mr Es correct name, 
address and date of birth were given, and a credit search was carried out, including a check 
on the electoral roll. Online applications dont require Barclays to speak to the consumer 
before approving an account. There was nothing in the information provided which would 
give rise to any concerns. Mr E believes Barclays should have cross-checked against the 
mobile and email address on his other Barclays accounts. But people often have several 
email accounts and phone numbers, so I dont consider that there was anything in the 
application to make Barclays suspicious.
Ive gone on to look at what happened when Mr E returned from abroad and contacted 
Barclays in 2022. Barclays says it didnt receive Mr Es letters, and thats reflected in its 11 
March letter to Mr E, where it starts off by saying the debt collectors had been in touch. 
Barclays wrote to Mr E within a few days of being notified about Mr Es concerns. So I consider that the timescale for Barclays response, once it was notified by the debt 
collectors, was acceptable.
Ive looked at Barclays 11 March letter to Mr E, which starts by saying that the debt 
collectors had been in touch about the closed account, saying that Mr E said he hadnt 
applied for the account. Barclays said I have contacted the relevant Fraud Team on your 
behalf and they have advised that you will have to contact us directly to register your claim. 
Please contact our Fraud Detection team on.[contact numbers both from the UK and from 
abroad].
But Mr E didnt do so. Certainly the letter also gave the standard referral details for this 
service. But I think it would have been reasonable for Mr E to have contacted Barclays in 
response to this direct request. Any fraud team would have wanted full details, much more 
than was in Mr Es letters (even if theyd reached Barclays). I dont consider Barclays acted 
unfairly by asking for more information, rather than not immediately acting on the complaint 
forwarded by the debt collectors. 
Ive also borne in mind the fact that when Mr E supplied our investigator with more 
information, which she passed to Barclays, Barclays then acted on this promptly. It 
investigated, and then it:
- marked the account as fraudulent;
- removed the account from the credit reference agencies;
- wrote off the balance, so no further adverse data would be reported; 
- informed the debt collection agency of the situation and arranged for it to delete its 
records.
I find that this was a fair response.
 Mr E has told us that the debt was still showing on his credit file. So I asked Barclays about 
this, and asked Mr E for a screenshot showing where it was recorded. 
- Barclays checked all three credit reference agencies to which it reports information, 
and found that all files relating to Mr Es account had been deleted. 
- Mr E didnt respond to our request for a screenshot showing where he said its still 
recorded. 
So the evidence Ive seen suggests that Barclays has now removed this from Mr Es credit 
file.
I recognise that Mr E wants full details of what Barclays found, as he wants to prosecute 
whoever fraudulently opened the account. But banks dont routinely share the findings of 
their full fraud investigations with customers. There was no obligation on Barclays for it to 
disclose its findings to Mr E  and indeed Barclays has explained that it would have 
conflicted with its security policies if it had done so. Theres nothing to stop Mr E contacting 
the police if he wishes to do so. Barclays has said it will co-operate with the police if they get 
in touch  but thats not the same as disclosing its investigations to Mr E.
I recognise that identity fraud is distressing. But the distress will usually be caused by the 
fraudster who is responsible for the underlying identity fraud. Looking specifically at 
Barclays actions, I cant see that Barclays did anything wrong, either in not realising the 
account had been opened fraudulently, or in its handling or response to Mr Es complaint. It 
took action to make sure Mr E wasnt impacted any further once it had finished investigating 
this. This means that I dont uphold this complaint, and I dont require Barclays to pay Mr E 
any compensation, or provide an apology. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman