DRN-2437571
The complaint
Mr R complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited (Close Brothers).
What happened
Mr R has, at times, been represented by his mother in this complaint. For simplicity, and as 
Mr R is named on the credit agreement, I will refer to him throughout this decision.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr R, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers, who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. It also says we 
should take into account whether a car has proven to be durable when considering if it was 
of satisfactory quality.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr R. The car here 
was around three years old but the mileage was higher than average at 57,000. So, I think a 
reasonable person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
I dont think its disputed this car is faulty as Ive seen reports it now needs a new engine.
As the fault occurred more than six months after Mr R took receipt of it, the relevant 
legislation puts the onus on him to demonstrate the fault was present at the point of supply 
or that the car hasnt proven to be suitably durable.
I dont think I have sufficient evidence to suggest this car wasnt of satisfactory quality when 
supplied because:
whilst Mr R suggests he returned it to the dealership for a repair shortly after he took 
charge of the vehicle Ive not seen any further evidence of that, and the dealership 
dispute it;
by the time the car failed Mr R had completed about 4,000 miles in it. I dont think 
that would have been likely if the engine was failing;
Mr R has provided some information from social media that he says supports a view 
the car was misused prior to him receiving it. I dont think that information is sufficient 
to support that view.
Ive also considered whether the car could be considered to be suitably durable and whether 
that could be a reason to suggest it was of unsatisfactory quality.
I think a reasonable person would hope for an engine to last more than 57,000 miles. But I 
think a failure at this mileage would be likely to be considered towards the lower end of 
normal operation. Im supported in that view by the independent inspector who is an expert 
in these matters and didnt think on the information provided there was evidence the car 
quality was of unsatisfactory quality. I prefer the independent engineers view to that of the 
garage who Mr R paid and who cant therefore be said to be as independent.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman