DRN-1992871
 
The complaint
Mr W complains about Fairmead Insurance Limited, trading as Legal and General, and their 
decision to decline his insurance claim.
What happened
On 18 June 2019, Mr W contacted Fairmead to make a claim on his home insurance after 
heavy rainfall had led to water escaping into his property. Fairmead declined the claim 
straight away. They explained the weather conditions on 11 June, the day Mr W noticed the 
damage, didnt meet the criteria for a storm in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. So, the claim didnt fall under the storm head of cover.
Mr W didnt agree and asked them to reconsider the claim. He explained thered been high 
winds in March 2019, and he thought these winds may have damaged his roof, causing the 
escape of water in June. Hed also utilised his Home Emergency Insurance (HEI) provider, 
whod sent a contractor to assess the damage. This contractor also believed the damage to 
the roof had been caused due to storm conditions. So, Fairmead agreed to send a Surveyor 
to inspect his property in July.  The surveyors report concluded that the damage present on 
the roof was due to wear and tear, rather than storm conditions. So, Fairmead decided their 
original decision to decline the claim was a fair one. Mr W was unhappy with this, so he 
raised a complaint.
Mr W thought Fairmeads decision to decline the claim remained unfair. He thought his roof 
was in good condition before the high winds. He explained neighbouring properties of the 
same age had roofs in good condition so his wouldve been the same. He was unhappy that 
Fairmead werent considering the opinion of the contractor sent by his HEI provider. He was 
also unhappy with the service hed been provided in his calls to Fairmead. So, he wanted to 
the claim to be upheld and the work to repair the damage completed.
Fairmead responded and upheld Mr Ws complaint in part. They agreed their service 
couldve been better on the calls held in July and offered £100 to recognise this. But they 
thought they declined Mr Ws claim fairly, in line with their terms and conditions. They 
explained theyd relied on their surveyors report which stated the roof was damaged due to 
wear and tear. And they explained that had Mr Ws roof been damaged by high winds in 
March, theyd have expected water damage to have occurred inside the property when it 
rained in both April and May. As it didnt, they felt this supported their decision to decline the 
claim and didnt think they needed to do anything further. Mr W remained unhappy, so he 
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She thought it was most likely that 
Mr Ws roof had been damaged by gradual wear and tear, rather than high winds. So, she 
didnt think Fairmead had acted unfairly by declining the claim to repair the roof. But she did 
think the water damage that occurred inside the property had resulted from a rain storm in 
June. And although the roof was suffering from wear and tear, she was mindful that the roof 
was keeping out water until the rainstorm. So, she didnt think Fairmead had acted fairly by 
declining the claim for the damage to the inside of the property thought this aspect of the 
should be accepted. 
She recommended that Fairmead agree a schedule of work with Mr W to repair the damage, 
reimburse Mr W for any costs hed already incurred to complete this work and to pay Mr W 
an additional £100 to recognise the stress and inconvenience hed experienced.
Fairmead didnt agree. They didnt think the rainfall on 11 June met the definition of a storm 
within the terms of their policy. And they also thought the claim was excluded due to Mr W 
failing to maintain his roof. So, they maintained their stance that they didnt need to do 
anything further. As Fairmead disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator.
When considering Fairmeads decision to decline the claim, Ive considered whether they 
acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy Mr W held. And then, Ive considered 
whether the decision was both fair and reasonable. Its important to note its not my role to 
re-underwrite the claim. My role is to consider the service Fairmead provided. And having 
done so, I dont think the decision was fair for both aspects of Mr Ws claim. 
First, Ive considered the damage to Mr Ws roof and whether it was fair for Fairmead to 
decide it wasnt storm related. Im aware Mr W first contacted his HEI provider and the 
contractor who attended believed the tiles had lifted due to high winds. Mr W believes these 
high winds impacted his property in March, three months before the water damage to the 
inside of his property.
Fairmead have disputed this and provided a copy of the surveyors report who attended Mr 
Ws property in July. This report explains there were lifted tiles at the front of the property but 
there were four areas on the roof where water was able to enter the property. And they 
couldnt determine which area the water had entered. They also explained the roof of Mr Ws 
property was suffering from age related issues which included moss growth and slipped 
tiles. 
So, Ive had to consider what I think is the most likely cause of the damage to Mr Ws roof. 
And having reviewed the reports and images provided, I think its most likely that the damage 
was caused due to the age of the roof and gradual wear and tear. Thats not to say I dont 
think there were high winds that couldve affected Mr Ws roof. I appreciate high winds may 
have made the condition of Mr Ws roof worse. But, on the balance of probability, I think the 
age and condition of Mr Ws roof was the overriding factor in water later being able to enter 
the property.
The terms of Mr Ws policy states that it will not cover Any loss, damage or liability arising 
from wear and tear that you know is happening gradually over time. As I think its most likely 
the damage to Mr Ws roof occurred due to gradual wear and tear, I think Fairmead were fair 
to decline the claim for any repair work the roof required and dont think they need to do 
anything further for this aspect of the claim.
But in situations such as this, we still consider the second aspect of Mr Ws claim which was 
for the internal water damage which arose from what he believed to be a rainstorm. This is 
because this damage was caused by a different storm and should be assessed against the 
policy separately. Im aware Mr Ws policy terms and conditions classifies a rainstorm as 25mm of rainfall per 
hour but doesnt provide a 24-hour measurement. Fairmead have provided a screenshot of 
the 11 June weather, which records the heaviest hour of rain being 5.2mm. So, they dont 
feel the weather met the criteria set out in the terms of the policy, and so feel they declined 
the claim fairly.
But, as well as considering the terms of the policy, I must also consider whether I think these 
are reasonable in this situation. On 11 June, there was 43mm of rainfall within 24 hours. As 
a general guide, we consider anything over 30mm of rainfall in a 24-hour period to be 
classed as heavy rainfall and so qualify as rain storm conditions. This falls in line with 
weather industry guidelines. 
So, while I understand that the weather did not meet the hourly criteria Fairmead set, I think 
the amount of rain on that day qualifies as a rainstorm. I dont think its reasonable for 
Fairmead to decline the claim based on an hourly amount of rainfall when the evidence 
shows that there was heavy rainfall across the 24-hour period. I think its likely that this 
amount of rain over a continuous period has led to the water entering Mr Ws property.
For this reason, I cant agree with Fairmeads suggestion that there were days in April and 
May where the hourly rainfall was higher, and no claim was made. Even though Ive seen no 
evidence to show there were times in April and May where the hourly rainfall was high, when 
considering this I think supports the position that the damage was caused due to the 
consistent high level of rain over the course of 11 June, which was enough to class a rain 
storm.
Ive also considered Fairmeads point that Mr W had a duty to maintain the condition of the 
roof, in line with the terms and conditions of his policy. And if there had been high winds, he 
had a responsibility to fix any damage that he thought had been caused. But I think its 
important to note that Mr Ws roof was able to prevent any water entering the property in 
usual weather conditions between March and June. It was only when there was a rainstorm 
that the roof failed, and the water entered his property. 
So, I think its reasonable to assume that the damage to the inside of Mr Ws property was 
caused by the rain on 11 June. And I think the amount of rain over a 24-hour period qualifies 
as a rainstorm based on the general guide that we used. So, I dont think Fairmead acted 
fairly by declining this aspect of the claim. 
Im aware Fairmead have already admitted their service fell below the level theyd expect on 
calls Mr W made in July and offered £100 to recognise this. I think this offer is a fair one and 
I dont think I need to add anything further for this head of complaint.
I understand Fairmead feel this decision differs from others theyve received from our 
service. But we look at each complaint independently and on their own merits. So, there will 
be circumstances where similar complaints will receive different outcomes. And I want to 
reassure Fairmead Ive decided this complaint in line with our guidelines and our standard 
approach.
Putting things right
As I dont think Fairmead declined the internal damages aspect of Mr Ws claim fairly, Ive 
then considered what they need to do to put things right. And to do this, any direction I make 
is intended to place Mr W back in the position he wouldve been had the poor service he 
received not occurred. 
Had Fairmead assessed Mr Ws claim fairly, I wouldve expected them to accept the claim. 
So, to place Mr W back into the position he shouldve been, I think Fairmead need to accept the claim and arrange a schedule of work for the repairs that need to be completed. And if 
Mr W has completed some of this work already, I think Fairmead must reimburse Mr W for 
the amount he paid plus 8% interest from the date he paid for the work to the date of 
reimbursement.
Im also aware that by declining the claim, Fairmead have delayed the repair works to Mr 
Ws property. And I think this wouldve been both frustrating and upsetting for Mr W. I can 
appreciate how frustrating it wouldve been to have been left out of pocket with a damaged 
property for a period of time. And I think Fairmead should recognise this. So, Fairmead 
should pay Mr W a further £100 to recognise the inconvenience hes been caused.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint about Fairmead Insurance 
Limited, trading as Legal and General and I direct them to do the following:
Accept Mr Ws claim and agree a schedule of work for the necessary repairs to 
rectify the internal damage caused by the rainstorm
Reimburse Mr W for any repair work that hes already paid for plus 8% from the date 
of invoice to the date of settlement
Pay Mr W £100 to recognise the inconvenience hes experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman