DRN-2853233
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr A complain about advice given by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) to 
invest £500,000 into a discretionary managed portfolio, which they say exposed them to 
more risk than they were willing to take. Also, they complain that Barclays failed to provide 
clear information about the sales process when encashing the investment. 
What happened
In January 2018, Mrs A and Mr A invested £500,000 into a discretionary managed portfolio 
with a moderate risk profile and an objective of total return, having received advice from 
Barclays at the end of 2017. Mrs A and Mr A were looking to maintain the real value of their 
assets so capital growth was important to them, they were investing for the longer term (five 
years plus) and they wished to diversify their portfolio which was predominantly invested in 
property. 
In March 2020, following concern about the fall in the markets, Mrs A and Mr A gave 
instructions to encash the portfolio. The final settlement figure was £434,991.
Mrs A and Mr A say they sustained significant financial loss, for which they seek 
compensation. They maintain that the level of loss is inconsistent with the level of risk they 
were prepared to take. Mrs A and Mr A say they were unaware that the value of the portfolio 
would change after the instruction to encash was given and Barclays failed to explain that 
the assets within the portfolio might be sold over a period of time. They were led to believe 
that the sale proceeds would be in the region of £451,000 and were disappointed to discover 
that the final settlement figure was less than they had anticipated.
Barclays say that the recommendation was in line with Mrs A and Mr As attitude to risk, 
objectives and capacity for loss. Mrs A and Mr A chose of their own volition to encash the 
portfolio early after only two years of investment. Given that the portfolio was made up of a 
range of assets, a reasonable period of time was taken to liquidate after the instruction to 
encash was given. The instruction was given at a time when the markets were highly volatile 
and this had been discussed with Mr A at the time.  
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought the 
recommendation met Mrs A and Mr As needs and objectives at the time, giving the 
opportunity for growth over the medium to long-term. The split of assets within the portfolio 
didnt expose them to more risk than they were willing to take, considering their overall 
attitude to risk, capacity for loss and wider lower-risk investments. Further our investigator 
took into account that Mrs A and Mr A had chosen to invest rather than pay off some of the 
residential mortgage. Whilst our investigator was sympathetic to the situation Mrs A and     
Mr A found themselves in, she didnt think Barclays had provided misleading information 
about the sales process and recognised that the instruction to encash the holdings was 
given at a time of high market volatility.
Mrs A and Mr A do not agree with the outcome. They rely upon the initial risk assessment, in 
which their risk-tolerance was assessed as low-medium. They feel that Barclays nudged 
them into a higher risk bracket. Further, whilst they dont dispute that Barclays did complete 
the sale as fast as they could in all the circumstances, they maintain that Barclays failed to 
explain it could take several days to liquidate the portfolio, over which time their losses stood 
to increase. 
The matter has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Attitude to risk
Its common ground that Barclays undertook a risk profile for Mrs A and Mr A, which showed 
both had a risk tolerance of medium-low. But it isnt fair and reasonable to consider this in 
isolation. Ive seen that Barclays balanced this against other factors. Market engagement 
was recorded as medium-high, Mrs A and Mr A had a capacity for loss and the nature of 
their other holdings were lower risk. The financial personality assessment and recommended 
portfolio characteristics explained that risk profiles might be adjusted where a, significant 
percentage of your wealth, was in low-risk personal holdings.  
At the time of taking advice, Mr A received an annual income of £500,000, Mrs A and Mr A 
held equity across two properties of around £900,000, owned land worth £500,000, held 
£20,000 in Venture Capital Trusts, an endowment of £30,000 and cash of at least £40,000. 
They had outstanding mortgage liability of £1,300,000. Mr A was intending to retire in time 
and would continue to receive a lower income but also had a substantial pension. Mrs A and 
Mr A felt over invested in property and had recently sold a second home, realising a further 
£625,000 in cash, part of which they were looking to invest, being keen to diversify their 
investments. It was acknowledged in the fact-finding process that Mr As income more than 
comfortably exceeded their outgoings, so they had a capacity for some loss.
Whilst Mrs A and Mr A said they had limited investment experience, Ive considered that they 
had invested in VCTs so had some understanding of higher risk investments and I think its 
more likely than not that they understood the concept of risk. Ive seen that for this particular 
investment, Mrs A and Mr A expressly agreed they would be willing to take a moderate 
exposure to risk in order to achieve the objective of a better return over time. Thats clear 
from the contemporaneous notes and from the details captured in the suitability letter and 
risk letter of December 2017, the latter stating:
You are comfortable with investments which might lead to fluctuations in the value of your 
portfolio in exchange for the opportunity to achieve above average increases in your wealth 
in the medium to long run. You want the real value of your investments to increase, or your 
income to maintain its spending power over time. You are happy to put some of your money 
into riskier investments with the aim of getting a better return and accept you could make a 
loss on the wealth you invest. 
Theres nothing to show that Mrs A and Mr A challenged this at the time and it was clearly 
explained that the portfolio would be built on this level of risk.  
suitability
Mrs A and Mr A say they were looking to invest the funds to achieve a higher rate of return 
than the interest rate on their residential mortgage. The suitability letter shows that the 
possibility of paying down some of their residential mortgage was discussed and discounted. I consider it is more likely than not that Mrs A and Mr A were actively involved in the 
decisions that were made at the time, it was recorded that Mrs A and Mr A had,
carefully considered the cost of this versus the potential offered from investing, you have 
decided to invest the money you might other have used to reduce your borrowings. You 
understand that this position inherently carries with it a degree of risk, but this a risk you are 
comfortable with and accept.
 
Their objective was to invest for the longer term (five years plus) for growth, they had no 
planned expenditure and did not require access to the invested funds. 
Barclays recommended investing into a managed portfolio containing a broad split of assets 
providing diversification, with around 46% in equities, 26% in government and corporate 
bonds and 20% in alternative investments. Both Mrs A and Mr A used their allowances 
within ISA wrappers, so tax efficiency was also considered. 
Having considered Mrs A and Mr As particular circumstances, I dont think the 
recommendation exposed them to a higher level of risk than they wanted to take. The split of 
assets provided the opportunity for capital growth in line with their objectives, giving the 
potential to achieve returns of 4% which they had hoped for. They retained their property 
investments and £165,000 in cash as an emergency fund. At the time of investment, they 
had capacity to bear losses, given Mr As current and future level of income.
Its understandable that Mrs A and Mr A were disappointed with the performance of the 
portfolio, but the fact that risk materialised and losses were sustained, does not 
automatically mean that Barclays did anything wrong. Market volatility as a result of the 
Covid-19 pandemic was unforeseeable at the point the investment was made and was a 
matter outside Barclays control. And it was Mrs A and Mr As choice to crystallise their 
losses at this point in time.
On balance, considering the matters in the round, I consider that the recommendation was 
not unsuitable for Mrs A and Mr As objectives and needs at the time.
Encashment
Mrs A and Mr A were provided with regular valuations and a breakdown of the assets within 
the portfolio. But by March 2020, Mrs A and Mr A were becoming concerned about the 
decreasing value of the portfolio.
Ive seen that there were a series of calls, in which decreasing valuations were provided. On 
11 March 2020 the portfolio was valued at £488,000. Mr A spoke with Barclays on 12 March 
2020, raising concerns about market volatility. At this point the portfolio had dropped to 
£479,000. On 16 March 2020 an instruction to encash the investment was given. Theres 
nothing to show that Barclays advised Mrs A and Mr A to take this step.
It isnt disputed that Barclays began to liquidate the portfolio as soon as possible with some 
sales taking place within hours of the instruction. But as our investigator has explained there 
were a range of factors which affected the timetable of the sales process. Theres also 
nothing to show that Barclays gave Mrs A and Mr A a guaranteed settlement figure. Indeed, 
a valuation of £451,000 was given the following day and Mrs A and Mr A were informed that 
the final balance would be confirmed on completion. Further losses were sustained, with the 
final settlement sum being £434,991. Its incredibly unfortunate that Mrs A and Mr A 
sustained further losses, but as Ive explained above, the market volatility at this time was 
significant and was a matter outside Barclays control. Im satisfied that there were no delays 
on their part.And even if I thought Barclays should have been clearer about the sales process, which I 
dont, I cant fairly say now that Mrs A and Mr A would have made a different decision. Im 
mindful that it isnt fair and reasonable to consider events with the benefit of hindsight. 
Further, its clear from the notes of calls from the time that Mr A was becoming increasingly 
concerned about the ongoing fall in the markets due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic 
and ongoing uncertainty. So, theres nothing to show that Mrs A and Mr A would have been 
likely to have made a different decision at the time.
My final decision
I am sorry to disappoint Mrs and Mr A, but for the reasons given, I am not upholding this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman