DRN-4386735
The complaint
Mr F complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) unfairly lodged a marker 
against him with a fraud prevention agency and closed his account.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr F opened a new account with Nationwide. In December 2019 he 
received several payments into his account that were reported by another bank as fraudulent 
payments  the result of a scam against the owner of the account.
Nationwide reviewed Mr Fs account and decided to close it. They attempted to speak with 
Mr F on one occasion prior to the closure but were unsuccessful. They then sent him a 
notice that they were closing his account with immediate effect. Nationwide later accepted 
they could have attempted to contact Mr F again to explain the account closure and offered 
him £100 for their lack of service. Based on the report from the bank, Nationwide submitted 
a report to CIFAS, a fraud prevention agency concerning the activity on Mr Fs account.
Below is a table of relevant activity:
Date Type of activity Amount Notes
21/12/2019 Transfer in £1 From scammed 
account
21/12/2019 Transfer in £200 From scammed 
account
21/12/2019 Transfer in £50 From scammed 
account
21/12/2019 Voucher purchase x 4 £350
21/12/2019 Online banking 
accounts displayed x 
9 times
23/12/2019 Transfer in £150 From scammed 
account
23/12/2019 Voucher purchase x 3 £150
23/12/2019 Online banking 
accounts displayed x 
15 times
08/01/2020 Cash credit £870
08/01/2020 Cash withdrawn £870 Balance on 
account £ 0.87p
10/01/2020 Bank credit £1,058.45
11/01/2020 Cash withdrawal £1,000 Balance on 
account £59.32
20  27/01/2020 Direct Debits returned 
unpaid.
28/01/2020 Account closed.
Mr F was unaware of this report until a few years later when he found difficulty in opening 
other bank accounts. He later discovered Nationwide had reported him to CIFAS and raised 
a complaint, seeking the removal of the CIFAS report. Nationwide rejected the complaint.
Mr F then brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent 
review. An adjudicator was assigned to look into the complaint and received information from 
both parties.
Mr F explained that his financial position at the time of the incident was very poor and he 
was attempting to obtain loans from various companies. At some point he was offered a loan 
(£700) but was told he would have to establish his application was legitimate by purchasing 
vouchers/watches after money was paid into it by the loan company. 
Mr F said once he received the funds into his account (from the loan company but actually 
from the scammed account), he purchased vouchers and photographed them which he then 
sent back to them. Mr F said he was so desperate for the loan that he also purchased 
additional vouchers with his own money (£100) to show he was a legitimate loan applicant.  
Mr F said he was in contact with the company through a messaging app, although there are 
no messages available. He was unable to retrieve any of the other loan applications he 
made due to the time that had passed. Mr F provided photographs showing the receipts hed 
later sent to the loan company.
After considering all the information, the adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint, 
commenting that the available evidence indicated Mr F was expecting the fraudulent funds to 
be paid into his account (because he was checking his online banking) and then used those 
funds to purchase vouchers.  
Mr F disagreed with the outcome and asked for a further review of his complaint which has 
now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker applied by Nationwide against Mr F required them to meet strict standards laid 
down by CIFAS  a fraud prevention organisation. Those standards were explained in the 
adjudicators report , so Ill summarise them here rather than duplicate them.Essentially, Nationwide had to be satisfied there were reasonable grounds that a financial 
crime or fraud had been committed. This was established when the account holder whose 
funds were transferred into Mr Fs account explained how he was caught up in a loan scam 
and paid money to Mr Fs account.
The next stage is that Nationwide had to have evidence that was clear, relevant and rigorous 
supporting their assertion that Mr F was involved, rather than as an innocent dupe.
I dont think theres any argument here that Mr F utilised the majority of the funds he 
received from the scam by purchasing several vouchers and sending them to another 
person. His argument is that he was also caught up in the scam and duped into receiving  
stolen funds, before purchasing the vouchers. 
Mr F said that he needed funds from a loan and made many applications, but no longer had 
any details about those loans he was applying for or copies of any messages with the 
scammer. He has provided details of his credit standing at the time which shows his overall 
financial situation and some evidence of financial difficulties.
I accept that Mr F had other outstanding loans (which he appears to have had difficulty 
repaying), but I do have some doubts about his version of events. Hes told us that he could 
only receive the loan once his account was verified. In order to do that he was told that he 
would receive funds into his account which he then had to use to purchase vouchers (but 
also talked about purchasing watches) and send photographs of them to the person 
providing the loan. 
Mr F didnt question this rather unusual procedure and as soon as the funds (received from 
the scammed account) arrived in his own account, he purchased vouchers (these were for a 
well-known online seller) and sent photographs of them to the person he was dealing with. 
The record of mobile banking logins on the days he received payments from the scam show 
an unusually high number of requests to view his statements. It appears that Mr F was 
waiting for the money to then purchase the vouchers as soon as he could.
Mr Fs Nationwide account (which hed only had open a short while) shows that he received 
£401.00 from the victim of the original loan scam. The first payment was for £1.00, this 
appears to be a payment made in order to test the bank account details (Mr Fs) were 
correct, so it seems both implausible and unnecessary that further payments paid into the 
account and turned into vouchers were required to check that Mr Fs bank account was 
verified.
Those same statements also show that Mr F purchased £350 of vouchers (from his 
Nationwide account), leaving £50 of the scammed funds in his own account which were 
spent through other normal spending. In his evidence Mr F provided vouchers that totalled 
more than £400 and he attributes the extra payments as a desire to persuade the person he 
was dealing with that he should receive the loan.
Considering Mr F has said he needed a loan  which would indicate his finances were tight, I 
was surprised that he then spent some of his own funds in order to send more vouchers to 
this person. The loan was reported as being for £700, so it seems unlikely that someone 
who was in such a tight financial position would spend their own funds (£100), after following 
this rather unusual process to purchase vouchers with funds paid into his account. 
I do accept that Mr F has provided vouchers that show he spent more than he received, but 
his Nationwide account doesnt show how those other vouchers were paid for. What it does 
show is that Mr F had about £50 left in his account from those scammed funds he received.The situation Mr F found himself in was a critical step in the utilisation of funds from another 
financial fraud (being the loan scam reported by the account that sent funds to Mr F). Whats 
likely to have happened is that the sending accounts owner was persuaded to send funds to 
Mr Fs account. In order to then utilise those funds and mask who was the ultimate recipient 
of them, the vouchers were purchased and sent on, probably to buy expensive and easily 
sellable goods. 
Mr Fs actions here were to take those funds and turn them into usable cash  either through 
the knowledge of what he was doing or as an innocent dupe in the process. The question for 
me to consider - was the decision by Nationwide to load a marker against him fair and 
reasonable?
I can appreciate that someone in a difficult financial situation may turn to other types of 
funding, but Mr Fs explanation seems rather implausible based on the evidence:
Theres no evidence to support he was dealing with any sort of loan company.
Mr F was never able to explain how purchasing watches came into the arrangement.
The verification of his account was satisfied with the £1.00 payment.
£50 from the scam was left in Mr Fs account.
Spending his own funds on additional vouchers seems an unlikely step given the dire 
financial situation Mr F says he was in  particularly when the loan was for £700 and 
he voluntarily paid over about 14% of that amount without any agreement that it 
would be returned.
The payments came from a private account (not a company).
Unusually high views of account balances using mobile banking on the day of the 
expected incoming payments  appears Mr F was waiting for the payments.
The account had only been open for a short while.
The account was effectively cleared out prior to Nationwide raising the issue of the 
account conduct and advising it would be closed.
The overall loan scheme doesnt seem either plausible or realistic.
When Ive examined the way the account operated, it had only been open for a short while 
before these scammed payments arrived and was effectively cleared out by Mr F prior to 
Nationwide telling him the account was to be closed. Mr F has said he made two large 
withdrawals in cash (which left the account with minimal funds) because he had to pay 
someone money hed loaned from them. I havent seen any evidence of this debt, so its 
difficult to ascertain why these funds were removed. 
What is apparent that after removing these funds, the account was effectively abandoned, 
and a number of legitimate direct debits were returned unpaid. All this happened prior to Mr 
F being informed of Nationwides concerns. If, as Mr F argues, he was the innocent victim, 
then why did he treat the account in this way? I also couldnt comprehend someone who 
stated they had such financial difficulties leaving funds in the account  even though it was 
only about £50  it was still Mr Fs funds.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr F was involved in a legitimate arrangement to somehow obtain a loan by purchasing vouchers and I think Nationwides decision to load a marker 
against him with CIFAS was both fair and reasonable. I wont be asking them to do anything 
about the marker.
Account closure
Once Nationwide decided they had enough evidence to lodge a marker with CIFAS, this was 
also a trigger for them to close the account. Its not surprising theyd do this based on their 
view of how it was being operated and the account terms enable either party to end the 
relationship. I dont think their decision was unfair or unreasonable and I wont be asking 
them to do anything further.
Nationwide accepted that they should have tried harder to contact Mr F at the time and 
recognised this failing with a payment of £100. I think this was an appropriate way for them 
to deal with this oversight. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman