DRN-3369722
The complaint
Mr M complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) didnt defend him 
sufficiently in a motor insurance claim.
What happened
Mr M had motor insurance with LV, and a third-party made a claim against him  saying hed 
collided with their vehicle.
LV considered the claim, initially accepting that Mr M might not have been responsible for 
the damage the third-party said hed caused. But the third-party was able to provide a 
witness statement supporting what theyd said had happened, so LV chose to settle the 
claim.
Mr M wasnt happy about that, he felt the witness and the claimant knew each other and that 
theyd concocted the matter to unjustly claim from him.
LV reviewed the matter but maintained it was reasonable to have settled based on the 
available evidence. They understood Mr Ms concerns but didnt think they could 
successfully defend the claim if it went to court.
Mr M didnt agree and brought the matter to our service. An investigator here looked into 
things but said that LV was entitled to have settled the claim based on the evidence theyd 
seen.
Mr M still felt this was unfair, so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ms strength of feeling in this matter. He says he didnt collide with the third-
party and I appreciate theres a possibility the third-party and the witness may have colluded. 
But the issue for me to consider is whether or not LV were reasonable in their actions  and I 
think they were.
Mr Ms policy with LV says the following:
Were entitled to:
have total control to conduct, defend and settle any claim
That means LV are allowed the discretion to deal with any claim as they see fit. Of course, 
they also have to do so in a fair and reasonable manner  as per their own commitment. But 
it essentially means its for them to decide on whether or not to settle a third-party claim.
In this case, while I appreciate Mr Ms position, LV assessed the claim by looking at engineer 
reports and statements made by those who were present. And they decided that it would be 
better to settle the claim, rather than fighting it and potentially spending more money in the 
process. LV were entitled to do that, and I dont think they did so without fair consideration of 
the facts before them.
If LV had chosen instead to fight the case it could possibly have ended up in court with 
greater costs being incurred, and there is no guarantee that a judge would have found in 
favour of them and Mr M.
The engineer report for the third-party car identified impact damage, and in fairness also 
found unrelated damage, as opposed to saying it was all caused in this incident  which 
might raise concerns. And the witness statement supports what the third-party has said. 
Impact damage was also identified on Mr Ms car. I appreciate he says this was unrelated, 
but Ive not seen anything to confirm that as being the case.
Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable for LV to settle the claim made against Mr M.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman