DRN-2489217
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that an international payment made through her account with TSB Bank 
plc wasnt successful. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill recap the key points and focus on giving the reasons for my decision: 
In May 2017, Mrs S explained that she visited a branch to make an international 
payment as a deposit for a holiday. She said that the staff member set up the 
payees details for her but told her to make the payment online to avoid extra costs. 
She did this and the payment went through successfully. 
In August 2018, Mrs S paid the balance for the holiday using the same payee details 
that were set up before. But this time, the payment didnt reach the payee 
successfully. So, in September 2018, Mrs S asked for the money to be returned. 
Because the exchange rates had changed, she got back £274.50 less than what she 
originally sent, as well as a £7 fee for the incoming international payment. 
Mrs S raised a complaint  she said she used the same details both times, so it was 
TSBs fault that the payment didnt go through. TSB disagreed  they said that their 
BIC and IBAN details had changed between the payments, and Mrs S didnt check 
this. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think TSB needs to put things right for these reasons:
As Ive set out to both sides, theres a note within TSBs file that sheds light on why 
the second payment didnt go through. It says: 
"International payment ref [X] beneficiary acct number required beneficiary
account number used, [X] is that which the beneficiary bank, Vancity Community
Investment Bank, holds with their correspondent, TD Canada Trust. We need 
beneficiary account number starting [X] followed by nine more digits."
Having reviewed both payment instructions, I think the payee was set up with the 
wrong account number. As the note says, instead of using the holiday companys 
bank account number, its used the overarching banks account number. So, its a bit 
like giving the sort-code, without the account number. 
Ive considered how the first payment did go through, if the details were wrong. I think 
that couldve happened because in 2017, the international bank might have found out 
the correct account number with the other information they had  like the holiday 
companys name and address. Whereas they didnt go to these lengths with the 
second payment in 2018  or at least, they hadnt been able to by the time the money 
was recalled.
When I put this to TSB, it replied saying the problem was that Mrs S used the same 
payee details that were set up in 2017, but she didnt check if anything had changed 
 and here, TSBs BIC and IBAN changed in April 2018. Its pointed to its terms and 
conditions that told Mrs S about the changes. 
But as their terms and conditions point out, TSB changing its IBAN and BIC only 
affects you if you receive payments from abroad. So it shouldnt make a difference to 
Mrs S sending an international payment. I note that on Mrs Ss print confirmation for 
the 2018 payment, the from section shows TSBs new BIC and IBAN. Theres also 
nothing else on file that suggests thats what went wrong with the payment.   
So, I dont think TSBs new BIC and IBAN affected this payment. Instead, I think it 
wasnt successful because the wrong account number was used. 
Ive thought carefully about whos to blame for setting up the payee with the wrong 
information. Mrs S has consistently told us that she went to branch specifically for 
help making the international payment, as she didnt know how. She said she printed 
off the bank details that the holiday company sent to her at home (which has both the 
banks overarching account number, and the correct holiday companys account 
number)  and she handed this to the member of staff. Mrs S said they set up the 
new payee for her but told her to make the payment online, to save costs (because 
making a payment in branch is £10 more than online). 
TSB say theres no record of Mrs S visiting branch, but the records its provided are 
from 2018, when this wouldve happened in 2017. And in any event, Im persuaded 
by Mrs Ss account  shes been consistent, provided specific details (including who 
the staff member was), as her account is plausible. 
Im also mindful that when investigating what happened, TSB didnt notice (and 
indeed still havent accepted) the error with the account number. So I think its 
equally plausible that a member of staff in branch made a mistake here  indeed, I 
doubt they frequently set up payees from this country, which have a unique formatted 
account numbers. 
It follows that I dont think Mrs S is responsible for the mistake with how the payee 
was set up. She went to branch specifically for TSBs help and was clear she needed 
it. But it seems the staff member set it up incorrectly.  
It follows that I think TSB needs to put things right, so Ive considered how Mrs S lost 
out. Because the payment didnt reach the holiday company, she had to ask for it to 
be returned  and the exchange rates meant she lost out on £274.50 and a £7 for an 
incoming fee. 
Im also mindful of the distress and inconvenience that Mrs S suffered from the 
payment not going through  she was worried about making the payment in time 
before her holiday, and she had to find another way to do it. So I think TSB should 
also pay Mrs S £100 to reflect this.
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Mrs Ss complaint and I order TSB Bank plc to 
pay her £281.50, plus £100 to reflect her distress and inconvenience.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman