DRN-3628287
The complaint
Mr L complains about the advice given by Vision Independent Financial Planning Ltd 
(Vision) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme 
to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
Our Investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. Vision didnt entirely agree with this 
outcome, but it has now agreed to calculate and pay any loss Mr L may have suffered. Mr L, 
and his representative, didnt disagree with the merits of the Investigators opinion but they 
thought the compensation should be changed. As no agreement was reached the complaint 
was passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Ls complaint should be upheld in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics and 
form part of this final decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision:
In March 2016, Mr Ls employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure its 
business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with members referred 
to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to 
the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, 
members were informed they could transfer their benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related qualifying 
conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ls 
employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS 
benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 11 December 2017 (and was later 
extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr L met with Vision in October 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. I understand a 
colleague, or a friend, had referred him to Vision as he was concerned about the situation with his 
employer and the BSPS. 
Vision completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ls circumstances and objectives. This 
showed that he:
Was 43 years old and in good health.
Was married with two children aged 17 and 22.
Was employed earning £34,000 a year.
Owned his property valued at £105,000, subject to an £18,717 mortgage.
Had £5,300 in savings but he didnt have any risk-based investments. 
In respect of his pension benefits he was a deferred member of the BSPS scheme. The letter he 
received on 18 September 2017 showed that he had been a member of this for around 26 and a half 
years that it would have provided a pension of £16,765.86 at age 65. The transfer value was 
£428,048.55.
Mr L had also recently joined his employers new defined contribution scheme. He was paying 6% of 
his gross salary into this, and his employer was also paying 10%.
Vision also carried out an assessment of Mr Ls attitude to risk, which it said was adventurous. But it 
was also noted that he had little experience or knowledge of risk-based investments and so a 
balanced approach was more appropriate here. 
On 29 November 2017, Vision advised Mr L to transfer his pension benefits into a personal pension 
and invest the proceeds in funds that met his attitude to risk. The suitability report said the reasons for 
this recommendation were:
He wanted to retire at his age 57.
He had been offered a significantly increased transfer value.
He was concerned about a reduction in his DB scheme benefits both if he transferred to the 
BSPS2 or the PPF.
He wanted a retirement income of £18,000 a year.
He wanted control over his investment strategy.
He wanted to provide the best possible death benefits for his family.
Mr L complained in 2021 about Vision. He said that because of the unsuitable advice he has lost 
guarantees that were provided by the scheme and will be financially worse off in retirement. The 
complaint was made to the Financial Ombudsman Service first and then forwarded to Vision. 
Vision didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. It said:
It was well known that the BSPS2 would offer lower benefits than the BSPS. And Mr Ls 
transfer value was particularly high. 
Mr L wanted to retire early, and the transfer offered a realistic opportunity for him to do this by 
using the fund flexibly. It would not have been possible for him to retire early if he had not 
transferred. 
He wished to break all ties with his employer and have full control of his pension fund. 
The death benefits were greater with the personal pension. 
Overall, Mr Ls priorities were clearly best met by the transfer and Mr L confirmed this was the 
case shortly after the advice was given.
Mr L referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld it and recommended that Vision pay 
compensation. They said the transfer was not financially viable and Mr L was unlikely to improve on 
the benefits that he gave up. His other objectives werent enough to outweigh this. Mr L shouldve 
been advised to opt into the BSPS2 scheme. They didnt think the recommendation was suitable for 
Mr L.
Vision disagreed, saying:
It has used an FCA sponsored tool which shows that the advice was suitable. 
It wasnt reasonable for Vision to have allayed Mr Ls distrust in the BSPS, Mr L made his own 
decisions about this, and Vision was in no place to change them.
Mr L confirmed he was fine to give up the guaranteed BSPS2 benefits and he understood the 
impact of the transfer. He made it clear that he did not want his pension to go into the BSPS2.
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to me to 
make a final decision.
However, following this in March 2023, Vision said that whilst it doesnt agree with the Investigators 
conclusions it will take a pragmatic approach and perform a loss assessment. It said it would do this in April 2023 when new guidance on DB transfer loss assessments came into force. Vision asked Mr L 
for some further information to complete this loss assessment, I understand that, so far, Mr L has not 
provided this information. 
And Mr Ls representative, on Mr Ls behalf, didnt agree with the Investigators opinion. It said that: 
Mr L has suffered severe distress and inconvenience due to the advice, which has included 
sleepless nights. 
Mr L has found it upsetting that Vision continued to contact him about the complaint.
Vision should have settled the complaint at the time of the Investigators opinion in May 2022. 
As it hasnt done this Mr L will likely receive a lower amount of compensation due to changes 
in interest rates. 
Vision shouldnt be allowed to pick and choose when it calculates the loss. Vision should use 
the current regulatory loss assessment assumptions, but use May 2022 as the loss 
assessment date. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and 
codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This includes 
the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And where 
the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time of the 
advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Vision's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests 
of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal recommendation 
and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension 
transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for 
largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting 
assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Vision should have only 
considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ls best interests. And 
having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability 
Vision carried out a transfer value analysis report (TVAS) - as required by the regulator - showing 
how much Mr Ls pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits 
as his DB scheme (the critical yield). However, this was based on his existing scheme benefits and 
Mr L didnt have the option to remain in the BSPS  he either needed to opt into the BSPS2 or move 
with the scheme to the PPF. Vision has said that BSPS2 may not have gone ahead so the only comparison it could provide was 
with the benefits available to Mr L through the PPF. But I think Vision overestimated the chance of this 
not happening; Mr L had received his time to choose pack by the time the advice was given. And 
details of the scheme had been provided; the BSPS2 wouldve offered the same income benefits but 
the annual increases wouldve been lower. Of course, its possible this may not have gone ahead, but 
I still think the benefits available to Mr L through the BSPS2 shouldve been factored in with this 
advice so that he was able to make an informed decision. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to how 
businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a complaint about a past 
pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar rates were published by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these 
rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates 
would have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr L was 43 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at age 57. The critical yield required to 
match Mr Ls benefits at age 57 was 5.99% if he took a full pension and 4.90% if he took tax-free cash 
and a reduced pension. The same calculations to Mr Ls age 65 were 4.7% and 3.99%. 
The critical yield to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 57 was quoted as 5.28% per 
year if Mr L took a full pension and 4.94% per year if he took tax-free cash and a reduced pension. 
Again, the same figures at his age 65 were 3.99% and 3.77%. 
But as Ive said above, Mr L remaining in his existing DB scheme wasnt an option. So, the critical 
yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits shouldve been provided. The lower annual increases under 
the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields somewhat. But, I still think they wouldve likely 
been higher than those reflecting the PPF benefits, particularly at age 65.
The relevant discount rates closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was published 
by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and was 4.5% per year 
for 21 years to retirement, Mr Ls age 65. And 4.1% for 13 years to retirement, his age 57. Ive kept in 
mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's 
upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 
2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ls 
balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. 
Mr L says that his attitude to risk was not as high as balanced and he is concerned that his pension 
planning is at risk. Whilst Mr Ls attitude to risk was recorded as being relatively high he doesnt seem 
to have had any investment experience. Which does make it more difficult to say that he understood 
and agreed with the risk he was taking here. That said, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that he 
didnt want to take some risk, as it was clear that he did. Even if his attitude to risk possibly wasnt as 
high as balanced. 
There would be little point in Mr L giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme 
only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, the lowest critical 
yield was around 4% and this was at his age 65. For his intended retirement age of 57 it was between 
5% and 6%. Given this, Im not persuaded that Mr L was likely to receive benefits of a higher overall 
value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with his attitude to risk. This 
could be the case even if the scheme moved to the PPF.
Vision has provided cashflow models which it says show Mr L wouldve been able to meet his needs. 
Ive considered these, and Visions models show that this is the case, given certain assumptions. I 
wont examine these in more detail here as Vision is now willing to settle this complaint. 
And in any event, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I consider the 
discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in this regard in the long 
term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over such a long period of time.Vision says that it is unreasonable to base any findings on the discount rate because taking this into 
account was not required by the regulator when giving advice. While I havent based my findings just 
on this, I think it a reasonable additional consideration when seeking to determine what level of 
growth was reasonably achievable at the time of the advice. Under COBS 19.1.2 the regulator 
required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid under a DB scheme with those payable 
under a personal pension by using reasonable assumptions. So, businesses were free to use the 
discount rate as this would be considered a reasonable assumption of the likely returns. And in any 
event, this has been considered in tandem with the regulators published projection rates, which 
providers were required to refer to. And it is this combination, along with Mr Ls attitude to risk, which 
leads me to be believe hed likely be worse off in retirement if he transferred out of the DB scheme.
Vision also says that the critical yield is of limited relevance because it is based on the growth 
required to produce a fund large enough to purchase an annuity on the same basis as the benefits 
provided by the DB scheme. Vision says Mr L didnt want an annuity, it said he wanted to take his 
benefits flexibly. But the regulator required Vision to consider the rate of investment growth that would 
have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. So, it needed to provide an analysis 
based on the critical yield and I do think it is a relevant consideration here, particularly as I dont think 
Mr L could realistically say with any certainty whether he would want to take a regular income at 
retirement or not. He wasnt expecting to retire for at least another thirteen years. Its entirely possible 
that Mr L would want at least some guaranteed income in retirement (which he could achieve by 
taking benefits from the DB scheme). And hes essentially said that this is what he did want. 
As Mr L was not likely to match the benefits he was giving up, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt 
in Mr Ls best interests. Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer 
advice, as Vision has said in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is 
suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
It seems one of the main reasons that Vision recommended this transfer was for the flexibility and 
control it offered Mr L. He wanted to retire early, if possible, and he thought the flexibility that a 
personal pension had would better enable him to do this. 
It's evident that Mr L could not take his DB scheme benefits flexibly in the same way he could from a 
personal pension. Although he could choose to take tax-free cash and a reduced annual pension, 
Mr L had to take those benefits at the same time. 
Given that Mr L was so far away from retirement there wasnt a detailed analysis of what his income 
or expenditure needs would be at this time. This isnt entirely unreasonable given how far away this 
was. But it is difficult to properly plan for retirement without this. It was recorded that Mr L intended to 
retire at age 65 but was keen to see the impact of early retirement was on the income he could 
receive. He wanted an income of £18,000 per year at whatever age he could retire. 
The TVAS showed that from the BSPS, at age 65, Mr L could receive a pension of about £25,500 a 
year or a cash lump sum of £116,857 and a reduced pension of £17,500. And at his age 57 he could 
receive an annual pension of £17,000 or tax-free cash of £83,000 and a reduced pension of £12,452. 
And Mr L would receive his state pension which would be around £8,300 and payable at his age 67 
and he was building up benefits in his new employers DC scheme. 
So based on the BSPS figures Mr L would clearly have more than enough at age 65, he could take a 
pension which was very close to the full amount he wanted and a significant amount of tax-free cash. 
Or a guaranteed pension that was in excess of what he said he wanted. He would have his state 
pension in a few years time and its reasonable to think that Mrs L would also have some pension 
provision as well. 
The situation is less clear if he were to retire early. But at age 57 he could still receive a pension of 
around £17,000. Or a tax-free lump sum of £83,016 and an annual pension of around £12,500. This 
isnt too far away from his stated aims. Added to this, at 57, Mr L would be building up a fund over the next 13 years, through his employers 
DC scheme. The fact-find says Mr L and his employer were contributing around £450 per month into 
this. So, if he were to retire at age 57 he and his employer would have contributed about £70,200 over 
13 years. And by assuming modest net growth of 2% over this time, the funds could be worth in the 
region of £80,000. So, he could use this fund, which could provide another £8,000 to £9,000 a year 
over ten years, to top up even the lower figure the BSPS would provide. Again, this would meet or 
exceed his recorded income needs to his state pension age. And his state pension could effectively 
replace the DC scheme benefits at this point. 
So, I think its likely that any shortfall couldve been met by Mr L accessing income or tax-free cash 
from his DC scheme. Mr L would have likely had a significant pension to draw on flexibly, as and 
when he needed, to top up his income. And his wife would also have some provision for them to draw 
on.
And Vision should have given Mr L an indication of what he would receive from the BSPS2 and in 
order for him to properly decide if he wanted to consider joining it. As before the pension available 
from the BSPS2 would have similar benefits, albeit with lower revaluations. So it would still be a 
valuable benefit to Mr L and he would likely have met his aims if he had joined it. 
I accept at the time of the advice, the BSPS2 hadnt been established. Although I think the 
communications sent out by the scheme trustees were very optimistic that the scheme operating 
conditions would be met, it wasnt certain. And if Mr L had opted into the BSPS2 and it hadnt gone 
ahead, he wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. 
The TVAS showed that from the PPF, at age 65 Mr L wouldve been entitled to a pension of 
£23,022.27 or a tax-free lump sum of £121,005 and an annual pension of £18,162.79. At age 57 this 
was £16,584 or a tax-free lump sum £91,584.35 plus an annual pension of £13,765.45. Which is a 
higher starting amount than the BSPS pension. These amounts overall are similar to what the BSPS 
would have provided. So, I dont think this would have a made material difference to Mr Ls decision. 
 
As Ive said above, Mr L wouldve had his DC scheme to draw on until his state pension became 
payable, as well as his wifes pension to supplement their household income. So, I still think Mr L 
couldve met his needs in retirement even if the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead and hed had to move with 
it to the PPF.
And even if this didnt entirely work out as Mr L wanted it to then he was unlikely to obtain better 
benefits at retirement if he transferred his funds to a personal pension. So, I still think Mr L had a 
better chance of achieving his target retirement income in the BSPS2 (the benefits under which were 
guaranteed and escalated) rather than relying on investment growth in a personal pension. 
Overall I think the benefits he already had were very likely to meet his needs. So, I dont think it was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr L to give up his guaranteed benefits now, especially when his needs 
in retirement werent certain. And, if Mr L later had reason to transfer out of his DB scheme, he could 
have done so closer to retirement. 
Death benefits
It was recorded that Mr L wanted to improve on the death benefits that his dependents could receive 
from his pension planning. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like their loved 
ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal 
pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr L. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to 
consumers, and Mr L might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal 
pension because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr L about what was best for his retirement 
provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Vision 
explored to what extent Mr L was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for 
higher death benefits.I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr L was 
married. He did have children but they were older. But the spouses pension provided by the DB 
scheme wouldve been useful to his wife if Mr L predeceased her. I dont think Vision made the value 
of this benefit clear enough to Mr L. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. In any 
event, Vision should not have encouraged Mr L to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits 
through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr L genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse and children, which didnt 
depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think Vision 
shouldve instead explored life insurance. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal pension 
justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr L. And I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Its clear that Mr L, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. His 
employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he was worried 
his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed heard negative things about the PPF and he said he 
preferred to have control over his pension fund. He was particularly concerned about the changes 
with the business and he felt that his pension scheme may not be there in the future. 
So its quite possible that Mr L was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of the 
concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the pension scheme. However, it 
was Visions obligation to give Mr L an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was going ahead. 
So, the advice shouldve properly taken the benefits available to Mr L through the BSPS2 into account 
and I think this shouldve alleviated Mr Ls concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Vision shouldve reassured 
Mr L that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. The income available to 
Mr L through the PPF wouldve still provided all, or a significant portion of, the income he thought he 
needed at retirement, and he was unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out. And although 
the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject 
to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these concerns shouldve led to Vision recommending 
Mr L transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
It seems to me that Mr Ls stated desire for control related more to moving his pension away from 
an employer that he didnt trust than to any resolution on his part to begin to manage his 
investment.
But it ought to have been explained that Mr Ls employer and the trustees of the BSPS2 were not 
the same. And in any event, Mr L was not intending to leave his employment and his DC pension 
remained connected to his employer  so transferring out of the scheme didnt achieve a break 
from his employer. So had Vision explained that Mr Ls belief regarding the control his employer had 
over his pension was misplaced, I think he would have been reassured by this.
I think Mr Ls desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. He was not an experienced 
investor, and I cannot see that he an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension 
funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr L  it was simply a 
consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Suitability of investments
Vision recommended that Mr L invest in a third partys pension funds. As Im upholding the complaint 
on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr L, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because Mr L should have 
been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments in the funds wouldnt have arisen if 
suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr L. But Vision wasnt there to just 
transact what Mr L might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what 
Mr L needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr L was suitable. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-
free and increasing income within BSPS2 (or the PPF). By transferring to a personal pension Mr L 
was, in my view, unlikely to obtain better retirement benefits when he retired. And there was a real risk 
they would be lower. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the 
transfer and outweigh this. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ls best interests for him to transfer his DB 
scheme to a personal pension now when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given, but I think it was clear 
to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. Mr L had at least 13 years before he wanted to retire, 
and it seems he expected to work a bit longer than this. 
So, I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've 
faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for 
very early retirement. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr L wouldve retained the ability to transfer out 
of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. Also, Mr L was married, and his wifes 
pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no 
lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr L chose to do so). The annual indexation of his pension when 
in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think Vision shouldve advised Mr L 
to opt into the BSPS2.
Vision says that regardless of the advice given, Mr L made an informed choice to proceed with the 
transfer. I accept that Vision disclosed the risks of transferring to Mr L, and provided him with a 
significant amount of information in the suitability report. But ultimately it advised Mr L to transfer out, 
and I think Mr L relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr L wouldve insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against Visions 
advice. I say this because Mr L was an inexperienced investor and this pension accounted for most of 
his retirement provision at the time. So, if Vision had provided him with clear advice against 
transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve 
accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ls concerns about the PPF was so great that he wouldve insisted on the 
transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out and was paying for, 
didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. And if Vision had explained Mr L was 
unlikely to exceed the benefits available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he 
could meet his income needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that 
wouldve carried significant weight.
Im aware that in some communications with Vision Mr L appeared motivated and perhaps anxious to 
get the transfer completed. But Mr L had received advice from Vision that he should transfer out of the 
DB scheme. So, I think his words have to be considered in that context. It isnt reasonable to assume 
that hed have behaved the same way if hed been advised to opt into the BSPS2. And I dont think 
this demonstrates hed have gone against the advice.
In light of the above, I think Vision should compensate Mr L for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Mr Ls representative has said that Mr L has suffered emotional distress throughout this process, as a 
result of this situation, which has included sleepless nights. I dont doubt that Mr L has been caused distress and concern by finding out the advice may not have been suitable  particularly given the 
circumstances and uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice. And Im conscious this upset 
wouldnt have happened but for the unsuitable advice. 
But Ive also taken into account that Vision has now offered to perform a loss assessment but has 
been unable to do so as it needs more information. It has asked for this information but has not 
received it so far. 
I would have thought either receiving compensation for any losses he may have suffered, or being 
informed that the advice has not caused him a loss, would do a great deal to ease any worries Mr L is 
having. So, I would urge Mr L, or his representative, to provide any outstanding information Vision 
needs as a matter of urgency. And similarly, Vision should perform the loss assessment and pay any 
compensation due as soon as it can after this. 
So, in the circumstances, I think £300 is reasonable compensation for any distress Mr L has suffered.
Developments
Vision, and Mr L, both received my provisional decision. And both parties havent anything to 
add to what I said about the merits of the complaint. 
However, Vision has questioned the need for a final decision as it has agreed to calculate 
and pay compensation. It is waiting for information from Mr L to enable it to do this. And it 
would like the complaint to be paused while this process is ongoing. 
And Mr Ls representative feels that any loss calculated should be at the date our 
Investigator first upheld the complaint in May 2022. Calculating the loss now is likely to mean 
that Mr L will receive lower compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vision and Mr L didnt raise any new points about the merits of the complaint after receiving 
my provisional decision. So, Ive reached the same conclusions about this as I did before, for 
the same reasons. I still think Mr Ls complaint should be upheld and I wont add anything to 
what I said earlier about this. 
I appreciate that Vision feels than a decision is not needed because it has agreed to 
calculate and pay the compensation our Investigator recommended. But Mr L doesnt 
entirely agree with the method of compensation, and he has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. So, I did need to issue a final decision, despite what Vision has agreed to do.
And Mr L, and his representative, think that the compensation should be calculated using the 
regulators assumptions applicable at the time, our Investigator upheld the complaint. I 
explained in my provisional decision why, I dont agree that would be fair. Thats because 
any loss assessment of this type should be performed as per the regulators rules for 
determining redress at the date of calculation using the most up to date methodology and 
assumptions. This will give the most accurate indication of whether the advice has caused a 
loss. Performing a loss assessment at any other time would be incorrect. It would potentially 
over, or under, compensate a consumer and it wouldnt be right. 
Mr Ls representative says that, due to current market conditions, performing the loss 
assessment now would be less beneficial to Mr L. It has said that Vision has tried to 
minimise its liability through procrastination to take advantage of this. I dont think this is the case here. Vision clearly didnt agree with the Investigators opinion 
and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It has a right to do this, as Mr L has also done. I 
dont think this is unnecessarily delaying the complaint. 
Vision has now decided to calculate and pay compensation, again this isnt unreasonable 
and was the outcome Mr L was seeking when he first raised his complaint. And Im not 
persuaded that its offer was made at this time with the purpose of reducing how much it will 
pay. In any event Vision hasnt been able to perform a loss assessment. So, there is no 
certainty about whether any compensation will be due, and if so, what that amount will be. 
Taking all of this into account, I still dont see a reason to require Vision to depart from using 
the regulator's current defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And this 
would mean using the current assumptions and a current date of calculation. 
And I again would remind Mr L, and his representatives, that if Mr L accepts this decision, 
then the information that is needed to allow Vision to undertake the loss assessment should 
be provided as soon as possible. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr L, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr L would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if 
suitable advice had been given. 
Vision must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Vision should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr L and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation.
For clarity, Mr L has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ls 
acceptance of my decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Vision should:
calculate and offer Mr L redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr L before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his personal pensionoffer to calculate how much of any redress Mr L receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr L accepts Visions offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr L for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ls end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr L as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Vision may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ls 
likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20% So making a notional deduction of 
15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Vision should pay Mr L £300 for any distress the unsuitable advice has caused him. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Vision Independent 
Financial Planning Ltd to pay Mr L the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Vision Independent Financial Planning Ltd pays Mr L the balance.
If Mr L accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Vision Independent 
Financial Planning Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr L can accept a final 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr L may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman