DRN-2837726
The complaint
Mr D complains that Loans 2 Go Limited acted irresponsibly when lending to him. 
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided Mr D with loans as follows: 
Loan Date taken Date paid Number of monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountApproximate  
monthly  
repayment*
1 September 
2018December 
201818 £400 £90.62
2 December 
2018May 2019 18 £250 £56.64
3 May 2019 Loan status 
not known18 £600 £137.13
Mr D mainly said that had Loans 2 Go done sufficient checks, it would have been clear that 
he couldn't afford the loans from the outset.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ds complaint and she set out the steps Loans 2 Go should take 
to put things right.
Loans 2 Go disagreed. In summary, Loans 2 Go acknowledged that its credit checks 
showed some adverse information but said this would normally be expected given the type 
of lending it provided. Loans 2 Go said it hadnt deemed it necessary to do more checks or 
request Mr Ds bank statements before lending and it still believed that its lending was 
affordable and no issues could be identified with its lending policy. 
So the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time. Having done so, Ive come to the same view as our 
investigator and Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why I say this.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account things like the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, 
a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive thought carefully about this all means in coming to a decision on Mr Ds case.
Loans 2 Go told us about the checks it did before providing loan 1 to Mr D. It asked him to 
provide details of his income and to tell Loans 2 Go what he normally spent each month. 
Loans 2 Go did some background checks, including carrying out checks on Mr Ds credit file, 
and adjusted, as necessary, the figures it relied on when assessing affordability.  
The figures Loans 2 Go relied on suggested that Mr D had ample disposable income to 
cover the loan repayments. 
But, although the loan looked affordable, Loans 2 Go could also see that what Mr D had told 
it about his financial situation seemed to be significantly at odds with the information shown 
on its credit checks. 
In particular, Loans 2 Go was able to see from its checks that Mr D was making full use of 
his £400 overdraft limit on a current account and he had credit cards close to or over their 
credit limit. 
There was evidence of recent arrears (within the last two months or so) and it was apparent 
that not only had Mr D been late with the repayment due on a short term credit account he 
had also had a problem around the same time paying for an essential service supplied at his 
home  which I think is a particularly worrying indicator of potentially serious financial 
difficulty. Whilst both those accounts had been settled by the time Mr D applied for this loan, I think 
Loans 2 Go was also able to see that Mr D had an established record over the previous 
18 months or so of repeatedly taking out and repaying expensive payday and unsecured 
loans  and he had at least two loans of this type outstanding when he applied to Loans 2 
Go for this loan.
I think what Loans 2 Go saw on its credit checks called seriously into question whether it 
could rely on its affordability checks that suggested Mr D would be able to make the loan 
repayments for this loan. I think Loans 2 Go should have been concerned that its search 
results indicated that it was unlikely that Mr D really had the amount of disposable income it 
thought he had. 
And although the monthly repayments for this loan were relatively modest, Loans 2 Go 
should have given more careful thought to the likelihood of Mr D being able to maintain 
these in a way that was sustainable for him over the whole loan term  given the information 
it had gathered showing his recent money problems and the extent of his existing credit and 
apparent use of and reliance on expensive short-term loans and unsecured lending.
I think this shouldve prompted Loans 2 Go to carry out more thorough checks into Mr Ds 
financial situation before agreeing to lend and it should have taken steps to verify what Mr D 
was saying about his financial circumstances. Loans 2 Go hasnt shown me it did this. 
So, despite what Loans 2 Go has said about its lending policy, I cant fairly say that it carried 
out a proportionate check before agreeing to lend to Mr D. 
Ive thought about what a proportionate check is likely to have revealed to Loans 2 Go.
Mr D has provided his bank statements for the months running up to him taking out loan 1 so 
Ive looked through these to see what Loans 2 Go was likely to have found out. 
In the absence of other evidence, I think these give a reasonable picture of Mr Ds finances 
at the time he was borrowing from Loans 2 Go. 
And had Loans 2 Go looked in more depth at Mr Ds finances it would likely have realised 
that he was facing serious problems managing his money. 
I think it would have learned that Mr D was regularly spending significant amounts on what 
appear to be gambling transactions and using multiple other high cost lenders. 
This means I dont think it was reasonable for Loans 2 Go to think that it was likely Mr D 
would be able sustainably to repay loan 1  or any further lending. So it shouldnt have 
provided this loan - or the loans that followed, unless it was able to see that his financial 
situation had improved. 
For loan 2, although he repaid loan 1 and applied to borrow a smaller loan, I dont think 
Loans 2 Go had any real reason to think that Mr Ds financial situation had improved overall. 
And its updated credit showed his reliance on expensive credit had increased in the few 
months since he had taken out loan 1  mostly unsecured loans  and his credit report 
showed indications of an account in early delinquency. 
So I think it shouldve been evident that his overall financial situation had deteriorated and so 
loan 2 wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr D and shouldnt have been provided.  By loan 3, the credit report Loans 2 Go obtained showed that Mr D was now 6 months in 
arrears on one outstanding loan, there was evidence of further borrowing and he still had 
credit cards that were at or over the account credit limit. He was still operating at the limit of 
his overdraft on a current bank account. 
Mr D was taking a top-up loan from Loans 2 Go  in other words, borrowing enough to repay 
the balance owing on loan 2 and also provide him with some extra money. 
This was a borrowing pattern that Loans 2 Go shouldve recognised as it reflected what it 
couldve seen on Mr Ds credit record about the way he was using credit to effectively move 
his debt from loan to loan.
So I dont think Loans 2 Go was able fairly and reasonably to conclude, given what it knew 
about his credit history and the previously acquired evidence of his gambling, that Mr D 
would be able to keep up the monthly repayments on this loan in a sustainable manner. 
And I think thats borne out by the problems he ran into making the monthly repayments on 
this loan  which I think were reasonably foreseeable when Loans 2 Go provided it.  
So for these reasons, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint about loans 1 - 3.
Putting things right
I havent seen anything which makes me think Loans 2 Go acted unfairly towards Mr D in 
any other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. But he has paid interest and 
possibly charges on a loan that should not have been provided to him. In line with this 
Services approach, Mr D shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he borrowed. With 
this in mind, Loans 2 Go should: 
add up the total amount of money Mr D received as a result of being given 
loans 1 - 3. The payments Mr D made should be deducted from this amount
 
if this results in Mr D having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans 2 Go should attempt to 
arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Mr D bearing in mind the 
need to treat him positively and sympathetically in those discussions
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ds credit file regarding the loans 
when they are paid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ds complaint and require Loans 2 Go Limited to 
take the steps Ive set out to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman