DRN-3596813
The complaint
Ms L says 1Plus1 Loans Limited irresponsibly lent to her when it provided loans that were 
unaffordable.
What happened
Ms L was given loans by 1Plus1 as follows:
Date taken Loan 
amountTerm Monthly 
repayment
Loan 1 July 2015 £1,000.00 24 
Months£60.84
Loan 2 October 
2017£3,500.00 36 
Months£167.81
Loan 1 was to pay for new furniture and loan 2 was taken out for the purpose of debt 
consolidation  in other words, Ms L said she would use the loan to repay other debt. 
When Ms L complained to 1Plus1 it didnt uphold her complaint so she brought her 
complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and thought that 1Plus1 had fairly 
provided the first loan but that it shouldnt have provided loan 2. Our investigator 
explained why he was recommending that the complaint about loan 2 should be upheld 
and set out directions indicating what 1Plus1 should do to put things right.
Ms L has told us she accepted what our investigator said in his view letter. 
1Plus1 disagreed with the investigator about loan 2. In summary, it mainly said that its 
checks had shown this loan was affordable for Ms L and it had taken into account the 
two new loans and the recent (and historic) defaults mentioned by the investigator 
when thinking about whether its loan would be sustainably affordable. It said Ms L 
wanted the loan for debt consolidation (which 1Plus1 made a condition of lending) to 
improve her financial situation.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
On our website weve set out our general approach to complaints about 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about Ms Ls complaint.
Ive provisionally decided this isnt a complaint I can fairly uphold based on the information 
I've seen so far. Ill explain why I say this. 
There are some general principles and questions I need to think about when deciding 
whether to uphold this complaint. Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a 
borrower can afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to 
satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without 
needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will depend on a number of 
factors  a lender should for instance consider, amongst other things, the borrowers 
particular circumstances (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any 
indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are 
seeking.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a borrowers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a borrower has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems or impact 
adversely on a borrower already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable 
way. 
Ive kept all this in mind when thinking about this complaint.
Ms L hasnt objected to what our investigator said with respect to not upholding her 
complaint about loan 1. So I dont think I need to say more about loan 1 except that Ive 
reviewed this loan and independently reached the same conclusion as our investigator. 
I havent seen enough to say that 1Plus1 shouldnt have provided this loan  so Im not 
upholding this part of Ms Ls complaint. But, unlike our investigator, I dont feel I've seen 
enough to fairly say that 1Plus1 shouldnt have provided loan 2. Ill explain my reasons. 
1Plus1 has provided evidence to show that, before lending loan 2, it asked Ms L for details 
of her income and expenditure and carried out its own banking and credit checks to 
understand Ms Ls financial situation and her credit history. It took steps to verify the 
information Ms L had provided and discussed her financial situation with her during three phone calls (which I've listened to). 1Plus1 also relied on statistical information to compare 
Ms Ls income and expenditure against national data showing typical spending for someone 
in the same situation so that it could be satisfied that the figures it relied on were as realistic 
as possible. And it built in a £200 emergency buffer to allow for variation in her monthly 
income and cover unplanned costs. 
Bearing in mind Ms L had said she wanted to use this loan to clear other existing debt, 
1Plus1 calculated that Ms L should still have spare cash left over each month and its loan 
repayments would cost less per month than the debt she said she would consolidate. It 
concluded that the monthly repayments for its loan were affordable for Ms L and it was fair to 
lend.
Based on the amount that Ms L borrowed, the repayment amount and the loan term, I think 
the checks 1Plus1 did were broadly reasonable and proportionate in Ms Ls particular 
circumstances. Those checks suggested to 1Plus1 that the loan was affordable and Ms L 
shouldve been able to sustain the repayments over the term. On balance, I think that was a 
reasonable conclusion for 1Plus1 to have reached. 
I appreciate Ms L has said 1Plus1 didnt properly assess signs of her over-indebtedness and 
that the loan worsened her already poor financial situation. But I dont think 1Plus1 knew or 
ought to have known that Ms L was in serious financial difficulty at the time. 
I say this because: 
1Plus1 was aware that Ms L had made some late payments on loan 1, but these had 
been some time ago and ultimately she had successfully repaid loan 1. So I dont 
think this was enough to suggest she was still having serious money problems or put 
off a responsible lender from providing loan 2.
Although 1Plus1 was aware that Ms L had taken out two new loans since loan 1, its 
credit checks suggested these accounts had been well managed and payments were 
up to date. I think an application to take out extra lending would have been a clear 
warning sign that Ms L could be struggling to manage her money. But her plans were 
to use this loan to consolidate both her existing loans  and 1Plus1 made it clear that 
lending was approved only on the basis that she would clear the larger loan with 
almost £3,000 outstanding that was costing her £170 per month. I think its fair to say 
Ms L seemed keen to use the new loan to pay her other loan as well and so make an 
immediate saving on the monthly repayments that would otherwise cost her a further 
£130 per month for the next couple of months.    
She told 1Plus1 that she had set up a payment plan on a mail order account that had 
defaulted in 2013 and was paying £40 monthly. This was a historic default and I think 
1Plus1 would have been reassured that Ms L had demonstrated a responsible 
attitude towards paying that outstanding debt.
Ms L said a debt charity was handling a dispute about another old default dating back 
to 2014 and she hadnt heard anything more about this for some time. So I can see 
why making payments on this account mightnt have been a priority for Ms L.
Ms L had a recently defaulted account with a balance of £53 shown on the credit 
checks 1Plus1 obtained. It looked like she had started having payment problems 
some five months or so earlier and the account had run up further arrears each 
month since, before being defaulted just two months before she applied for this loan. 
I think this was potentially concerning information as it suggested that Ms L mightve 
been struggling to pay it  which seemed at odds with the information 1Plus1 was relying on that indicated she had ample disposable income to be able to afford this 
amount.
  
But it isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history 
showing other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt 
necessarily be reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application if 
the loan otherwise looked affordable. The lenders checks dont seem to have flagged 
up any information suggesting that Ms L was particularly reliant on an overdraft, she 
wasnt shown as being in bankruptcy or having entered into any formal arrangement 
with creditors. There was no record of any county court judgement. So I cant fairly 
say Ive seen any serious black marks on Ms Ls credit file that ought to have alerted 
1Plus1 to the fact she was already in serious financial difficulty. 
I think 1Plus1 was reasonably entitled to take the view that it didnt look like Ms L was 
financially over-stretched to the extent that further lending was unsustainable or that 
her credit commitments had already got beyond her control.
1Plus1 could see that Ms L appeared to have a credit card with a nil balance so this 
suggested she had available unused credit  a further sign that she was operating 
her credit mostly within broadly manageable limits. I dont think the overall amount of 
credit Ms L seemed to have was excessive having regard to her financial situation 
overall. 
I havent seen enough to be able to say that the amount of debt she had, or how she 
was managing it, should have led 1Plus1 to decline her loan application. This is 
because Ms L had requested this loan to consolidate her existing debt, and the loan 
would have enabled her to repay most of what she owed elsewhere  including the 
two loans (saving her £170 monthly going forward and £130 for the next two months 
at least). In addition, she could have cleared the balance on her defaulted mail order 
account in one go, saving her £40 per month. This represented an immediate cash 
saving each month of around £170. So I cant fairly say that the loan didnt offer Ms L 
any benefit  and using it this way seemed to reflect her own spending priorities.   
I think in these circumstances 1Plus1 was reasonably entitled to take a view that Ms L was 
borrowing specifically to help her manage her finances more responsibly  and it looked like 
she ought to be able to afford to do that on the figures it worked out. 
It was fair for 1Plus1 to decide Ms Ls lending application based on the information it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. 
Looked at overall, I dont think it was unreasonable for 1Plus1 to provide the loan as there 
wasnt anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Ms L wouldnt be able to repay 
it in a sustainable way. The loan appeared to be affordable looking at Ms Ls income and 
committed expenditure and she could have improved her day to day financial situation if she 
had applied the loan as discussed with 1Plus1. I dont think 1Plus1 had any particular reason 
to think that Ms L wouldnt use the loan as planned. And I dont think proportionate checks 
wouldve required 1Plus1 to probe any more deeply into Ms Ls finances or ask Ms L to 
prove what she was declaring or check other information sources to verify what she had told 
1Plus1 (or omitted to say) about her financial circumstances. 
I accept that Ms Ls actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either in the 
information she provided or the other information 1Plus1 obtained. But in order to uphold this 
complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. In this case, I dont think 
that 1Plus1 did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Ms L. Our investigator didnt think that 1Plus1 had acted towards Ms L in any other way that wasnt 
fair and reasonable. Ms L hasnt commented on that but Ive thought about this also as part 
of my independent review of her complaint. I havent seen anything which makes me think 
1Plus1 acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms L in any other way (when making its 
lending decisions). 
So for these reasons, Im not planning on upholding Ms Ls complaint. 
I appreciate that my provisional decision will be disappointing for Ms L but I hope that setting 
things out as I've done helps explain how I've come to my conclusions. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Ms L told me that she didn't agree with my decision. Other comments she made were 
unrelated to my decision not to uphold her irresponsible lending complaint and concerned 
the way she feels she was treated later on by 1Plus1. 
1Plus1 agreed with my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Ms L feels strongly about what happened and she holds a different view to 
me. But Ms L hasnt said anything in response to my provisional decision that changes what 
I think about her complaint that these loans were mis-sold to her. So, I still think its fair not to 
uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
I am aware that both these loans are paid. But if Ms L is still struggling with debt and 
would like to talk to someone about her situation or get help to manage her finances 
theres more information about how to get free advice and assistance on our website  
or we can provide contact details if she gives us a call. 
In case its useful to know, in reply to comments Ms L sent in response to my provisional 
decision, 1Plus1 says that it has only one phone call logged on record from Ms L when she 
phoned to discuss her employment situation in March 2020. 
The note records that 1Plus1 informed Ms L that it was holding off any additional interest 
and not charging late fees. It also says it changed her payment date to give Ms L more time 
to make her monthly repayments and made arrangements for her to complete a new 
affordability assessment. If Ms L wishes to complain about the way 1Plus1 responded to her when she wanted to 
make smaller monthly repayments over a longer period of time, then she should first contact 
1Plus1 directly about this to give the lender a chance to resolve things. She will have the 
option to bring her complaint about this to us after that if she is still unhappy.  
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman