DRN-4050723
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the way Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) responded 
to a claim she made about a transaction on her credit card.
What happened
Mrs M paid a resort (the supplier) for an August 2020 holiday booking using her Halifax 
credit card. 
Because of travel restrictions coming about due to the global pandemic she agreed with the 
supplier to postpone the trip to August 2021. She says it told her on the phone that she could 
amend or transfer the booking in the future.
Nearer the time of the re-arranged trip Mrs M found out that if she travelled to the destination 
she would be subject to certain travel restrictions such as quarantine. She decided not to 
travel due to this and contacted the supplier to request a full refund. However, she says the 
supplier said the refund was subject to a 30% cancellation fee and would only move the 
booking again at an extra cost. Mrs M says she wasnt happy to move the booking at extra 
cost and is yet to receive the 70% refund for cancellation.
Mrs M contacted Halifax to help. It considered a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). It didnt think the supplier had breached its contract  but as it 
appeared not to have paid Mrs M the 70% refund it offered to pay her this.
Our investigator thought that Halifax had acted fairly. Mrs M did not. She says in summary:
Halifax took too long to resolve her Section 75 claim and this caused her to get a 
poorer outcome;
the terms and conditions we have seen are not what she was advised on the phone 
by the supplier  and the relevant ones are when she originally changed the booking 
in 2020;
the contract is potentially frustrated; and
she was forced to cancel the contract due to unfair terms (and if the staff at the 
supplier were lying about the terms this is a misrepresentation).
The matter has come to me to make a final decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M has made several submissions but I am not going to comment on everything she has 
raised. This isnt intended as a discourtesy but reflects the informal nature of our service in 
resolving disputes.
Where matters are unclear I make my findings on the balance of probabilities. I have 
considered the relevant law here including the Consumer Rights Act 2015.
It is important to note here that Halifax is not the supplier of holiday services and it isnt 
responsible for general customer service issues that Mrs M might have encountered. When 
considering if Halifax has acted fairly I consider the relevant ways it could have assisted her 
with the dispute  these are chargeback and Section 75.
I note that Halifax did accept it took too long to handle the claim and this appears to have 
been dealt with in a separate complaint where Mrs M was awarded compensation for the 
delay. I wont be considering this separate complaint or the compensation for delays here  
but I will still keep in mind what Mrs M said about the impact of the delays on the eventual 
outcome of her claim.
Section 75
Section 75 can in certain circumstances allow Mrs M to hold Halifax liable for a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier she has an agreement with, and which she 
paid for using her credit card.
Section 75 has certain technical requirements for a claim to be valid  I am satisfied those 
requirements are met here. So I have gone on to consider if there has been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
The terms and conditions our investigator has located appear to be those that were in place 
at the time Mrs M contacted the supplier to cancel in August 2021. Mrs M has not been able 
to provide alternative terms from when she made the booking or otherwise. So overall, I 
consider it fair to rely on the terms we do have as a reflection of the likely policies and 
procedures the supplier had in place in respect of Mrs Ms booking.
These terms outline that depending on when a booking is cancelled by the customer there 
will be a sliding scale of cancellation charges applied of at least 30% or £75. There is no 
entitlement to a full refund and in some cases the cancellation charge is more or even 100% 
of the booking cost. So in not offering to issue a full refund for a cancellation and in making a 
30% deduction I dont think the supplier has done anything wrong. In fact it appears that 
because of when Mrs M cancelled (early August 2021) she was potentially subject to a 
greater cancellation charge than 30% but the supplier has potentially applied a more 
generous policy in the circumstances than it was contractually obliged to.
I also note that the terms explain that a change of date is possible  but this will likely involve 
a change in price and an amendment charge being payable. So in offering Mrs M to change 
the booking time at an increased price it doesnt appear there is a breach of contract.
I think it is important to note here that when Mrs M cancelled her August 2021 booking it 
appears the holiday was available and could be provided to her  it was the travel 
restrictions which meant she did not want to travel  but that isnt a breach of contract by the 
supplier.
I know Mrs M has said that when she changed her original travel date she did so without a 
charge and was told that she would be able to do so again. But while I accept there might 
have been some flexibility offered during the height of the pandemic I dont have persuasive 
information to show that she was promised future changes would be without charge in all 
circumstances. I also consider it unlikely that in the event that a customer changes their mind about travel due to quarantine requirements (as opposed to being prevented from 
attending due to mandatory closures) the park would offer such a policy. 
So, all things considered I dont think the supplier has likely breached its contract with Mrs M 
by offering a 70% refund and not waiving additional charges for changes. 
I know Mrs M has mentioned the contract being frustrated  this area is complicated and 
better suited to courts to determine but I dont think that is likely the case here as the 
supplier was able to provide the service. But even if the contract were frustrated this would 
not give rise to a claim against Halifax under Section 75 in any event.
In the interest of completeness I do not have persuasive evidence of the supplier 
misrepresenting the contract here as to price. Nor do I think the terms concerning charges 
for changes and cancellation would likely be considered unfair terms here as they do not 
appear to be disproportionate or unusual in contracts of this kind. But even if they were 
unfair this would not necessarily give rise to a breach of contract for the purposes of Section 
75 in any event.
Chargeback
Mrs M has indicated that Halifax in delaying handling the claim lost out on the opportunity to 
raise a chargeback. It is arguable that is the case  and Mrs M if she had been promised a 
70% refund by the supplier was potentially entitled to raise one to get this. It is not clear if 
this would have definitely succeeded  as it would have meant the supplier agreeing that it 
did offer to process this credit to Mrs M when she cancelled a few weeks before the trip.
However, I note that Halifax has offered to honour this in any event as part of its claim 
outcome. So I think any potential unfairness here has been remedied in any event.
Overall, in the circumstances, and with my comments above in mind I dont think that the 
outcome Halifax originally offered of a £371.39 refund to resolve the claim was unfair. Nor do 
I think the delays in the handling of the claim previously have likely led to a less favourable 
outcome here. So as long as Mrs M can confirm to Halifax that she still hasnt received the 
70% refund from the supplier I think it fair that Halifax pay this to her. But in the 
circumstances and considering Halifaxs original offer was to do this I dont think additional 
out of pocket interest is fair. 
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has already made an offer to pay Mrs M to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So (and on the basis Mrs M 
can still confirm she has not received this back from the supplier) my decision is that Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax should pay her a £371.39 refund.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman