DRN-4333239
The complaint
Mr G complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) refuses to refund his losses after he fell 
victim to a scam. Mr G has a representative assisting him with his complaint. 
What happened
Mr Gs friend had come across an investment opportunity and showed Mr G the investment 
company website and a page on a popular social media platform. He informed Mr G that the 
investment opportunity had been endorsed by a famous celebrity and had a large following. 
Mr Gs friend informed him that his own trading account showed significant profit from the 
investment that hed made. 
Mr G made an enquiry on the scam company website and then received call from scammer 
to discuss the opportunity. The scammer at one point suggested Mr G would be mortgage 
free in a month. 
Mr G says he downloaded anydesk and the scammers guided him through the process of 
setting up a new account with Monzo. He was then directed to transfer £10K from his main 
bank account (which Ill call bank A) to his Monzo account. The money was subsequently 
transferred to a cryptocurrency exchange (which Ill call S). 
Mr G says the scammer bought bitcoin from his account with S and helped him deposit this 
into scammers wallet so the scammers could start trading. 
Mr G was later contacted by his friend who told him he hadnt been able to withdraw his 
money and was informed by the scammer that he needed to invest more money to secure 
his original investment. Mr G then tried to withdraw his own money but was informed of the 
same  that he needed to invest more to save his investment. At that point Mr G realised 
that hed been scammed. He has since been unable to recover any amounts owed. 
Mr G then asked Monzo to refund the money he had lost saying it ought to have intervened 
and had it done so, it would have discovered the scam and prevented the loss.  
Monzo says Mr G opened the Monzo account on 21 April 2022 and transferred £10K from 
bank A to his account with Monzo. He then tried to send the money to S. Monzo said it 
initially showed him a warning and then stopped the payment. After discussing the purpose 
of the payment with Mr G via an in-app chat function, Monzo then processed the payment. 
Monzo says it asked appropriate questions, but Mr Gs answers didnt enable it to discover 
the scam. Monzo felt it had done nothing wrong and should not be held liable for the loss. 
The complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators. She felt that Monzo correctly 
intervened before the payment was processed, asked appropriate questions  but Mr G 
wasnt completely forthcoming with his answers. Therefore, Monzo did not discover the 
scam and could not tailor any warnings to the specific scam that Mr G fell victim to. So, she 
didnt think Monzo should bear the loss in this case. 
Mr G (through his representative) replied saying he recalls no discussion with Monzo and 
Monzo mustve spoken to the scammer. Mr G said at times, his screen would go black while 
the scammers were playing about with his device. And in any event, given the sum in 
question, they feel the intervention was insufficient, as Monzo ought to have called him 
rather than discussed this with him via an in-app chat function. They feel that if Monzo had 
called him, it would have discovered the scam and prevented the loss. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me. 
In my provisional decision of 10 August 2023, I set out why I was minded to not upholding 
the complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to 
make before I reached a final decision. Neither Monzo nor Mr G made any further 
comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
currently I dont intend to uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator, and Ill explain why. 
To begin with, where customers authorise payments from their accounts, businesses such 
as Monzo are under an obligation to process such transfers. If consumers are the victim of a 
scam (like Mr G), the starting point is that consumers are responsible. To be clear, Monzo 
did not scam Mr G and it is not the perpetrator of the scam. 
However, financial businesses also have a duty to try to prevent their customers falling 
victim to scams. Businesses therefore need to strike a balance between intervening in 
payments to prevent scams or financial harm, against the risk of unnecessarily 
inconveniencing or delaying legitimate transactions. 
Whether a payment is (or ought to have been) deemed unusual or suspicious will depend on 
a number of factors and is very specific to each case. The degree and type of intervention 
we can expect a business to consider, will again depend on the specific facts of each case. 
The first thing I must bear in mind is that this was a new Monzo account that Mr G had only 
recently opened and the scam payment in question is the only payment made out of the 
account. So Monzo did not have a history of spending to review to identify whether this was 
an unusual/suspicious transaction for Mr G and had little insight into Mr Gs regular 
expenditure. 
Nevertheless, I can see that given the amount of money in question, Mr G was shown a 
general warning informing him that this could be a scam. Mr G proceeded to make the 
payment anyway and at this point the payment was stopped and Monzo intervened to 
discuss the payment with Mr G via an in-app chat function. 
I understand Mr G says that he doesnt recall discussing this payment with Monzo, and that 
it was likely the scammer that Monzo was speaking to. He also didnt have any experience 
using his Monzo account or the in-app chat function. He says the screen went black at points 
when the scammer had control over his device. 
However, when Mr G first referred his complaint to this service, while he did say that the 
scammers used a remote access token to help guide him with opening his accounts, he did not mention the screen going black for periods of time when he couldnt see what the 
scammers were saying/doing. I think if this has happened, Mr G likely would have mentioned 
it as part of detailed submission to his complaint. He also did not mention that these 
payments werent made by him. In fact, the letter of complaint says: 
Shortly after receiving the money in his Monzo account, he then paid the £10,000 
(22/04/22) to a newly setup [S] account as instructed by the scammers, which the fraudsters 
had also set up for him.
 
This indicates that Mr G made the transfer himself. I dont think its likely that Mr S logged in 
to his Monzo account and made the transfer but was unaware of the warning given by 
Monzo or that he was unaware the payment had been stopped, even if he was being 
assisted by the scammers via remote access. Im afraid Im not satisfied that Mr G wasnt 
party to the conversation, even if he was being guided by the scammers. It may be that he 
has since forgotten this interaction, but I think its unlikely that the scammers had this 
conversation with Monzo and Mr G was completely oblivious to that interaction like he 
claims, when hes also claimed he made the transfer himself. 
During the conversation, I can see Monzo asked Mr G a series of questions such as why he 
didnt make the transfer to S directly from bank A, if hed previously made any 
cryptocurrency investments, what research (if any) hed carried out, and whether he had 
been given any guidance or advice, for example on social media. Monzo also asked him to 
confirm which cryptocurrencies he was going to purchase and proof of any purchases he 
had made prior to this.
Mr G replied saying that bank A did not like transfers to cryptocurrency exchanges, that he 
had done a lot of research, that hed only received help from a friend who was experienced 
in trading in cryptocurrency. He went on to confirm the specific cryptocurrencies he was 
going to purchase and also confirmed that while he had traded before, he could no longer 
provide evidence of this as he had traded some years earlier and didnt have access to this 
evidence. 
On the back of Mr Gs answers, Monzo did not identify the scam and then could not give him 
a specific warning or stop him from sending the payment and the payment was then 
processed.
I understand Mr Gs representatives feels this intervention was insufficient as it ought to 
have called him rather than used an in-app chat function. But I disagree. As I explained 
earlier, any intervention has to be proportionate to the risk presented. Monzo did not have a 
lot of information about Mr G and the only risk factor present here was the sum itself. So, I 
think its appropriate for it to have intervened like this and probed to see if there were any 
other risk factors present here that mightve led it to take further preventative action. 
Monzo was told that Mr G had traded before, that he hadnt been contacted by anyone other 
than a friend who was an experienced trader, that hed carried out a lot of research and 
knew the specific cryptocurrencies he wanted to purchase. He didnt mention anything about 
the social media endorsement by a famous celebrity or that he was being guided by the 
scammers. I think Monzo asked appropriate questions and Mr Gs answers did not divulge 
anything that warranted further preventative action. 
Even if the scammers had been coaching Mr G or answering the questions for him, I dont 
think this means Monzos intervention was lacking. It was Mr G who gave remote access to 
the scammers, and its likely whatever questions Monzo asked, the scammers would have 
been able to answer them so as to not cause any alarm (whether this was by directly 
responding to Monzo or by coaching Mr G.) And I reiterate, for the reasons explained above, I am still satisfied that its more likely Mr G was aware of this interaction, and I think that 
Monzos intervention was reasonable. 
As Mr G sent the money to an account in his name with S, before he sent it off to the 
scammers cryptocurrency wallets, Monzo couldnt have retrieved the money for him after he 
became aware of the scam  so I dont think Monzo could have mitigated the loss at this 
stage. 
So, I dont think theres enough here for me to make a reasonable finding that Monzo failed 
in its duty of care towards Mr G. I think it correctly intervened before processing the payment 
and carried out an intervention that was proportionate based on the available information it 
had but wasnt able to prevent the loss. So, while I am very sorry Mr G lost this amount of 
money, I dont think Monzo should be held liable for the losses in this case.
In the absence of any new points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my 
original findings as set out in my provisional decision. So, for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision (and above), I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman