DRN-3148584
The complaint
Mr P complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC and the service he received when he 
deposited a cheque into his account in branch.
What happened
Mr P holds a current account with Barclays. In August 2021, Mr P attended his local branch 
to deposit a cheque as hed done several times in the previous months. But the member of 
staff who served Mr P at the counter asked Mr P to input his PIN when completing this 
deposit. Mr P was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr P thought Barclays had acted unfairly by asking him to input his PIN. He explained hed 
never been asked to do this before and thought it was an example of Barclays grilling 
customers who were simply trying to manage their account. So, he wanted to be 
compensated for the upset this caused him.
Barclays responded and didnt uphold the complaint. They recognised Mr P was left 
annoyed and frustrated by their member of staffs request for a PIN to be inputted. But they 
explained, while it wasnt mandatory for a PIN to be inputted, members of staff were 
encouraged to request this in order to enhance their customers experience. They explained 
this allowed staff to share any customer messages or insights showing on a customer 
account. So, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong and didnt offer to do anything 
more. Mr P remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised Mr P was 
unhappy at being asked to input his PIN and they appreciated this was something Mr P 
hadnt been asked to do previously. So, they appreciated why this may have confused and 
upset Mr P. But they didnt think Barclays had done something wrong when making this 
request as it was done in good faith to try and enhance Mr Ps customer experience. So, 
they didnt think Barclays needed to do anything more.
Mr P didnt agree. He maintained his view that Barclays had acted unreasonably and that he 
should be compensated. Mr P also provide an e-mail sent to him by Barclays providing tips 
on how to avoid fraudulent activity on his account over the Christmas period. Mr P explained 
he hadnt needed to input his PIN to receive this advice so felt this supported his position 
that the branchs request was unreasonable in August. As Mr P didnt agree, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise this impact this complaint has had on Mr P. I appreciate Mr P 
wasnt asked to input his PIN when hed attended the branch to deposit previous cheques. 
So, I can understand why Mr P would question this request as it fell outside of the process 
hed become accustomed to. And I can understand why Mr P would feel this request to be 
intrusive and over the top because of this. But for me to say Barclays should compensate Mr 
P, Id need to be satisfied theyd made an error, or treated Mr P unfairly, when asking him to 
input his PIN. And in this situation I dont think thats the case.
Its not in dispute that Mr P was asked to input his PIN. And Barclays have confirmed this 
isnt a requirement when depositing a cheque. So, Ive thought about Barclays reasoning for 
making this request and whether I think it was fair for them to do so.
Barclays have explained their branches and staff have been encouraged to ask customers to 
input their PIN when depositing cheques at the counter as this allows their staff to see a 
customers account and any messages that might need sharing from it. Theyve explained 
theyve done this in an attempt to enhance a customers experience.
Barclays are entitled to implement initiatives to support customer experience as they control 
their own business processes. So, I cant say theyve made an error or done anything wrong 
by following this process when serving Mr P. 
But I do recognise they havent followed this process every time Mr P had attempted to 
deposit a cheque and why this has caused confusion but as this process is encouraged, 
rather than mandated, I dont think I can say Barclays have acted unfairly because of this. I 
could only say Barclays have acted unfairly if, by asking Mr P to input his PIN, they had 
treated him differently to other customers completing the same deposit. And as this was a 
business-wide initiate put in place, I dont think thats the case.
Im also aware it was a request for Mr P to input his PIN and he had no obligation to do so. 
So, Mr P was able to refuse to input his PIN and continue with the cheque deposit. Because 
of this, while I understand Mr Ps confusion and potential upset caused by this request, I 
dont think I can fairly say Barclays did something. And so, I dont think they need to do 
anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr P was hoping for. I want to ensure Mr P Ive 
considered all of the comments hes made when reaching this decision. And this includes 
the e-mails hes recently received from Barclays. But I think these e-mails simply show 
Barclays continuing to act in their customers best interests by providing information and 
guidance on how to protect their own accounts. I wouldnt expect Mr P to input a PIN for an 
electronic e-mail. The PIN was only required in person to give that member of staff access to 
the messages on Mr Ps account in order to share any information he may need to know. I 
dont think this was unfair of Barclays to request 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman