DRN-3236893
The complaint
Mr P complains that Ulster Bank Ltd (UBL) didnt process a chargeback request for him. He 
would like compensation.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont  repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
The Chargeback scheme is a voluntary one governed by a set of rules laid down by 
the relevant card scheme not, as in this case by UBL. The scheme sets out the rules 
when for when a chargeback is allowed and what is expected of the parties involved. 
In this case the relevant rule for defective goods states that before a dispute can be 
initiated the cardholder has to return the goods or cancel the service. There is no 
dispute that Mr P didnt return the goods . Mr P says he asked the merchant for a 
returns label but didnt get one. But he could have returned the goods to the store or 
posted the goods back,  but he didnt. 
I appreciate Mr P has told us he had already returned one item , at his own expense, 
to the same merchant. That must be very frustrating. But it was his responsibility to 
return the goods for a chargeback request to be processed. As Mr P didnt do this I 
dont think UBL were at fault in not pursuing the chargeback claim as it didnt meet 
the criteria to do so.
Ive noted that UBL paid  Mr P £30 compensation for the mistake in providing him 
wrong communication details. Additionally, it paid £100 as a goodwill gesture despite 
not being able to progress the chargeback complaint. Given UBL couldnt progress a 
chargeback request, and the compensation it has already paid I dont think I can 
reasonably ask it to further compensate Mr P
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
