DRN-3097190
The complaint
Mr F and Miss N complain that Belmont Green Finance Limited, trading as Vida Homeloans, 
increased their monthly mortgage payments. 
Mr F has led the complaint throughout.
What happened
In 2018, following advice from a broker, Mr F and Miss N took out a mortgage with Vida 
Homeloans. The mortgage was for around £238,000 on a capital and interest repayment 
basis, over a 25-year term. The interest rate was fixed at 3.44% for the first two years. 
As a result of the coronavirus pandemic, Vida Homeloans decided to withdraw from all 
lending activities in March 2020. This meant that it did not offer any new interest rate 
products for existing customers or any lending to new customers.
Mr F and Miss N applied for a coronavirus payment deferral for three months from April 
2020. At the time Mr F asked what the impact would be to his mortgage payments going 
forwards - he was told they would increase by around £11 per month. 
In May 2020, Mr F and Miss Ns fixed interest rate product ended, and the mortgage 
reverted to Vida Homeloans standard variable rate (SVR). The coronavirus payment deferral 
still applied at this point. When it ended, Mr F and Miss Ns mortgage payment increased by 
more than they were told it would. And so they complained to Vida Homeloans. 
Vida Homeloans replied to the complaint. It said that the reason their monthly payments had 
increased by more than they were told is because the mortgage had reverted from the fixed 
interest rate to the SVR. It apologised for the incorrect information provided and offered £50 
by way of an apology. It also offered to return the lump sum payment Mr F and Miss N 
made. 
Mr F and Miss N remained unhappy with this and brought the complaint to this service.
 
Our investigator considered the matter and thought that Vida Homeloans should increase 
the offer to £150. Mr F and Miss N didnt think this went far enough and asked for an 
ombudsman to consider the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Interest charged
Mr F has said that he was told that he would be able to get a retention product when his 
fixed interest rate deal expired. Ive considered Mr F and Miss Ns mortgage offer and can 
see that this explains that once the fixed interest rate expired, the mortgage would revert to 
the SVR. And so, I dont think that a new interest rate product was ever promised or 
guaranteed. However, if Mr F and Miss N have further concerns, they could address this with 
the broker who provided the advice to take the mortgage out if this is what they were told at 
the time. 
In this case, I think that the timing of the expiry of the fixed rate was very unfortunate. Due to 
the unprecedented nature of the coronavirus pandemic, Vida Homeloans explained that it 
withdrew from all lending. I dont think theres anything wrong with that decision - it was an 
exercise of its commercial judgement that its entitled to make. 
But Ive thought about whether this has had an unfair impact on Mr F and Miss N. Vida 
Homeloans has explained that it was not able to offer existing customers a product switching 
facility until around March 2021. And I can see that Mr F and Miss N fixed their rate shortly 
after this.
Mr F has questioned why the mortgage could not just continue on their previous rate until 
new rates were available. I can understand his point, but that is not how the mortgage was 
set up to operate. I think that the SVR was charged in line with the mortgage offer and, whilst 
it was unfortunate that there were no new rates available when their fixed rate ended, I dont 
consider that they were treated unfairly as no new rates were available for any of its existing 
customers. 
I appreciate that Mr F has said that he was unable to move elsewhere due to how he 
receives his income but I dont think it I can fairly say that Vida Homeloans is responsible for 
this  rather its a result of wider circumstances and other lenders criteria. And its not for this 
service to compel a lender to lend or offer a particular interest rate when one is not available. 
Communication
Unfortunately a letter letting Mr F and Miss N know that their fixed rate was due to expire 
was not sent when it should have been as Vida Homeloans said this was put on hold as the 
mortgage was on a coronavirus payment deferral. But Ive seen a copy of a letter from 
February 2020 that states that the fixed rate period ends in May 2020. Whilst I note that Mr F 
has said he does not recall receiving this, I can see that it has been correctly addressed. 
Ive listened to the call that Mr F had with Vida Homeloans in March 2020 about gaining 
authority for his broker to arrange a new rate. I think whilst he might not have known exactly 
when the fixed rate would expire, its likely he knew it was around this time as he was asking 
for Vida Homeloans to discuss rates with his broker. 
It's not in dispute that Mr F and Miss N were told the incorrect information over the phone 
and its unfortunate that they were led to believe that making a lump sum payment would 
decrease their mortgage payments when it was the fact that the mortgage had reverted to 
the SVR that caused most of the increase. 
Vida Homeloans has apologised for this and offered to return the lump sum payment. I think 
this is fair and would put them in the position that they would have been had the payment not 
been made after they received incorrect information. But I dont think the £50 offered goes far enough to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the matter and trouble it caused Mr F and Miss N on making calls 
to establish why the increase happened and planning their finances.
Ive thought carefully about what an appropriate amount would be. Having done so, I agree 
with our investigator and think that £150 is fair. 
Putting things right
I do think that Mr F and Miss N were given incorrect information, and this caused them some 
distress and inconvenience. I find that £150 is fair compensation in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Belmont Green Financial Limited, trading as Vida Homeloans, to pay Mr F and Miss N £150 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Miss N to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman