DRN-3744211
The complaint
A limited company, that Ill refer to as B, has complained about Hiscox Insurance Company 
Limiteds refusal of a claim for business interruption cover under its business insurance 
policy. 
Mrs S, as director of B, has brought the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
B is engaged in television, film and theatre castings activities. The insured premises consists 
of three film studios and B says it produces film castings, edits those casting sessions and 
uploads them for directors and production companies.  
B contacted Hiscox to make claims for business interruption, as a result of the Covid-19 
pandemic. B said that as a result of the Government restrictions imposed in March 2020, 
November 2020 and January 2021 it had to close its business, which resulted in a loss of 
revenue.   
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued a business interruption insurance test case 
in which it asked the courts to consider a sample of policy wordings and how they should 
respond to the pandemic. One of the policies considered in this case had the same wording 
as Bs policy with Hiscox. The Supreme Court handed down its judgment in January 2021. 
Hiscox considered Bs claims in light of that judgment but said in July 2021 that it was 
rejecting the claims. Hiscox says the policy provides cover under the Public Authority 
section of the policy for losses arising as a result of B not being able to use its premises 
following closure by a public authority. However, Hiscox said that B was not one of the types 
of business that was required to close as part of the Governments 2020 and 2021 
restrictions and had been permitted to continue to operate. Hiscox said the Government 
made a clear distinction between commercial/employment/business activities [such as B] 
and general recreational leisure activities by members of the public.
Hiscox also considered if there was cover under a non-damage denial of access clause 
which covers denial of access of the insured premises as a result of a specific incident within 
a mile radius of the premises. Hiscox said B was not denied access of its premises as a 
result of an incident and so this section of cover would not apply to the claim either. Hiscox 
said that all other parts of the business interruption section of cover require there to have 
been damage to property and so also would not apply to Bs claim. 
Mrs S is very unhappy about this. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as he was satisfied Hiscox was entitled to refuse the claims. The Investigator said 
that whilst B may have suffered business interruption, and a loss of income, it was not a type 
of business that had been required to close by the Government. Instead, he thought that it 
was more likely one of the businesses that the High Court ,when considering the FCA test 
case, determined would be Category 5 business, which consisted of businesses not listed in 
The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020 (the March 
Regulations) issued in March 2020. The Court said these businesses were not required to 
close and so had were unlikely to have been caused an inability to use their premises, as 
required by this policy. The Investigator didnt think the claims were covered under any other 
part of the policy either. 
Mrs S does not accept the Investigators assessment. She has made a number of 
submissions in the initial complaint and in response to the Investigator. Ive considered 
everything Mrs S has said but have summarised the main points below: 
It was not one of the specified businesses required to close in the March Regulations  
but the Government could not list every single business category. Rather it opted for 
a generic list. 
The businesses listed as being ones in Category 5 are not similar to B at all. B more 
closely fits in category 2, which were the premises required to close such as theatres, 
cinemas, indoor fitness studios and so on. 
Mrs S called her local authority after the Governments announcements in March 
2020 for clarification and was told without hesitation that, as it is a non-essential retail 
and leisure business, B had to close the premises. 
All UK film industry unions put in-person castings and filming on hold. The whole 
industry came to a holt. 
Castings cant be done with actors wearing masks; often several people need to be 
in the room and auditions might require physical interaction between actors. And, as 
it could not conduct its business from home, so it had to close.  
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
B has made claims for three periods of Government restriction. Hiscox turned all of them 
down, the first two on the same basis (that the insured premises were not required to close) 
and the third claim on the basis that the policy wording had changed at renewal in December 
2020 to exclude Covid-19 related claims. As they are separate claims, relating to different 
periods of time, I am only going to address the first claim for the period from March 2020 in 
this decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident from Bs submissions that the Covid-19 pandemic has had a significant financial 
impact. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business insurance policies provide protection for some of the common things which might 
happen to a business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each policy may 
provide different cover. 
I have considered Bs entire policy carefully. The business interruption section of the policy 
provides cover for a number of events, most of which clearly do not apply to the 
circumstances of this claim, as they require damage to the insured premises or property 
nearby. I have considered the section of cover that both parties consider are relevant to this 
claim below: 
Public Authority 
This part of the policy provides cover for business interruption losses caused by: your inability to use the insured premises due to restrictions imposed by a public 
authority during the period of insurance following 
b. an occurrence of any human infectious or human contagious disease, an outbreak 
of which must be notified to the local authority  
The term inability to use in relation to policies with the same wording as Bs was 
considered as part of the FCAs test case. Paragraph 129 of the Supreme Courts judgment 
said: 
The public authority clauses in Hiscox 1-4 (set out at para 111 above) do not cover 
all business interruption due to restrictions imposed by a public authority following 
an occurrence of a notifiable disease. They apply only where the interruption is 
caused by the policyholders inability to use the business premises due to such 
restrictions. 
The court went on to say, at paragraph 136: 
 an inability of use has to be established; not an impairment or hindrance in 
use. 
There were restrictions imposed by a public authority following an occurrence of Covid-19 
and Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease. I dont consider that this occurrence needed to 
have been either at or in the vicinity of the premises. And I dont consider that the restrictions 
needed to have specifically targeted Bs business alone. The court also made it clear that it 
may be possible for a business to claim for losses that arose out of an inability to use its 
premises for a discrete part of its business activities. As such, this policy term would provide 
cover to a business that had been caused an inability to use their insured premises, for all or 
for a discrete part of its business. 
In my opinion it is clear from the quote above that the court determined that impairment or 
hindrance of use would not be enough to trigger cover under these terms; the inability to use 
the premises, or a discrete part of them, would have to be absolute. So the question is 
whether or not B suffered an inability to use its premises. 
The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020 (the March 
Regulations) are relevant, as they set out which businesses were required by the 
Government to close in March 2020. 
Bs business of providing casting services doesnt seem to fall clearly into any of the types of 
business specifically mentioned in the March Regulations, either as being a business that 
was required to close or that was permitted to stay open. Ive therefore considered all the 
evidence to determine whether it is reasonable to conclude that B was required to close. 
Non-essential shops and some other retail service industries (such as hair salons and 
leisure centres) were listed specifically as being required to close, as were pubs, theatres, 
cinemas, and museums. These businesses would all seem to be places that members of the 
public could gather or attend for recreational, non-essential retail purposes and sometimes 
for services that could not be undertaken at a distance (such as hair dressing services).
I do not think that Bs business, as it has been described in the evidence provided to me, 
would fall into the same category. B did not have an open studio, or showroom that was 
open to the public in the way that the shops and other businesses that were specifically 
listed as having to close would have. I also note that Schedule 2, Part 2 of the 26 March 2020 Regulations stated that while 
theatres and cinemas (and other such venues) were required to close to public visitors, 
those premises could be used to broadcast a performance to people outside the premises, 
whether over the internet or as part of a radio or television broadcast. While I understand B 
might not broadcast content itself, this suggests people could work together at such venues 
on content to be broadcast. 
The March Regulations also allowed people to leave home to attend work, if they were 
unable to work from home. I consider that both Bs own employees and its customers that 
might need to attend its premises would be seen to be travelling for the purposes of work 
when attending the premises. B might have had to adjust how its premises were used, to 
comply with social distancing regulations and other guidance, but the fact remains it was 
able to use the premises (even if not as it would usually).
Having considered the types of businesses required to close and those that were permitted 
to stay open, as well as the comments about the use of theatres and cinemas etc for 
broadcasting, I think it is reasonable to conclude that B was not required to close its 
premises, or any discrete part of its premises, as a result of the Government regulations.  
The High Court judgment in the FCA test case is also relevant. The judgment said at 
paragraph 415: 
So far as businesses which were either allowed to remain open (essential shops and 
businesses in Category 3) or about which the regulations were silent (professional 
service businesses and manufacturing in Category 5) we agree with Mr Gaisman 
Q.C. that it cannot be said that there was any denial or hindrance in access to such 
premises imposed by order of the Government. 
So it seems the court considered those businesses that were not specifically mentioned in 
the March regulations as falling within Category 5 of businesses that were not required to 
close.  I note B considers it is not similar to the other businesses given as examples of those 
the Court considered would fall in this category but it seems to have considered that any 
business not specifically mentioned in the March Regulations fell in this category and was 
not required to close.  
However, having said all that, I also have to consider whether the instructions B says it had 
from its local council might trigger the cover. 
A local authority would be deemed to be a public authority in my opinion. B has provided a 
copy of a letter from its local authority dated 4 February 2022, which states: 
an in depth review of the business premises was carried out by  a Valuation 
officer and that the above premises are classified as Non-Essential Retail and 
Leisure as a Creative Dance and Castings Studios, a sector that was mandated to 
close during national lockdowns and tiered lockdowns during the Covid-19 
pandemic. 
Therefore, we can confirm the above premises was mandated to close for business 
following the Governments national lockdown announced from 23 March 2020.
I understand this review was carried out in relation to a local authority grant scheme and how 
the business would be categorised for those purposes. The Investigator asked B about the 
reference to a creative dance studio at the premises. I cant see any direct response to that 
query but in other communications, B has confirmed that they were a casting business and 
there does no access for the general public to it premises.  However, I have not seen any documentary evidence of a direction or requirement from the 
local authority that B should close its premises and was unable to use them for any purpose 
in the period of the first lockdown in March to July 2020.  And even if Bs local authority gave 
it a grant to assist during the pandemic, it does not establish that B was unable to use any 
part of its premises. 
Another letter dated 26 April 2022 from the Department for Business, Energy & Industrial 
Strategy to Mrs Ss MP says it cannot provide letters for insurance claims and can only 
advise in general terms that the March Regulations mandated that all non-essential retail 
and leisure businesses should close.  
This letter refers back to the March Regulations and these did not set out any requirement 
for all aspects of Bs business to close. 
I do not therefore consider that there is sufficient evidence that B was directed to close by its 
local authority either.  
B has also said that it could not use the premises due to social distancing requirements from 
March 2020 and was unable to use one of its studios even after July 2020 due to the 
measures required to so so safely.
The social distancing measures required (wearing masks, one-way systems and restrictions 
on numbers gathering together and so on) no doubt did impact on the way B could operate 
but they did not amount to an inability to use its premises in my opinion. 
I also acknowledge that the circumstances at the time would have meant that the demand 
for Bs services might have fallen as film and TV production came to a halt but again, this did 
not amount to an inability to use its premises. So, whilst I do not doubt B suffered a 
disruption to the normal operation of its business, the policy requires that there be an 
inability to use its premises and I do not consider B suffered such an inability to use its 
premises. As such, I do not consider Hiscox acted inappropriately in declining Bs claim 
under this section. 
Non-damage denial of access 
This part of the policy covers business interruption losses caused by: 
an incident occurring during the period of insurance within a one mile radius of the 
insured premises which results in a denial of access or hindrance in access to the 
insured premises, imposed by any civil or statutory authority or by order of the 
government or any public authority, for more than 24 consecutive hours.
I have already determined above that Bs access to the premises was not denied or 
prevented. I dont intend to make a finding on whether Bs access to the insured premises 
was hindered because even if it were, I dont think that any restrictions that may have 
caused such hindrance were as a result of an incident as required by the term above. 
I think the FCA test case is relevant. The High Court said (at paras 404-405) about the need 
for an incident: 
 this word should be given the same essential meaning as an event: something 
which happens at a particular time, at a particular place, in a particular way ...an 
incident is not synonymous with emergency or danger it is a misuse of 
language both generally and on the correct construction of the NDDA clause to describe the pandemic as an incident let alone an incident occurring within a one 
mile radius of the insured premises. 
It may amount to a state of affairs but it istoo geographically dispersed, variegated, 
prolonged and non-specific to amount to an incident in any event, it is a misnomer 
purposes of the clause. 
This part of the judgment was not appealed to the Supreme Court and so is relevant case 
law.
Ive considered whether this position would be amended by the Courts position in Corbin 
and King Ltd v AXA Insurance UK Plc [2022] EWHC 409 (Comm) but I dont believe it would 
be. Thats because the judge said at para 156: 
The word Incident also is capable of lending a very distinct colour to a wording  as 
the telling argument recorded at [398] of the Divisional Court's judgment makes clear. 
Its significance is underpinned by the Divisional Court's conclusion at [404] that In 
our judgment, the FCAs entire case on the NDDA founders on the requirement for 
an incident. 
I see no reason to depart from the findings of the High Court and do not therefore consider 
that there was an incident within the vicinity which prevented or hindered Bs access to its 
premises. Therefore, I think Hiscox has acted fairly and reasonably in finding that this clause 
doesnt cover Bs claim.
I do not think there is any other part of the policy that would provide cover for this claim 
either. 
I appreciate this is a matter Mrs S feels very strongly about, and Im mindful of the 
consequences my decision may have on B. But I havent found Hiscox acted unfairly in 
declining its claim. Im therefore not directing Hiscox to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman