DRN-3816704
The complaint
Mr K complains about the outcome of a claim he made to Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
(TPF) in respect of a purchase made using his credit card.
 
What happened
Mr K spent £700 to buy three season tickets which enabled him and two others to attend a 
series of sporting events. However, due to the global pandemic the sporting body (the 
supplier) offered online streaming instead of in person events.
Mr K took up this offer and used the streaming to watch the events. Where streaming each 
event was cheaper to a ticketholder than an in person ticket the supplier offered a refund of 
the difference in cost. 
However, Mr K complained that he was still out of pocket because he said all three season 
ticket holders watched the events together  which meant he would only have had to buy 
one streaming pass between them and could have saved money. 
Mr K was not able to get the refund he wanted from the supplier so he complained to TPF. It 
raised a chargeback which was unsuccessful. And it considered Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) but it did not conclude there to be a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
Our investigator broadly agreed with TPF and did not uphold the complaint. Mr K was not 
happy with this. In summary he says:
 it is unreasonable for the supplier to have assumed the ticketholder would watch the 
events separately;
 it is clear under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) that he has not received what 
he paid for which are seats at the event;
 the supplier did not make it clear the online service was an alternative to the season 
tickets  he thought it was provided free of charge
So the matter has come to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on this case. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr K feels he has been treated unfairly by the supplier due to circumstances out of 
his control. I am sorry to hear about how he feels as a result of the events triggered by the 
global pandemic. However, it is important that I emphasise why TPF is involved here. It is 
not the supplier of the sporting service so any potential liability it has for the agreement 
between Mr K and the supplier is limited to the specific card protections which are available. 
In this case these are chargeback and Section 75.
So in order to decide what is fair and reasonable for TPF to do as a third party to the 
agreement between Mr K and the supplier, I have to take into account what the chargeback 
rules say, and what the law says about Section 75.
Chargeback
Chargeback is a way TPF are able to attempt to claim a refund for Mr K. This dispute 
method is limited to the particular rules set by the relevant chargeback scheme. I have 
carefully considered the rules of the scheme governing Mr Ks card, alongside any specific 
guidance issued from the scheme holder in light of the pandemic.
From what I understand TPF raised a chargeback but discontinued it as it was defended by 
the supplier. After considering everything here I dont think TPF acted unreasonably in 
discontinuing the chargeback when it did. I will explain why.
TPF says it raised a chargeback under the reason code relating to a service not being 
provided. Which doesnt seem unreasonable here. However the supplier appeared to defend 
this on the basis that the sporting events still went ahead, that it was not acting contrary to its 
terms and that Mr K accepted and made use of a reasonable alternative. 
I acknowledge that Mr K argues that the streaming service was only accepted based on a 
misunderstanding as to what it would mean for any refund of the season tickets and that 
things were not clear enough. However, I note the card scheme in their pandemic guidance 
specifically state that where a customer initially accepts a reasonable alternative  even if 
they later change their mind  they will not have a chargeback right for a service not 
provided. 
Overall, considering the defence that came back from the supplier I can see why TPF would 
have stopped the chargeback process when it did. However, even if I felt that TPF should 
have pushed the chargeback further I think it is difficult for me to say that it would ultimately 
have been more likely to succeed than not. I think the supplier is likely to have defended it 
again at second presentment  and had it been pushed to arbitration I am unable to 
reasonably conclude that the card scheme would likely have interpreted its limited rules and 
additional guidance in such a way as to award Mr K a refund here. 
Section 75
Section 75 allows Mr K in certain circumstances to make a claim against TPF for any breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier paid using the credit card. Certain technical 
criteria need to be met in order for a Section 75 claim to be valid  in this case I am satisfied 
that the criteria are met.
Because of my findings below I dont consider it necessary to cover this point in any great 
detail. However, for the sake of completeness I have considered what TPF has said about 
there potentially not being a valid debtor-creditor-supplier agreement for Mr K to claim in 
relation to the cost of all the tickets. But as the lead booker and person who paid for all the 
tickets there is nothing in the contract or otherwise which would lead me to conclude Mr K is 
unable to make a claim for the full cost of the tickets booked for the rest of his party. I have carefully considered what Mr K has said about not receiving what he has paid for and 
the relevant law in respect of consumer purchases such as the CRA. However, after doing 
so I do not consider there has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation here.
Misrepresentation relates to false statements of fact during pre-contract negotiations  and 
there is no suggestion of that here so I am not going to consider this in detail. But for the 
sake of completeness I dont consider there to have been a misrepresentation by the 
supplier here - I also think this would be particularly difficult to conclude considering the 
evolving circumstances of the pandemic at the time. I have moved on to consider the focus 
of this complaint which is around breach of contract.
One way of looking at what happened here is that Mr K and the supplier mutually varied the 
contract as a way of resolving the problem with its performance as presented by the 
government restrictions put in place due to the global pandemic. I can see the supplier wrote 
to Mr K in September 2020 to explain that streaming was being offered due to events being 
closed to the public. And on the face of it Mr K appeared to accept this as I understand the 
streaming services offered were used to watch matches.
I know Mr K has said it wasnt clear that this service was meant to replace the tickets he 
bought. And only later (once the season was concluding) did he realise this. He has indicted 
that had it been clearer the service was an alternative to the season tickets purchased he 
would have requested a refund of said tickets (as despite the supplier offering him the 
difference in cost of streaming vs going in person he didnt need three separate streaming 
passes).
Based on what I have seen (such as the email the supplier sent to Mr K on 10 September 
2020) I think it is difficult to say that a person would reasonably expect the streaming 
services to be free of charge  and not an alternative to the season tickets. However, even if 
I were to accept Mr Ks argument that things were not clear enough for it to constitute a 
mutual variation to the contract I dont think that leaves me in a position to conclude the 
supplier is in breach of contract in any event. I say this because the supplier appears to have 
been practically prevented from offering in person events specifically due to government 
restrictions put in place as a result of the global pandemic. In short, although the spectators 
could not go to the games in person this appears to have been as a likely result of the 
contract being frustrated rather than there being a breach of contract by the supplier. And 
there is nothing in the agreement for sale or implied into the agreement by law that 
persuades me in this particular situation Mr K was contractually entitled to a refund from the 
supplier.
So while Mr K might have some kind of civil remedy against the supplier (which he can get 
independent legal advice on if he wishes) in these particular circumstances I am unable to 
reasonably conclude there is a breach of contract here which TPF is liable for via the 
particular obligations under Section 75. Therefore, I do not consider it fair and reasonable to 
direct TPF to pay him a refund as a result of the way it handled his claim.
I am sorry this wont be what Mr K wants to hear. I can see why he feels out of pocket. 
However, it is important to underline the particular role TPF has here  which is limited by 
the chargeback scheme and the law of Section 75.
My provisional decision
I dont uphold this complaint.I asked the parties for their comments. Neither party had anything to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties have not added anything that would cause me to depart from my provisional 
findings (as set out above) which I still consider to be fair and reasonable in the particular 
circumstances.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman