DRN-2924343
The complaint
Mrs C complains about Zenith Insurance plc (Zenith). Her complaint is about Zeniths 
decision to cancel her motor insurance policy.
References to Zenith include its agents.
What happened
Mrs C had a motor insurance policy with Zenith. Zenith emailed Mrs C in August 2020 to tell 
her that they were cancelling her policy due to a non-disclosed claim. After some delay 
between Zenith and the broker through which Mrs C took out her policy the policy was 
cancelled in October 2020. Mrs C was paid a pro rata refund of the premium when the policy 
was cancelled.
Mrs C told Zenith that she had recorded an incorrect date of a claim that she had made in 
July 2019 about an accident in which she was involved. Mrs C was hit from behind by a third 
party (who were insured by Zenith) and her claim for damage to her vehicle and a hire car 
were settled by Zenith as she was a non-fault party. There was some confusion about the 
exact date of the incident, and it appeared that the wrong date was initially provided to 
Zenith by the third party. Mrs C also pursued a separate claim for personal injury arising 
from the accident, in which she had legal representation. That claim was rejected by Zenith, 
and Mrs C subsequently withdrew the claim following advice from her legal representative in 
May 2020.
Mrs C complained to Zenith about their decision to cancel her policy. In their Final Response 
Letter of August 2020 Zenith didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Zenith said that they had 
asked Mrs Cs broker to issue a cancellation under the terms and conditions of her policy 
due to an undisclosed incident dated 20 July 2019, which we hold concerns over. The letter 
went on to state that If you wish to obtain details of the incident you may wish to contact the 
insurance company who acted on your behalf at the time. The letter also noted that Zenith 
could access external databases to obtain information about incidents or claims and use 
such information to help them make a decision about providing insurance. The letter also 
apologised for any distress or inconvenience caused to Mrs C.
Mrs C wasnt satisfied that Zenith had properly investigated her complaint and referred it to 
us. She added that her current insurer told her that they had found an error and apologised 
for the distress caused. She thought Zenith had called her integrity into question and she 
requested an apology and compensation for the anxiety and stress she had suffered.
Our investigator considered the circumstances of the complaint and concluded that Zenith 
hadnt acted fairly in cancelling Mrs Cs policy. The non-disclosed claim (the accident in July 
2019) hadnt been carried over to her new policy (taken out in December 2019) from her 
previous policy due to an administrative error that wasnt the fault of Mrs C. The investigator 
went on to say that Zenith should pay Mrs C £100 in compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by her policy being cancelled, and that Zenith should remove details of the 
cancellation from industry databases that record details of policy cancellations.
Zenith did not accept the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. 
In my findings I disagreed with the investigators conclusion that Zenith hadnt acted fairly in 
cancelling Mrs Cs policy. I also disagreed with the investigators conclusions that Zenith 
should remove records of the cancellation and pay Mrs C £100 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience. Looking at the circumstances of the cancellation, I concluded that Zenith 
acted fairly and reasonably in cancelling Mrs Cs policy and that they were acting in 
accordance with the terms of the policy.
   
Because I disagreed with the investigators view, I issued a provisional decision to give both 
parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of her complaint. 
The main element of Mrs Cs complaint is that she doesnt feel that Zenith acted fairly when 
they cancelled her policy and that they were calling her integrity into question.
Ive looked at the evidence available about the cancellation, and the grounds upon which 
Zenith relied when doing so. But, firstly, Ive considered the issue of the confusion over the 
date of Mrs Cs no fault accident in July 2019. Ive noted that Zenith have acknowledged that 
there was initially an error on the part of the third party involved in the accident. Ive also 
noted that this was corrected and that Zenith apologised for the error and paid Mrs C 
compensation. Also, Ive seen nothing to indicate that either the confusion over the date or 
the claim settled for the damage to Mrs Cs vehicle and the hire car that she was provided 
with led to the subsequent cancellation of her policy by Zenith. So Ive not considered those 
aspects any further.
As part of our investigation, Ive noted that Zenith told our investigator that they cancelled the 
policy due to concerns surrounding the incident (the accident in July 2019). They added that 
they also declined to deal with the separate claim for personal injury, and they wouldnt want 
to cover Mrs C going forward.
 
Ive then considered the circumstances of Mrs Cs personal injury claim. Mrs C has provided 
a copy of the advice to her from her legal representative. Ive noted that it indicates that 
Zenith rejected the claim from Mrs C, on the grounds that they considered that the level of 
impact or damage sustained in the accident couldnt have caused personal injury to Mrs C. 
The advice considered the various aspects of the claim and assessed the prospects of 
success were the claim to be taken to court. The advice concluded that there werent 
reasonable prospects of pursuing a claim successfully and advised Mrs C to drop the claim. 
Ive also considered what Mrs Cs policy says in respect of cancellation by the insurer. Ive 
noted that under the section Where we cancel your policy it states:
We may cancel your policy if there are serious grounds to do so such as non-
paymentyou have provided us with incorrect informationWhere we cancel we will 
provide seven days prior written notice
Looking at the circumstances of the cancellation set out above, particularly those relating to 
the personal injury claim, then Ive concluded that Zenith acted fairly and reasonably in 
cancelling Mrs Cs policy and that they were acting in accordance of the terms of the policy 
relating to cancellation. Ive particularly considered Zeniths refuting of the personal injury claim and the subsequent legal advice to Mrs C. I find the detail of the advice - and the 
conclusion that the claim would be unlikely to succeed if taken to court  to be persuasive.
  
As Ive provisionally concluded that Zenith acted fairly in cancelling Mrs Cs policy then I also 
disagree with the investigators conclusions that Zenith should remove records of the 
cancellation and pay Mrs C £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
 
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. 
Zenith didnt respond to my provisional decision by the date requested.
Mrs C responded to say that she had not lied nor exaggerated and followed legal advice. 
Also, she never wanted financial compensation, only to have the cancellation removed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should not be upheld.
Ive considered the response from Mrs C. I appreciate her position and that she remains 
unhappy with what happened. In considering the circumstances of the case and setting out 
my findings and conclusions, I wasnt implying dishonesty on her part. I also acknowledge 
that she followed the legal advice she received about her personal injury claim and the 
prospects of it being successful. But I think that, as I sought to explain in my provisional 
decision, Zenith acted fairly in cancelling Mrs Cs policy. So, for the reasons set out, above I 
havent changed my view and my final decision and reasoning remains the same as in my 
provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman