DRN-2892864
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Experian Limited didnt cancel his CreditExpert subscription when 
he asked them to.
What happened
In 2017, Mr S cancelled his CreditExpert subscription. But due to an administrative problem, 
Experian didnt process the cancellation fully, and continued to charge him for the service.
In 2020, Mr S complained. Experian offered to refund the CreditExpert subscription fees, 
plus £50 in additional compensation. But Mr S explained that the CreditExpert payments had 
caused him to miss other payments, which then ran up fees. He set out the fees to Experian, 
who wanted to verify them on Mr Ss bank statements. But Mr S had data protection 
concerns, and the two parties were unable to come to a resolution.
I sent Mr S and Experian a provisional decision on 25 May 2021, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Both sides agree that Experian made a mistake in not cancelling the CreditExpert 
subscription when Mr S asked them to. The question, then, is how I think its best to put that 
mistake right.
Experian have already agreed to refund the extra payments Mr S made for his cancelled 
subscription. They have also now agreed to add 8% simple interest onto his losses, to 
compensate him for the time he was without his money. Thats good to see.
I have gone through Mr Ss bank statements to look at the charges he set out. I can confirm 
that for each of the charges Mr S listed, it looks like were it not for the CreditExpert 
payments he would not have been charged.
Some of these fees were applied by his bank for unpaid debits, where there wasnt enough 
money in Mr Ss account to complete the payment. On each occasion, the payment that 
failed was short by far less than what Mr S had recently paid in CreditExpert fees. For 
example, in December 2019 a payment failed as Mr Ss account was a little over £20 short. 
And by that point, hed paid over £400 in undue CreditExpert fees, or around £180 in just the 
last year alone.
The other fees were late payment charges from Mr Ss telecommunications provider. Again, 
on each occasion Mr Ss payment was late because there wasnt enough money in his 
account  and the money that was needed was significantly less than what hed paid in 
undue CreditExpert fees in total or recently by that point. Ive looked at the providers terms 
and can see that these fees were the ones it added as standard.
In total, these charges come to £194. In the circumstances of this case, I think its fair that 
Experian refund them, as its most likely they would not have been charged had Experian not 
mistakenly kept taking payments from Mr S.
Lastly, I understand that Experians mistake caused Mr S a fair amount of distress and 
inconvenience, including the lengthy correspondence its taken to sort things out. I think 
Experian should pay Mr S an additional £100 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused, in line with our guidelines.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
22 June 2021. Mr S didnt add anything further. Experian made some further comments, 
which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Experian said they werent sure which payments Mr S was saying had caused charges. But 
they already had this information  Mr S set this out on a table which both he, the provisional 
decision, and Experian themselves have referenced. Ill send it to Experian again along with 
this decision.
Experian also said they couldnt see where the CreditExpert payments had caused Mr S 
charges. But I already explained this in my provisional decision, which Ill reiterate here.
Mr S was charged either unpaid debit fees by his bank, or late payment fees by his 
telecommunications provider. On each occasion, the reason his payment bounced was 
because there wasnt quite enough money in his account. And on each occasion, had he not 
been continually paying CreditExpert fees in the previous months, there would most likely 
have been enough money in his account to make the payments in question.
The example I gave was December 2019: a payment didnt go through as Mr Ss account 
was £20 short. And by that point, hed paid over £400 in undue CreditExpert fees, or around 
£180 in just the last year alone. Had he not been paying for CreditExpert, it looks like he 
would have had enough money to make the payment that bounced. He was charged a fee 
for this missed payment, and so it looks like he would not have been charged that fee if 
Experian hadnt been taking undue CreditExpert payments.
Ive gone through Mr Ss bank statements and cross-checked them against the charges he 
set out. I still think its fair for Experian to refund all the charges he listed, as it looks like were 
it not for the CreditExpert payments he would probably not have had to pay those charges. 
So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.
Lastly, Mr S has explained hes not able to accept cheques, so Experian will need to find an 
alternative way to pay him the compensation. Weve sent Experian his bank details.
Putting things right
I direct Experian Limited to:1.) Refund the CreditExpert fees that were charged after Mr S cancelled his service.
2.) Refund the related charges Mr S set out, which total £194.
3.) Add 8% simple interest onto Mr Ss losses, payable from the date each payment debited 
until the date its refunded to him*.
4.) Pay Mr S an additional £100 compensation in total, for the trouble and upset caused.
Of course, Experian can take off anything which they have already paid Mr S in relation to 
this complaint  so that they do not refund the same amounts twice over.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires businesses to take tax off this simple interest. Mr S can claim 
back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct Experian Limited to put things right in the way Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman