DRN-3147489
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as L, complains about delays in obtaining a Bounce Back Loan 
from Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Ls director, Mr B, brings the complaint on the companys behalf. He is represented in doing 
so by his wife, Mrs B.
What happened
L banked with Barclays and wanted to apply to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan. Mr and 
Mrs B attempted to apply online shortly after the Loan Scheme was launched on 4 May 
2020, but were unable to submit an application. When attempting to do so, a message 
advised them that they needed to speak to the bank. 
Mr and Mrs B attempted to contact Barclays over the weeks that followed, making a number 
of calls and sending emails. They logged requests for a call back and raised complaints, but 
didnt hear anything until 3 June. 
On that day, Barclays called and spoke with Mrs B. There was a mismatch between the 
information about Ls ownership and directorship held by the bank and that recorded with 
Companies House, so this needed to be amended before the application could proceed. 
That required Mr and Mrs B to complete some paperwork, which Barclays received from 
them a few days later. 
When processing the changes, Barclays identified a mismatch with the signatures provided 
by the companys owner. So it liaised with her to arrange a new form, which was received 
within a couple of days.
Barclays completed the amendments on 25 June. Mr and Mrs B were then able to submit 
the Bounce Back Loan application, which was approved and funds were drawn down to Ls 
account on 26 June.
L complained to Barclays about how long it had taken to provide the loan. The bank 
apologised for the delay, but said that this was due to the need for further information  
which it needed in order to carry out the checks expected of it before lending  as well as the 
volume of requests it was dealing with at the time. It did, though, accept that some aspects 
of its service couldve been better, and offered the company £200 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused.
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy, so they referred the complaint to us. They said the six-
week delay in obtaining the Bounce Back Loan had caused them to lose trade, as theyd 
needed the funds to implement COVID-secure measures in their shop and to fund transport 
for deliveries. They estimated losses in the region of £9,000.
One of our investigators reviewed Ls complaint. While accepting that the checks and 
subsequent changes that Barclays completed were both reasonable and handled in a timely 
manner, she thought the bank did delay things a little and that it had failed to keep L properly 
informed. She said that L had therefore had to chase things up repeatedly  but for the 
inconvenience this had caused to the company, she thought the banks existing offer of £200 
was fair compensation. 
Mrs B didnt accept our investigators view. She said the loan ought to have been processed 
within 24 hours, and that the delays had caused L financial losses. So with no resolution to 
the complaint, it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Lenders were required to undertake certain checks before approving an application for a 
Bounce Back Loan, including Know Your Customer, anti-money laundering and anti-fraud 
checks. I think it was reasonable for Barclays, in fulfilling these, to ensure that the 
information it held about L was accurate.
It was, therefore, always going to take a little more time for L to complete its Bounce Back 
Loan application, while this was attended to. And once the bank was in touch with Mr and 
Mrs B to obtain the information it needed, the changes and checks were all completed within 
a reasonable timeframe. 
However, I think it took much longer to get to this point than it should have done. Mr and 
Mrs B first attempted to apply on or around 7 May and were in touch with Barclays shortly 
thereafter to address the issue that was preventing them from submitting Ls application 
online. But they didnt hear from the bank until almost a month later, on 3 June.
I appreciate that at the time of Ls application, Barclays was dealing with both the significant 
impact of the pandemic and the unprecedented level of demand for borrowing under the 
government-backed loan schemes. But L was entitled to expect its application to be 
assessed quickly, as envisaged under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. I think the delay of a 
month to get things moving was unreasonable. While waiting, Mr and Mrs B contacted the 
bank on a number of occasions to chase things up, including a number of calls  spending a 
lot of time on hold  sending emails and online messages, and writing to their local MP. 
Taking all of this into account, I think it would be fair for Barclays to compensate L for the 
inconvenience it was caused by delays on the banks part. To that end, I think the £200 that 
Barclays offered is fair and reasonable. 
Mrs B says this isnt sufficient, as L also suffered financial losses and she believes that the 
bank should reimburse it for these. Ive taken into account everything shes told us about on 
these points. But ultimately, shes not provided us with sufficient detail or evidence to 
demonstrate the losses that L purportedly suffered, or to show how any such losses were 
the consequence of the delays caused by Barclays in arranging the Bounce Back Loan. So 
all I can fairly require Barclays to compensate L for is the inconvenience it was caused, for 
which I think £200 is fair. My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already offered to pay L compensation of £200 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay L £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman