DRN-3379492
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) failed to deal properly with 
the cancellation of a cheque  resulting in them going significantly overdrawn.
What happened
Towards the end of 2021, Mr and Mrs C opened a new savings account with a building 
society.  They intended to fund the account partly from the joint account they had with 
Lloyds.  They wrote a cheque for the deposit - which left their account substantially in credit.
But when the building society presented the cheque, Lloyds declined it, saying there were 
insufficient funds in the account.  Mr and Mrs C knew this wasnt the case.  So Mr C went to 
a local branch to find out what had happened.  While he was there, he was told the cheque 
had been declined because Lloyds didnt have a specimen signature for Mrs C on their 
system.  So they couldnt verify the payment.
To put matters right, Mr C arranged with the branch manager for the cheque to be cancelled 
and for a faster payment for the deposit to be sent to the building society in its place.
On his return home, Mrs C checked their account online and found that, not only had the 
faster payment been made, a second payment for the same amount had also been made.  
These two payments together left the account about £28,000 overdrawn.  As a result, Mr C 
received texts, asking him to pay in funds to pay back the overdraft  which was 
unauthorised.  And both Mr and Mrs Cs debit cards were cancelled.
Mr and Mrs C contacted Lloyds to find out what had happened  but without success.  They 
say they were told several times the position would be corrected. And it was suggested that, 
to correct the position more quickly, they could cancel the faster payment, which they didnt 
want to do.  So they made a complaint to Lloyds.
The day after they did this, and before Lloyds responded to their complaint, one of the 
payments was returned to Mr and Mrs Cs account and their account was returned to the 
correct position.  
In their response to the complaint, Lloyds explained they didnt process the cheque because 
they didnt have a specimen signature for Mrs C.  And they said that, although theyd told   
Mr C theyd cancelled the cheque, theyd not done that properly  which led to it being paid, 
in addition to the faster payment.  Lloyds apologised for this and for the worry the mistake 
had caused.  They offered to pay Mr and Mrs C £450 compensation, plus £78 for the 
expenses Mr and Mrs C said theyd incurred.
Mr and Mrs C rejected Lloyds offer and said they thought they should receive at least 
£5,000.  Lloyds looked again at the complaint and increased their offer to £595 
compensation plus £200 for expenses.   Mr and Mrs C rejected this as well and brought their 
complaint to us.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded that, while Lloyds had made 
mistakes, theyd offered a reasonable amount to compensate Mr and Mrs C for what had 
gone wrong.  While she acknowledged the worry the mistake had caused, she noted that 
this was an issue of human error  which does happen from time to time.  And that Lloyds 
had resolved the issue in a timely way.  
With regard to the £200 for expenses, she thought, in the absence of evidence showing Mr 
and Mrs C has incurred more costs, that this was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.  But I dont think Lloyds need to 
offer any more than they already have to resolve it.  Ill explain why.
Its clear from everything Ive read that Mr and Mrs C were very upset by what happened and 
 understandably  concerned about what had happened to a significant amount of their 
money.  But, as our investigator explained, mistakes do sometimes happen. Although Mr 
and Mrs C dont believe thats the case, nothing Ive read persuades me that theres another 
explanation. 
I can see Lloyds said in their second letter to Mr and Mrs C that, although Mrs C had come 
to the branch and provided a specimen signature earlier in 2021, they hadnt updated their 
systems.  Im satisfied this explains why the cheque was returned.  Any why it was 
suggested to Mr C that he make a faster payment instead.
And Lloyds have confirmed they made a second mistake in not cancelling the cheque 
properly  leading to it being presented and paid.  Mr and Mrs C have suggested that this 
was a potentially fraudulent, or criminal, act.  Thats not something I can make a decision 
about.  And I can only say that Lloyds should compensate them for what actually went wrong 
 rather than what could have happened.
Mr and Mrs C have said Lloyds offer is inadequate compensation for what happened.  
Having reviewed all of the documentation I can see that paying both the cheque and the 
faster payment meant Mr and Mrs C went overdrawn, received texts asking them to rectify 
the position and had their debit cards stopped.  
Ive carefully considered the impact that had.  Mr and Mrs C have said that they were 
worried about their financial reputation and the impact this situation had on their credit score.  
But Lloyds have confirmed no entries were made on their credit file  so there was no impact 
on that.  
Nor have I seen that anyone, apart from them, Lloyds (who acknowledged the mistake was 
theirs) and the building society (who were aware of the circumstances) know what 
happened.  Both businesses have a duty to keep their customers information confidential 
and nothing Ive seen suggests they didnt do that.  So I dont think theres evidence Mr and 
Mrs Cs reputation was affected by what happened.
And  while I know it was a worrying time - I can see the situation was resolved within a few 
days.  Mr and Mrs Cs account was overdrawn from a Thursday until the following Tuesday.  
They didnt incur any overdraft charges in this time.  Nor have they said they werent able to 
make necessary payments.So, while Lloyds do need to compensate them for what happened, Ive not seen anything to 
persuade me the compensation theyve offered should be increased.
Nor have I seen any evidence of the costs Mr and Mrs C say they incurred in trying to sort 
matters out.  Theyve referred to fuel costs for visits to the branch and the cost of calls.  But 
theyve not sent us anything to show what those were.  Without any evidence, its not 
reasonable for me to say Lloyds should pay more than the £200 theyve offered for this.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about Lloyds Bank 
PLC and directing Lloyds to pay them the £595 compensation and £200 contribution to 
expenses theyve previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman