DRN-4176572
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to refund payments that he 
didnt recognise.
What happened
What Mr H says
Mr H explained that he was notified about an unusual transaction that had left his account. 
Once he spoke with Barclays, it became apparent that two large payments had been made 
from his account which he denied making.
Mr H told Barclays that he still had both his phone and debit card and that no one else had 
access to them. He also stated that no one had the security details to access either the 
phone or his banking app and that he hadnt received any unusual calls or messages. Mr H 
was told that one payment was made to an account in his own name. The second 
unrecognised transaction was made using Mr Hs debit card to a merchant who Ill refer to as 
W. An account with W had also been set up using Mr Hs own name.
Mr H was also told that a transfer had been made from his savings account to his current 
account prior to the disputed transactions taking place. Mr H denied carrying out the 
transfers and believed it was the same people that stole money from his account.
Mr H sought a refund from Barclays who, after looking into the matter, declined to refund 
him. Mr H complained about this and after Barclays again declined his complaint, he brought 
the issue to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review.
What Barclays say
Barclays fraud detection systems identified one of the payments for further checks, but it 
was eventually released. They spoke with Mr H about the disputed transactions and blocked 
his card and re-issued it. After looking into the payments, they declined to refund him. 
Barclays said that there was no evidence that a third party had compromised his account. 
They confirmed that the payments had been made from Mr Hs banking app and the card 
payment had also used the same location that Mr H normally uses. Later, Barclays closed 
Mr Hs account.
The investigation so far
After Mr H complained, an investigator was assigned to look into what happened. Both 
parties were asked about the circumstances of the complaint. Mr H said he believed that his 
account had been blocked after the first disputed transaction, but Barclays had allowed the 
second payment to be made. He wanted a refund because he hadnt carried out any of 
these transactions (including the inter account transfer) himself. Mr H said he was asleep 
when the transactions were carried out.
Barclays provided details about the payments and how theyd been made. Those details 
showed that one was made using Mr Hs banking app and had needed the user to open both 
the phone and the banking app with details known only to Mr H. The payment had been 
made using a known device (that Mr H had used with other undisputed transactions) and the 
IP address was also previously used.
The other payment had used Mr Hs debit card and had also been made from the same IP 
address as other undisputed transactions. Barclays believed Mr H was responsible for them 
himself.
Note: IP addresses are a means to identify physical locations that online transactions are
connected to and can be the actual physical location or other locations connected to the
provider of the data services.
After reviewing the evidence, the investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. In summary 
she said:
Barclays evidence showed Mr Hs known device (phone) was used along with his 
personal security details to set up the payment.
Both payments were made from the same IP address also used for other undisputed 
transactions.
There was no evidence to show how his details could have been compromised (such 
as scam calls or other persons known to Mr H).
One payment was made into an account in Mr Hs own name.
Both payments were made after the account received a transfer from another 
account operated by Mr H.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators outcome and in response said:
He believed Barclays should have prevented the second payment as they already 
knew about the first one and had blocked the account.
Transactions to a betting company were responsible for someone breaking into his 
account.
He questioned the timing of the payments.
Barclays (and our service) failed to investigate the destination account of one of the 
payments.
Mr H believed he was the victim of identity fraud.
As no agreement between the parties could be reached, the complaint has now been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Barclays can hold Mr H liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
Barclays can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr H authorised 
the transactions, but Barclays cannot say that the use of the card details for online payments or the use of the banking app conclusively proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless Barclays can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mr Hs account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Mr H. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mr H responsible for the disputed 
transactions or not.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr H denies making two transactions and Barclays believe 
he was responsible for them. Essentially the complaint revolves around whether theres a 
plausible explanation for how someone other than Mr H could have made these two 
transactions. 
Mr H thought Barclays had failed to protect his account after reporting the first fraudulent 
transaction. Id like to clarify that both disputed transactions took place minutes apart (and 
not days) as Mr H believes. Theres often a delay recording some of the payments on 
monthly statements, but here Barclays werent told the payments were fraudulent until after 
theyd left the account, so couldnt have done anything further to prevent that. They did hold 
one of the payments but were later satisfied the payment wasnt suspicious.
Mr H has said he was asleep at the time, lived alone and hadnt provided anyone else with 
his account/card details, log on information for his banking app or security code for his 
phone. On the face of it, there doesnt seem to be a plausible explanation how someone 
other than Mr H could have made these payments. Thats because in order to do so, they 
would need access to both the phone and the necessary security information to log in to the 
phone and banking app. They would also need access to Mr Hs address because the 
payments were made at the time he was sleeping (presumably at home) and the same IP 
address was used for both disputed transactions and other non-disputed ones.
I have considered Mr Hs claim that he was the victim of identity theft. That may well be the 
case although Ive seen no evidence that he reported this to anyone. But, I dont think this is 
the likely explanation for the two payments because they were made from a location used by 
Mr H before. Theres also no explanation how the security information could be obtained by 
anyone else as Mr H confirmed he hadnt told anyone else about them nor had he received 
any unusual calls/messages (from a scammer).
I understand Mr H was critical of the investigation, in particular the lack of enquiries carried 
out with W. But here the complaint was against Barclays and not W. Barclays provided 
evidence they felt was sufficient to identify who had made these payments, so I dont think 
they needed to enquire with W about them as they believed Mr H was responsible. 
I also dont think that Ws evidence would have changed the outcome here because theres 
no plausible or realistic explanation how someone other than Mr H could have carried these 
transactions out.
So, when Ive considered all the evidence, my objective assessment is that I think Mr H is 
more likely than not responsible for these payments and it was reasonable for Barclays to 
hold him liable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman