DRN-3825427
The complaint
Mr D complains Santander UK Plc failed to make reasonable adjustments under the 
Equality Act 2010.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr D hoped for, but Ill explain my reasoning below.
Ill start by explaining that our Service is unable to make a finding on whether something 
amounts to discrimination under the Equality Act 2010. Thats because were an informal 
alternative to the Courts. Only a Court of law can make a legal finding based on the 
definitions set out in the Act. I know Mr D will be disappointed by this, but I can only make a 
decision in line with the powers we have.
Despite the above, I can make a finding on whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably. 
To do that, Ive taken several things into consideration, including the Equality Act 2010.
Mr D asked Santander to print his statements on blue A3 paper, with large font. He 
explained he required this adjustment due to his learning disability. However, while 
Santander increased the font size, the statements were sent on white A4 paper, and they 
provided him with a blue overlay. Mr D has told us this wasnt helpful as the information 
detailed on the statements was split over several pages, and the overlay wasnt suitable for 
his needs.
The Equality Act says businesses, like Santander, have a duty to make reasonable 
adjustments for customers who are placed at a substantial disadvantage due to their 
disability. However, in law, Santander was only obligated to make adjustments that are 
reasonable  theyre not required to only make the specific adjustments requested by their 
customer. So, thats what I considered when investigating Mr Ds complaint. 
Santander have explained theyve never offered the option of printing on A3 paper. And 
theyve recently stopped offering blue paper and provide an overlay instead. This is a 
commercial decision for them to make, but its clear Mr D struggled to review the statements 
he was provided. Despite this, Im not persuaded Santander treated him unfairly. Thats 
because Im aware Mr D has access to online banking, and in turn can view his statements 
online. Hes also able to download them into a PDF. Mr D has told us he doesnt require 
documents to be adjusted if hes reviewing them on a computer. This means he would have 
been able to download his statements and review them on his computer without needing 
Santander to make any adjustments to them.
Mr D has argued that he wanted to review and highlight his statements before sharing them 
with different organisations. However, PDF documents can often be highlighted on a 
computer and shared with other parties. So, I cant reasonably say Santanders actions 
prevented Mr D from being able to do what he intended with his statements.
Mr D has also said Santander should provide statements on blue paper because other 
businesses do. Its not for me to comment on the actions of other businesses. However, 
Santander isnt required to make identical reasonable adjustments to other businesses, so 
this point doesnt change my mind. Therefore, I still dont consider Santander treated Mr D 
unfairly regarding this complaint point.
When Mr D requested his statements, Santanders advisors gave the incorrect timescales 
for when he could expect to receive them. They also failed to tell Mr D they couldnt print on 
A3 paper. Santander acknowledged this was below the level of service Mr D should have 
received. To resolve matters they paid him £100 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused by their mistake. Im pleased to see Santander acknowledged their 
mistake quickly, and their award is in line with what I would have suggested. Its for this 
reason I wont be asking Santander to do anything further to resolve Mr Ds complaint.
For the reasons above, while I appreciate Mr Ds frustrations, Im not upholding this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman