DRN-2725506
The complaint
Mr M complains about the information that NCI Insurance Services Ltd (NCI), as appointed 
representative of Jigsaw Insurance Services Plc, gave him when he queried the cancellation 
costs of his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M took out a motor insurance policy in September 2019. NCI is the administrator of that 
policy. On 1 October 2019, and within the 14-day cooling-off period, Mr M called NCI to 
query how much it would cost to cancel his policy. The adviser Mr M spoke with told him that 
there would be an outstanding balance of £52.16. Mr M asked how the figure was 
calculated, and the adviser explained that the outstanding balance was as a result of the 
reclaimed discount that had been originally applied to the policy. Mr M was unhappy with this 
and said he didnt feel that the explanation he had been given made sense to him. The 
matter was escalated to a manager.
A manager called Mr M back two days later. She said that whilst the figure Mr M was quoted 
was correct, the explanation given was wrong. The adviser went through the costs of 
cancellation and provided some clarity around how the discount had been applied to the 
policy. During this call, Mr M was also made aware that there would be an additional fee 
charged by the insurer as well as the fee charged by NCI. Mr M said he was unhappy that he 
would be charged two administration fees. He also said the explanation given by the first 
adviser he spoke with confused matters unnecessarily and this had affected his wellbeing 
and caused him considerable stress and anxiety. Mr M kept his policy in force until it was 
later cancelled in May 2020. But he raised a complaint with NCI.
NCI reviewed matters. It acknowledged that Mr M had initially been given incorrect 
information and said this had been fed back to the adviser hed spoken with. It said that the 
second person Mr M spoke with gave him clearer information. It also pointed out that all its 
fees were clearly outlined in the terms of business, which Mr M accepted before buying the 
policy. Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators reviewed matters. He acknowledged that being given wrong 
information wouldve caused Mr M distress. But he thought NCI had already resolved the 
complaint fairly and didnt think it needed to do anything more. He also thought the fees it 
outlined were reasonable. NCI didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Mr M did and 
repeated his earlier points.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And, to be clear, the complaint Im considering here is the mis-information Mr M was given in 
his call with NCI on 1 October 2019, and the issues that surround that. Therefore, this 
decision wont be commenting on how the charges were calculated when Mr M did come to 
cancel his policy in May 2020.
Mr M used a price comparison website to find motor insurance in September 2019. NCI has 
provided a screenshot of what Mr M wouldve seen during the process, and I can see he 
wouldve had to confirm hed read the terms of business before proceeding with the policy 
purchase. And, having seen a copy of NCIs terms of business, Im satisfied that the 
cancellation fees were clearly disclosed there. Ive also considered that, by his own 
admission, Mr M said he didnt read any of the terms and conditions when he bought the 
policy. It follows that I dont think NCI was unclear about the cancellation charges at the point 
Mr M bought the policy. 
NCI has told us that, if Mr M had chosen to cancel the policy in October 2019, it wouldve 
been responsible for processing the cancellation by notifying the insurer, repaying the 
premium finance with the finance provider and collecting any outstanding payment. With that 
in mind, it seems reasonable that NCI would charge an administration fee on cancellation. 
Part of Mr Ms complaint is that he wouldve also been charged an administration fee by the 
insurer. But this isnt something I can consider against NCI. If Mr M wishes to enquire more 
about that, he would need to do so with the insurer.
As I understand it, Mr M is mainly unhappy about the explanation he was given about how 
the cancellation charges were calculated. Its not in dispute that Mr M received confusing 
information when he spoke with an adviser on 1 October 2019. Hes told us he had sleepless 
nights because he couldnt make sense of how NCI had reached the calculations that it had. 
He also said the mis-information caused his wellbeing to suffer and caused him considerable 
stress and anxiety.
I was sorry to hear about how the matter affected Mr M. I dont doubt that it wouldve been 
distressing to receive misleading information. Ive reviewed NCIs actions following this, and 
Ive considered that a manager called Mr M back two days later, as promised on the initial 
call. In that call the manager Mr M spoke with acknowledged that the previous adviser 
provided misleading information and gave Mr M a clearer explanation about how the 
cancellation fees were calculated, which Mr M then said he understood. The final response 
letter also outlines that feedback was provided to the first adviser.
I appreciate how upsetting the matter was for Mr M and, as I understand it, hed like 
monetary compensation for the distress he was caused. But having considered the 
circumstances carefully, I consider the way NCI handled the error, particularly the timeframe 
in which NCI provided clearer information, to be sufficient here. It follows that I dont uphold 
Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
NCI Insurance Services Ltd (NCI), as appointed representative of Jigsaw Insurance Services 
Plc, has dealt with this complaint fairly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman