DRN-2800615
The complaint
Mr R complains that Vanquis Bank Limited wont refund to him the money that he paid for 
some accommodation. 
What happened
Mr R used his Vanquis Bank credit card in January 2020 to pay £226 to an online booking 
company for a two night stay in March 2020 in some accommodation. There were some 
issues with the accommodation so Mr R claimed a refund from Vanquis Bank under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and he then complained to it about some other issues. 
It said that the booking company acted solely as an intermediary which broke the debtor-
creditor-supplier chain required for a claim under section 75. It said that its section 75 team 
should have forwarded Mr Rs complaint to its customer relations team for it to respond to 
his other concerns  it apologised for any distress caused by its failure to do that and 
credited £100 compensation to his account. Mr R wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
This service considered his complaint about its response to his section 75 claim and his 
complaint about the other issues separately. His complaint about the other issues has been 
upheld and Mr R has accepted the decision that Vanquis Bank should pay him a further £50 
compensation, though he did make some further comments about his complaints.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint about Vanquis Banks response to his 
section 75 claim should be upheld. He didnt think that there was a valid debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship in these circumstances so the section 75 criteria hadnt been met and 
he didnt think that Vanquis Bank had acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr Rs 
section 75 claim.
Mr R has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that the only 
means of contacting the accommodation provider was through the booking company or by 
using a mobile number supplied by the booking company and that most of the 
communication was through its messaging app. He says that the booking company was the 
supplier, agent, main point of contact for communication and managed the relationship on 
the account between him and the accommodation provider. He says that the finding on the 
applicability of section 75 is spurious and that section 75 is designed to protect credit card 
users so online booking agencies shouldnt be able to claim exemption from a section 75 
claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Mr R used his Vanquis credit card to pay for the accommodation and in certain 
circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier;
one of those circumstances is that there must be a relevant relationship between the 
debtor, the creditor and the supplier;
in these circumstances Mr R is the debtor because hes used credit to pay for the 
accommodation, the creditor is Vanquis Bank because it provided the credit and the 
supplier is the accommodation provider because it provided the accommodation to 
Mr R;
Mr Rs payment was made to the booking company (not to the accommodation 
provider) and the booking company didnt provide the accommodation to Mr R (the 
accommodation was provided to him by the accommodation provider);
theres no relevant relationship between Vanquis Bank and the accommodation 
provider because the credit was used to make a payment to the booking company 
(not to the accommodation provider) and I dont consider that section 75 applies in 
these circumstances;
I sympathise with Mr R for the issues that he had with the accommodation and 
understand the issues that he has with the applicability of section 75 - but the 
requirement for a debtor-creditor-supplier relationship is clearly set out in section 75 
and it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Vanquis Bank to accept liability 
under that section when the required debtor-creditor-supplier relationship isnt 
present; 
Vanquis Bank says that £100 compensation was credited to Mr Rs account in March 
2021 and hell be receiving £50 compensation following the decision on his other 
complaint; and
I consider that Vanquis Banks response to Mr Rs section 75 claim has been fair and 
reasonable in these circumstances and Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require it to refund to him the money that he paid for the 
accommodation, to pay him any further compensation or to take any other action in 
response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman