DRN-3062132
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs L are unhappy that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) didnt do more to prevent 
several transactions leaving the late Mr Bs account. Mr B and Mrs L bring this complaint in 
their capacities as representatives of the late Mr Bs estate.
What happened
The late Mr B had a Lloyds current account. His son, Mr B had authority to carry out certain 
transactions on the account as a third party. In November 2018, Ms P, who was another of 
the late Mr Bs children, was also added to the account as a third party with the same 
authority as Mr B.
In December 2018 Ms P wrote three cheques on the late Mr Bs behalf instructing payment 
to three separate individuals. All were cashed in December and a total of £55,000 left the 
late Mr Bs account. The late Mr B had sadly passed away this same month, after the first 
cheque was cashed and before the second and third. 
In June 2019, Mr B informed Lloyds the late Mr B had passed away six months before and 
hed only just been informed of this. Lloyds recorded at the time that Mr B had said they 
were estranged although hes subsequently said this is not the case. Around this time, Mr B 
and Mrs L, another of the late Mr Bs children, appear to have discovered the money that 
had left their fathers account around the time of his death and raised a complaint with 
Lloyds. In summary they raised the following concerns:
The late Mr B didnt give authority for Ms P to be added to the account so she 
shouldnt have had authority to carry out any transactions on the account. The 
consent form has since gone missing and Mrs L and Mr B feel they have evidenced it 
wasnt correctly completed.
The late Mr B was in a care home prior to his death and was unresponsive around 
the time Ms P claimed he consented to her being added to the account and the 
cheques were written. So he couldnt have authorised this.
A Lloyds branch employee was an old friend of Ms P and they believe this person 
was working with her throughout to ensure the transactions were carried out 
successfully.
Before the three cheques were successfully cashed Ms P wrote another cheque to 
herself and this was declined by Lloyds. They feel this proves she was acting 
disingenuously and Lloyds shouldve picked up on this and prevented the 
subsequent money from leaving the account.
Lloyds accepted a fake will from Ms P after Mr B informed it about the late Mr Bs 
death.
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint as it felt it had followed the correct processes in allowing 
the cheques to debit the late Mr Bs account. Overall it felt the matter was a civil dispute 
between Mrs L, Mr B and Ms P which wasnt something it would be involved with.
Mrs L and Mr B brought the complaint to our service but our investigator didnt uphold it. 
Overall, they didnt think Lloyds had acted unreasonably in allowing the three cheques to 
debit the late Mr Bs account. As Mrs L and Mr B didnt accept this the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs L and Mr B believe the money that left their late fathers account, shouldnt have left the 
account. They feel it was stolen by Ms P because she wasnt acting on the late Mr Bs behalf 
but in her own interests. They feel theyve provided evidence the late Mr B couldnt have 
authorised her actions.
But, this is only their side of the story. One of the parties involved in this issue is Ms P and 
as shes not party to this complaint I cant take her testimony into account. I also dont know 
what the late Mr Bs testimony is because he sadly passed away around the time the 
payments were made. Mrs L and Mr B dont appear to have been aware of his death until six 
months after it happened. And based on what theyve told us, they hadnt discussed with him 
what his intentions were for the money in his account around the time of his death. So their 
testimony doesnt seem to be based on any interaction with the late Mr B about what he 
wanted to happen with his money.
Our service is an informal one, and we dont settle or get involved in situations we deem to 
be civil disputes. Mrs L and Mr B has asked our service to consider a complaint about the 
actions of Lloyds and I have done that. But having carefully considered what Mrs L and Mr B 
have told us about this complaint, overall, I think this matter has come about as a result of a 
civil dispute between them and Ms P and not because of Lloyds actions. 
So, even if I had concluded Lloyds had acted incorrectly in allowing the money to leave the 
late Mr Bs account, I dont feel I could fairly tell it to return the money to the account, or to 
Mrs L and Mr B, because I have no way of determining whether or not they, or the estate, 
are rightfully due that money. And the only will thats been submitted has been disputed. 
Overall if they feel they, or the estate, has suffered a loss, this is something they will need to 
seek legal advice on.
Should Lloyds have added Ms P as a third party?
There isnt a great deal of evidence to rely on in this case aside from Mrs L and Mr Bs 
testimony and there are some gaps in the events that took place. So Ive had to reach a 
conclusion on what I think, on balance, is more likely to have happened.
Mrs L and Mr B have said Lloyds have acted unreasonably in allowing Ms P to be added as 
a third party to the late Mr Bs account. Theyve said the mandate was forged by Ms P and 
this shouldve been spotted by Lloyds.
The mandate itself is no longer available  Lloyds has said it cant be found and it felt it was 
likely lost after Mr B came into branch to report his fathers death and asked to see it. Mrs L 
says she saw a copy of it and it was clearly forged. She believes it was deliberately 
destroyed by a Lloyds staff member who was working with Ms P.
Lloyds records show the third party mandate it received was deemed genuine and was 
accepted as such at the time. Its notes reflect Ms P was given access to all three accounts 
as the late Mr B was no longer mobile. So, I think this means its likely the mandate met the 
requirements in place at the time and wasnt identified as fraudulent or suspicious by the 
staff member that reviewed it. And, I think its likely staff are trained to be on the look out and spot obvious forgeries. So, overall, I dont think its likely the mandate was obviously a 
forgery and shouldve been refused by Lloyds.
Mrs L and Mr B have said they saw a copy of the mandate and it had been signed by two 
witnesses. Theyve provided visitor records from the late Mr Bs care home that show two 
people didnt visit him around the time it was signed so it wasnt correctly witnessed and 
shouldnt have been accepted. But Lloyds mandate policy in place at the time didnt require 
two witnesses to complete it. So I dont think its relevant that two people didnt visit the late 
Mr B around the time the mandate was completed. 
I cant comment on why Mrs L mightve been told a doctor or a care home employee acted 
as a second witness. Lloyds has no record of this having been discussed, which is unusual 
given other visits she made to branch to discuss the mandate and details of what was 
discussed have been recorded by Lloyds. Whilst Mrs L has said she recalls seeing a second 
witness on the mandate, as this wasnt required at the time according to policy and theres 
no record of this, I think its more likely than not this wasnt the case.
Mrs L and Mr B have provided medical evidence that around two weeks after the mandate 
was signed and returned to Lloyds the late Mr B was hospitalised and unresponsive. These 
notes dont suggest this had been the case for several weeks, so I dont think this does 
provide conclusive evidence he wouldve been unable to agree to Ms P being added to his 
account. And, records from his care home state that in the days after the mandate was given 
to Lloyds he was responsive - there were no concerns and hed received a visit from a 
relative. 
So I dont think Ive seen evidence he was unresponsive when the mandate was signed. But, 
more importantly, I havent seen anything to suggest Lloyds wouldve been aware this was 
the case when it received the mandate and therefore it shouldnt have been accepted. In 
particular, I note Mr B was another third party on the account. And if he, or any other family 
member had concerns the late Mr B was unresponsive or at risk in some way, it seems 
strange they didnt inform Lloyds of this at any point. 
Mrs L and Mr B have also said the details on the mandate didnt match the late Mr Bs 
genuine details. As the mandate isnt available, I cant check this. But again, given staff know 
to look out for obvious forgeries and the mandate was accepted I think its unlikely the details 
didnt match. Theyve also said Lloyds shouldve checked with the other third party  Mr B  
before adding a new one. I wouldnt have expected it to do this. The late Mr B was the 
account holder and its his consent that was needed not any existing third party on the 
account.
Ive also taken into account that Ms P remained in contact with Lloyds after Mrs L and Mr B 
accused her of committing fraud. She provided a will, which Ive talked about more later, 
seemingly to prove the money had gone to the beneficiaries the late Mr B intended it to go 
to. At this point the beneficiaries had received the funds, so its unclear what Ms P wouldve 
had to gain from remaining in contact with the bank if shed been acting fraudulently.
The point for me to consider here is whether Lloyds failed to spot an obviously fraudulent 
mandate. Based on the evidence available, Im not persuaded the document was more likely 
than not forged. But whats more relevant, is that Im not persuaded there was anything 
Lloyds reasonably ought to have identified and been concerned about at the time. So I dont 
think it acted unreasonably in accepting the mandate.
Were Lloyds staff enabling and aiding Ms P?Mrs L and Mr B claim a member of staff in a branch knew Ms P and helped her commit 
fraud. Theyve said the staff member and Ms P were childhood friends. The staff member 
has strongly denied this and has also said Mrs L and Mr Bs ongoing behaviour towards 
them and contact with them over this matter has significantly impacted their life.
I have no way of verifying whether or not Ms P knew the staff member. But, based on what 
Mrs L and Mr B have said, its not really clear to me why a staff member risk losing their job 
and risk the potential legal ramifications of being involved in the theft of £55,000, to help 
someone they were friends with in childhood. 
As well as forging documents to add Ms P to the account, Mrs L and Mr B seem to have 
suggested the staff member helped facilitate the payments of the cheques. But the cheques 
were paid out to different account holders, one with a different bank, on different dates. I 
cant see how anyone would guarantee one particular staff member in one branch would 
always be involved in checking and processing these cheques, which tends to be a fairly 
automated process these days.
Mrs L and Mr B have also accused this same staff member of accepting a fake will and 
theyve said she refused to stamp it as fraudulent. I wouldnt expect a bank or its staff to 
make a judgment on whether or not a will is the genuine request of the individual that has 
passed away, that would be a legal matter. 
I can see that Mrs L and Mr B obtained a letter of administration after they discovered their 
father had passed away  several months after his death. This is generally granted to the 
deceaseds next of kin in the absence of a will. Whilst I dont think this necessarily evidences 
the will provided to Lloyds wasnt created by the late Mr B, I think it was appropriate Lloyds 
accepted the letter of administration as a genuine document issued by a court. 
Id also add that the will was not received until several months after the cheques had been 
debited. So the will, which Mrs L and Mr B have said is fake, had no impact on the decision 
the bank took to release the money that was paid out to the beneficiaries named in it.
Mrs L and Mr B have also suggested the third party mandate is unavailable because the 
staff member in question lost it in order to help Ms P. It is unfortunate the third party 
mandate is no longer available. But for the reasons Ive already given I dont think theres 
persuasive evidence to support Mrs L and Mrs Bs assertion. 
Did Lloyds fail to identify Ms P was committing fraud?
Mr B and Mrs L have said a cheque for £3,500 made payable to Ms P, seemingly signed by 
the late Mr B on 9 November 2018, was fraudulent and Lloyds rejected it for this reason. I 
can see the cheque was paid out and back into the late Mr Bs account the same day. So its 
clear it was unsuccessful for some reason. 
Mrs L and Mr B believe Ms P forged the late Mr Bs signature in order to steal £3,500. And I 
accept its possible the signature didnt match the signature Lloyds held on its records. As 
Ive said, its clear the cheque wasnt accepted and the cheque appears to be a genuine one 
linked to the late Mr Bs account.
But, I dont think it follows this means Ms P had deliberately forged the late Mr Bs signature 
in order to steal from him. I think there are other alternatives. For example, from what Ive 
seen, the late Mr B required care towards the end of his life, so it could be his signature has 
changed due to a change in his physical capabilities which isnt uncommon as account 
holders get older. And, after this cheque was unsuccessful, the late Mr B sent a mandate to Lloyds naming 
Ms P as a third party on the account which gave her access to the funds in the account. And, 
when she was a third party she signed three cheques in her own name (rather than, 
perhaps, forging the late Mr Bs signature), so its clear she wasnt trying to hide her 
involvement with the account. Id also note it doesnt seem she ever again attempted to pay 
herself the £3,500 the rejected cheque was for.
If, as Mrs L and Mr B have suggested, Ms P had full control of the situation and was able to 
fraudulently obtain access to the late Mr Bs account, its not clear why she would add 
herself as a third party and then sign several other cheques herself. She also continued to 
correspond with the bank and provide information when requested after Mr B had informed 
Lloyds the late Mr B had passed away.
In summary, I think there are other explanations for the rejected cheque, even if it was 
because the signature didnt match the signature Lloyds held on file. But in any event, I dont 
think there is sufficient evidence to suggest Ms P was acting fraudulently and that Lloyds 
reasonably ought to have identified this and ended her involvement with the account.
Id once again highlight that Mr B was a third party on the account and Mrs L was also the 
late Mr Bs next of kin. Mrs L says she visited the late Mr B towards the end of his life. If they 
had concerns about the late Mr Bs vulnerability it seems strange they didnt discuss this with 
his bank or put measures in place, such as a power of attorney to better protect him.
Should Lloyds have allowed the cheques to be debited from the account?
The three cheques that instructed £55,000 to be debited from the late Mr Bs accounts were 
all signed on 9 December 2019 by Ms P. The cheques were made to three separate 
individuals, none of whom were Ms P, all of whom appear to be connected to the late Mr B in 
some capacity. 
Mrs L and Mr B have provided evidence that the late Mr B was taken to hospital around the 
time the cheques were signed and its recorded that he was very ill and unresponsive. But I 
dont think this means he didnt agree to them. Nor does it mean he wasnt present when 
Ms P signed and completed them. Its not possible for us to know for sure if hed instructed 
her to do this on his behalf before he became ill and sadly passed away. But its clear he had 
started making some financial arrangements with Ms P before this time as shed been added 
as a third party to the account.
But, whats more relevant here is that Lloyds wouldnt have known the late Mr B was 
unresponsive in hospital at the time the cheques were cashed.
Lloyds has shown me that according to the mandate policy in place at the time Ms P was a 
third party on the account, she was entitled to sign, draw and accept cheques on behalf of 
the account holder. She was also able to make cash withdrawals and set up standing orders 
 both of which wouldve allowed her to access the funds without writing cheques.
So Im satisfied Lloyds didnt make an error by allowing the cheques to be cashed. It may be 
that this policy is different now and thats what Mrs L and Mr B have seen - banks can and 
do change their policies according to business need.
Id also add that, for the reasons I explained at the start of my decision, I have no way of 
fairly concluding who the late Mr B intended to receive this money. Sadly, its no longer 
possible to get his testimony. And Mrs L and Mr B, who are bringing the complaint, dont 
appear to have had much contact with him around the time of his death. So it doesnt seem 
they were able to speak to him directly about this either and find out exactly what he wanted to happen to his money. There is also, as Ive mentioned, another party to this issue  Ms P 
 whos testimony I dont have.
So, even if I did think Lloyds had acted outside its own policies, I cant know whether or not 
there has been a loss to the estate as the money may have been paid to the intended 
beneficiaries. Overall, Im satisfied this complaint has come about due to a civil dispute 
between the estate of Mr B and the beneficiaries of the funds. Therefore, I dont think Lloyds 
is responsible for any loss the representatives feel the estate has suffered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman