DRN-3804972
The complaint
Mr K says Salary Finance Loans Limited, trading as Salary Finance, irresponsibly lent to 
him. 
What happened
Mr K took out a loan from Salary Finance on 19 July 2018 for £5,500 over 36 months. The 
monthly repayment was £199.63 and the total repayable was £7,186.69. The APR was 
19.9%. There is an outstanding balance.
Mr K says his financial situation was dire at the time, he was using payday loans and doesnt 
feel relevant checks were done. This loan got him into more debt. He wants to only repay the 
capital he borrowed; some compensation for the strain and worry; and for all negative 
information to be removed from his credit file.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. He thought Salary Finance ought to have 
completed better checks but didnt think had it done so it ought to have made a different 
lending decision.
Mr K disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. He said he 
was reliant on payday loans, and to make the repayments on this loan he had to take out 
other loans.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending, including
the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, are set out on our
website and Ive followed it here.
Salary Finance needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it shouldve carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to 
make sure Mr K could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent, the length of the agreement, the frequency and amount of repayments, the total
amount repayable and what Salary Finance knew about Mr K at the time he applied for the 
loan.
I can see that Salary Finance obtained information about Mr Ks annual net income 
(£27,509) and checked this with his employer. It asked about his housing costs  he was 
paying no rent as he lived with his parents. It completed a credit check to understand his 
credit history and his existing commitments. Salary Finance used this information to 
calculate Mr Ks disposable income and make an assessment of whether the loan was 
affordable. It decided it was fair to lend to Mr K.
Im not persuaded these checks were proportionate given the loan value and the fact there 
was evidence of some payday lending on Mr Ks credit report. I think Salary Finance should 
have carried out a fuller financial review. So I have looked at Mr Ks bank statements from 
the months prior to his loan application. I am not saying Salary Finance had to do this, but it 
is one way for me to recreate what better checks would most likely have shown. 
Having done so I dont think Salary Finance ought to have made a different lending decision 
had it completed better checks. Mr K says he was using payday loans and I can see 
evidence of this from one such lender, but I dont think it was to the extent Salary Finance 
should have concluded he was in harmful cycle of borrowing to repay. His statements show 
after his committed living and credit cost he had enough disposable income to afford this 
loan. And the lenders credit check showed he was not over indebted (£5,299) and had no 
defaults or public records. He was generally managing his existing credit well. Mr K also 
supplied a copy his full credit file and whilst this shows his financial stability deteriorated in 
later years, it doesnt show that there were signs that this loan might not be sustainably 
affordable at the time he applied. 
Mr K has confirmed the loan was for debt consolidation. I cant see that Salary Finance 
asked about the purpose of the loan and knew this. It ought to have done this as part of its 
checks. I can see from Mr Ks statements he used the loan in part to clear some of his debts 
that would most likely have had higher interest rates. So it seems had Salary Finance done 
better checks, and asked about the purpose of the loan, it would fairly have concluded as  
Mr K planned to repay higher-cost debts it would not be financially harmful for it to lend to 
him. 
Overall, I dont think Salary Finance was wrong to lend to Mr K. I note there remains an 
outstanding balance on the loan. I would remind Salary Finance of its obligation to treat Mr K 
fairly, and with forbearance - if appropriate depending on his current circumstances.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman