DRN-2238877
The complaint
T, a limited company, complains that WorldPay (UK) Limited mis-sold an agreement to 
provide merchant processing and didnt follow up on its request to cancel it.
What happened
T applied for the account on 4 March 2020. On 7 April 2020 it asked that it be cancelled as 
fees had been applied. It said that WorldPay had told it that these would only be applied 
when Ts website had been established. WorldPay did not cancel the acquiring element and 
fees of £80 a month continued to be debited despite further contact from the director. When 
T complained WorldPay said it would refund the fees. And since T referred the matter to this 
service it offered to pay T £200 in compensation.
Our investigator recommended that it pay compensation of £300 in total. She established 
with the director of T that all the fees had been refunded by August 2020. T was a separate 
legal entity so we couldnt take into account the personal impact on the director. There was 
no evidence of disruption to business performance but there was inconvenience caused. 
She didnt accept the directors request for £200 compensation for each time he contacted 
WorldPay as reasonable and considered an overall amount of £300 was appropriate. 
WorldPay agreed to pay this to settle the complaint.
T didnt agree. The director stated that there was a big difference in how his time is valued. 
And he wanted the complaint to be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
WorldPay accepts that errors were made. And that T was wrongly told it wouldnt be charged 
at first. WorldPay ought to have cancelled the agreement when the director first called. But it 
didnt act on this and it accepts he made further contact about this. And that the full refund of 
fees wasnt made until after a complaint from T.
Putting things right
As our investigator has explained we are only able to look at the impact here on T, a 
separate legal entity, and not on the director personally. Ive not got evidence to show that T 
suffered any financial loss as a result of what happened now that the fees have been 
refunded. I know that the director wants his time to be reflected. We dont generally make 
awards based on units of time and if we do then only at a modest and not professional rate. 
Here I think its appropriate to look at the overall impact of what happened and to the 
inconvenience for T.
Having done so I consider that the amount now offered is appropriate. I appreciate the 
director will be disappointed by the outcome.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require WorldPay (UK) Limited to pay T £300 
as it has now offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman