DRN-1965566
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) hasnt handled her request 
for a cash settlement on her claim fairly.
What happened
Mrs D lost a precious ring. She contacted RSA which agreed to meet her claim and sent her 
a voucher for just over £950 to be used in one of two jewellers. Mrs D accepted this and 
spent some of the voucher in the store closest to her. She couldnt find anything else she 
liked and asked RSA to send her just over £600 (the amount left on the voucher) as cash. 
RSA said it would do this  but said the cash value was only about £411.
 
Mrs D didnt think that was fair: RSA said it was following the terms and conditions in the 
policy, which say that if it settles a claim in cash it need only pay what it would have paid. It 
says this is where the £411 comes from.
Mrs D complained but RSA didnt change its stance, so she asked us to review the 
complaint. Our investigator said he thought RSA was being fair  but did suggest RSA 
extend the date on the voucher to give Mrs D more time to use it. RSA said it would do that. 
Mrs D is still unhappy. She says the shop she spent some of the voucher in has closed down 
and its difficult for her to get to the other. She thinks its unfair for RSA to discount the 
voucher in these circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. I know this isnt what Mrs D wants to hear, but I will 
explain why Ive reached this decision.
Firstly though Id like to say how sorry I am that Mrs D lost a ring that meant so much to her.
RSA accepted Mrs Ds claim, and once it had done that it could choose how to settle it. RSA 
gave Mrs D a voucher for what it thought the ring was worth, so she could choose what she 
liked to replace it, and Mrs D seemed to accept that. Its only been since she couldnt find 
things she liked in a local store that problems arose.
RSA has accommodated Mrs Ds request to convert the balance on her voucher to cash. But 
in those circumstances  that is, where its the customers choice to take cash rather than a 
voucher  the terms and conditions of Mrs Ds policy say RSA only has to pay in cash what it 
would have spent on the voucher. Thats often substantially less than the face value of the 
voucher because of the discounts it can get. I think RSAs offer was fair.
I can see RSA has agreed to extend the expiry date on the voucher if Mrs D wants this, so 
she will have more time to use it. If Mrs D asks, Id expect RSA to give her the names of any 
other jewellers on its approved list, which might be more convenient for her to get to, to use 
the voucher.
I think RSA has been fair in the way its handled this claim.
Our investigator did suggest RSA might buy a ring on Mrs Ds behalf and send it to her. I 
think thats an option  although of course Mrs D has spent some of the voucher, so it might 
not be what she wants now. Im sure RSA will accommodate such a request if Mrs D wants 
this.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman