DRN-2518161
The complaint
Miss W complains that TSB Bank Plc didnt advise her that her cash ISA standing order had 
stopped being collected. 
  
What happened
Miss W had a monthly standing order being paid into her ISA with TSB. When she contacted 
them in October 2020 to check the balance, it was lower than she had expected. TSB 
explained they had been returning the standing orders since April due to HMRC 
requirements, and that Miss Ws statements would have shown this.
 
Miss W says she hadnt received any statements from TSB since February 2020 so she 
wouldnt have known. Nor did she receive any letters explaining what had happened. She 
said she also didnt notice the standing order money of £150 being put back into her account 
as she mainly uses telephone banking.
 
Shes also unhappy as she was meant to use her ISA money for Christmas, which was now 
ruined. She would like answers and compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
 
TSB explained that ISAs are administered under HMRC rules and its common for accounts 
to become inactive. This can happen where there have been more withdrawals than 
deposits meaning there hasnt been a subscription. This happened in Miss Ws case. TSB 
explained they couldnt start taking payment again until a new declaration had been agreed 
and signed. 
As soon as Miss W questioned why her standing order wasnt being credited, TSB arranged 
for the account to be reactivated so she could continue making payments from November. 
They explained they didnt write to Miss W when her account became inactive because it is 
very common for customers not to pay into an account. They also said Miss W should have 
been aware that the money was being put back into her account each month. 
Our investigator felt that TSB hadnt done enough to let Miss W know her ISA had been 
deactivated. She accepted that it was Miss Ws responsibility to check her account, and that 
she should have noticed the money going back in. However, she also accepted that Miss W 
had been paying into her ISA for several years. She would always withdraw the majority of 
the funds in January, leaving a small amount in the account, and the standing order would 
then continue to be taken. It was only after Miss W made her withdrawal in January 2020 
that the standing order was stopped after the payment in March.
 
As Miss W followed the same pattern in 2020 as she did in 2019, our investigator was of the 
opinion that she wouldnt have known to check whether or not she needed to re activate her 
ISA. She felt that as TSB could see the standing order being attempted each month, they 
should have known Miss W still wanted to pay and should have done more to activate the 
account sooner. 
Because of this, our investigator asked TSB to award Miss W £100 for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
TSB disagreed. They placed the onus on Miss W to check her accounts regularly. Doing this 
would have shown that the money was being returned. They said the introduction of flexible 
ISAs had led to this anomaly, and they there was no requirement within the HMRC rules for 
them to advise a customer when an account becomes inactive. They explained Miss W 
would have been told about the changes to ISA rules when they were introduced but 
admitted she probably wouldnt remember the changes, as they hadnt affected her.
 
TSB remained of the view they had made no bank error, and that it should have been down 
to Miss W to check her statements.
 
Because they didnt agree with our investigators view, the complaint has been passed to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked over everything, I agree with the investigator for the same reasons. I will 
explain why.
 
Miss W has been making regular payment of £150 per month for a number of years. In 
January 2019, Miss W withdrew the majority of what was in her ISA, leaving a small amount. 
The standing order continued automatically for the following year until January 2020 when 
Miss W did the same thing.
 
I understand that more funds were withdrawn than were deposited in the previous year, and 
that 2020 was the first year this had happened. However to Miss W, she had added money 
into her ISA in the previous tax year, and I cant see that it was ever made clear to her that 
shed need to calculate whether or not shed withdrawn more than shed put in.
 
Miss W didnt know she would need to re activate her ISA in April 2020, because shed done 
exactly as she had done the previous year without any issues. TSB have acknowledged that 
Miss W may not have been aware of the rules that were brought into place in 2017, and that 
it may have been misunderstood that she needed to increase the balance. 
Theyve also explained that its common for ISAs to become inactive as customers stop 
making payments. However in this case, Miss W was trying to make the payments. I think 
TSB should have noticed that the payment was still being attempted each month. 
Overall, I fully agree that Miss W is not out of pocket and that there was a strong 
responsibility on her part to check her statements. Had she done so, she would have seen 
that the standing order was being returned. But at the same time, Miss W has explained she 
uses telephone banking most of the time, meaning she wouldnt have noticed this 
happening. And I dont think its totally fair to expect Miss W to have checked her statements 
if she didnt feel the need to within those months. She did call to check the balance in 
October, suggesting to me that she was keeping on top of her finances as best as she 
needed to.
 
Because of this, I think TSB should have done more to make Miss W aware the payments 
werent being made. And I think it fair they award Miss W £100 for the trouble and upset 
caused when she realised she didnt have the funds she thought would be in her ISA.
The £100 includes any loss of interest due to the monthly payment not being invested as 
Miss W intended.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. TSB Bank Plc should award Miss W £100 for 
the trouble and upset caused. This includes any loss of interest due to the monthly payment 
not being invested as Miss W intended.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman