DRN-2734800
The complaint
Miss F has complained that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) unfairly declined a claim 
for storm damage under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss F contacted Fairmead to report that tiles had come off her roof and water had entered 
her property during a storm. Fairmead arranged for a company (Company A) to assess the 
roof, which said the damage was due to maintenance issues. So Fairmead declined that part 
of the claim. Fairmead also arranged for a company (Company B) to assess the internal 
damage. Following that, Fairmead accepted the claim for internal damage as accidental 
damage. 
Company B didnt carry out a full inspection of the roof, but told Fairmead it thought the roof 
damage might have been caused by the storm. So, Fairmead asked for it to carry out a full 
inspection. Company B arranged for Company C to carry out a roof inspection, which took 
place several months later. Following receipt of Company Cs report, Fairmead maintained 
its decision to decline the claim, as it said the damage was due to maintenance issues.
When Miss F complained to Fairmead, it said the claim for the roof wasnt covered by the 
policy, as the damage was the result of maintenance issues.
So, Miss F complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
Fairmead had acted reasonably when it declined the storm damage claim.
As Miss F did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Looking at the first question, Ive checked weather reports around the time of the damage. 
These show there were wind speeds that would be considered to be storm conditions 
around that time. So, I think the answer to the first question is yes.
On the second question, I think a storm could damage roof tiles. So, I think the answer to the 
second question is yes.
Ive then looked at whether the storm was the main cause of the damage. When Company A 
inspected the damage, it said:
Within the loftspace you can see water marks running down the chimney stack especially at 
the front, this seems to be the area of ingress and running onto the ceiling below. Externally 
the pointing to the chimney stack brickwork and flashings is deteriorated. There is lead 
flashings fitted to the front and tiled flashings on mortar beds along the sides. Seems that the 
deteriorated mortar has allowed rain to be wind blown in during heavy wind and rain  
Slipped and spalling tiles around the chimney stack could also be contributing. On the rear of 
the stack it's visible that the lead flashings have been re-pointing recently indicating that this 
has been an issue in the past. These are maintenance issues exacerbated by the storm 
conditions  All tiles across the roof are showing signs of nail rot, as the majority are slipped 
/ misplaced with numerous tiles showing signs of spalling and deterioration. The tiles that 
have fallen recently are due to the tile deteriorating / spalling and being dislodged by the 
high winds. Many missing tiles have obviously been missing for some time as the tile 
beneath is weathered. On the front elevation there are 2 areas where tiles have been refitted 
previously as tingles have been fitted beneath the tiles to hold them in place due to the nails 
rotting.
Company A also provided some photos that showed the front of the chimney and slipped 
tiles on both the front and rear of the roof. Fairmead declined the claim for the roof damage 
at this point.
Company B then carried out its inspection of the internal damage. It was due to arrange a 
builder to inspect the roof, but commented to Fairmead that from our initial inspection the 
roof appears to be in a reasonable state of repair and there is damage to the roof that looks 
to be consistent with storm damage. Fairmead asked Company B to provide a detailed 
report to confirm the cause of damage. Company B said it would need to carry out a further 
inspection in order to provide a report. Several months later, Company B then arranged for 
Company C to carry out a roof inspection. 
Company Cs report said the broken and missing tiles to the rear roof elevation were all 
historic and purely a maintenance issue. For the front roof elevation, it said We cannot with 
absolute confidence confirm if the mortar to the ridge tiles was caused by storm Dennis or if 
it was missing before the storm. There is every possibility that the storm could have 
exacerbated already cracked pointing/mortar causing it to fall out.
Ive also looked at the builders quotes Miss F provided for the work. One didnt provide a 
cause of damage and the other said storm damage but didnt provide details of why it 
thought this was the case.
I think that Company As report, which was prepared shortly after the damage was found, 
gave a detailed assessment of the roof and its reasons for deciding the damage was due to 
maintenance issues. Although Company B said it thought the damage could be storm 
related, it didnt provide evidence to support this. However, I think it was reasonable that 
Fairmead investigated the claim further because of what Company B had said as this 
introduced an element of doubt about the likely cause. When Company C inspected the roof, 
I think it largely confirmed that the damage was storm related. It wasnt certain of the cause 
for the front elevation but did say the storm could have exacerbated existing issues. So, I 
think on the basis of Company As report, combined with Company Cs report, that it was 
reasonable for Fairmead to decide the damage was most likely due to a maintenance issue.Company A also assessed a down pipe that had become detached and an issue with Miss 
Fs door blowing open during the storm. In both instances, Company A explained why it 
though these were maintenance issues and I havent seen anything to indicate its 
assessment was inaccurate. So, I also think it was reasonable for Fairmead not to cover 
these issues.
Ive also considered why it took so long for Company C to carry out its inspection. There 
seem to have been a combination of factors, including Covid 19 restrictions and Miss Fs 
tenant not wanting people to enter her home, which would have been required for an 
inspection to take place of the loft space in Miss Fs property. It also needed to be clarified 
whether Miss F had cancelled her policy, which might have affected the claim. Given these 
factors, although I think there was a lengthy gap between the visits, I think these were 
largely outside of Fairmeads control and I think it tried to progress the visit when it could do 
so.
Im aware that Miss F has also said its unfair that Fairmead accepted the claim for the 
internal damage, but not the external damage. In the circumstances, I wont comment on this 
beyond saying that it isnt particularly unusual for this to happen, as the internal damage was 
assessed to be covered under a different part of the policy. But I dont think this meant the 
external damage also therefore had to be accepted.
So, thinking about the above, I think it was reasonable for Fairmead to decide that the 
damage was the result of maintenance issues, rather than storm damage. As a result, I dont 
require Fairmead to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman