The complaint
Mr S and Miss W are unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt respond to their letters 
about their joint savings account. The account is in both names but, for ease, I will refer only 
to Mr S throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr S wrote to Lloyds about an unsatisfactory correspondence with a local branch. Lloyds 
responded promptly but Mr S says its letter raised some new points of concern. He wrote to 
Lloyds the following day addressing those points but he didnt receive a reply. A month later 
Mr S wrote to Lloyds again, enclosing a copy of his previous letter. He didnt receive a reply. 
Mr S tracked delivery and is aware that both letters were delivered to Lloyds the day after he 
sent each of them.
Mr S thinks its unreasonable for Lloyds to ignore his letters in which he asked for 
clarification of statements made in its response to his original complaint. As a resolution, Mr 
S would like Lloyds to send a substantive response to his first unanswered letter, provide an 
explanation for not responding to the two letters, and to apologise for not responding.
Lloyds says it replied to both letters
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. She looked at the original correspondence 
with the branch and felt that Lloyds had acted reasonably. While she noted that Mr S didnt 
receive responses to either of his subsequent letters, she could see that Lloyds had sent 
replies. Therefore she didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong.
Mr S didnt agree. He explained that his original complaint was settled and, having received 
a copy of Lloyds second reply to him his complaint about its failure to reply to him was also 
settled. But he thought Lloyds should investigate and explain why its letters didnt reach him 
the first time. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise Mr S will be disappointed, but Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Firstly, Id like to thank Mr S for clarifying the key issues of his complaint. He raised a 
number of points which I have looked at, but my decision focuses on those which relate 
directly to his complaint about Lloyds.
DRN-1502567The first part of Mr Ss complaint is that Lloyds persistently failed to respond to his letter 
dated 4 June. Lloyds says it did reply and included a copy in its case file to this service. Our 
investigator provided Mr S with a copy of the letter Lloyds sent in reply. Mr S says this part of 
his complaint is now satisfied, so I wont be addressing this matter any further in my 
decision.
What remains is Mr Ss dissatisfaction with Lloyds failure to explain why its letters didnt 
reach him in the first place. He would like Lloyds to investigate the functionality and reliability 
of its correspondence system to find out why its letters didnt reach him and explain the 
outcome of its findings to him. Mr S isnt convinced that it was human error or that the postal 
system failed to deliver more than one letter to him.
I appreciate that Mr S remains dissatisfied with this part of his complaint but I dont think 
there is any real benefit to be gained by asking Lloyds to investigate and report back. I dont 
doubt that Mr S didnt receive the letters, but an investigation at this point wont change the 
frustration he felt at the time when he thought Lloyds was ignoring his correspondence. And I 
think that frustration would only increase if Lloyds investigates but doesnt identify a reason. 
Lloyds records show that it sent the letters and its unlikely that it will be able to determine 
now why Mr S didnt receive them. I accept what Mr S says about the small likelihood of the 
postal service losing two letters  and others during earlier correspondence. But the 
likelihood that Lloyds system failed to send those letters but successfully sent others is also 
small.
For these reasons I wont be asking Lloyds to investigate its correspondence system or to try 
to explain the delivery failures to Mr S.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman