DRN-3198209
The complaint
Mr I complains that Clydesdale Bank PLC (Clydesdale) acted unfairly when it declined his 
request for additional borrowing.
What happened
Mr I says he holds a mortgage account with Clydesdale, and in February 2021 he 
approached them for additional borrowing for essential remedial works on his property. Mr I 
says Clydesdale declined his application as it was deemed unaffordable, even though his 
income was comfortably in excess of his expenditure. Mr I says Clydesdale took far too long 
to finally decline his application and requested excessive further information from him, 
including building quotes for proposed works and he didnt feel affordability was the real 
reason for it declining his borrowing request. Mr I says he has experienced considerable 
delays when communicating with Clydesdale and the service they have provided him 
throughout the application process has been very poor, and he hasnt been treated fairly.  
Mr I feels Clydesdales underwriters should overturn their lending decision.
Clydesdale says it accepted some of the communication during the application could have 
been better and they have apologised for that and have offered Mr I £100 for the poor 
service provided. Clydesdale says they were entitled to request further information from Mr I, 
before deciding whether or not his borrowing request could be approved, but their 
underwriters had decided the extra borrowing was unaffordable. 
Mr I didnt agree with Clydesdales response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Clydesdale were entitled to ask for all of the building quotes and other 
financial information before making a lending decision. The investigator says Clydesdale is 
entitled to set its own lending criteria and its their responsibility to carry out a detailed 
affordability assessment before providing any additional funding. The investigator felt 
Clydesdale had acted reasonably when it declined Mr Is borrowing request. 
The investigator recognised Clydesdale had provided poor service in response to Mr Is 
various email requests, but the £100 it offered by way of apology was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr I didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it must have been upsetting and frustrating for Mr I to be told the extra 
funding he requested for the essential repairs, he needed to carry out on his home, had 
been declined because of the affordability.
When considering this complaint, I will look at whether Clydesdale acted reasonably when it 
declined Mr Is lending request for essential home improvements. 
The first thing to say here is part of the information this service requested, consisted of 
several telephone recordings and while I have listened to those telephone calls, I wont be 
commenting on each one individually. Thats not to say I havent considered what was said 
in those call recordings - I have, but given the investigator has comprehensively covered the 
content of those telephone calls in her view to Mr I, I see no need to comment further on 
what was said, when coming to a full and impartial decision here. 
Mr Is complaint centres around the fact that Clydesdale unfairly declined his request for 
further borrowing, based on affordability. In addition, Mr I feels Clydesdale asked for an 
unreasonable amount of further information when considering his application, given in his 
view, it had already declined his request based on affordability, so the further information 
would have made no difference to his application. Mr I says the service he received from 
Clydesdale and the time it took to assess his request, throughout the application process, 
was unacceptable.
I understand the points Mr I makes here and its fair to say Clydesdale have accepted some 
of the communication could have been better, and I can see it has apologised and offered 
Mr I £100 for any inconvenience this has caused him. With that in mind I am satisfied this is 
a reasonable offer for this part of Mr Is complaint to this service and Mr I should contact 
Clydesdale if he wishes to accept it.
When looking at the main concern Mr I raises, concerning Clydesdales decision to decline 
his borrowing application, based on affordability, this isnt as straight forward as Mr I 
suggests. Mr I has repeatedly maintained he has a considerable excess of monthly income 
compared to his monthly outgoings, so the extra funding he requested was affordable. From 
the information provided to this service, its fair to say Clydesdale have carried out a 
comprehensive assessment of Mr Is income and expenditure. 
As part of Clydesdales assessment, it has included the monthly payment for another 
mortgage Mr I is party to. While Mr I didnt include this in his expenditure profile, Clydesdale 
have, and I am satisfied, although Mr I may not make these mortgage payments himself, 
given he has a liability for the monthly payment, it was right to include it. While Mr I may not 
agree, I can see that during the course of the application process, Clydesdale 
comprehensively checked all of Mr Is outgoings, as I would expect, and after it applied an 
industry standard stress test on those outgoings, it didnt feel his income and expenditure 
met its criteria for affordability. Although Mr I feels he could afford these new monthly 
payments, its not for me to tell Clydesdale it cant carry out affordability modelling like this, 
and here I am satisfied Clydesdale have taken reasonable care before coming to the 
outcome it did. 
When considering the time Clydesdale took and the information it asked for, before it 
formally declined Mr Is request, Im not fully persuaded by Mr Is argument here it acted 
unreasonably. I say this because this wasnt a straightforward request, given the issues 
surrounding the property itself. Although I can understand it was important to Mr I to have 
the essential repairs carried out on his property, I would expect for Clydesdale to be made 
fully aware of the extent of the repairs required, before agreeing to all or part of the 
additional borrowing requested. Its worth saying this would be required to understand if the 
amount being asked for matches the proposed cost of works needed, to ensure no further lending request would be required going forward. 
Its also fair to say that even though the borrowing request had been declined earlier, 
Clydesdale were still entitled to see if the works needed, if not carried out, could have 
adversely affected its security. 
Here, once all of that information had been provided, which unfortunately took Mr I some 
time to obtain, Clydesdale having considered the matter further, by referring to its 
underwriting team, decided the borrowing request still couldnt go ahead. 
Part of the delay here was also due to Clydesdale asking Mr I to provide an up to date credit 
report to fully understand his total financial commitments. In addition, its fair to say Mr I was 
reluctant to provide the additional building quotes, partly as he felt it wouldnt change 
Clydesdale initial decision to lend, and while ultimately that was the case here, I am satisfied 
on balance, that Clydesdale were asking for this as a way to see if the essential repairs 
could change their underwriters view, but unfortunately it didnt. That said, I am satisfied this 
was an attempt to explore all available possibilities before declining the borrowing request. 
So, with that in mind, I cant say Clydesdale were being unreasonable when trying to see a 
way froward, albeit perhaps that could have been explained earlier to Mr I. 
While I have some sympathy with Mr Is circumstances and the repairs required on his home 
are important to him, I cant say Clydesdale have been unreasonable when coming to the 
decision it did and the time it took to make that decision, for the reasons I have already 
explained. 
While Mr I will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Clydesdale.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman