DRN-2833639
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Loans 2 Go Limited irresponsibly lent to him when he took out two 
personal loans with it.
What happened
In August 2018 Mr Z borrowed £500 from Loans 2 Go. This loan was taken over a period of 
18 months with a monthly repayment amount of £113.28. This loan was repaid in full within 
the cooling off period with a single payment of £500  so only the amount borrowed was 
repaid with no interest added.
In February 2020, Mr Z borrowed £1000 from Loans 2 Go. This loan was also taken out with 
a repayment period of 18 months. The monthly repayment amount was £228.56. Again this 
loan was settled early but some interest was charged as Mr Z requested a settlement 
balance 14 days after the loan had been taken. He made a payment of £1096.78 and the 
loan was marked as Completed  Withdrawn.  
In March 2020 Mr Z contacted Loans 2 Go again and borrowed £1000. This loan was also 
taken out with a repayment period of 18 months with a monthly repayment of £228.56. 
Eleven days after taking this loan out, Mr Z called Loans 2 Go and explained that he has a 
gambling addiction and hed like the interest on the account frozen. Loans 2 Go said it 
couldnt do this, but as the loan had only been taken out eleven days ago, he had the right to 
withdraw from the loan and just repay what he borrowed. Mr Z said he didnt have any 
money to repay it and asked if a payment plan could be organised. Loans 2 Go said this 
couldnt be arranged at this point.
On 26 March 2020, Mr Z complained to Loans 2 Go. He said it had acted irresponsibly when 
it lent to him and explained that he had nine loans outstanding. He felt it cant have carried 
out the proper checks ahead of the lending and he now needed help with the interest being 
frozen.
Loans 2 Go sent Mr Z its final response on his complaint on 17 July 2020. It said it didnt 
think it had been irresponsible when it provided Mr Z with the loans. It explained the checks 
it undertook including the assessment of his income and expenditure as well as the 
information received from the credit checks it carried out when the applications were made. 
It said it hadnt been notified of Mr Zs gambling problem previously and so couldnt take this 
into account when lending to him and from the checks it did carry out, it felt it had acted 
responsibly when providing him the credit.
Our investigator looked at Mr Zs complaint and said he felt Loans 2 Go had undertaken 
reasonable and proportionate checks in relation to the size and duration of the loans being 
applied for. He didnt think it was reasonable to think the business would have considered 
from these that the loan was unsustainable and in turn unaffordable for Mr Z. 
He said he appreciated that Mr Z had a gambling problem at the time of the lending but it 
wasnt something Loans 2 Go would have been aware of and it couldnt take account of this 
with its lending decision.
Mr Z said he disagreed with the outcome and questioned how the amount of interest he was 
being charged on the account could be fair.
The investigator explained the interest rate is something the business is entitled to set and 
this was agreed to when the application was completed. As Mr Z didnt agree, the complaint 
has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know this will be disappointing for Mr Z, but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending can be found on our website and Ive 
followed this approach when considering Mr Zs complaint.
The rules and regulations in place require Loans 2 Go to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to determine whether Mr Z could afford to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way. These checks needed to be borrower focused so Loans to Go needed to 
consider whether repaying the loan in a sustainable way would result in difficulties for Mr Z 
or adverse consequences. So it needed to think about the impact on Mr Z and not just how 
likely it was that it would get its money back.
There is no set list of checks to define what a proportionate check is. But CONC5.2A.20 sets 
out examples of the factors that need to be considered. These checks need to focus on the 
personal circumstances of the borrower so what is reasonable may differ from person to 
person. But the following examples are common: consideration to the type of credit, amount, 
duration of the loan, amount and frequency of repayments, total amount repayable. 
Did Loans 2 Go carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
Loans 2 Go said it carried out a number of checks on Mr Z ahead of agreeing to provide him 
with the loan amounts. This included an income expenditure assessment and a credit 
search. The credit file information was used to supplement the income expenditure 
assessment with outgoings added on.
Mr Z confirmed what he takes home after tax each month. Loans 2 Go verified this with an 
online verification tool to check the minimum he took home. This showed an income of no 
less then £1350.38 per month.
It then compared his income against what he said he spent each month while also allowing 
for the information his credit search highlighted. This increased the level of expenditure from 
the £600 stated to £974. Loans 2 Go also allowed for a buffer of 10% before deciding 
whether the loan repayment Mr Z had committed to when taking out the loan was 
sustainable.
Overall, I think Loans 2 Go carried out reasonable and proportionate checks. It assessed 
Mr Zs incomes and expenditure and reviewed his credit file to help establish whether there 
were any indications that he may struggle to meet his repayments.
The credit file information returned with the credit search carried out by Loans 2 Go didnt 
show any adverse information or reason to be concerned about Mr Zs ability to repay his loan. I appreciate that hes said at the time he had 9 other loans but this wasnt reflected on 
the credit file. And based on the information provided and what Loans 2 Go had established 
with the income expenditure information, I dont think it needed to go further with its checks.
Did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
Based on the information provided, I think it would have been reasonable for Loans 2 Go to 
consider that the monthly repayment for the loans were affordable for Mr Z. And I think 
Loans 2 Go made a fair lending decision based on the information it had available when the 
loans were taken out.
The checks it carried out were reasonable and proportionate and I think it was reasonable to 
rely on the information returned from these checks. As Ive said above, these didnt show 
that Mr Z had any issues with managing his finances or that he was in a difficult financial 
situation. And I dont think it would have been reasonable for Loans 2 Go to carry out any 
more in-depth checks such as requesting bank statements in addition to these.
I appreciate that Mr Z has now told Loans 2 Go about his gambling addiction and that he is 
struggling to meet the repayments for his outstanding loan. But I dont think its fair to say 
this knowledge now means it acted irresponsibly when it lent to him. If Mr Z is now struggling 
to meet his repayments I would expect Loans 2 Go to work with him in a positive and 
sympathetic manner to assist with is payments now. But this doesnt mean it acted unfairly 
when it lent to Mr Z at the time.  
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Zs complaint against Loans 2 Go 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman