DRN-4193217
The complaint
Mrs M, Mr M and Mr Ws complaint is about three joint mortgages they have with 
Topaz Finance Limited trading as Rosinca Mortgages. They now believe the properties were 
overvalued when the mortgages were agreed, and they hold Topaz responsible for that 
error.
What happened
Mrs M, Mr M and Mr W and the late Mrs W took out three buy-to-let (BTL) mortgages 
together in 2006 over terms of 15 years. The mortgages were arranged with Lender M and 
subsequently transferred to Topaz in 2018.
When the mortgages were approaching the end of their terms, Mrs M, Mr M and Mr W 
looked into their options for what to do with the properties. At this point they had one of the 
properties valued. The valuation produced a figure significantly lower than the one produced 
in 2006. This meant the mortgage debt was higher than the value of the property. From this 
information Mrs M, Mr M and Mr W concluded all three valuations completed at the time the 
properties were purchased had been wrong and had overvalued them. They complained to 
Topaz toward the end of 2021. 
Topaz responded to the complaint in its letter of 13 January 2022. It confirmed the original 
valuations had been carried out by a Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) 
accredited surveyor. In addition, it explained the valuations had been solely for its use when 
determining whether to lend, and it was explained to Mrs M, Mr M and Mr W that they should 
have their own assessment completed. Topaz also highlighted comments of the surveyor 
who had completed the 2021 valuation  that while the majority of the housing market had 
recovered after the property price crash in 2008, some sectors of the market had not, which 
included the type of properties Mrs M, Mr M and Mr W had bought in 2006. The complaint 
was not upheld.
Mrs M, Mr M and Mr W were unhappy with the approach Topaz had taken and asked the 
Financial Ombudsman Service to look into their complaint. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend it be upheld. 
She explained that a lender is entitled to rely on the professional opinion of an appropriately 
qualified expert when it comes to the value of a property. As the surveyor involved in the 
valuation of the three properties was RICS registered, it would be considered appropriately 
qualified. As such, we couldnt hold Topaz responsible for the content of the valuations, 
including how much the surveyor concluded the properties were worth in 2006, but it was 
reasonable for Topaz to have relied on that content.
Mrs M, Mr M and Mr W didnt accept the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. They said they were not told in 2006 that the valuations were just for the lenders 
use and confirmed they were not provided with copies of them at that time. Having now seen 
the valuations they commented that the surveyors didnt look at local comparables and one 
said it was at the top end of what would be expected, which would have rung alarm bells if 
they had seen it at the time.
In addition, Mrs M, Mr M and Mr W raised a new complaint point about the administration of 
the mortgage. This was about the terms and conditions regarding the interest rate and 
loan-to-value being reviewed annually. They said it was obvious this had not been 
happening, which was supported by comments made to them in 2021 when Topaz 
reassured them about the value of the properties.
What Ive decided  and why
Mrs M, Mr M and Mr W have raised some new issues during the investigation of their 
complaint. This decision will not comment on those issues as Topaz is entitled to consider 
any complaint made about it before this service becomes involved. If Mrs M, Mr M and Mr W 
want their further concerns addressed, they should refer them to Topaz in the first instance.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will begin by explaining that its not in a lenders interests to accept security for a mortgage 
that is not worth enough to repay the mortgage in the event the property has to be sold. 
Lenders are not property experts, but as I have said, they need to know whether a property 
is suitable security for the mortgage that has been applied for. In order to establish the 
information it needs, a lender will usually employ an independent expert to assess the 
property and provide the information it needs in the form of a valuation report.
As is the case for all BTL borrowers, Mrs M, Mr M and Mr W cannot place any reliance on 
the valuations Topaz had done on the properties. This is the legal position, endorsed by the 
Court of Appeal in the case of Scullion v Bank of Scotland plc (t/a Colleys). The valuations 
were carried out for Topazs purposes only and no duty of care was owed to Mrs M, Mr M 
and Mr W in relation to the content of the valuations. This may well be why the valuations 
were not provided to Mrs M, Mr M and Mr W in 2006.
Topazs only duty was to ensure a valuation was carried out by a suitably qualified person. 
As the firm of surveyors in this case was a member of RICS, I am satisfied Topaz fulfilled its 
duty in appointing properly qualified persons to value the properties. As such, Topaz was 
entitled to rely on the valuations when it made its decision to lend and is not responsible for 
the content of those reports. 
For completeness, I would confirm the surveyors dont fall within the remit of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. So I cant comment on whether or not the surveyors reports are 
accurate or not. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs M, Mr M and Mr W, given their strength of 
feeling about this matter. However, I cant find Topaz is responsible for something that it is 
not liable for.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs M, Mr M and 
Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman