DRN-3922014
The complaint
Mr W complains that Bennetts Motorcycling Services Limited (Bennetts) didnt provide 
renewal information for his motor insurance policy, which resulted in a higher premium and a 
subsequent cancellation fee.  
What happened
Mr W says his motorcycle policy renewed in July 2022. The premium increased from £86 to 
£138.57. He says no renewal information was provided to inform him of this.  
Mr W subsequently moved address and contacted Bennetts in August 2022. He says he 
understood the premium was going to increase by £50 because of his new address. But he 
was told no administration fee would apply. Alternatively, Bennetts told him it could start a 
new policy. In this case the new premium would be £160 but with £96 refunded from his 
existing policy. 
Mr W says he decided to cancel his policy, which incurred a £32 cancellation fee. However, 
as his new insurer only charged him a premium of £87, this still worked out cheaper. Mr W 
didnt think Bennetts had treated him fairly, so he complained and asked it to pay him £70.
In its complaint response Bennetts told Mr W a renewal invite was posted to him on 10 June 
2022. It says this provided information about the new policy including the premium. As it 
didnt hear from Mr W the policy automatically renewed. Bennetts says it received an online 
request on 22 August to change Mr Ws address. The insurer for Mr Ws policy wasnt able 
to offer cover with this new information. So, Bennetts emailed Mr W asking him to call back. 
Bennetts says Mr W made contact just over two weeks later unhappy hed heard nothing 
about his address change. It says it explained to him it would cost £50.51 to make the 
change. Mr W then made his complaint about the lack of renewal information. Bennetts says 
its agent provided a new quotation, with a different insurer, at this time. It says the difference 
in premium Mr W would pay was around £67. Mr W called back later in the day and 
cancelled his policy. 
In its response Bennetts says premiums can go up as well as down. It says it checks with its 
panel of insurers at the time a policy is due to renew, to ensure it obtains the best price. This 
was done in Mr Ws case. It also says it isnt aware of any issues with the postal service it 
uses. It didnt think it had done anything wrong so didnt agree to pay Mr W what hed asked 
for.
Mr W referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She 
says Bennetts had shown that it sent renewal information to Mr W. It had also shown 
evidence of the premium calculation and confirmation it had checked premiums with its 
panel of insurers. Based on this she didnt think Bennetts had treated Mr W unfairly. 
Mr W disagreed. He didnt accept that Bennetts had sent renewal information and asked for 
an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. Let me explain. 
Bennetts explains that it uses a panel of insurers to provide quotes and offers the best of 
these to its customer. It says it followed its process in this case for Mr Ws renewal. 
Ive seen the renewal information pack Bennetts supplied with its submissions to our service. 
This is dated 10 June 2022 and sets out Mr Ws new premium as well as other key policy 
information. However, I acknowledge Mr Ws concern that this doesnt show Bennetts 
actually sent this information or that it was delivered to him.
We asked Bennetts to provide information that shows it sent this renewal information to Mr 
W. In response it sent a screenshot that shows a list of four documents it sent him. This 
includes the renewal documents that were printed on 10 June 2022. It also shows the new 
policy documents were printed on 10 July when the policy renewed. 
Mr W says he received the policy documents when these were posted to him in July 2022. It 
isnt clear why he didnt receive the renewal information sent prior to this. But I acknowledge 
Bennetts comments that it isnt responsible for the carriage of mail. It says its demonstrated 
the renewal information was posted to Mr Ws address.
Based on this evidence I think its most likely that Bennetts did send renewal documents to 
Mr W by post. I dont dispute Mr Ws testimony that he didnt receive this information. But I 
dont think Bennetts is responsible for post being delivered. Based on what Ive seen Im 
satisfied that it has reasonably demonstrated this information was sent. 
Bennetts has shown that the insurer Mr W was originally insured by wouldnt offer cover for 
him at his new address. It explains that in these circumstances it must refer back to its panel 
of insurers for a new quote. It then communicated this new offer of cover to Mr W 
Im sorry Mr W was disappointed with the increase in his premium, and that he didnt receive 
his renewal information. But having considered the evidence I dont think hes shown that 
Bennetts treated him unfairly. This is with respect to the premium confirmed and when it 
offered cover from another insurer willing to accept Mr Ws new risk address. 
Having considered all of this Im satisfied that Bennetts has shown it sent the renewal 
information, albeit this didnt reach Mr W. But I cant fairly hold it responsible for the carriage 
of mail. Because of this, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman