DRN-3177342
The complaint
Mr Q complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc has held him responsible for an account he didnt 
take out and has registered a default.
What happened
Mr Q says that he found out in 2020 that a credit card account had been opened in his name 
at Sainsburys Bank in 2018. He says that he was living in shared accommodation and knew 
nothing about this. A default was registered in 2019 and the entries on his credit record 
prevented him from opening a bank account. Mr Q says he has been the victim of identity 
theft.
Sainsburys Bank said it hadnt made a mistake. The account had been opened on 6 
November 2018 using Mr Qs details including for a direct debit from his bank account. The 
account wasnt activated until 10 December 2018 which it thought was unusual if a fraudster 
had the details. And it said that it had asked Mr Q when he contacted it if he had been the 
victim of fraud before. He didnt then mention a similar issue raised by a different financial 
business and information at CIFAS from March 2019 with his correct details. There was a 
note of him being contacted then. It paid him £50 for the delay in responding to his 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that the card on the 
account was first used on 18 December 2018 to make a payment up to the credit limit. A full 
repayment of £2,800 was made on 21 January 2019. The address on the card was changed 
a couple of times on 21 January 2019 and remained as a different one on 22 January 2019. 
This was done using secure access. The card was used to make a purchase of £2,518 on 
22 January 2019. And the payment credit was claimed back as not genuine. The account 
was closed in March 2019 with a balance of £5,318 and Mr Q says that the default on his 
credit record showed from August 2019. In April 2020 Mr Q first said to Sainsburys Bank he 
didnt recognise the account. 
Mr Q had told him that although he travelled abroad at times he was in this country and living 
at the address of the card application. He didnt know the people in the shared house but 
said they had access to his post. Sainsburys had shown that the card and PIN were sent 
there separately as well as any other correspondence about the account. A fraudster would 
have needed to know Mr Qs personal details including his bank account. And our 
investigator thought it unlikely a fraudster would have waited to use the card or arranged to 
repay it. He thought it would be unusual to change the address. Mr Q had given inconsistent 
information about the report at a different financial business of application fraud in March 
2019. That business noted it had spoken to Mr Q. And Mr Q in a conversation with our 
investigator said he had remembered this and the company. He later wrote to say he had 
only spoke to Sainsburys in 2020. 
The CCTV evidence Mr Q had said he wanted to see would have needed to be obtained by 
police and isnt always conclusive. And nor would call recordings have resolved whether he 
consented to the account being used. Our investigator didnt think that the changes to 
address and the pattern of use of the card ought to have alerted Sainsburys Bank to there 
being third party fraud.
Mr Q didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that the evidence was 
circumstantial. Someone could have accessed his credit file to find his details and there 
were other tenants in the property. He said he is honest and was travelling quite a lot 
abroad. He wasnt short of money and wouldnt ruin his name in this way. He had no 
knowledge of this before 2020 and said he would have otherwise reported this. He hadnt 
used the card or signed the form. He provided copies of some of the pages of his passport. 
Telephone recordings would prove he never spoke to Sainsburys Bank and CCTV that he 
didnt use the card. Mr Q didnt know what else he should do and said we couldnt be one 
hundred percent sure that this was him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened. We make our decisions based on the balance 
of probabilities  that it what is the most likely explanation of what happened. And our 
service provides informal dispute resolution.
The evidence is that a card account was opened in Mr Qs name with his correct personal 
details. Ive seen that a letter confirming the account was approved was sent to his home 
address. And as our investigator says the card and PIN were sent under separate cover. Im 
not able to resolve through our informal service whether Mr Q signed the application form 
based on his passport information.
The pattern of usage of the account wasnt that most likely of a third-party fraudster. It wasnt 
used straightaway and that meant any such person would risk detection. A payment was 
obtained in January 2019 to this card which turned out to be unauthorised. And this was 
made only so this card could be used again rather than a fraudster moving on and not 
needing to go to such trouble and risking detection. The address was changed in January 
2019 to a different address, back to the home address and then to the different address. By 
that time the card had been used to the maximum possible and it is unclear what the likely 
benefit of the address change would be for a third party.
Mr Q hasnt given consistent testimony about whether he was contacted in March 2019 by a 
different business about fraud. Sainsburys Bank had seen that information which matched 
all his details and Mr Q said he knew nothing about it. It is unclear why hed want to omit this 
relevant information from Sainsburys Bank and why hes been inconsistent to this service 
about it.
Im not persuaded that CCTV or telephone recordings would be conclusive even if they still 
existed. They wouldnt resolve whether any third party if involved was acting with Mr Qs 
authority or not. 
Im afraid having balanced all the factors Im not persuaded that the most likely explanation 
is that Mr Q was the victim of identity fraud and knew nothing about this account. So, I find 
that Sainsburys Bank was entitled to hold him responsible for it and the borrowing and didnt 
act unfairly in recording adverse credit information and a default. I appreciate Mr Q will be 
very disappointed by my conclusions. If he doesnt accept my decision he remains free to 
pursue this in court subject to any relevant timescales.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman