DRN-3238941
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy esure Insurance Limited declined a claim he made under his home 
insurance policy for a problem with the drains.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr F noticed a problem with his drain and got in touch with esure. I understand a 
blockage in the system was preventing water draining away from his property.
esure appointed a drainage company, A, to investigate. They found the problem was 
beyond the boundary of Mr Fs property.
Mr F got in touch with the local water company, T. They didnt agree to take 
responsibility for resolving the problem.
Mr F paid a drainage company, D, to carry out repairs and asked esure to reimburse 
him the cost.
esure declined the claim. It said the damaged part of the drain wasnt within the 
boundary of Mr Fs property, so it wasnt covered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant part of the policy says it will pay the cost of repairing underground pipes 
providing services to and from your house, which you are legally responsible for.
esure has declined the claim because it says Mr F isnt responsible for the damage as its 
located beyond the boundary of his property. Mr F considers the drain which takes waste 
water from his property is his responsibility regardless of where its located.
A and T found that a section of pipe on Mr Fs neighbours property had failed. And D carried 
out the repair work on the neighbours property. Mr F has provided a photo which shows the 
manhole next to his house and very close to the property boundary. So Im satisfied all the 
damaged pipework was under the neighbours property  and thats where all the work was 
carried out. Theres no suggestion the pipework on Mr Fs property was damaged.
Ive checked the guidance about drainage ownership where Mr F lives. In summary, he is 
responsible for his drainage up to the property boundary only. Beyond that, where his 
drainage may meet pipes from other properties and ultimately meets the main sewer, hes 
not responsible. My understanding is the local water company are usually responsible.
Its unclear why T didnt agree to take responsibility. The e-mail it sent to Mr F doesnt offer 
any explanation. A considers T responsible. And I havent seen any comment from D about 
this point.
Overall Im satisfied esure acted fairly when it declined the claim. It invited Mr F to let it know 
if T can explain why its not responsible and I think thats a reasonable approach to take.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman