DRN-4460406
The complaint
F, a company, complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc didnt renew its overdraft and 
instead demanded repayment. 
F has been represented in this complaint by its director, Mrs S.
What happened
F had an overdraft facility with RBS. The facility was renewable after 12 months. In early 
January 2023 RBS emailed F to say that the facility was due to expire the following month, 
and that F would need to complete an affordability assessment and provide some further 
information so that it could carry out a review of the business. 
Mrs S emailed some financial details to RBS on 18 January. She said shed discuss the 
missing information in a phone call scheduled to take place on 20 January. RBSs notes of 
that call say that the agent told Mrs S that Fs accounts would be transferred to RBSs 
Specialised Business Management Team. The agent sent Mrs S an email later the same 
day, confirming that the overdraft would be expiring shortly and that the Specialised 
Business Management Team would be in touch soon to offer support and advice and to 
understand whether your overdraft facility can be renewed. 
On 27 January RBS sent Mrs S an email and an SMS message to say that Fs overdraft 
facility would expire in February 2023. Mrs S phoned RBS on receipt. She says the agent 
she spoke to told her she didnt need to provide further information. RBSs notes of the 
conversation say that the agent told Mrs S that the overdraft was due to expire on 1 
February and that in order to renew it, the bank would need a completed income and 
expenditure form, two years of financial information and 12 months of business projections. 
On 31 January, not having received that information, RBSs system notes show that it 
emailed Mrs S again, attaching an income and expenditure form for her to complete and 
return within seven days. It also asked her to attach up to 2 years of financials and up to 
12 months worth of business projections. It provided a number to phone if there were any 
issues. As RBS didnt receive the information, the overdraft expired. A formal demand for 
repayment of the full overdraft was sent to F on 26 April 2023.
Mrs S says she didnt receive the email RBS sent on 31 January. And she says that she had 
another ongoing complaint with RBS, who had told her every time they spoke that no action 
would be taken regarding Fs overdraft until the complaint was resolved. She believes that 
the decision to call in Fs overdraft may be linked to the fact that she already had an ongoing 
complaint. Mrs S says there was nothing wrong with F, and that it wasnt experiencing any 
financial difficulties. Shes told us that the withdrawal of the overdraft facility has affected Fs 
trading, and it may have to appoint liquidators. 
One of our investigators considered Fs complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she thought that it would have been apparent from the email that the agent sent 
after the call on 20 January that information was required. This was reinforced by the call the 
following week and the subsequent email. She couldnt see any reference in RBSs records 
to Mrs S having been told that action on the overdraft would be put on hold until the other 
complaint was resolved. And she commented that overdrafts are repayable on demand and 
can be cancelled at any time, and that RBS wouldnt necessarily have renewed the overdraft 
even if Mrs S had provided the information. 
Mrs S didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, and for similar 
reasons.
As RBS has commented, overdrafts are generally intended to help with short-term cashflow. 
A business can make a commercial decision not to offer an overdraft. And any overdraft 
facility it does offer is repayable on demand. Fs overdraft was a 12-month facility, ending on 
1 February 2023. To continue after that, it needed to be renewed. And in order to decide 
whether to renew the facility, RBS asked Mrs S to provide some information about F. 
I acknowledge that Mrs S says that the agent she spoke to on 27 January told her that she 
wouldnt need to provide any financial information. But RBSs notes of the conversation state 
clearly that although Mrs S mentioned having already provided the requested information 
over the phone, the agent told her that in order for the overdraft to be renewed RBS would 
need the income and expenditure form, two years worth of financial information and 
12 months projections. And Im satisfied, on balance, that RBSs notes of the call were 
made during or very soon after the call, and that they accurately reflect what Mrs S was told. 
Im not persuaded that Mrs S was told that action about the overdraft would be put on hold 
while her complaint was being considered. Im satisfied that it would have been clear to her 
from the conversation on 27 January that even if she believed that shed already supplied 
enough information, RBS required further information quickly if it was to consider renewing 
the overdraft. This was also reiterated in the follow-up email which it sent to Mrs S on 
31 January. Im satisfied that the email was sent to the correct email address. So I cant fairly 
hold RBS responsible if Mrs S didnt receive it.
Its possible that if F had provided the information, RBS might have renewed the overdraft. 
But in its final response to Fs complaint, RBS commented that overdrafts are designed to 
assist cashflow by providing short-term borrowing that is occasionally required to meet large 
bills or payment demands that cant be met from turnover. It commented that rather than 
being repaid by cash generated by the business, Fs overdraft had become a persistent 
debt. So theres no guarantee that Fs overdraft would have been renewed even if the 
documentation had been provided. As it is, I dont need to consider that point further, as F 
didnt provide the information by the specified deadline, and RBS was entitled to decide not 
to renew the facility and to demand repayment as it did. 
Finally, Ive seen nothing to make me think that the reason that Fs overdraft facility wasnt 
renewed was connected in any way with the fact that Mrs S had raised another complaint 
about RBS. 
I realise that Mrs S will be disappointed, but I dont find that RBS did anything wrong here, so 
I cant fairly uphold Fs complaint.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman