DRN-3160469
The complaint
Mr H says Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr H took out three instalment loans from Loans 2 Go. A summary of his borrowing follows.
Mr H says he couldnt afford the loans and no checks were made. He wants the interest
reduced to a more reasonable amount and for Loans 2 Go to agree an affordable repayment
plan for loan 3.
Our adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld. He said the checks Loan 2 Go
carried out were proportionate but it didnt make fair lending decisions based on the
information it gathered. He said the lender ought to have realised there was a risk these
loans would not be sustainably affordable for Mr H.
Loans 2 Go disagreed saying, in summary, that whilst there was some historical adverse
information on Mr Hs credit reports that is to be expected given this type of lending. And
Mr H was managing his active credit commitments well. Loans 2 Go asked for an 
ombudsman to review the case. I reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator, so I 
issued a provisional decision (an extract follows and forms part of this final decision). I asked 
both parties to respond with any comments or new evidence by 15 November 2021. 
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see Loans 2 Go asked for some information from Mr H before it approved the loans. It 
asked for details of his monthly income and expenditure. It then used an income verification 
tool to check what his minimum income could be and it amended his declared living 
expenses using national statistics. It added a buffer to allow for unforeseen expenses. It also 
checked his credit file each time to understand his credit history and existing credit 
commitments. From these checks combined Loans 2 Go concluded Mr H had enough 
monthly disposable income to afford to repay each loan.
Our adjudicator concluded whilst the checks were proportionate they showed that giving
loan 1 would mean Mr H would be spending a significant amount of his income to repay his
credit commitments. This combined with his credit file that showed a number of historic
defaults and a County Court Judgement (CCJ) led him to conclude the lender ought to have
realised it was unlikely the loan would be sustainably affordable. And he said Mr Hs financial
situation didnt look to have improved by the time he applied for loan 2 so that was also an
unfair lending decision. He also said loans 1 and 2 did not leave Mr H with much disposable
income for unplanned costs suggesting the repayments would be unsustainable. He said
loan 3 also required Mr H to spend a significant amount of his income to repay his credit
commitments and as this was his third application in five months it suggested Mr H was in a
cycle of borrowing. So the lender was also wrong to give loan 3.
Some of my findings vary and I have reached a different conclusion in part. Ill explain why.
Loan 1
I agree the checks were proportionate, but I dont think the information the lender gathered
should have led it to decline Mr Hs application.
The adjudicator referenced a number of defaults, but the most recent was March 2016 and
the other two were in 2014 and 2015. And the CCJ was lodged in February 2017. So whilst
the lender needed to consider this adverse data I dont think it necessarily should have
declined his application because of it. Mr H had been consistently up-to-date with his
payments on his active credit agreements over the last 12 recent months. His credit card
utilisation was 72% over the prior six months and had fallen to 13% in the last month. He
was not using an overdraft facility on his current account. So I dont think the lender was
wrong to give the loan given Mr Hs more recent credit history, and the amount and age of
the adverse information it saw on Mr Hs credit file.
Our adjudicator was also concerned that Mr H would be paying a significant amount of his
income to maintain all his credit commitments. But I dont think it was such a significant
proportion of his income that the lender ought to have been concerned Mr H wouldnt be
able to sustainably repay this additional loan over an 18-month period. He would have
around £150 of disposable income a month which in these circumstances I find to be
reasonable.
It follows I dont find that Loans 2 Go was wrong to give loan 1 to Mr H.
Loan 2
Again, I agree the checks were proportionate. But on this occasion I think some of the
information gathered ought to have led Loans 2 Go to make a different lending decision.
Mr H applied for loan 2 only two months after taking out loan 1. I cant see Loans 2 Go
asked what the purpose of the loan was. It could see Mr Hs income had fallen and I think
this combined with higher repayments than loan 1 meant Mr H would now be in a position
where he needed to use a significant proportion of his income to service his debts. And this
is often an indicator of someone likely to experience financial difficulties.
The lender knew from its credit checks that Mr H had struggled financially a number of years
ago, and I think by this point there were enough warning signs that he may be at risk of
heading into financial difficulties again. It follows I think Loans 2 Go was wrong to give loan 2
to Mr H.
Loan 3
By this stage Mr H was applying for his third high-cost loan in five months. I think this should
have put the lender on notice that there was a risk further borrowing might be unsustainable,
or otherwise harmful. He had also repaid loan 2 after just one month of the agreement.
Whilst early repayment can be a sign of improved financial circumstances it can also be a
sign someone is borrowing to repay and in a cycle of unsustainable borrowing. Loan 3 may
have looked affordable on a pounds and pence basis, but the lender was required to do
more than check that to meet its regulatory obligations  it needed to ensure giving the loan
would not cause Mr H to borrow from elsewhere to repay or to suffer other adverse financialconsequences. I dont think it met this obligation. And Mr H went on to be unable to make his
repayments after only three months of the agreement.
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I dont find that it did. It seems Mr Hs contact with the business was sporadic and not wholly
timely when he was experiencing financial difficulties. The lender responded on the same
day he told it he was struggling, asking for update income and expenditure details but based
on the records I have seen Mr H didnt respond. The debt has since been sold  I will
address the implications of this below.
In summary, I am planning to uphold Mr Hs complaint about loans 2 and 3.
I then set out what Loans 2 Go would need to do if I upheld the complaint in part.
Both parties responded saying they had no further points to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here. 
As neither Mr H nor Loans 2 Go provided any new comments or evidence I have no reason 
to depart from the findings and outcome I set out in my provisional decision. 
It follows I find Loans 2 Go was wrong to give loans 2 and 3 to Mr H.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr H to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on loans 2 and 3 that 
shouldnt have been provided to him.
As Loans 2 Go has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so
and then take the following steps. If Loans 2 Go is not able to buy the debt back, then
it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from loans 2 and 3 and treat all the payments
Mr H made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Hs loan accounts results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking the accounts leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then Loans 2
Go should work to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr H, bearing in mind its
obligation to treat him positively and sympathetically in these discussions.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in relation to
loans 2 and 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go shouldgive Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.  
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Hs complaint in part in relation to loans 2 and 3. Loans 2 Go Limited must 
now put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman