DRN-3815406
The complaint
Miss H complains that Quidie Limited (trading as Fernovo) is holding her liable for a loan in 
her name which she says she did not consent to be taken out.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
On 22 November 2020, a loan in the sum of £250 was taken out in Miss Hs name.  In short, 
Miss Hs position is that her former partner took this loan out without her consent.  Miss H 
also argues that her former partner transferred the loan funds from her bank account to his  
without her authorisation.
Miss H raised this matter with Fernovo.  It carried out an investigation and held her liable for 
the outstanding balance of £72.64 (based on the principal amount of £250, less £177.36 
already paid).
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it.  Miss H accepted the 
investigators findings, but Fernovo did not.  So, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a decision.
On 4 November 2022, I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint.  For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less detail than 
the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If there is a 
submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is simply 
because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this complaint.
In the investigators findings, she held that Miss H cannot be bound by the terms and 
conditions of the Consumer Credit Agreement (CCA) concerned.  She held this on the 
basis that Fernovo had accepted in its final response that the loan was taken out 
fraudulently.  In Fernovos response to the investigators findings, it said, amongst other 
things, We did not request [Miss H] to be bound by the agreement.  We simply requested 
from her to return the funds that were transferred to her account not any interest or charges 
 we have no objection to delete this account from her credit file, once repaid.
As it appears Fernovo accepts that Miss H did not consent to the loan being taken out in her 
name, it follows that she did not enter into the associated CCA.  Therefore, she cannot be 
bound by the terms and conditions of it.  Because of this, I consider that Fernovo cannot 
pursue Miss H for any interest or charges arising from the loan agreement  amongst other 
things which I set out later in this decision.
I will now turn to whether I consider it fair and reasonable for Fernovo to pursue Miss H for 
the principal sum of the loan.  To that end, I must consider whether Miss H had use of the 
principal sum.  Having thought about this carefully, I am not persuaded that she did.  I will 
explain why.
It is only logical that a third party who has taken out a loan fraudulently  which is 
accepted in this case  would want to benefit from the principal sum.
I have seen evidence which suggests that the provider of Miss Hs bank account  
which the principal sum was credited to  accepts that a third party made 
unauthorised transactions on her account.  
Notwithstanding the above bullet, Miss Hs bank statement shows that the principal 
sum was transferred to the third partys account the following day it was credited to 
Miss Hs account.  To my mind, this is indicative of what I would expect someone to 
do who had taken out a loan fraudulently.
I have not seen any satisfactory evidence to suggest that Miss H was complicit in 
transferring the principal sum to the third party.
Taking all the above points together, I am persuaded, on balance, that Miss H did not have 
use of the principal sum of the loan.  It follows therefore that I find it would not be fair and 
reasonable for Fernovo to pursue Miss H for it.
As this is a provisional decision, both parties in this matter have a short period to make 
further submissions before I make my final decision.  Neither party needs to repeat 
submissions or provide evidence previously shared with our Service.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss H responded to say she had nothing further to add.  However, Fernovo did not 
respond.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Miss H had nothing further act and Fernovo did not respond  I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint.  I therefore direct that Quidie Limited 
(trading as Fernovo):
Should not pursue Miss H for any interest or charges arising from the loan 
agreement.
Should not pursue Miss H for the principal sum of the loan.
Write off the remaining amount of the loan and close the account.
Remove any data reported to the credit reference agencies about the loan.
Refund Miss H any repayments she made towards the loan.
Refund Miss H any interest or charges she paid on the loan.oAdding 8% simple annual interest from the date the above sums were paid to 
the date of settlement.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman