DRN-1722805
The complaint
Mr G complains that Moneymaximiser Ltd misled him into buying an insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G was planning to hire a car abroad and he took out a travel policy to cover car hire 
excess liability. He did so online and it took him five minutes. He used Moneymaximisers 
price comparison website and having input his details he then chose an insurance company 
I will call B. The data he had input was then transferred to Bs website and Mr G completed 
the purchase.
While abroad a third party was driving and had an accident and Mr G made a claim for the 
excess of £1,150. This was declined and Mr G complained to Moneymaximiser. It rejected 
his complaint and said the wording on which he had relied wasnt misleading. The key 
wording was: As well as the policyholder unlimited named drivers who are specified on the 
rental agreement can be covered free. 
It said that Mr G was required to name the other drivers and he hadnt done so and as such 
they were not covered. It also said the page he was sent to on Bs website asks for the 
details of the drivers to be covered. He had not supplied this information. It also pointed out 
that he was required to confirm his agreement to the policy wording. 
Mr G brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She reviewed the screenshots provided by 
the business showing Mr Gs journey when making the purchase. She said the website said 
that other drivers can be covered free, but it didnt say that they would. It was necessary for 
Mr G to provide details of those other drivers for them to be included and there was nothing 
to suggest they would be added automatically.
She believed the certificate sent by Blue should have alerted Mr G to the fact he was the 
only one covered on the policy. She also thought the time taken to complete the process of 
only five minutes suggested Mr G may have been rushing and not have fully understood 
what he was buying.
Mr G didnt agree and said the wording was misleading and the business had entrapped him 
under false pretences. He suggested alternative wording could have been used. He added 
that Moneymaximiser primed him to believe only his details were needed. Furthermore, it 
encouraged a quick buy and it had not been clear, fair or not misleading as required by 
insurance principles.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Mr Gs disappointment at finding out his loss wasnt covered, but I do not 
consider I can uphold his complaint. I will explain why.
I have looked at the wording on the web site and I do not consider it to be misleading for 
much the same reasons as our investigator. The wording says the additional drivers can (my 
emphasis) be covered at no extra charge. It doesnt say they will be covered. Simply saying 
something can happen doesnt mean that it will happen. Mr G was asked for the details of 
the main driver and had the opportunity to add additional drivers. He didnt do so.
It would be very unusual for any type of car insurance policy not to ask for the names of 
those who are to be covered. Mr G had to provide his details and it follows that some basic 
details of those who were to be covered would be necessary.
I fear Mr G may have rushed competing the online form and so missed the need to tell B 
about the additional drivers. I have noted that he feels he was primed to fail to provide the 
necessary information, but I think that is not the case. Moneymaximiser and B have made 
the process easy, but I dont believe it is misleading. It has told this service that no other 
policyholder has ever complained of being misled and I cannot safely conclude that it has 
done anything wrong. 
As such I can see no basis to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman