DRN-3618264
The complaint
Mr B complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to turn down a claim for an escape 
of water made under his home insurance policy.
What happened
AXA turned down Mr Bs claim because it said the claim needed to be directed either to the 
insurers of the managing agent, or to the managing agent itself.
Mr B didnt agree so referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint be upheld. They 
concluded that AXA should reconsider the claim as Mr B had already approached the 
managing agent, and there was no other better suited insurance to meet the claim.
AXA didnt agree. In summary it said: 
It had paid a previous claim for Mr B under a different policy, but this had been in 
error, so it didnt consider this would set a precedent for future claims.
The lease covering Mr Bs property indicates the management company is 
responsible for insuring the property against an insured risk (including escape of 
water).
The management company are responsible for arranging the policy excess (in this 
case £15,000 for escape of water claims) and for dealing with the claim, so it would 
be unfair for AXA to pay out on the claim just because a high excess policy has been 
selected.
I attempted to resolve the matter informally. Having reviewed the evidence, I concluded:
AXAs policy was effectively the only one offering cover to Mr B in the circumstances 
of this particular claim.
Mr B had followed reasonable steps with regard to the lease agreement and acted 
reasonably by checking the other policy.
That AXA should deal with Mr Bs claim subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy and pay £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
AXA disagreed and said in response:
That in effect, the management company are the appointed representative in this 
instance and act on behalf of Mr B
That I was suggesting Mr B had taken out an excess protection policy with AXA, 
given the £15,000 excess on the block policy.
The risk is covered under the block policy and so the exclusion relating to property 
more specifically insured by you or on your behalf fairly applies here.
It makes it clear at the point of sale, that when the property in question is an 
individual flat, the insured should check whether there is a block policy in place.
The policy appears to have been arranged in error by Mr B, and AXA was 
considering what it was insuring and whether it was adequate.
As the matter remains unresolved, Ive considered all of the additional points AXA has raised 
when reaching my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain persuaded that AXAs policy should response in the specific 
circumstances of this claim. Ill explain why below.
In the specific circumstances of this claim, and having considered his obligations 
under the lease agreement, I cannot conclude that Mr B has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. So, it follows that if AXA were to also turn down the claim, it would 
result in an unreasonable outcome for Mr B.
Mr Bs shown that the value of this claim is unlikely to exceed £15,000. So, the block 
policy wont respond in any event here. As such, its not a comparable policy by 
which I could consider any arguments about dual insurance. Mr Bs policy covers 
escape of water events, so AXA needs to accept the claim or provide a compelling 
reason not to.
The AXA policy is in Mr Bs name only and hes said he bought it to provide buildings 
cover for the flat. And it could be suggested that a policy covering a single flat is 
more specific than a block policy covering a number of flats. 
Ive considered AXAs evidence about the requirement for consumers to check 
whether a block policy is in place before they purchase a policy. And notwithstanding 
that this evidence is generic as opposed to what Mr B actually saw during the 
application process, it doesnt tell me what the consequences were to Mr B as a 
result of not checking, or checking and proceeding to buy the policy for the flat in any 
event.
For these reasons, whilst Ive considered AXAs remaining points, none of them 
persuade me that it can fairly turn down Mr Bs claim in this circumstance.
As things stand, the policy is in force. AXA hasnt made any argument to suggest    
Mr B misrepresented his circumstances, and its been shown that the policy is the 
only one which could respond to the claim. And Mr B bought it, paid for it, and is 
entitled to the cover it provides. So, I remain persuaded that the fair outcome here is 
for AXA to deal with the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions.For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint is upheld. In order to put things right for Mr B, AXA 
Insurance UK Plc must:
Reconsider Mr Bs claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Pay Mr B £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman