DRN-2315295
The complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax made a mistake which led to his
credit card payment being duplicated. He said this meant he had to borrow money from
friends to cover his bills.
What happened
Mr D tried to pay over £800 for his Halifax credit card bill, using the Halifax website. He said
that he got an error message saying his payment had failed, so he made a payment over the
phone instead. Mr D checked his account the next day, and was shocked to find both
payments had been taken. Mr D said he tried to get in touch with Halifax, and spent six
hours on hold. He then complained online as he couldnt get through.
Mr D said this extra money coming out of his account caused him severe difficulties. He had
to borrow money from friends to make sure his direct debits were paid. He said Halifax
contacted him over a month later, and offered him £50 for the mistake, which he refused. He
said Halifax still hadnt written to him, and it had kept his duplicated payment.
Halifax showed us that it had responded to Mr Ds complaint. It wrote to him on 1 May saying
that it had offered £75, but hed turned that down so it wasnt going to pay. Halifax said he
could accept this at any time if he would like.
Halifax said sorry for what had happened. It had spoken to Mr D, and he was happy to leave
the balance on his card, as he could just spend the money. Halifax was sorry it hadnt been
able to speak to him at the time.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that Halifax had
apologised for the initial error, when Mr D was told a payment had failed even though it had
succeeded. And she thought that the delay in responding to Mr Ds complaint was
understandable, because this problem happened just after the UK went into lockdown. That
affected Mr D being able to get in touch with Halifax about the problem, and the time it took
to put things right. Our investigator thought that Halifaxs settlement offer of £75 was fair, so
she didnt think it had to do anything more.
Mr D didnt agree. He didnt think £75 was anywhere near enough to make up for what had
gone wrong. Because Mr D didnt agree with our investigator, this case was passed to me
for a final decision.
My provisional decision
 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Theres no dispute that Halifax made a mistake, and duplicated a payment. It hasnt
suggested that was related to the pandemic. And it has also apologised that he 
wasnt able to speak to it at the time the mistake happened, it says that was because 
of the problems it had adapting in the early days of the pandemic.
Because Halifax has accepted it made mistakes, what I have to think about here is 
whether the compensation Halifax has already offered is the right amount for whats 
gone wrong. 
Halifax has offered Mr D £75 in compensation. That hasnt yet been paid, as Mr D 
has refused it. He says that doesnt reflect the stress caused to him when he feared 
all his direct debits would bounce, and he wouldnt be able to pay his mortgage. 
Fortunately, he was able to borrow from friends to cover these outgoings.
I also think that a payment of £75 isnt quite enough to provide a fair and reasonable
outcome to this complaint. I think that £150 would provide a fair and reasonable 
outcome. I know that Halifax has said that the early stages of the pandemic had an 
impact on the service it was able to provide, but I still think it was Halifaxs initial 
mistake that appears to have caused the problem in this case. 
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied to accept the decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax must pay Mr D £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman