DRN-3539248
The complaint
X complains he wasnt told there was a minimum amount for overpayments to be made to 
his hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMW). X is also 
unhappy that his credit file was affected whilst he was on an agreed payment holiday.
X has been represented on this complaint. But to keep things simple Ill only refer to X in my 
decision.
What happened
In September 2016 X acquired a new car through a hire purchase agreement with BMW. 
The purchase price of the car was £55,260.19. The total amount financed on this agreement 
was £55,260.19 payable over 48 repayments with a final repayment of £24,566.42.
In August 2020 X refinanced the remaining balance on his agreement and entered into a 
new hire purchase agreement with BMW for the same vehicle. The amount financed on the 
agreement was £29,499.71 payable over 48 months.
X said he was never told by BMW, after entering into the new agreement, that there was a 
minimum amount required for overpayments to be made to his agreement. X said if hed 
known that was the case, he would have opted for a shorter term. 
X said he complained twice to BMW, firstly for not being given a payment holiday which he 
said led to him defaulting on his agreement, and secondly regarding the issue with the 
overpayments. BMW offered X £75 to resolve the complaint about the overpayments. 
However, X said he accepted the offer for the issue relating to the payment holiday but not 
for the mis understanding of the overpayments as its ended up costing him more.
X says to resolve his complaint, hed like to have two years interest free from the start of the 
loan or the ability to make overpayments. X would like to be returned to the position he 
would have been in had he taken out a two-year agreement.
BMW shared a complaint form completed in May 2021 showing X complained to them about 
the impact his agreement had on his credit file despite being in a payment holiday.
BMW provided us with a copy of their final response dated in May 2021, which advised X 
that any adverse markers would be removed from his credit file. They also provided us with 
a copy of their final response dated August 2021 where they apologised that X wasnt made 
aware of the minimum lump sum amount and offered £75 as a gesture of goodwill.  BMW 
advised that both complaints were upheld.
Unhappy with their decision X brought his concerns to this service for investigation. Our 
investigator gave their view that BMW hadnt acted fairly in the circumstances relating to the 
overpayment. They found the information provided about the overpayments was likely to be 
confusing for X. Our investigator recommended that BMW pay a further £250 in 
compensation and to provide X with a full explanation in writing of the overpayment process.
Unhappy with the investigators view, X asked that his complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
X complains about a hire purchase agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts like 
this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied we can consider Xs complaint about BMW. 
My starting point is that X brought two concerns to our service, about the adverse 
information being recorded on his credit file and the restrictions he experienced when trying 
to make an overpayment. BMW has provided us with information relating to both complaints, 
so Ive decided to address them both in my decision. 
I acknowledge our investigator focussed their view on Xs issue about the overpayments, 
however, our investigator also wrote to both parties letting them know that Id be addressing 
both issues as X had raised them with us. BMW have also provided X with a final response 
to each complaint and provided us with information relating to both issues. 
Following our investigators email, neither party shared any further information relating to 
either complaint issue.
adverse credit data
In relation to the adverse data recorded on Xs credit file, X explained he became aware of 
this when making changes to his mortgage. X believes it was as a result of his payment 
holiday not being processed correctly. 
In their final response to Xs complaint about this, BMW upheld the complaint and advised 
that theyd submitted a request to remove any negative impact from Xs credit file. BMWs 
system notes also confirm in May 2021 the request had been placed and the credit 
information updated.
From the information provided Ive not seen any evidence that Xs credit information was 
affected by the payment holiday, for example with a copy of Xs credit report. In addition, 
BMWs system notes stated in May 2021 that they couldnt see any impact. So, Im not 
persuaded in the circumstances that any compensation for X, in relation to this part of the 
complaint is appropriate, because Ive not seen anything to confirm any adverse credit 
information relating to BMWs administering or processing of the payment holiday. 
So with all things considered, Im satisfied that BMW acted reasonably by submitting a 
request to remove any negative impact on Xs credit file as a result of the payment holiday, 
and so I wont be asking them to do anything more in relation to this issue.
overpayments
X said on a number of occasions he was prevented from making an overpayment to his 
agreement despite being told he could do so.In their final response BMW upheld Xs complaint and apologised for not advising him of a 
minimum payment amount. In their system notes dated September 2020 BMW advised in 
correspondence to X that a minimum payment of £200 would reduce the interest on his 
agreement. However, in an email to our investigator dated April 2022 BMW explained that 
there was no minimum amount required on overpayments, but the amount of interest repaid 
would differ dependent on when the payment was made.
I don think theres any dispute by either party that BMW hadnt provided X with the correct 
information on the outset, and it seems that X is still experiencing issues with making 
overpayments to his agreement. In a phone call to our investigator in May 2022 X said he 
was told by BMW that even a payment of £200 would mean paying more interest on his 
agreement.
The Financial Conduct Authority says that information provided to consumers should be 
clear, fair and not misleading. 
All things considered, Im persuaded that the information provided by BMW to X regarding 
overpayments have been confusing for X and unclear.
From the information provided, I think its likely that overpayments of any amount can be 
made to Xs agreement, however what seems to be the likely issues are the methods in 
which overpayments are made and whether X would be disadvantaged for making 
overpayments of less than a certain amount.
Im in agreement with our investigator that BMW should provide written confirmation to X 
explaining the process for make overpayments, and any impact it could have on his 
agreement. I also acknowledge X has spent time trying to resolve this issue with confusing 
information being given to him by BMW. X advised that had he known there was a minimum 
amount he would have renegotiated the term of his agreement. However I havent seen 
evidence of any financial or material loss to X as a result of BMWs actions, so, I think £125 
in compensation for the inconvenience caused, in addition to what BMW has already paid is 
fair in the circumstances. 
I acknowledge our investigator recommended BMW pay X an additional £250 in 
compensation, however for the reasons explained I think £125 is fair in the circumstances; 
so, Ill be instructing BMW to pay this to X. 
As my compensation differs from what our investigator recommended, I wrote to both parties 
to give them an opportunity to provide further comments. 
BMW responded to say they agreed with my intended decision, however X responded to say 
that theyd lost out financially as they would have taken the agreement out over a shorter 
period had they known there were limitations to making overpayments.
Having considered the additional comments provided, Ive not seen any further evidence that 
causes me to change my outcome. I acknowledge X has said he couldve paid the 
agreement off over a shorter term by paying considerable more each month, however I cant 
see that there was anything stopping X from making larger overpayments to reduce the term 
of the loan. I also acknowledge the interest paid by X is likely to be more over a longer term, 
however Im satisfied from the evidence provided that X would have been made aware of the 
amount of interest payable, when he entered into it. Overall, Im not persuaded that BMWs 
actions in this case means X should receive more compensation.I acknowledge X disagreed with our investigators outcome and with my proposed 
compensation, however having considered all the information provided, Im satisfied that this 
is the fairest outcome in the circumstances. 
My final decision
To settle the complaint BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited has already paid £75 in 
compensation to X and has removed any adverse information from Xs credit file in relation 
to the payment holiday. I think this is fair in the circumstances. So, in addition to this I 
instruct BMW to:
Pay £125 compensation to X for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman