DRN-3631220
The complaint
Mr M has complained through his representative that AvantCredit of UK, LLC was 
irresponsible in lending to him.
What happened
In November 2015 AvantCredit provided Mr M with a loan of £3,000. The loan was
repayable over 36 months and the monthly repayments were £132.21.
Mr M said the purpose of the loan was to consolidate his debts. The loan was repaid in
January 2017.
In March 2017 Mr M took out another loan from AvantCredit. He borrowed £3,900 (although
some reports say £3,705) repayable over 36 months and the monthly repayments were
£178.37. This loan has also been repaid.
Mr M complained to the Financial Ombudsman that AvantCredit hadnt properly checked he 
could afford the loans. Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ms complaint. He thought AvantCredit 
was wrong to have offered the loans to Mr M.
An ombudsman at this service issued a provisional decision. In it she said that AvantCredit 
shouldnt have issued loan 1, for reasons set out in her provisional findings below. In respect 
of loan 2 she said that AvantCredit should have carried out further checks. However she 
wasnt able to say what those checks might have revealed and invited Mr M to send in 
statements relating to three accounts (in addition to those already sent in). 
No further statements, apart from duplicates of those previously sent in, have been received 
from Mr M or his representative. No further comments have been made on his behalf.
AvantCredit accepted the ombudsmans provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were the previous ombudsmans provisional findings:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of this complaint are: 
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr M would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr M would have been able to do so?
Did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Ms ability to make the repayments under the loan
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr M.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Loan 1
AvantCredit carried out a credit search. That showed Mr M owed £1,679 on two current
accounts, £1,154 on a credit card account and £118,387 on a mortgage. Some of the
accounts were joint.
It also showed that between 2011 and 2013 Mr M had defaulted on a current account with a
balance of £1,107, on two unsecured loans totalling £15,142 and on a credit card account
with a balance of £3,905. Hed also exceeded the limit on his credit card.
I think AvantCredit should have been concerned at these signs that Mr M had had 
problems managing his finances. I think it should have looked to carry out a complete 
review of Mr Ms finances to assure itself that he could repay the loan in a sustainable way, 
especially as the loan term was a period of three years. For example, before it agreed to 
lend to him, it could have asked to see his bank statements or similar.Ive now looked at what I think proportionate checks would have likely shown AvantCredit. 
Mr M has sent us some bank statements including those for the months before he took 
out the loan. They dont give a complete picture because he had two other active current 
accounts. The credit search revealed that on one of them he was up to the £600 overdraft 
limit. The bank statements for another account show he was paying £188.53 a month to a 
lender that wasnt shown on the credit search. In September 2015 Mr Ms overdraft had 
increased from £483.43 to £1,246.30. In October hed earned £300 less than his stated 
income of £1,974. In summary they show that AvantCredits estimate that Mr M would 
have a post-loan disposable income of over £1,000 a month was wildly inaccurate.
I think if AvantCredit had carried out proportionate checks it would have realised that Mr M 
had become over-reliant on credit he couldnt afford and he was unlikely to be able to 
sustainably afford the new loan repayment over a three year period. I dont think 
AvantCredit treated Mr M fairly in approving this loan.
I appreciate that the purpose of the loan was said to be for debt consolidation. Mr M could 
have used the £3,000 loan to repay his overdrafts and credit card debt but that would only 
have reduced his credit commitments going forward by under £10. The stated purpose of 
debt consolidation isnt enough in itself to make me think that the loan was fairly provided 
or that it proved helpful in the event to Mr M.
The fact that Mr M repaid the loan doesnt mean that he was able to do so sustainably or 
that this is a good enough reason for me not to uphold his complaint that the loan was 
unaffordable.
So, for the reasons set out above, I dont think AvantCredit should have provided Mr M 
with this loan.
Loan 2
By the time he applied for this loan AvantCredits checks showed that Mr Ms average net 
monthly income was £2,264.
It is difficult to get a full picture from the results of AvantCredits credit search as it is only in 
summary form. But AvantCredit could see that Mr Ms mortgage had increased by almost
£40,000 since November 2015 although he hadnt moved house according to his 
application form. I think that should have led AvantCredit to query the reason for the 
increase.
AvantCredit also saw Mr Ms bank statement for February to March 2017. I think it should 
also have queried why Mr M appeared to be living in a different part of the country from the 
address given on his application form since that might give rise to additional expenses of 
which it was unaware. This statement is for one of Mr Ms three bank accounts and only 
shows two regular outgoing payments for telecommunications. So, it didnt give a full 
picture of Mr Ms other household expenditure such as utilities, council tax and credit 
commitments.
Taking everything into account, Id have expected AvantCredit to want to obtain a more 
thorough understanding of Mr Ms financial circumstances to satisfy itself that he could 
sustainably repay the loan over the whole of the loan term. Overall, I havent seen enough
information for me to say that AvantCredits checks on this occasion were reasonable or
proportionate. 
But although I dont think the checks AvantCredit did before agreeing the loan weresufficient, that isnt enough of a reason for me to uphold Mr Ms complaint. In order for the
complaint to succeed I would also need to be able to say that proportionate checks would
have shown AvantCredit that Mr M couldnt sustainably afford the repayments.
Although Ive concluded that AvantCredit should have carried out further checks for the loan,
Im not sure what it would have seen if it had done so as Mr M hasnt provided us with bank
statements from around the time he applied for this loan.
Im not suggesting here that these are the checks that AvantCredit should necessarily have
done. But I think looking at these would have given a good indication of Mr Ms financial
situation around the time he applied for this loan. As I cant say with any certainty that
AvantCredit would have uncovered information showing this loan would be unaffordable for
Mr M, Im not minded to uphold this part of his complaint.
I invite Mr M to send me bank statements for his three bank accounts for February/March
2017 for me to consider before reaching a final decision.
Ive also thought about whether AvantCredit acted unfairly in some other way and I havent
seen any evidence that it did. 
I have carefully reconsidered the matter and I agree with my ombudsman colleagues 
provisional findings, which Im happy to adopt. Those findings are now final and form part of 
this final  decision.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr M to repay the principal amount that he 
borrowed for the Loan 1 because hes had the benefit of that lending. But as I have 
concluded AvantCredit shouldnt have provided this loan, it should look to remove the 
interest and fees from the amounts due under the loan agreement. If AvantCredit has sold 
the outstanding debt, it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then take the following 
steps. If it is not able to buy the debt, it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below.
AvantCredit should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to Loan 1.
Treat any payments made by Mr M as payments towards the capital amount.
If Mr M has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to 
his with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
remove any negative information about Loan 1 from Mr Ms credit file.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint concerning Loan 1 and require AvantCredit of UK, LLC to provide the 
remedy set out under Putting things right above.
I dont uphold the complaint concerning Loan 2.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman