DRN-4397073
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the service he received from British Friendly Society Limited. In 
particular, the way he was spoken to during calls. 
What happened
Mr C had the benefit of an income protection policy underwritten by British Friendly. In 2022, 
he made a claim under the policy. BF had some queries. To progress the claim, one of its 
representatives called Mr C with some questions (the initial call).
Mr C is unhappy with the way the initial call was handled by BFs representative. He says the 
representative was emotionally abusive, controlling and he felt gaslighted whilst on the 
phone. Mr C says hes also unhappy with the way in which other representatives interacted 
with him during calls when discussing his concerns about the initial call. 
In its final response letter dated November 2022, BF accepted that Mr C didnt receive an 
adequate level of customer service during the initial call and subsequent complaint call. BF 
apologised for the distress caused and paid Mr C £75 compensation. 
Mr C ended up cancelling the policy and in December 2022, after reviewing the original 
compensation amount, BF paid Mr C a further sum of £75 - bringing the total compensation 
amount to £150.
Mr C brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator felt 
compensation in the sum of £150 was fair and reasonable. Mr C disagreed. So, this 
complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BF has an obligation to treat customers fairly. 
BF accepts that Mr C didnt receive good customer service during calls he had with its 
representatives in October 2022. Having listened to the initial call, Im satisfied that BFs 
representative couldve been more empathetic and his tone may have come across as 
condescending. Im also satisfied that he shouldve stopped asking Mr C for information after 
Mr C requested the questions be put in writing as he couldnt easily recall dates and he 
didnt want to give the wrong details. However, Im not persuaded that BFs representative 
was emotionally abusive or exhibited controlling behaviour during the call.
It is, however, very clear that Mr C was upset about the way the call progressed and he 
quickly contacted BF because he wanted to speak to someone about the way the initial call 
was handled. At one point he said he was still trembling about the way he was treated and 
that he was in shock. I accept that he was unnecessarily caused distress at a time when he 
was vulnerable. 
As BF accepts, I think the call to discuss his complaint couldve also been handled better. 
Whilst I understand why BFs representative would want to agree next steps, I think it ought 
to have been clear from what Mr C was saying that he wanted to go away and consider 
matters before deciding whether to progress the complaint further once hed reflected further 
and received a recording of the initial call. 
BF has apologised and paid £150 compensation to Mr C. I think that fairly reflects the 
distress and inconvenience experienced. 
Mr C has said he is worried that others will experience similar treatment as he did, and he 
thinks the representative who spoke to him during the initial call should receive appropriate 
disciplinary action. The Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt have any power to direct a 
financial business to initiate disciplinary procedures against its staff members. Thats an 
internal matter for BF. But if its any comfort for Mr C, BF says the representative has been 
given feedback. 
Further, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to direct BF to reimburse Mr C for 
the premiums he paid for the policy now that its been cancelled. During the years Mr C paid 
the premiums for the policy, he couldve benefitted from it had he needed to make a claim 
(subject to the terms and conditions of the policy being met).
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman