DRN-3118009
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from TSB Bank plc when withdrawing cash 
and he says they threatened to close his account.   
What happened
Mr S holds an account with TSB and attended a branch to withdraw cash at the counter.    
Mr S says he asked for a receipt but a staff member refused and instead printed off a 
statement. Mr S feels this presented a security risk as, if he lost the statement, someone 
else could have access to his personal information. So, Mr S complained to TSB about this 
and about being told by the branch they could close his account.  
TSB responded and explained they understand Mr S completed the withdrawal and then 
asked for a receipt. TSB said they need to be made aware of this at the beginning of the 
transaction and, as that wasnt the case, the staff member printed off a statement to confirm 
the withdrawal and the balance. TSB said they understand Mr S feels this is a security risk if 
he loses the statement, but they confirmed its not a security issue but would advise keeping 
the document safe. 
In relation to threatening to close Mr Ss account, TSB said they had spoken with the branch 
and they had provided their version of events. They said, Mr S was showing abusive 
behaviour towards staff by swearing and shouting  and Mr S refused to leave the branch. 
TSB said they wont put up with abusive behaviour or threatening and inappropriate 
language so this is why the branch made Mr S aware that if he continued then they can 
request for his account to be closed. Mr S said hes also unhappy a staff member at another 
branch doesnt count the cash he withdraws. In relation to this, TSB said they couldnt 
investigate this as Mr S hadnt provided them with the relevant information. TSB said, when 
completing withdrawals from their ATM, a customer is provided a receipt for the transaction 
so if there were to be a dispute about the amount TSB could investigate this.       
  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr S. She thought TSB hadnt acted unreasonably.  
Mr S disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr S will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The branch visit
TSB have provided information which shows Mr S made a cash withdrawal on the date of his 
visit. TSB say, their procedures for cash withdrawals, using a debit card, do not include an 
automatic receipt being provided. If a customer requires a mini balance, which would show 
the withdrawal, this can be provided as long as they are made aware of this requirement 
prior to the transaction being completed. They say, Mr S asked for a receipt for the 
transaction after it was processed. At this point, a mini balance wouldnt have been possible 
and therefore to assist, the staff member printed off a statement showing the transaction and 
handed it to Mr S. TSB say, this would be the appropriate action in the circumstances and 
the best solution available.
I can understand why Mr S was worried by this. I cant see he asked for a statement and its 
clear hes concerned about the detail contained in the statement and the potential 
consequences of someone else having access to that information if he was to lose it. It 
appears Mr S is particularly concerned that the financial detail on the statement could be 
used to answer security questions TSB ask to verify a customer. I cant say however that 
TSB have made an error here. I cant see Mr S made the branch aware he wanted a receipt 
prior to completing the transaction so a mini-statement was no longer an option. I do believe 
the staff member then tried their best to help Mr S by printing off a statement. While I do 
acknowledge Mr Ss concerns about the consequences of a statement being lost, that hasnt 
happened here and neither have TSB compromised Mr Ss personal information by handing 
a statement to him in person. At this point, if Mr S wasnt comfortable having the statement, I 
think he couldve asked the branch to dispose of it securely. So, I cant see the staff member 
refused to give Mr S a receipt  instead it appears they were unable to do so given the 
transaction had already been completed.   
Mr S says he then raised his concern about being handed a statement. Given his concern, I 
think hes entitled to do this. TSB however say Mr S was particularly abusive to the staff at 
the branch, even suggesting that several members of staff should meet him outside to sort 
the matter out. And, it was as a result of these actions, he was advised that if he continued 
with this type of behaviour they would issue notice to close his account. TSBs accounts 
terms and conditions say they can close an account immediately and without notice in 
certain circumstances. It lists events which fall within this and includes youre behaving 
improperly (for example, in a threatening or abusive manner). 
TSB have provided system notes made on the day Mr S visited the branch. The account 
given in the notes supports what TSB say happened and theres also a statement from a 
staff member who describes the event in the same way. So, I dont think it was unfair for 
TSB to inform Mr S they could close his account. 
Mr Ss visit to another branch 
Mr S says he visited another branch where a staff member wont count the cash he 
withdraws. Mr S says if an error arises later then he wont have any confirmation on how 
much he withdrew. TSB say they havent been able to investigate this part of Mr Ss 
complaint as he hasnt provided any specific information about this situation. I can see Mr S 
has made further reference to this in his communication with our service but I cant see he 
originally provided TSB with the details they needed to look into this further. As such, its not 
a complaint I can look into as I think its fair and reasonable for TSB to be given an 
opportunity to look into this first. I will therefore leave it to Mr S to raise this with TSB if he 
wishes to and provide the additional detail to them to look into this. 
I am sorry to hear about Mr Ss experience and wish to reassure him that I have carefully 
considered his comments. But, for the reasons I have set out, I dont think TSB have acted 
unfairly or unreasonably.  My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman