DRN-2810686
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Topaz Finance Limited (trading as Jasper), failed to provide call 
recordings that she had requested in a timely manner.  
What happened
Mrs L said she requested calls from Jasper in December 2019, and she had to keep 
contacting Jasper as they failed to provide them. She wanted these calls to support other 
complaints she had with them.
Jasper said they had no evidence that Mrs L made this request as early as December 2019 
and said the first request they could see was in September 2020, when our service 
requested the calls in order to investigate her complaint.
Mrs L wasnt happy with how she was treated by Jasper, so she brought the complaint to our 
service. She also brought two further complaints, one because Jasper appointed Law of 
Property Act (LPA) Receivers to manage her buy to let property instead of agreeing a plan 
for her to repay the arrears on the mortgage. The other complaint was to do with the actions 
of Jasper, and that she lost the opportunity to arrange a loan to pay off mortgage arrears and 
that Jasper wouldnt allow LPA Receivers to be removed from managing her property. Mrs L 
was also unhappy that Jasper were asking for the loan balance to be reduced to the amount 
of the original advance.
For this complaint our investigator looked at the delays in Mrs L receiving the call recordings. 
Mrs L told our investigator that she felt bullied and harassed by Jasper. Our investigator 
asked her to provide details of this and after getting Mrs Ls response, he said the detail she 
provided related to the account itself as opposed to the call recordings themselves.
Our investigator thought that the call recordings could have been sent sooner to Mrs L but 
didnt find Jasper had bullied or harassed Mrs L. He asked Jasper to pay Mrs L £250 for the 
delays in sending out the call recordings.
Mrs L was pleased that the complaint was upheld and told the investigator what she wants 
Jasper to do in order to put things right for her. She said she wants Jasper to remove the 
LPA Receivers from managing her property and for Jasper to reimburse her the loss of rent 
and refund all costs and charges she has incurred. She said she also wants Jasper to 
compensate her for all of the financial difficulties that they have created for her plus interest 
incurred from other third parties.
Our investigator explained that we were only looking at the delays of the call recordings 
being received by Mrs L on this complaint, but Mrs L said the above is what she would only 
accept.
Mrs L asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to 
me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its worth clarifying the complaint that I am looking at here. This complaint is purely 
about the potential delays in Jasper sending out the call recordings to Mrs L. The two other 
complaints that Mrs L has brought to our service have already had final decisions on them 
where both ombudsmen didnt uphold the complaints. It appears that Mrs L hasnt accepted 
either of these final decisions so if she remains unhappy, she has the right to take both these 
matters to court. Therefore, Mrs Ls request on what she expects Jasper to do to put things 
right will not be considered as these previous complaints have already been dealt with and I 
will not be commenting on them any further.
Ive looked at the call notes provided by Jasper and two call recordings that Mrs L has 
provided our service dated 13 May 2020 and 9 June 2020  to ascertain when Mrs L 
requested call recordings to be sent out. 
There is a final response letter for a different compliant that Mrs L made to Jasper dated 20 
July 2020. This letter confirms that Mrs L requested a full data subject access request 
(DSAR) on 3 March 2020 which was sent to her on 26 March 2020. Mrs L has said 
throughout her complaint that she hadnt received call recordings which she said she needed 
to support her other complaints.
Ive listened to the call recording of 13 May 2020 where Mrs L is chasing final response 
letters in relation to other complaints she has made, and she also says she hasnt received 
the call recordings. Mrs L spoke to one adviser before being put through to someone else. 
When she spoke to the first adviser, she said she was still waiting for the letters and the 
recordings. Mrs L explains she needs this information after speaking to someone at our 
service.  When she spoke to the second adviser, there was mis-communication as the 
adviser assumed Mrs L was asking for information on our behalf but its quite clear from the 
call, that Mrs L was asking for the call recordings, which she was still chasing because she 
hadnt received them.
The call itself became quite heated and Mrs L couldnt really get her point across. While I 
appreciate that Mrs L had several other complaints at the time with Jasper and would have 
had various discussions with advisers, I think this call could have been handled a bit better. 
And I think it was evident that Mrs L was chasing call recordings that she never received, so 
I dont agree that September 2020 was the first time that Jasper were aware that Mrs L 
wanted call recordings to be sent to her. Mrs L also mentions on the call of the 9 June 2020 
that she was trying to request the call recordings when she called previously on 13 May 
2020.
Jasper have confirmed that the call recordings were sent to Mrs L on 5 December 2020 and 
they sent instructions again on how to listen to the recordings on 15 December 2020 and 
again 10 March 2021. I think its fair to say that these call recordings could have been sent 
out much sooner to Mrs L.
However, from the calls I have listened to, I dont agree that Mrs L was bullied or harassed 
by any of the advisers she spoke to. But like I said, I do think the call got quite heated and 
that it could have been dealt with differently.
I agree that Jasper should pay Mrs L £250 for the delays she encountered in receiving the 
call recordings. But as Ive already mentioned, I will not be asking Jasper to do anything else 
in relation to her other complaints, as these have already been dealt with.
  
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Topaz Finance Limited 
(trading as Jasper) to pay Mrs L £250 for the delay in sending out the call recordings she 
requested.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman