DRN-3565436
The complaint
Mrs D complains about how AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds (AAUICL) 
handled a claim on her After The Event (ATE) insurance policy.
References to AAUICL include their agents.
What happened
Mrs D was involved in an accident which was caused by another driver. The next morning, 
she contacted AAUICL and was provided with an After The Event (ATE) insurance policy for 
non-fault accidents. 
The ATE policy covered Mrs D for vehicle-related expenses (including hire, recovery, repair 
and storage charges). It would pay out if the at-fault drivers insurer didnt pay these 
expenses within 30 days of being asked to do so. AAUICL would then seek to recover 
payments made under the policy from the at-fault drivers insurer.
Mrs D says she had to contact AAUICL several times because the car hire company hadnt 
contacted her. She says she was assured the car hire company had the order but was later 
told they hadnt received it. AAUICL contacted a second car hire company who told her it 
was too late to arrange a car for that evening (Friday) and they wouldnt be able to provide 
one over the weekend.
Mrs D says she had to get a taxi to work on the Monday. The courtesy vehicle arrived in the 
afternoon, but it wasnt suitable for Mrs D due to its size and height. Mrs D wasnt able to 
access it easily because of a hip problem. After Mrs D raised her concerns with AAUICL it 
provided her with another vehicle, but Mrs D still had some difficulty getting in and out of it. A 
couple of weeks later AAUICL provided Mrs D with a third courtesy vehicle, which she says 
was left on her driveway without warning whilst nobody was home.
In the meantime, AAUICL told Mrs D that her damaged vehicle was beyond economical 
repair. Mrs D thought the settlement offer was too low, but she was told it was the maximum 
AAUICL could obtain from the third-party insurers. She was told that if she didnt accept it, 
she would need to proceed through her own insurers. However, her courtesy car would need 
to be collected, she would need to arrange collection of her damaged car from the salvage 
yard and she would be liable for storage costs after seven days. 
Mrs D was worried about incurring additional expenses, so she decided to accept the 
settlement offer, but complained to AAUICL about the service she received. She says she 
couldnt replace her car for the money offered and feels she would have been better off 
dealing with the third-party insurer herself. 
AAUICL said that the changes in hire vehicles were mainly due to preference. It appreciated 
the vehicles might not have met Mrs Ds expectations, but it had fulfilled its service 
agreement by providing a vehicle within similar categories to Mrs Ds. 
AAUICL said the settlement offer for her damaged vehicle was in line with the Financial 
Ombudsman Services expectations. AAUICL was confident this was the maximum Mrs D 
would have received. 
In answer to Mrs Ds concern about her premium having increased, AAUICL said the 
premium increase was outside of its control. It also felt that its communication with Mrs D 
was reasonable.
Mrs D remained unhappy and asked our service to consider her concerns. Our investigator 
was satisfied that AAUICLs valuation of Mrs Ds vehicle was reasonable. But he thought 
AAUICLs customer service could have been better. He recommended AAUICL pay Mrs D 
£150 for distress and inconvenience.
AAUICL disagreed with our investigators view. It said it hadnt made any errors arranging 
the hire vehicle and made some further comments regarding general hire car issues. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mrs D that Ive considered all of her points, even if I havent responded to 
each of them individually. Ive concentrated on what I feel is most relevant to the outcome of 
her complaint. Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
Vehicle valuation 
The policy terms say: If we are notified by the AA Approved repairer that the damage to 
your vehicle is such as to amount to a total loss we will instruct and pay for an engineer to 
inspect and provide a total loss valuation and we will provide you with a copy of that report.
The letter sent with Mrs Ds policy documents says: Please note if your vehicle is deemed a 
total loss, we will contact you to agree your vehicle valuation and send this to the third-party 
insurer for payment.
AAUICL has provided a copy of the engineers report which valued Mrs Ds vehicle at 
£3,225. This is based on the average of two industry trade guides which gave the pre-
accident value as £3,800 and £2,650. AAUICL has provided screenshots of these valuations 
and Im satisfied the information in them is correct. Ive also reviewed information on a third 
industry trade guide which gives the pre-accident value as £3,185. So, Im satisfied that 
AAUICLs valuation of Mrs Ds vehicle was fair and reasonable. 
Mrs D says shes been unable to replace her vehicle with one that is similar. I appreciate 
how frustrating that is. I understand that she took good care of the car and it had had a new 
part fitted just before the accident. However, the fairest way of assessing the value of a 
vehicle is by using the standard industry guides, which are based on extensive national 
research of likely selling prices. The valuations they provide are based on the make, model, 
age, condition and specification of a car.  
The ATE policy doesnt provide cover for the value of Your vehicle if your vehicle is a total 
loss. AAUICL would need to recover any settlement it paid Mrs D from the third-party 
insurer. The third-party insurer would likely have reached a similar figure if it had completed the valuation of the vehicle itself. So, Im not persuaded that Mrs D would have been better 
off if shed approached the third-party insurer directly.
Customer service
The ATE policy covered Mrs D for the cost of hiring a replacement hire car broadly 
comparable to your vehicle.
Ive listened to the call recordings AAUICL have sent us. Mrs Ds initial conversation with 
AAUICL was on a Friday morning, following her accident the evening before. In this call,  
Mrs D was told the car hire company would be in touch later that day to arrange a suitable 
time to drop the car off. 
Mrs D phoned AAUICL several more times that day because she hadnt been contacted by 
the car hire company. It was clear from her calls that she was concerned she wouldnt have 
a car for work on the Monday. 
In its response to Mrs Ds complaint AAUICL said they instructed a second car hire company 
due to the first one not being able to provide and not providing the service we expect. 
However, I havent seen anything that suggests that a hire car wasnt available. The AAUICL 
adviser Mrs D spoke to late Friday afternoon contacted the first hire car company and told 
Mrs D they hadnt received the instruction. So, the issue appears to have been to do with 
communication, rather than a hire car not being available. 
AAUICL says it wouldnt have expected a hire car to be provided on the same day the claim 
was reported or any day over the weekend. However, its also acknowledged that it didnt 
manage Mrs Ds expectations about this in the initial call. If it had done, Mrs D might have 
made alternative arrangements. In any event, I think Mrs D was caused some unnecessary 
worry and inconvenience as she also wasnt contacted by the hire car company as expected.
While the possible delay in getting the first vehicle to Mrs D was frustrating for her, I think 
AAUICL tried its best to put things right for her. In a call on the Saturday, the advisor offered 
to cover the cost of a taxi to get Mrs D to work and to arrange for the hire car to be dropped 
off at her work address. I appreciate this didnt really resolve things for Mrs D because she 
needed to move around during her working day, but I think AAUICL tried its best to help her. 
Matters got worse for Mrs D when the first hire vehicle was delivered to her home the 
following day, and she found it wasnt suitable for her.
AAUICL says the first vehicle was a slight upgrade because a like for like replacement 
wasnt available. It says it has fulfilled its service agreement by providing a vehicle within 
similar categories to her own.
I appreciate AAUICL and the car hire company might not have been aware of the issue with 
Mrs Ds hip when the first vehicle was dropped off. However, it was a nine-seater shuttle 
bus, which Mrs D says is much bigger than the seven-seater vehicle she was used to 
driving. So, I would have expected the car hire company to have discussed options with   
Mrs D before delivering the vehicle rather than assuming shed be happy with the one they 
gave her.
I havent got anything to show me what Mrs D might have discussed with the car hire 
company. But in her conversations with AAUICL the day the first vehicle was delivered,    
Mrs D explained that she wasnt able to climb into it because of her hip injury. She also said 
she would have made do with a five-seater if shed been told a seven-seater vehicle wasnt 
available. I understand Mrs D had to wait two further days for another vehicle to be delivered 
to her.Mrs D says that the second vehicle she received was also too high for her. Mrs D says it 
took around 12 days for the hire car company to replace this with a third vehicle, which was 
no doubt frustrating for her. However, this vehicle does appear to have been in the same 
category as the one belonging to Mrs D. So, I dont think it would be fair to say AAUICL is 
responsible for Mrs Ds dissatisfaction here. Although, its unclear why it took so long for  
Mrs D to be given another vehicle, when shed said she would have been satisfied with a 
five-seater.
Overall, I think Mrs Ds experience with getting a suitable hire car was disappointing. Mrs D 
was left without a vehicle she could drive for several days, which was frustrating and 
inconvenient for her. She says she had to rely on friends and family for lifts. She also spent a 
lot of time on the phone trying to sort things out. This included spending a long time on hold 
and needing to be transferred to another department each time she called. Its unclear 
whether or not there was another number she could have dialled to get directly through to 
the department she needed to speak to. If there was, this doesnt appear to have been 
shared with her. 
AAUICL has made some comments about how the motor industry is impacted by courtesy 
car and hire car issues. However, Im not persuaded that the issues Mrs D experienced were 
solely as a result of these. The hire car company may well have had difficulty finding a 
suitable seven-seater vehicle to replace Mrs Ds. But Mrs D would have been satisfied with a 
five-seater vehicle if one had been offered to her. On balance, I think the issues were more 
likely to be as a result of poor communication. 
There were also some other aspects of AAUICLs communication with Mrs D that I think 
should have been better. For example, it doesnt seem to have made it clear that shed 
receive a separate payment for the salvage value of the vehicle. This resulted in some 
confusion for Mrs D when the first cheque she received was lower than expected.
In conclusion
I think AAUICLs valuation of Mrs Ds vehicle was reasonable. However, I think there were 
some failings in the customer service AAUICL provided, including its communication with 
Mrs D. So, I think it would be fair for AAUICL to pay Mrs D £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience she experienced as a result. 
Putting things right
AAUICL should pay Mrs D £150 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ds complaint and direct AA Underwriting 
Insurance Company Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman