DRN-3763615
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that QIC Europe Limited (QIC) partially declined his claim for storm 
damage under his buildings insurance.
What happened
Mr W claimed under his home insurance for damage to his roof caused by a storm. Hip tiles 
had fallen and damaged the roof below. QIC appointed a field surveyor to inspect the roof, 
who concluded that the storm caused the damage.
QICs in-house surveyor assessed the field surveyors report and photos and partially 
declined Mr Ws claim. The in-house surveyor said because of the cyclical exposure to the 
elements, whereby moisture in the tile joints freezes and thaws, the mortar holding the tiles 
had broken down over time. The policy didnt provide cover for gradually occurring damage. 
However, QIC accepted the claim for the lower roof tiles under the accidental damage cover 
because they were broken when the upper tiles fell.
Mr W complained to QIC, but it issued a final response maintaining its decision to decline the 
claim for storm damage, while accepting the accidental damage element. So, Mr W brought 
his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint because she didnt think QIC had demonstrated that a 
policy exclusion applied. She said the field surveyors report carried more weight than the in-
house report, so she didnt think it was fair that QIC relied on the second report. Our 
investigator also said the mortar showed some signs of expected deterioration in other 
places where tiles hadnt slipped, so it wasnt reasonable to say only some slipped because 
of the breakdown of mortar. She pointed out that the mortar where the tiles had slipped was 
freshly exposed. To put matters right, our investigator recommended that QIC settle the 
claim in line with the policy.
QIC didnt agree. It said the remaining tiles would be expected to come away at some point 
because of the mortar deterioration, so the fact that some remained in place meant they had 
a stronger bond. Further, QIC didnt dispute that the mortar was freshly exposed, but it felt 
the storm simply highlighted the deterioration. QIC remained of the view that the hip tiles 
should not be included in the claim settlement.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
When considering a complaint about a storm damage claim, I ask three questions:
Was there a storm?
Was the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
Was the damage wholly or mainly caused by the storm?
Theres no dispute that the 70 mph winds on the day the tiles slipped met the definition of a 
storm. And tiles slipping from a roof is typical of the type of damage caused during a storm.
So, Ill focus on the final question  was the damage wholly or mainly caused by the storm?
For me, the overriding piece of evidence is the report prepared by the surveyor who visited 
Mr Ws home and inspected the roof. The surveyor reported that:
Several of the rear hip tiles have been displaced. The adjoining mortar bedding is of 
sound condition. Several tiles on the main pitched roof have been damaged and two 
lower tiles to the extension roof also need replacing.  We are able to confirm the storm 
peril as weather records confirm and have authorised the claim.
While I havent disregarded the in-house surveyors findings, I struggle to place more weight 
on conclusions drawn from photos rather than the conclusions of the surveyor who actually 
inspected the roof. QIC instructed both surveyors, so its unlikely theres any bias with the 
first report.
Therefore, I find it unreasonable for QIC to rely on the second report to decline the claim. 
To put matters right, QIC should settle the full claim, less the policy excess, in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and QIC 
Europe Limited must:
settle Mr Ws claim in full, less the policy excess, in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022. 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman