DRN-3601932
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about poor service by Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) when 
they asked about extending the term of their mortgage. They ask for more compensation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out a mortgage with Halifax in 2017, most of which was on interest only 
terms. In 2021 they asked about extending the term for two years as this would fit better with 
their plans. 
Halifax didnt agree to extend the term as Mr and Mrs G didnt meet its criteria. However, this 
complaint isnt about Halifaxs decision not to extend the mortgage. Its about the poor 
service Mr and Mrs G received, including cancelling/changing appointments, not making 
calls when agreed, making calls at inconvenient time, calls from unknown staff members and 
leaving obscure messages. They say this wasted their time and caused stress. Mr and 
Mrs G said the complaint handler wasnt prepared for the call and lied to them about timings 
and the compensation offered.
Halifax said it should have told Mr and Mrs G that the mortgage adviser was off sick and 
couldnt make the agreed appointment. It also said it should have responded to their 
messages, and not called before 4pm when theyd said this was inconvenient. Halifax 
offered £100 compensation. Our investigator said this was fair. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree. Mrs G said we needed to listen to all the calls to understand how 
much time was wasted. Mrs G said the fact that Halifax didnt have records of all the calls 
was in keeping with the poor record keeping, time wasting and lack of clarity theyd 
experienced and for which they wanted more compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs G set out their complaint in detail and their frustration is clear. We offer an 
informal dispute resolution service. I dont need to set out what happened in the same level 
of detail in order to reach a fair outcome and explain the reasons for my decision to the 
parties.  
Halifaxs mortgage adviser arranged an appointment with Mr and Mrs G. She didnt call 
when expected. The mortgage adviser was unexpectedly off work due to illness, but no-one 
had told Mr and Mrs G this. They waited for over an hour. They sent emails, but didnt 
receive a reply.
This must have been especially frustrating as the appointment had previously been re-
arranged by the mortgage adviser. And Mr and Mrs G had gathered information ready for the 
call.
Halifax left a message later, saying the mortgage adviser would call them the next day. Mr 
and Mrs G had told Halifax not to call before 4pm. While the message was left before 4pm, 
this was a message that Mr and Mrs G could listen to later, when convenient. And while the 
person leaving the message didnt leave his number for them to call back, I dont think that 
was an error. The message was only to say the mortgage adviser would call them.
Theres always some inconvenience involved in applying for a mortgage, or to make 
changes to a mortgage. The mortgage adviser was away from work unexpectedly. But 
Halifax caused unnecessary additional inconvenience when it didnt let Mr and Mrs G know 
that the mortgage adviser was unable to attend the appointment. I think its right that it 
offered compensation. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs G want more compensation. But I think 
in the circumstances £100 is fair and reasonable for the upset and additional inconvenience 
caused by the error.
Mr and Mrs Gs remaining concerns are about how Halifax dealt with their complaint. I 
should explain that complaint handling isnt itself a regulated activity. That means this 
service cant necessarily look into complaints about complaint handling. I can look into how a 
complaint was dealt with if this impacted on resolving the underlying problem (here, the 
application for a term extension). I dont think that was the case here. The appointment with 
the mortgage adviser was re-arranged, so the application could continue in the usual way.
My final decision
My decision is that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) should pay £100 to Mr and 
Mrs G, as it offered to do. It can deduct any amounts already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman