DRN-3127138
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited trading as Logbook Loans (L2G or the 
lender) was irresponsible to have agreed credit for him. 
 
What happened
L2G provided Mr M with a loan of £2,000 in November 2013. The total amount of £9,128, 
including interest and charges, was to be repaid over three years in weekly instalments of 
£59 or £253.55 a month.
This was a log book loan, in other words it was granted on the basis that Mr M provided 
L2G with a bill of sale for his car. This meant that if Mr M didnt make his loan repayments 
L2G could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of the vehicle. 
I understand Mr M had repaid his loan by January 2017.   
Mr M said the loan was unaffordable for him and L2G would have understood this had it 
carried out proper checks before lending to him. He says he had to borrow from friends and 
family to meet his repayments and it caused him a lot of stress. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint and recommended that it be upheld 
because they concluded L2G had lent irresponsibly. They recommended L2G refund the 
payments Mr M made above the original amount of £2,000 he borrowed along with 
compensatory interest. They also recommended L2G remove any adverse information about 
the loan from Mr Ms credit file. 
L2G didnt agree with this recommendation. It said that Mr Ms credit commitments and all 
his monthly expenditure was taken into consideration. It says it confirmed beyond all 
reasonably doubt the loan was affordable for him and wouldnt put him in a more difficult 
position. It said Mr M gave no indication of being in financial difficulty, and he made his 
repayments with relative ease. 
L2G asked for the complaint to come to an ombudsman to review and resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L2G needed to check that Mr M could afford to meet his repayments sustainably before 
agreeing credit for him. In other words, it needed to check he could make his repayments 
out of his usual income and without experiencing financial difficulty or adverse 
consequences, in particular without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness. The 
assessment needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit and Mr Ms 
circumstances.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did L2G complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ms application to satisfy itself that he would be 
able to make his repayments without experiencing difficulty? If not, what would reasonable 
and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did L2G make a fair lending decision?
L2G said in its final response to Mr M that it verified that he received a minimum of 
£2,199.43 monthly via an online income verification tool. It said it extensively reviewed his 
application, checked his credit file and calculated that his monthly expenditure was 
£1,870.93. It then added a buffer of 10% to his verified expenditure to account for any 
fluctuations in his monthly income or expenditure. L2G says that even after this, Mr Ms  loan 
repayments would have been affordable.
L2G provided this Service with the information it relied on in making its lending decision. 
This included an income and expenditure form, with the totals mentioned above. Ive seen 
no evidence that it checked Mr Ms credit file or used an online credit reference agency tool 
to check his income. L2G has provided bank statements from around the time of the loan 
from two of Mr Ms accounts with annotations which show it used these statements to 
confirm some of the income and expenditure figures. (His main account statements cover 
most of 20 September to 19 November 2013 and his second account from 1 August to 4 
November 2013.)
It seems on the face of it that L2G carried out reasonable and proportionate checks by 
looking into Mr Ms means and verifying some of the figures. So Ive started by reviewing the 
information L2G relied on. I note the lender used national statistical data to estimate Mr Ms 
minimum spend on household costs and utilities. Ive also noted that his income included 
working and child tax credits and that he had four dependents. L2G estimated that Mr M 
would have a disposable income of £328.50 a month. Mr Ms monthly loan repayment came 
to about £253, leaving him with an estimated £75 left over to meet any one-off or 
unexpected expenses. This is less than L2Gs buffer of 10% of expenditure (£187) which it 
says it would have taken into consideration in its affordability assessment to account for any 
fluctuations.  
It seems to me with this level of disposable income and given his circumstances, there was a 
risk to Mr M of not being able to meet his repayments sustainably over the three year loan 
term. So, even without any further investigation, I think L2Gs assessment showed the loan 
wasnt likely to be affordable for Mr M in a sustainable manner.
Furthermore, I think there were indications in the information L2G had that Mr M might 
struggle to meet his repayments sustainably.  Mr Ms bank statements show he was 
repaying a high cost guarantor loan and a pawnbroker loan, and it appears he was also 
making payments to two debt collectors. Mr M had an overdraft facility on one of his 
accounts. He was overdrawn by over £2,500 (since 1 August at least) and paid planned and 
unplanned overdraft charges of £92 and £85 in September and October 2013 respectively. 
On his basic bank account, which didnt have an overdraft facility, Mr M had direct debits 
returned almost every week, for example he had two payments returned in September 2013 
and four and three returned in October and November respectively. In addition to identifiable 
expenses, Mr M made frequent cash withdrawals amounting to over £1,000 in October, for 
example, and he was still making cash withdrawals on his overdrawn account. 
L2G said in its response to our investigator that it had taken Mr Ms overdraft use and the 
missed direct debit payments into account. It said its customers might have adverse 
information on their credit files however it ensures that they are not put into a worse financial 
position by its lending. I can accept that L2G might not automatically decline a loan because 
an applicant had missed some regular payments. In this case, however, I think the ongoing 
pattern of returned payments and the unidentified cash withdrawals ought to have caused 
concern. I note Mr M said he planned to use the loan for Christmas spending and for short term cashflow, not for debt consolidation, so it seems to me that L2Gs loan would increase 
Mr Ms indebtedness.
L2G said that Mr M met his repayments for this loan with relative ease. Ive reviewed the 
statement of account it provided and I cant say this was the case. Mr M missed a payment 
in December 2014 and again in January 2015. He missed a further five payments and it  
looks like he entered into a repayment plan to repay his arrears from February 2015. He 
continued to miss payments at times, was sent numerous late payment communications and 
was issued with a default notice in December 2015. He eventually repaid his loan in January 
2017. I think Mr Ms difficulties were foreseeable and L2G didnt treat him fairly when it 
agreed to lend to him. 
Taking everything into account, Ive concluded that L2G was irresponsible to have agreed a 
loan for Mr M on this occasion. I am therefore upholding his complaint and Ive set out below 
what L2G needs to do to put things right for him. 
Putting things right
I think its fair that Mr M repays the capital he borrowed as hes had the use of this. However, 
I dont think he should be liable for any interest or charges on this amount or have his credit 
record adversely impacted. 
In order to put things right for Mr M, L2G needs to:
a) Refund to Mr M all payments he made above the original amount of £2,000 he 
borrowed;
b) Add 8% simple interest per annum to these overpayments from the date they were 
paid to the date of refund; and
c) Remove any adverse information about this loan from Mr Ms credit file.
It seems likely that this has already happened but for completion, L2G should also revoke 
the Bill of Sale for Mr Ms car and return any relevant documents to him.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mr M a 
certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint about  Loans 2 Go Limited 
trading as Logbook Loans and it should put things right as Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2021. 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman