DRN-3945977
The complaint
Mr M complains that Desertmartin Credit Union Limited have harassed him when chasing a 
debt and did not write off the interest when he requested.  
What happened
The circumstances surrounding the case are well known to both parties, so I wont go into 
detail again here. In summary, Mr M asked Desertmartin for a pause on his loan repayments 
due to COVID-19. He does not think they adequately helped him and says they were 
aggressive when they visited his home to collect the debt. Desertmartin have now used 
some of Mr Ms shares to clear the interest as well as some of the capital of the loan and set 
up a repayment plan. 
Mr M referred the complaint to our service and our Investigator felt Desertmartin could have 
done more to help Mr M earlier, such as freezing interest or offering a repayment plan. And 
that the agent of Desertmartin who visited Mr Ms home caused him distress. As a result, 
they recommended Desertmartin pay Mr M £200 compensation. 
Desertmartin disagreed with this and strongly denied Mr Ms allegation of their staff being 
aggressive and instead alleged that Mr M was verbally aggressive when asked to contact 
Desertmartin. As a result, they did not agree with the recommendation.
The complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision which read as follows:
Ive looked over the correspondence between Mr M and Desertmartin to get an 
understanding of what occurred. Looking at this, Mr M says he contacted Desertmartin about 
being furloughed and was told he would get a call back after his details were taken down. 
However, he did not receive a call back as requested. Despite this, it appears Mr M 
continued not to make payments making a total of eight missed monthly payments in 2020. 
While I appreciate that Mr M did not receive a call back, it does not appear that he has then 
chased this up to try and agree a repayment plan with Desertmartin. I can see that prior to 
this, Mr M was in arrears as he had missed 6 monthly payments in 2019, which was before 
the COVID-19 pandemic and that he received letters about these arrears. So, I think Mr M 
was aware he was already in arrears and that Desertmartin had a process when chasing the 
debt. 
Desertmartin has said that their process is to post a statement to a customer when they 
review loan accounts that are in arrears and these statements ask the customer to contact 
Desertmartin about the arrears. Once this has happened three times, they attempt to contact 
the customer by telephone. If this is unsuccessful, they will make a house visit and deliver a 
statement to the customer and verbally request that they contact Desertmartin to review their 
situation.   
Desertmartin have provided statements sent to Mr M in March and May 2020. Its clear that 
the March statement is an initial letter about arrears and that the May statement says Mr M 
had not contacted them following the first letter. This ties in with Mr M saying he contacted 
Desertmartin in April 2020 but received no reply. Considering this, I think it would have been 
reasonable to expect Mr M to contact Desertmartin again following the May statement, but I 
cant see that he did.
Desertmartin has said that they made a house visit to Mr M in October 2020. Its unclear if 
there was a third statement sent to Mr M between May and October as this has not been 
provided. But considering the time in-between and the number of missed payments with no 
contact from Mr M, I think a house visit was reasonable in the circumstances. Following this, 
Mr M appears to have called up Desertmartin, which I do not have a recording of, and then 
followed up the conversation with e-mails. 
In these e-mails, Desertmartin explains what is needed in order to agree a repayment plan. 
They ask for payslips showing furlough payments, as well as the last three months of bank 
statements so they can assess Mr Ms financial situation and agree a fair repayment plan. I 
dont think it is unreasonable that Desertmartin required further information about Mr Ms 
financial circumstances so it could come to an affordable repayment plan for all parties. 
However, Mr M does not agree to provide the information and instead wants the request 
made directly to him by the auditors who had requested it. On balance, I think Desertmartin 
made it clear what was required in order to help Mr M moving forward but Mr M has not 
provided this.  
Mr M has also said that he was asked to go into the Desertmartin office, but he was unable 
to due to vulnerable family members being at risk of COVID-19. With this in mind, Ive 
considered if Desertmartin should have offered to resolve the issue over the phone instead. 
However, I note that during the e-mail communication, Mr M says that he is hesitant to 
agree a repayment plan that he may be unable to sustain and that he will pay whatever he 
can, when he can. With this in mind, think its unlikely Mr M would have agreed to a 
repayment plan even if he had been offered an alternative communication method.
I note that at that stage Mr M requested that Desertmartin use his shares with the credit 
union to pay off part of his loan. Desertmartin initially explained it had received no written 
notification requesting this and pointed out that Mr Ms arrears were higher than the value of 
his shares. And they again asked him to come to the office to discuss this further, but it does 
not appear that there was any further engagement on this point. 
While I do think that Desertmartin could have been more forthcoming about different 
methods of communication, I think they made it clear what the next steps were in order to 
agree a repayment plan. That was for Mr M provide details of his financial situation so that 
an affordable repayment plan could be agree, However, Mr M did not agree to this and 
instead suggested a workaround which would not have cleared the arrears that had accrued. 
Considering this, I cant see that Desertmartin made an error when it did not agree a 
repayment plan or use the shares to clear some of the loan at that stage.
Desertmartin has said that they allowed Mr M to move to interest only payments, but Ive not 
seen any communication in which this was agreed. The statements however do correspond 
with this as from that point on, Mr M appears to sporadically pay enough to cover the interest 
payments. If this is therefore correct, it seems that Desertmartin were trying to be positive 
and sympathetic towards Mr Ms situation.
From October 2020 onwards, there was some contact that was mostly complaint focussed 
rather than solution focussed. And Mr M continued to make sporadic payments to the loan 
account. I can see that Desertmartin asked Mr M to sign an insurance form in March 2021, 
however Mr M refuses to do so and said he was looking into legal action to get the interest 
on his loan stopped. And I think there was a continued breakdown in communication 
between both parties during this time. I think that the communication fully broke down during the home visits in May 2022. Both 
parties have very different versions of events, and each side says the other was aggressive. 
Considering that Mr M had previously threatened legal action in relation to the interest on the 
loan and that he had refused to provide information that would allow a discussion about a 
repayment plan to occur, I can understand how a home visit from a Desertmartin employee 
could become heated. Though on balance, Im not persuaded that the employee tried to gain 
entry to Mr Ms house without permission. 
A short time after the May visit, Desertmartin used Mr Ms shares to clear part of the capital 
as well as the interest on the loan and then set up a repayment plan of £50 per month. Prior 
to that, Mr M was making sporadic payments meaning the debt was increasing and the 
interest was accruing. Considering that I think at that point the relationship between Mr M 
and Desertmartin had fully broken down, I think this was the only reasonable next step. 
Based on what ive seen so far, I do think Desertmartin have tried to be positive and 
sympathetic towards Mr M throughout the process. They explained what they needed in 
order to reschedule the loan and take Mr Ms financial difficulties into account. But he did not 
provide the information. And when the relationship had completely broken down in May 
2022, I think it was then reasonable that Desertmartin used the shares to offset part of the 
interest and capital, cleared the remaining interest and set up a repayment plan for the 
capital only. So, I dont currently think they need to take any further action to remedy this 
complaint. 
Desertmartin responded and accepted my provisional findings. 
Mr M responded with a number of additional points and evidence for me to consider. In 
summary these were:
Mr M would often miss some monthly loan payments and then make overpayments 
each quarter and this was not questioned by Desertmartin.
He mentioned that his wife was mis-sold a loan by Desertmartin based on 
affordability. 
He only received one letter from Desertmartin in March 2020 and did not receive one 
in May. He feels they have not followed their own policy of sending three letters 
before attempting to call and then making a house visit. 
Mr M says that he did show a representative of Desertmartin his bank account 
statements on his phone which showed his salary payments.
Mr M feels the documents Desertmartin said the auditors required were actually 
requested because Desertmartin did not have all of the correct paperwork when they 
issued the loan to him. Mr M says that because they had been audited, they asked 
him for these documents so they would not be caught out.
Mr M does not agree with my assessment that its unlikely he would have agreed a 
repayment plan and has reiterated why he was hesitant to visit the Desertmartin 
office but that he was happy to talk over phone or e-mail. 
Mr M has reiterated that the Desertmartin representative that came to his house was 
aggressive and threatening toward Mr M and his family.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to address Mr Ms additional points. Ive read these carefully and have reviewed 
the evidence he provided. Id like to thank him for taking the time to respond in detail.  
Ill review them in turn. Mr M has said he would often miss payments in 2019 but then make 
overpayments each quarter and this was not questioned by Desertmartin. So, he thinks 
Desertmartin have given me incorrect information about his 2019 payments. My comments 
that Mr M was aware Desertmartin had a process when chasing the debt was based on 
letters Desertmartin has provided me about the arrears. There are 7 letters from June 2018 
to May 2020 that set out the level of arrears on the account. They either ask Mr M to bring 
the loan account up to date within a week if its a first contact letter or ask him to commence 
payment immediately if its a second letter. Im satisfied I have been provided accurate 
information by Desertmartin in relation to the 2019 payments. 
Mr M has mentioned a loan that Desertmartin set up for his wife that he feels was 
unaffordable. While I appreciate that Mr M is trying to provide a background to his 
relationship with Desertmartin, I am only able to consider the loan taken out in Mr Ms name. 
Mr M has mentioned the letters received in 2020 and has disputed receiving the one in May. 
Hes also highlighted that he does not think Desertmartin have followed their own policy for 
debt recovery. I have seen copies of both the March and May chaser letters that were sent 
to Mr Ms correct address. While I appreciate Mr M may not have received one and this 
could be due to postal issues, I think its more likely this was sent. I explained in my 
provisional decision why I think its likely a third was sent considering the dates. 
Mr M has said that Desertmartin did not attempt to contact him by telephone and instead 
arrived at his house and claimed he had changed his number, when it had not changed for 
many years. I can see in the e-mail communication between Mr M and Desertmartin that    
Mr M confirms his mobile number however Desertmartin think it has been changed. It seems 
that there was an issue with the mobile phone number but its unclear how this is occurred. 
On balance, Im satisfied Desertmartin sent Mr M letters and its more likely they attempted to 
contact him by telephone, though this may have been an incorrect number, I think it was 
reasonable for them to make a house visit in October 2020.
Mr M has said that he did provide his financial information to the Desertmartin representative 
who visited his house. Ive considered this and I have no reason to doubt that Mr M showed 
the Desertmartin representative his banking app on his phone so they could gain an 
understanding of his financial situation. However, I still think it is reasonable that 
Desertmartin would need copies of his statements to fully review and come to an affordable 
payment plan. 
Mr M has said and that Desertmartin asked him to send documents in order to cover up a 
mistake they made when opening the account. He says they only asked him for the 
documents as they were being audited should have asked for them when they Mr M applied 
for the loan. Looking at the communication, Desertmartin asked Mr M for payslips showing 
his furlough payments and the last three months of bank statements. As this was relating to 
his financial status at that time and not his status at the time the loan was opened, I think its 
more likely these documents were required to come to an affordable payment plan. 
I appreciate Mr M does not agree that he was hesitant to agree a repayment plan and has 
reiterated his reasons why. However, he has not provided any new evidence that changes my mind in relation to this. This was mainly based around Mr Ms own comments in an e-
mail and I explained why I didnt think it would make a difference if Desertmartin offered to 
discuss a repayment plan over phone or e-mail. 
Finally, I understand Mr Ms strength of feeling relating to the actions of the Desertmartin 
representative he says was aggressive. Again, Mr M has not raised anything new and I want 
to assure him I have carefully considered all evidence provided by both parties. As each 
party is claiming the other was abusive, and I can understand how the situation could 
become heated considering the circumstances leading up to the visits, its difficult for me to 
say one party is more likely to be the causing factor. And I dont require Desertmartin to pay 
compensation relating to this. 
So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and the additional points clarified 
above, I dont require Desertmartin to take any further action to remedy Mr Ms complaint.  
My final decision
I do not instruct Desertmartin Credit Union Limited to take any further action on Mr Ms 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman