DRN-3152796
The complaint
Mr K has complained to Portal Financial Services LLP (Portafina) that he couldnt access the 
remaining funds from his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), as they were invested in 
illiquid property bonds. 
What happened
Portafina completed a review of Mr Ks pension arrangements in 2014.
At the time, he held a pension with Scottish Life with a transfer value of £25,966.00.
The Suitability Report Portafina issued on 21 January 2014 recorded that Mr K:
Was 62, married and unemployed, with an income of £400 through Disability Living 
Allowance. He would receive state pension from age 65.
He received £60 a year from an Abbey Life annuity and had £6,000 in a Cash ISA.
He lived in rented accommodation and had no other assets or investments.
His attitude to risk (ATR) was classed as an moderately cautious.
It was noted that Mr K wanted to take 25% of his pension fund as tax-fee cash (TFC) in 
order to build up his emergency fund, as well as make improvements to his home.
Portafina recommended Mr K switch his pension into a Novia SIPP in order to access the 
TFC, with the remainder to be invested across ten funds in a mix of equities, fixed interest 
securities and secured property bonds. This included Lakeview UK Investments PLC, Real 
Estate Investments USA PLC and Strategic Residential Developments PLC. 39.9% of Mr Ks 
pension was invested in these funds. The bonds had five-year terms, during which time they 
would be illiquid, returning interest on an annual basis. The advisers recommendation said 
these were suitable investments because Mr K was not looking to annuitise for two years.
The Scottish Life pension was transferred to the Novia SIPP and 25% was taken as TFC. 
The remainder was invested in line with the Suitability Report. Portafina charged an initial 
5% fee for the advice, with an additional 1% per annum charged for ongoing yearly reviews.
In 2016, Mr K withdrew £13,118.90 as a taxable lump sum. The remainder of the pension,
aside from a small amount in cash and equities, has remained illiquid. He tried to withdraw 
the rest in 2019 and complained to the business when he was unable to do this. Mr K was in 
ill health and wanted to be able to take his pension while he was still able.
Portafina offered to return the amount initially invested into the property bonds. But, still 
believe the recommendation was suitable. Mr K wasnt satisfied with this offer and referred 
his complaint to our service for review. He stressed that he wasnt unhappy with the 
recommendation to switch pensions and it was only the fact he couldnt withdraw the 
remainder of his pension which he was complaining about.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and only focused on whether the funds in 
question were suitable for Mr K. He didnt believe they were. In summary, the reasons for the 
investigator reaching this conclusion were:
When considering unregulated investments, the regulators good and poor practice 
report of 2010 sighted an example of good practice. This was the practice of 
restricting such unregulated investments to between 3% and 5% of a portfolio with 
ongoing monitoring. And that unregulated investments may be suitable for a very 
select group of individuals, for example, certified high net worth investors, or 
sophisticated investors.
Overall, unregulated investments should not be promoted to the general public in the 
UK. So, they shouldnt be recommended to anyone other than the exemptions noted 
above.
Although Mr Ks investments in the property bonds may not be categorised as 
Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes (UCIS), they were unregulated 
investments and share many of the same characteristics and risks. For example lack 
of regulation, longevity, potential insolvency, offshore and currency exchange, 
liquidity issues and other factors which could prevent investors from accessing their 
funds.
The proceeds of the Lakeview UK Investments PLC bond were to be used by the 
developer to build new holiday villas. Real Estate Investments USA PLC was 
secured on US residential property, which was being bought back from banks, 
refurbished and sold on. Strategic Residential Developments used the money to 
source and purchase existing houses in the South of England. The investigator was 
satisfied those investments share the characteristics explained above and the 
principles of the regulators comments would apply.
The funds accounted for almost 40% of Mr Ks pension provision. His attitude to risk 
questionnaire showed that he was averse to risk and didnt have any obvious 
investment experience. Although Mr K selected a willingness to invest in property, 
the investigator had doubts whether Mr K answered this question with a full 
understanding of the unregulated property investments that would eventually be
recommended to him and the associated risks.
That aside, the adviser still needed to factor in Mr Ks overall circumstances when 
giving advice. As a moderately cautious investor, the unregulated investments 
werent suitable for him. Especially the proportion the adviser recommended Mr K
invest his pension in. So, the recommendation put Mr Ks pension at a significant 
risk.
The investigator didnt think the property investments recommended were suitable. 
The investigator set out redress and provided instructions for what Portafina needed to do to 
put things right. He also awarded £500 to Mr K for the trouble and upset he'd been caused
by not being able to access the remainder of his pension at a time when he's been seriously 
unwell and needed it the most.
Both Mr K and Portafina accepted the investigators findings so our of file was closed on the 
basis that Portafina would settle the matter in line with the investigators findings.
However, Portafina has now requested that the complaint is considered by an ombudsman, 
as it didnt agree with the redress methodology proposed by the investigator. It thought the 
comparator should be based on the performance of his previous pension and believed the 
award of £500 was excessive when compared to consumers in similar situations.
As Portafina failed to settle the matters, Mr K also requested that the complaint was 
reopened. So as both parties requested that the complaint is reopened, we have agreed to 
do so on this occasion. 
The complaint has been passed to me to issue a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its firstly important to explain that under the Dispute Resolution rules, set out in the
regulators handbook, Portafina has an obligation to settle matters promptly and it has a duty
to comply with any settlement it has agreed to. I refer Portafina to the following rule:
Complying with awards and settlements
DISP 3 3.7.3.7.12R
A respondent must comply promptly with:
any award or direction made by the Ombudsman; and
any settlement which it agrees at an earlier stage of the procedures {my 
emphasis}
As can be seen from the above rule, once a firm has agreed to a settlement, it must comply
promptly. So its extremely disappointing that Portafina failed to settle the complaint in line
with our investigators findings. This has not only delayed the resolution of this matter for
Mr K but its also not in line with the regulators rules.
Our service would not usually reopen matters where an agreement has been reached by
both parties. But in this case both parties have requested the complaint is reopened, so we
have agreed to do so on this occasion.
Having reviewed everything, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for
the same reasons. So Im upholding this complaint on the basis that the investments 
Portafina recommended for Mr K were unsuitable. No further points or arguments were 
received in response to the investigators findings about the suitability of the 
recommendation and Portafina has only queried the way Mr K should be redressed. 
The investigator provided a full explanation of his findings, which I agree with so I see little 
benefit to repeating the reasoning here, when no further arguments have been received to 
dispute what the investigator has said. Ive only summarised the main reasons for reaching 
this decision, those being:
The property investments Portafina recommended were unsuitable. As a moderately 
cautious investor, the inclusion of high risk funds within Mr Ks portfolio wasnt 
appropriate for him. He was 62 years old and, based on his lack of any other pension 
provision, it was always likely he would need to access the funds in the near future 
and couldnt afford to leave them invested for the long term. This is supported by the 
fact he withdrew the rest of his pension two years later.
Approximately 40% of Mr Ks portfolio was invested in what were effectively UCIS 
funds, when it was considered by the regulator that even a high risk investor should 
limit investment in UCIS to between 3% and 5% of the overall portfolio. So for a low 
or even moderate risk investor, these funds were completely unsuitable. 
Portafina has argued any redress should be modelled on a comparator using the 
performance of the Scottish Life fund Mr K switched out of as the benchmark. It also didnt 
agree with the award of £500 for trouble and upset. It didnt say how much would be 
appropriate.
I believe the methodology set out by the investigator and the award for trouble and upset are 
correct and Portafina should redress Mr K in line with this, as was previously agreed.The recommendation to invest any amount of Mr Ks pension into the property bonds 
referenced previously wasnt appropriate, but the consumer has no concerns about how the 
rest of his portfolio was invested. It wouldnt be logical, or even possible to expect the 
adviser to recommend investing part of Mr Ks pension in a new SIPP, but leave 40% with 
his existing scheme, which is what using a benchmark based on the ceding scheme would 
imply. More importantly, Mr K wanted to take 25% of his pension as TFC and needed to 
crystallise his entire pension in order to do this. This necessitated the switch to a SIPP and 
meant he wouldnt have been able to stay in his Scottish Life pension if he wanted to release 
funds from his pension.
As such, I dont believe he would have remained in the same fund and his ceding scheme 
shouldnt be used as the benchmark. It isnt possible to say precisely what he would have 
done instead, but Im satisfied the benchmark the investigator set out was fair and 
reasonable.
When we make awards for trouble and upset we consider the impact the actions have on the 
consumer and tailor any amount to reflect this. While we do try to be consistent in our 
decisions, the impact on the consumer is more important than trying to stick to any perceived 
average amount. In this case, Mr K is 70 years old and has been retired for several years. 
This was his only pension, so he was reliant upon the fund to support him. He is in poor 
health and has been denied the opportunity to access the remainder of his pension since 
2019, due to the unsuitable advice. He has minimal amounts in terms of other assets and 
this money would make a significant difference to his standard of life. Given these factors Im 
satisfied the award is appropriate.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr K should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr K would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr K's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should Portafina do?
To compensate Mr K fairly, Portafina must:
Compare the performance of each of Mr K's investments with that of the benchmark 
shown below. A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment. The 
losses should be combined and the total is the amount of compensation payable.
Portafina should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Portafina should pay into Mr K's pension plan to increase its value 
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Portafina is unable to pay the total amount into Mr K's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr K's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr K is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr K would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr K £500 for the trouble and upset experienced while he wasn't able to 
access his pension.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portafina deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr K how much has been taken off. Portafina should give Mr K a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Lakeview UK 
Investment, 
Real Estate 
Investments, 
Strategic 
Residentialstill existsfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Portafina should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Portafina is unable to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose of calculation. Portafina may require that Mr K provides an undertaking to 
pay Portafina any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Portafina will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portafina should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr K wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr K's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr K into that position. It does not mean that Mr K would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return Mr K could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and 
risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay the
amount calculated as set out above. Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of 
its calculation to Mr K in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman