DRN-3013758
The complaint
Mr B complains about errors made by Link Financial Outsourcing Limited trading as Honours 
Student Loans (HSL) when administering his student loan. 
What happened
In 2016 Mr B complained to HSL after it called him to discuss his student loan. HSL 
responded and said it had nothing on file that said Mr B didnt want to be contacted by the 
phone. HSL agreed to remove Mr Bs contact details from its systems. HSLs final response 
said the existing deferment period ended on 27 July 2017. 
Mr B has explained that he didnt receive a deferment application pack despite requesting 
one. Hes told us the deferment for the following year wasnt agreed as a result. 
Mr B made payments to HSL from September 2017 until March 2018. No further payments 
have been received and HSL says no new deferment has been agreed by SLC. As a result, 
HSL says Mr Bs loan has accrued arrears. 
Due to a systems error, HSL failed to send Mr B Notices of Sums in Arrears (NOSIAs) 
between February 2018 and October 2020. 
HSL issued another complaint response to Mr B in April 2019 and said SLC was responsible 
for issuing deferment application packs around eight weeks before the end of an existing 
deferment. HSLs letter gave Mr B details about how to apply for a deferment. It also said 
that if the SLC didnt agree a deferment Mr B should contact HSL to discuss his options. 
HSL also said that it had contacted Mr B by phone because his account was in arrears. 
In October 2020 HSL issued another final response after it sent Mr B a default notice. HSL 
agreed it had failed to send Mr B NOSIAs as required by the rules and said it would suspend 
enforcement action if he was willing to either apply for a deferment or begin making 
payments to his loan. 
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. HSL agreed 
to refund interest applied to Mr Bs debt between February 2018 and October 2020 when it 
failed to send NOSIAs. HSL also agreed to pay Mr B £100 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr B initially accepted but later asked to appeal and said HSL hadnt correctly calculated the 
refund he was due. As Mr B asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I need to decide how to fairly resolve Mr Bs complaint. Mr B says the debt isnt enforceable 
due to HSLs errors with NOSIAs. But our service cant say whether a debt is enforceable, 
thats a matter for the courts. Ive focused on whether HSL has acted fairly and reasonably in 
this case. 
I agree that HSL failed to send Mr B NOSIAs as required. Im pleased its agreed to refund 
all interest applied to Mr Bs account from February 2018 to October 2020 whilst it wasnt 
compliant with the relevant rules. I think thats a fair approach and provides a reasonable 
level of compensation to Mr B to recognise HSLs error. 
Mr B says HSL has made mistakes concerning his complaint and hasnt allowed him to 
rectify his loan. Whilst I agree there were errors with the NOSIA letters, I havent seen 
anything else that shows HSL made mistakes with Mr Bs account. Mr B complained in 2016 
and was given information by HSL about the process of arranging a new deferment. No new 
deferment was agreed by SLC so HSL correctly started applying arrears from the end of July 
2017. I can see Mr B made payments for around six months in 2017 and 2018 and Im 
satisfied he was aware no deferment was in place. 
Mr B complained again to HSL and it responded in 2019 providing further guidance 
concerning the process of agreeing a deferment. No follow up approval of a deferment by 
SLC was received. Outside of the NOSIA issues, Im satisfied arrears were correctly applied 
to Mr Bs account by HSL. 
In his response, Mr B has told us he thinks the interest refund figure is wrong and said hes 
concerned about compound interest. Ive looked at the refund figure and compared it against 
the interest applied to Mr Bs loan during the period in question. HSL has explained that it 
initially applied a payment of £304.76 and was due to pay a further £239.19 taking to total 
value of the interest refund to £543.95. Whilst this service doesnt provide an auditing 
service, the refund figure appears to be in line with the interest Mr B was charged during the 
period in question. 
Mr B asked HSL not to call him. But HSL says it did so due to sustained arrears on his loan. 
Our investigator asked HSL to pay Mr B £100 for the trouble and upset caused and it 
agreed. Im satisfied that figure reflects the impact of the issues raised on Mr B and is fair in 
all the circumstances, so Im going to proceed on that basis. 
I can see Mr B has more recently raised another complaint about his information being 
shared with a third party business. As this hasnt formed part of our investigation, Im not 
going to comment on the issues raised in this decision. If Mr B wishes our service to 
consider this complaint, he can let the investigator know so they can set up a new case. 
I agree there were errors in this case. As a result, I am upholding Mr Bs complaint and 
directing HSL to settle as follows: 
- Pay Mr B £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused
- Refund interest applied to Mr Bs account from 26 February 2018 until 25 October 
2020
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Link Financial Outsourcing Limited   
trading as Honours Student Loans to settle in line with the above guidance.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman