DRN-2784029
The complaint
Mr K complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, lent to 
him irresponsibly.
Mr K is represented by a third party.
What happened
Using information from Evergreen, here is a brief table of the approved loans. 
Loan Date Taken Date 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest scheduled 
Repayment (rounded) 
1 12/07/2017 15/09/2017 3 £300.00 £124
2 09/10/2017 17/11/2017 2 £300.00 £174
3 22/12/2017 15/05/2018 5 £900.00 £296
4 29/10/2018 15/07/2019 6 £900.00 £257
After Mr K had complained, Evergreen issued its final response letter (FRL) in 
December 2020. It did not think it had done anything wrong but offered to refund to him the 
interest paid on loan 4. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that the credit search 
information Evergreen had before lending to Mr K in December 2017 (loan 3) ought to have 
alerted it to the fact that Mr K had too much debt already. So, he thought that Evergreen 
should put things right for Mr K in relation to loans 3 and 4. 
Mr Ks representative acknowledged our adjudicators view and made no further points. 
Evergreen said it does not agree as loan 3 was early in the lending relationship and the 
checks it carried out were proportionate. Evergreen said that it would be unrealistic for an 
underwriter to review each line of a credit report before deciding on a loan.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
As Mr Ks representative has not disagreed with our adjudicators findings, then I am 
proceeding to review loans 3 and 4 only as loans 1 and 2 appear to be undisputed. 
Evergreen needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K  
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Evergreen 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable 
for the consumer.
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Evergreen was required to establish whether Mr K  could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make payments on 
time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that. I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information 
provided in this context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
CONC does not stipulate that any potential lender must carry out a credit search with a 
credit reference agency (CRA). The requirement is to carry out a creditworthiness 
assessment and the emphasis is that its from the borrowers perspective, not a risk 
assessment from the lenders perspective. And where a lender has obtained detailed 
information about the applicants credit history, then it is envisaged that this information 
would form part of that creditworthiness assessment.In Mr Ks situation, Evergreen has sent to us the credit searches it carried out which are 
clear, easy to read, detailed and done before each loan (four loans in all). I explained earlier 
that I am reviewing loans 3 and 4. Two of the CRA documents Evergreen has sent to us 
bear dates which coincide with the loan application dates for loans 3 and 4 and are 
contemporaneous documents. I do not agree that Evergreen was not expected to review 
every line. These documents are easy to search for specific details and/or are not difficult to
review. What would not be appropriate, in my view, would be to obtain them and ignore the 
contents considering the FCA requirement to carry out a creditworthiness assessment. 
Evergreens argument is that the early loans for a customer are done by way of a procedure
which is automated and there is no human involvement. Adding that into my review of this
complaint, bearing in mind the basis of it (irresponsible lending), I think that Mr Ks CRA
information was relevant and important information. So, it being reviewed was a necessary 
part of the creditworthiness assessment as Evergreen were in possession of it.
Evergreen has maintained that drilling into the detail on the CRA information was not 
practical or realistic. But the FRL it sent to Mr K when he complained says the opposite: it 
relies on having done that to justify increasing Mr Ks expenditure figures. It explained:
When assessing each individual application we perform a credit check through the 
credit reference agency [name of CRA here]. The results of this credit check helped 
to satisfy us that you would be able to sustainably meet the repayments due on the 
loans were requesting.
When I reviewed the credit information Evergreen had about Mr K for December 2017, then 
I have read that there was a total debt balance of £17,942 (loans £7,762, revolving credit 
£10,177). Mr Ks balance to credit limit ratio was 97%. Mr K had seven accounts which could 
be described as active and three had been obtained the month before hed applied for 
loan 3. He was close to his credit card limit of £10,400. And the total due to be repaid to the 
other lenders each month added up to about £1,765. So even considering Mr Ks declared 
income and expenditure, the picture presented was of a person overindebted with high 
monthly financial commitments. This, in my view, was likely to have been enough for 
Evergreen to see that a loan of £900 over 6 months was likely not the best way forward for 
Mr K in December 2017.
Mr K applied for loan 4 five months after he had repaid loan 3. I do recognise that was a gap, 
but I do not think that it was a long enough gap to break the lending relationship and cut the 
chain of loans. Mr K returned and asked for £900. Evergreen had another credit search 
report and that shows that Mr Ks situation had not changed a great deal. The 2018 report 
shows that his worst payment status had changed to a worse position than before. It also 
reported that Mr K had opened nine other accounts in the previous six months so during that 
five month period when he may not have been borrowing from Evergreen, he seemed to 
have been taking other credit elsewhere many times over. 
Earlier in this decision Ive made it clear that Evergreen had a rich seam of information to 
provide it with Mr Ks true financial position. In the circumstances of Mr Ks complaint, 
including the information Evergreen had about him, I uphold his complaint for loans 3 and 4.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Evergreen should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it ceased to lend to Mr K from loan 3 as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.For example, having been declined this lending Mr K may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct.
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr K  in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr K  would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options.
So, it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Evergreens liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.
Evergreen shouldnt have given Mr K loans 3 and 4.
Evergreen should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr K towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything Evergreen have already refunded.
Evergreen should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr K which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr K originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
Evergreen should pay Mr K  the total of A plus B.
Evergreen should remove any adverse payment information Evergreen has recorded 
on Mr Ks credit file in relation to loans one to three.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Evergreen to deduct tax from this interest. It should give
Mr K a certificate showing how much tax Evergreen has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint in part and direct that Evergreen Finance 
London Limited does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman