DRN-2901422
The complaint
Mr S complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) defaulted, closed and 
transferred his credit card account to a third party claiming that hed not contacted them. He 
disagreed as he believed that a payment plan had been agreed.
What happened
Mr S held a credit card account with Halifax for a number of years. 
He called Halifax on 5 August 2020 to discuss his account. Hed received a letter stating that 
his account was in arrears and would be defaulted. He told them he wasnt aware of this. 
Halifax said theyd written to Mr S on several occasions, but he hadnt replied to them.
Mr S told Halifax hed had serious health problems. He said this resulted in losing his job in 
August 2019 followed by time in hospital in March 2020. He said he hadnt received any 
letters from them. He was unhappy as hed previously complained he hadnt had any contact 
from them and felt as though he was being ignored.
Mr S offered to make payments of £10 per week towards his credit card debt. But to agree 
this, Halifax wanted to discuss his situation in more detail. Mr S didnt want to and asked 
them to confirm the agreement in writing. Halifax said that they couldnt do that. So, they 
gave Mr S 30 days breathing space so he could call them back to discuss his situation 
further.
Mr S spoke to Halifax again on 3 September 2020. He confirmed his offer to pay £10 per 
week but still wasnt willing to discuss his financial situation further. Mr S believed Halifax 
had accepted his offer and he didnt need to do anything more.
Halifax issued a default notice to Mr S dated 18 September 2020 and in October 2020, they 
closed his account and transferred the remaining debt to a third party.
Mr S wasnt happy with Halifaxs actions here. So, he complained to them. He said they 
hadnt given him time to recover from his health problems. He felt Halifax hadnt been 
supportive and was unhappy theyd transferred his debt to a third party. He thought theyd 
agreed to his payment offer and said they shouldnt have transferred his debt. He wanted 
Halifax to admit they were at fault and take his account back in house. He also said theyd 
repeatedly sent him photocopied letters with the date changed.
Halifax responded to Mr Ss complaint in a letter dated 7 December 2020. They didnt agree 
that theyd done anything wrong. They told Mr S that although hed offered regular payments 
of £10, theyd need to complete a financial review before agreeing to a payment plan. They 
said Mr S had refused to do this. 
Halifax said all letters had been sent to Mr Ss correct address and theyd told him that if a 
repayment plan couldnt be agreed, his account would be closed and passed to their 
recoveries department. 
Mr S wasnt happy with Halifaxs response. So, he decided to refer his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators considered Mr Ss complaint based upon information 
provided by him and Halifax. She didnt think that Halifax had acted unreasonably. So, she 
wouldnt be asking them to do any more here.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators findings. So, he asked for his complaint to be 
referred to an Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Financial difficulties
From the information Ive been provided, it appears that Mr S had been experiencing 
difficulties in managing his Halifax credit card account for some time.  
Halifaxs records show that a number of letters had been sent to him. Letters were sent in 
2016 and 2017 suggesting that Mr S was consistently only paying the minimum payment 
due on his account. Because of this, Mr Ss debt with them wasnt reducing and meant that 
he was continually incurring interest costs.
Further letters were sent by Halifax to Mr S in 2018 and 2019. During this period, there were 
occasions where Mr S either missed or was late with payments. Halifax also wrote to Mr S in 
2018 to explain he was paying more in interest and charges than off the balance he owed. 
This is known as Persistent Debt. 
The Persistent Debt rules were introduced by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) with the 
aim of helping consumers in persistent credit card debt with repaying their debt. Halifax were 
obliged to contact customers impacted to discuss repayment plans. Where customers didnt 
respond, Halifax had the ability to suspend their credit card. Halifax were complying with 
these rules here.
But I cant see that Mr S contacted Halifax to discuss his situation, so they continued to 
write, reducing his card limit where appropriate, to limit his debt and the associated interest 
costs. Their letters also suggested where Mr S could get free and impartial advice to help 
him with his debt. It appears that Halifax were trying highlight potential problems and were 
offering to help Mr S in a responsible way.
Letters sent by Halifax
Halifaxs records show that all their letters were sent to the same address Mr S provided to 
this service. So, while Mr S says he didnt receive them, from the information and records 
that Ive seen, I think its more likely, than not, that these letters were sent and were correctly 
addressed. I understand Mr Ss frustration, but I cant reasonably hold Halifax responsible if 
they werent delivered. Once posted, they wouldnt have had control over this. I also think it 
would be extremely unlikely that Halifax would maintain a historical record of letters that they 
hadnt, in fact, sent. I cant see that this would serve any benefit to them. 
Mr S said he wasnt aware of his arrears. Whether he received letters or not, a consumer 
does have a personal responsibility to regularly check their account and ensure payments 
are up to date. This couldve been checked online, over the phone or at a branch. This was 
important if, as Mr S suggests, he wasnt receiving any letters or statements. 
Mr S also said that letters had been repeatedly photocopied and re-dated before being sent 
to him. He hasnt been specific about which letters he refers to here. Accepting that many 
were in a standard format, Id like to reassure Mr S that I can find no evidence that this was 
the case. Each letter sent contained information that was both current and relevant at the 
time. Im also aware that hed previously said that he hadnt received letters from Halifax 
although clearly his point suggests some were received. 
Impact of health difficulties
Mr Ss health problems resulted in him losing his job in August 2019. I can appreciate how 
this would be a very worrying and challenging time for him. But unfortunately, I cant see that 
anyone told Halifax about this at the time. So, they wouldnt have cause to act differently in 
these circumstances. 
By March 2020, it appears that Mr S began to miss his card repayments altogether. This 
coincides with when Mr S was in hospital and his recovery after. I cant see that Halifax were 
told about this either, so they wouldnt have been aware of Mr Ss situation and so wouldnt 
have been able to respond appropriately. 
Payment Plan
Halifax continued to write to Mr S on a regular basis. This included when more payments 
were missed resulting in further arrears. Mr Ss direct debit for his card repayments was then 
returned unpaid and cancelled in May 2020. It appears that Mr S did contact Halifax about 
his account when he received their letter of 29 July 2020. This letter told him about his 
arrears and suggested where he could get advice. It also explained what could happen if he 
didnt pay the arrears or contact them.
Ive listened to a recording of Mr Ss call to Halifax on 5 August 2020. Mr S explained his 
health problems and Halifax appeared sympathetic to his situation. He told Halifax he wasnt 
aware of the arrears and that he hadnt received any letters from Halifax about them. 
Mr S told this service he believed a payment plan had been verbally agreed with Halifax. 
During the call on 5 August 2020, Mr S did offer to make weekly payments of £10. But I 
didnt hear Halifax agree to accept this as a formal payment plan. They told Mr S that theyd 
need to discuss his financial situation in more detail before agreeing a plan. Unfortunately, 
Mr S didnt want to do that. He told them, You dont need to know anything else about me. 
Ive had an operation. Im not working. I can afford £10 per week..
Halifax have an obligation to check that any payment plan is affordable for Mr S without 
causing further financial hardship. Thats what Halifax were trying to do here. But Mr S was 
unwilling to discuss his situation further. Halifax did give him 30 days breathing space to 
return to them. I believe this was the right thing to do at the time. 
Mr S rang Halifax again on 3 September 2020. Again, he offered to pay £10 per week. But 
didnt want to discuss his finances in any more detail. This meant that Halifax couldnt meet 
their obligation to ensure any payment plan was affordable. 
In the absence of a payment plan agreement, Halifax then wrote to Mr S with a default 
notice. They told him if the arrears werent repaid or a payment plan agreed, his account 
would be closed. I cant see they had any other option here. Mr S wasnt willing to discuss 
his financial situation in more detail with them. 
Default
The terms and conditions for Halifaxs credit card state, You must make at least the 
minimum payment each month by the payment due date shown on your monthly statement if 
a balance is payable to us. They also say
We can make changes (except changes to default charges), if we think there is an 
increased likelihood you will not be able to pay us what you owe on time. This may be 
because of things that are personal to you such as ifyou have broken this agreement, for 
example you have missed payments, gone over your credit limit several times or a payment 
you make to us is not honoured. 
A default is when a credit card agreement has been broken. This can happen when either 
payments havent been made or the wrong amount has been paid. In Mr Ss case, hed missed payments which is a default event. Where Halifax offer to provide support by 
discussing a payment plan, they can stop applying charges and interest. This wouldnt stop 
the default, but it would provide some breathing space for Mr S. 
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says, when a consumer is at least three 
months behind with their payments then a default must be registered. And it would expect 
the default to be registered by the time the consumer is six months behind. Mr Ss minimum 
payments stopped from March 2020 onwards. So, Halifax were obliged to record a default of 
the credit card agreement when they did.
Conclusions
In Mr Ss response to our investigators view, he suggested that the information provided to 
this service by Halifax wasnt accurate. I would like to reassure him that Ive checked the 
records provided by Halifax thoroughly and am comfortable with their accuracy. 
I do appreciate that Mr Ss situation mustve been very difficult for him. I also acknowledge 
that he feels that Halifax were unsupportive of his circumstances. But before his call to them 
in August 2020, they wouldnt have been aware of this and Mr S wasnt willing to provide the 
financial information they needed to help him.
Having considered Mr Ss conversations with Halifax and the letters they sent to him, I think 
Halifax tried their best to help and agree a way forward. But I also think theyd no option but 
to issue a default notice in the circumstances here. In doing so, this led to Mr Ss account 
being closed. 
Transferring a defaulted account to a third party is common practice in this situation. So, 
while I understand that Mr S will be disappointed, I cant reasonably say that Halifax have 
done anything wrong. So, Im afraid I wont be asking them to do anything more here.
Our investigator previously provided Mr S with details of various charitable organisations 
who are able to offer advice and support in these circumstances. I think this would be of 
benefit to Mr S here and I would urge him to consider approaching one of them.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman