The complaint
Mr O acquired a new car in August 2017, by means of a two year hire agreement with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS). He returned the car at the end of 
the agreement and MBFS invoiced him for damage and excess mileage.
Mr O accepts that he is liable for the excess mileage charge of £431.14 (3,992 miles x 
10.8p) but not the damage charges of £272.63. 
Where I refer to MBFS, this includes its agents.
What happened
After collecting the car it was inspected and Mr O was invoiced £703.77 broken down as 
follows:
tyre left hand front incorrect tyre type/spec       £127.63
tyre sealant missing      £60.00
wheel left hand front painted alloy damage     £85.00
3,992 excess mileage at 9p a mile plus VAT   £431.14
Total       £703.77
As I say above Mr O accepts he is liable for the £431.14 excess mileage charge. But he 
says the damage to the alloy was either caused by MBFS after it collected the car from him, 
or that it should be accepted as fair wear and tear. Mr O also accepts that the tyre sealant 
was missing, because he had used it, but he says he was never advised that he would need 
to replace this prior to the cars return.
This complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that MBFS was, in 
all the circumstances, entitled to charge Mr O the sum of £703.77 that it did.
Mr O didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I can confirm that Ive 
come to the same overall outcome as the investigator, for broadly the same reasons. There 
is also very little I can usefully add to what has already been said.
DRN-1795619Its clear Mr O has very strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided detailed 
submissions in support of his view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr O will not take the fact that my findings focus on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, 
as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The 
purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
I would also point out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened given the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Mr O doesnt dispute the excess mileage charge of £431.14. So other than confirming that I 
agree that this sum is payable by Mr C, I make no further comment or finding on this 
particular point.
Its not unusual for a finance provider like MBFS to check at the end of an agreement that 
the consumer took reasonable care of the car. And the hire agreement makes provision for 
MBFS to be able to charge for damage that is deemed beyond fair wear and tear and/or 
missing items.
The trade body that oversees the car rental and leasing sector  the British Vehicle Renting 
and Leasing Renting Association (BVRLA)  has issued guidance which outlines what is 
considered to be fair wear and tear and what is chargeable damage. In looking at this type of 
complaint and deciding whether MBFS has acted reasonably, I take account of this guidance 
as I think its a good indicator of what damage is fair for a business to charge for. 
£60.00 for a missing tyre sealant.
BVRLA guidance states that in respect of tyres and wheels The emergency tyre inflation kit, 
if supplied when new, should be in full working order, serviceable and ready for use and A 
canister that has been partially or fully discharged should be replaced.
MBFS guidance states in respect of wheels and tyres that a missing or used tyre repair 
sealant attracts a charge of £60.00.
Having regard to Mr Os admission that the tyre repair sealant was missing from the car on 
its return I find, in all the circumstances here, that MBFS has acted fairly and reasonably in 
charging Mr O £60.00.
£127.63 for an incorrect tyre and £85.00 for alloy damage
BVRLA guidance states that in respect of tyres and wheels All tyres, including any spare, 
must meet minimum UK legal requirements and comply with the vehicle manufacturers 
recommendation of tyre type, class, size and speed rating for the vehicle and Any damage 
to the wheel spokes, wheel facia, or the hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable.
MBFS guidance states in respect of wheels and tyres that an incorrect tyre size or 
specification attracts a charge equating to the supply and fit of a premium brand tyre and a 
wheel requiring refurbishment attracts a charge of £85.00.
Having regard to the photographs provided by MBFS Im satisfied that the relevant alloy 
wheel required refurbishment and the tyre required replacement with a premium brand. And 
having thought about all the circumstances here, Im satisfied that what MBFS charged for 
this, being £85.00 and £127.63 respectively, was reasonable.I appreciate that Mr O feels that the damage to the alloy might have been caused by MBFS 
after it collected the car. But although I accept that I cant say for certain this wasnt the case 
I find MBFSs submissions to the contrary (including photographs) to be the more plausible 
and persuasive. 
For the sake of completeness I would also add that I accept that the car might have been 
able to be repaired for a lessor sum than MBFS charged Mr O. But it was open to Mr O to 
have any damage repaired himself before the car was returned. MBFS are entitled to charge 
for damage which goes beyond fair wear and tear and the fact that repairs can be carried out 
more cheaply elsewhere doesnt mean that MBFS charges are unreasonable. 
Similarly, theres no obligation on MBFS to carry out the repairs. If the repairs arent carried 
out this is reflected in the reduction of the cars value when it comes to be sold at auction, for 
which MBFS should be compensated. 
For the reasons Ive explained Im satisfied that the end of agreement charges of £703.77 
are fair and I wont be directing MBFS to reduce or waive them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Peter Cook
Ombudsman