DRN-3499362
The complaint
Mr M complains about his No Claims Discount (NCD) on his motor insurance policy being 
reduced by four years following a fault-incident.
He doesnt think Ageas Retail Limited made the NCD step-back scale clear when he took 
out the policy and would like a letter to show that his NCD would only be reduced by two 
years instead.
What happened
Mr M took out a motor insurance policy through a price comparison website in 
September 2020. He then made a claim on the policy in December 2020, which was 
recorded as a fault-incident. When Mr M received renewal information the following year, he 
noticed that his NCD had been reduced from six years to two years as a result of the 
incident. Mr M was unhappy about this and said this hadnt been made clear in the policy 
information he was sent at the point he took the policy out. He said the only place that 
referenced this was Ageas website, and this suggested that the NCD may be reduced by 
two to three years and not four. Unhappy with matters, he complained to Ageas.
Ageas reviewed the complaint and, in summary, explained that Mr M had opted to not 
protect his NCD and therefore came to Ageas with six years of unprotected NCD. Ageas 
said the welcome pack it sent invited Mr M to download and read his policy booklet by 
setting up an online account with it. The booklet outlined what would happen following a 
fault-incident if a policyholder hadnt protected their NCD.
Mr M was unhappy with Ageas response and decided not to renew his policy with it in 2021. 
He also brought his complaint to this service, explaining that he wanted his NCD to be 
increased from two to four years, and wanted £50 compensation for the calls he made to 
Ageas to try and resolve the issue. Mr M also raised an additional concern about not having 
his excess paid during a more recent incident.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint about the NCD and didnt recommend it was 
upheld. She explained that the welcome letter Mr M received outlined that his NCD wasnt 
protected, so he shouldve been aware that this would be affected in the event of a fault- 
incident. She also thought that Mr M was made aware that there were several documents he 
needed to check  one of which was the policy booklet, which was available for Mr M to 
download. Our investigator thought this policy booklet clearly outlined how a policyholders 
NCD would be affected following a claim. She also explained to Mr M that his concerns 
about the excess would be reviewed separately.
Mr M disagreed with our investigators view about the NCD and repeated his earlier points. 
He also said that the onus shouldnt have been on him to download the policy booklet when 
considering the 2010 Equality Act, given that he was experiencing mental health issues. He 
thinks Ageas shouldve provided the policy booklet along with the welcome email he 
received when the policy started.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to review and make a 
decision. I issued a provisional decision where, in summary, I said I wasnt persuaded that 
information that had been presented clearly about the NCD would have made a difference 
here. I said this because, on balance, I was persuaded Mr M likely took the policy out 
because he was satisfied with the premium costs. And, given that a more favourable NCD 
step-back scale wouldve likely resulted in an increase in premiums, I wasnt persuaded that 
clearer information wouldve caused Mr M to act differently.
Ageas responded to the provisional decision and said it didnt have anything further to add to 
what it had already submitted. Mr M also provided his response to the provisional decision. 
In summary, he said he felt I had made up my mind about matters from the beginning and 
that I had ignored the 2010 Equality Act. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my findings below, I want to say that I have taken on board the additional 
comments Mr M provided in response to the provisional decision. I initially discussed matters 
with Mr M, before outlining my thoughts in writing. And, I want to assure Mr M that whilst my 
provisional findings were that I didnt intend to uphold the complaint based on the information 
I had seen, the purpose of issuing a provisional decision was to allow both parties the 
opportunity to provide any further information or comments that they wanted to  given that 
my findings differed slightly to those that our investigator issued. However, neither party 
provided any further substantive submissions which have led me to change the conclusions I 
expressed in my provisional decision. Ive explained my reasoning below.
As I understand it, Mr M has raised additional concerns about the excess on his policy. 
However, this forms the subject of a separate complaint with this service. Therefore, I make 
no comment about this complaint in this decision. Instead, this decision will focus on Mr Ms 
complaint about his NCD and what I consider to be material to the crux of that complaint.
Ive reviewed the policy booklet which includes a section about NCD. This section has a 
table which outlines Ageas step-back scale and Im satisfied this information was clear 
enough to outline what would happen to a policyholders NCD in the event that a fault- 
incident was recorded. In the welcome email sent to Mr M, Ageas explained that the only 
way Mr M would be able access and check his policy documents was by creating an online 
account.
Mr M has told this service that he thinks the policy booklet should have been attached to the 
welcome email. As I understand it, he doesnt think the onus shouldve been on him to 
create an account to view the information, when considering the 2010 Equality Act, given 
that he was experiencing mental health issues at that time. And, in response to the 
provisional decision, Mr M said he felt I had ignored the Equality Act.
But, as outlined in my provisional decision I need to clarify that this service is unable to make 
findings on whether a business has breached the Equality Act 2010. This is because we are 
an informal, free alternative to the courts, and only a court of law can make a legal finding 
based on the definitions set out within the Act. However, I can consider whether the 
business has acted in a fair and reasonable manner taking account of the law, among other 
things.
Whilst Ageas isnt able to provide screenshots of what Mr M wouldve seen through the 
policy sales journey, it has provided information showing that download was Mr Ms recorded 
preferred method of receiving documents. Ageas has also evidenced that Mr M did in fact create an online account the day he took out the policy.
With this in mind, whilst I take Mr Ms point that he wouldve preferred to have the policy 
booklet attached to the welcome email, along with the welcome letter and certificate of 
insurance, its also arguable that Ageas had already done enough to provide Mr M with the 
information about his policy, particularly considering its record of Mr Ms preferred option of 
receiving the policy documents.
However, in order to fairly decide this case, Im not persuaded that I need to make a finding 
on this point in particular. I say this because Ive gone on to think about whether I think 
information that had been presented clearly to Mr M about the NCD would have made a 
difference here. And, having carefully reviewed the information Ive been provided with, Im 
not persuaded that it would have.
I say this because Ive considered that it wouldnt have been known to anyone, including 
Mr M when he took out the policy, that he would have a fault-incident recorded during the 
following policy year. On balance, Im not persuaded based on the information Ive seen that 
Mr M wouldve preferred a policy with more favourable NCD terms in the event of such a 
claim.
I say that because Mr M took out this policy using a price comparison website, and likely 
chose it because he was satisfied with the cost of the premiums. I find it likely that a more 
favourable NCD step-back scale would have resulted in an increase in Mr Ms premium 
costs. So, on balance, and taking everything into consideration, I cant fairly say that clearer 
information about the NCD step-back scale wouldve caused Mr M to act differently here.
I note Mr M thinks the information about NCD on Ageas website is misleading, as it says a 
policyholder who has accrued five years NCD when a claim is made may have their discount 
reduced to two or three years. However, Im satisfied this is just an example of how NCD on 
a policy may be reduced. The section also goes on to say the approach varies from 
provider to provider, which I think is reasonable, given that Ageas Retail is acting in the 
capacity of a broker, selling policies for a number of different providers. So, Im afraid I dont 
agree that the information Ageas provided  in its capacity as a broker rather than the insurer 
 was misleading. And, overall, I dont think Mr M has been treated unfairly here. It follows 
that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, for the reasons outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman