DRN-3861082
The complaint
Mr S complains about the redress offered by Financial Administration Services Limited, 
referred to as Fidelity or the business, in relation to it mistakenly removing a substantial 
sum of money from his ISA that he planned to move and re-invest with another platform.  
What happened
Fidelity accepts that on 6 April 2022, it incorrectly removed £239,797.57 from Mr Ss ISA. To 
put things right, it initially approached HMRC asking it to reinstate the funds into the ISA, but 
to date HMRC hasnt responded. So, to progress matters, Fidelity carried out its own 
calculations, but Mr S (in consultation with his Independent Financial Adviser (IFA)) 
disagreed with the businesss assessment of redress. Unfortunately, it would seem neither of 
the calculations put forward by the parties accord with the general approach adhered to by 
our service.     
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In light of 
the above, in summary, she made the following key findings:
The error only came to light when Mr S tried to transfer his funds to another platform 
where he could invest in Swiss Francs. There is evidence of him discussing his 
investment strategy with his IFA in the lead up to this situation. Its likely that had the 
business not made an error, he wouldve invested his ISA funds in The Wisdom 
Tree Long ChF (Chf) Short GBP, referred to as Chf or the Wisdom fund, at the 
same time he invested his pension. Shes satisfied that Mr S intended to transfer his 
ISA and pension and invest simultaneously. His pension provides a clear timeframe 
which Fidelity should use when calculating redress. 
Its not reasonable for Fidelity to use the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Index, 
because Mr S had specifically identified the Wisdom fund as the product he wanted 
to invest in. So, to put things right, Fidelity should reconstruct the investment as if 
hed invested in the Wisdom fund. This means calculating if theres a difference to 
the investment value at the date it shouldve started, to now, and adding this sum to 
any related performance back into the investment.
Although Fidelity referred to the methodology used by our service (where an ISA 
wrapper is lost), it hasnt used the approach correctly. 
Because its extremely difficult to know for sure what wouldve happened if things 
hadnt gone wrong, our service uses a number of assumptions (highlighted below)  
the rates of return referenced are based on those set by the industry regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), in the FCA Handbook. 
oThe investment will be held for 10 years: 
Fidelity said it would take Mr S 12 years to reinvest the money into the 
ISA. But acknowledging that he was fully funding his ISA each year, it 
adjusted its calculation to 29 years, assuming 25% of his allowance 
will be used for new contributions, and 75% for the removed funds 
annually. This also assumed that Mr S will hold the investment until 
hes around 90 years of age. 
Fidelitys calculations dont fairly reflect Mr Ss investment behaviour 
of fully funding his ISA each year. On a balance of probabilities, he 
was likely to continue to fully fund his investment for some time. Our 
approach is to assume that the investment would be held and fully 
funded annually for 10 years, so this is the approach that it needs to 
take. 
oThe investment will grow at 7.5% each year:
Fidelity assumed a yearly investment growth rate of 4.5% outside the 
ISA and 5% within it. The FCA handbook is 7.5% yearly. This needs to 
be calculated and added to the overall investment to provide a more 
accurate value. 
oThe investment will be sold after ten years and taxed at the highest rate 
applicable:
Fidelity said it has considered the impact of capital gains tax (CGT) on 
redemption, assuming 50% of Mr Ss current annual CGT allowance 
will be available to use to fund the reinvestment of the ISA each year.
Our service approach is to calculate redress on the assumption that 
the investment will be held for 10 years, and its only at the end of that 
term that CGT will trigger. The assumption is also that Mr S will be 
taxed on the investment at the highest rate applicable to him and that 
his tax position remains unchanged for as long as he holds the 
investment. 
Fidelity should calculate the value of the fund  as suggested above  
and then assess his CGT liability, for which he should be 
compensated. The business can liaise with him or his IFA to gather 
information regarding his tax position so that it can conduct the 
calculations.  
Fidelity has offered Mr S £2,000 compensation for distress and inconvenience 
caused which is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
It also provided details of its own calculations. 
Fidelity disagreed with the investigators view regarding the calculation methodology for 
compensation. In summary, it made the following key submissions:
It doesnt feel it prudent to wait any longer for a response from HMRC, which is 
unlikely to be forthcoming, or if it is, the request to correct the error is likely to be 
denied. 
It accepts that its calculations may not have taken into account certain circumstances 
and would like the investigator to recalculate using some additional information. 
Theres no suggestion that Mr S wouldve 100% invested in the Wisdom fund. 
Transferring all funds into a single focused investment  based on one single 
currency  could be considered unrealistic and exceptionally high risk. In the past it 
was suggested that hed invest in a similar way to his SIPP, implying that it wouldnt 
be exactly the same.  
Mr S was planning to retire in just seven years, therefore was likely to need his funds 
then.  
The Wisdom fund is also the only fund that has increased in value and therefore the 
assertion that Mr S wouldve invested in this fund is done so based on past 
performance. It therefore disagrees with the investigators suggestion that the whole 
redress should be calculated using this fund. 
It appears that a fund switch took place during this period, and its willing to mirror the 
fund switch during its calculations. 
It doesnt agree that the investigators suggestion in terms of the wrapper tax loss is 
in line with our services approach. Regardless of what Mr Ss previous contribution, 
an approach using 50% contribution from the new money and 50% reinvested funds 
would provide a compensation calculation approach in line with our service. Its able to revise its approach to reflect 10 years, and then a full encashment of the remaining 
holdings outside of the ISA. 
It doesnt agree with a 7.5% investment growth. It has used the recent growth rate 
rather than the one from 2017, which allows for rates both inside and outside of tax 
efficient environments. It believes the medium term should be used. It notes the 
performance of the SIPP is less than 2.5% which more closely mirrors the mid-range. 
Its in agreement with the 10-year term and is happy to adjust its calculations 
accordingly. It notes that Mr S has confirmed that he hasnt utilised his CGT 
allowance at all in recent years. Mr S is currently receiving financial advice and 
should continue to do so in order to mitigate any further/future loss. 
A lumpsum payment  10 years in advance of any tax liability crystallising  allows 
Mr S to invest the proceeds in the meantime, and this should be taken into account. 
It agrees that the £2,000 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr S made the following key submissions:
Theres no doubt that the responsibility for this error lies with the business. 
The decision to move his funds from GBP to the Wisdom fund was his, following 
analysis of the market and seeking advice from acquaintances who are economists  
he felt the GBP was going to suffer significant loss over the immediate future. Having 
then received advice from his IFA he decided to place his funds in the Wisdom fund, 
as it turns out, it was a wise decision. 
Hes never said that hed retire in seven years. He has built a successful practice with 
his colleagues that hes likely to continue with.  
Using words such as similarly, mirrored or exactly are just semantics. The email 
dated 21 March 2022 confirms his intention regarding plans to invest in Swiss 
Francs. 
Its outrageous to suggest that Mr S (and his IFA) retrospectively chose the Wisdom 
fund based on past performance. 
The loss should be made based on the actual gains made by the SIPP over the 
relevant period.  
He agrees that 100% of his allowance should be available to him rather than whats 
been suggested. He also agreed that growth should be calculated using a growth 
rate of 7.5%. He assumes this includes both investment growth and dividend payable 
and re-investment of the same.  
He doesnt agree that he should be subject to the provision that his investment will be 
sold after 10 years and taxed at the highest rate applicable. He has personal 
investments in stocks and cryptocurrency, and theres absolutely no reason why he 
should compromise his tax planning to mitigate the businesss error.
Its no surprise that Fidelity agree to the 10-year plan, it previously suggested a 
period of 29 years  which is what our service should use. 
Whilst hes grateful for the investigators finding in his favour, he was planning to 
keep his ISA for backup funding for his old age, which shows it was to be held for 
more than 10 years. 
Despite what the business says about gains crystalising, its not expected that Bank 
of England rate will rise considerably. 
Its difficult to agree the £2,000 payment for distress and inconvenience for the 
damage actually caused. 
He doesnt agree with Fidelitys methodology for calculating redress. He has provided 
a calculation of his own, which is significantly different to business.  
Fidelity having considered the submission from Mr S provided a revised approach, but Mr S 
disagreed and put forward his own submissions in relation to why his approach is correct, reiterating many of his points. He feels the business is deliberately behaving in a way so as 
to limit its financial liability. 
As no agreement has been reached, between the parties and the investigator, the matter 
has been passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
Because Fidelity initially upheld the complaint, and there is no dispute that the substantial 
funds in question ought to have been protected from tax inside an ISA wrapper, the key 
issue for me to consider is redress and whether or not what is offered by the business is fair 
and reasonable. 
I note that due to the time elapsed and lack of response from HMRC its probably not 
possible to back date the subscriptions and thats why Fidelity has instead offered to 
compensate Mr S for this.  
Having considered the offer of redress from Fidelity, on the face of the evidence, and on 
balance, despite what it says, Im unable to safely say that the redress is fair and 
reasonable. 
On balance, I think the redress recommended by the investigator is broadly fair and 
reasonable. Based on a number of assumptions, it reflects the general approach taken by 
our service in such circumstances. 
In other words, the approach we use in these situations to put the investor as close to the 
position they wouldve been in but for the error. So, whilst I appreciate what the parties say, 
and the reasons behind this, Im not persuaded to depart from the general approach taken 
by our service  as recommended by our investigator. In other words, Im not persuaded to 
follow either of the partys suggestions, because they dont accord with our general 
approach.  
Before I explain why I cant give Mr S what he wants, I think its important for me to 
recognise his frustration and strength of feeling about this matter borne primarily out an error 
by the business. Hes provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive 
read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr S and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information 
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. In short, my findings as to the 
redress are as follows:
In the circumstances, and on balance, I think the timeframe suggested by Mr Ss 
Pension is broadly fair and reasonable  I note that on 23 September £537,130 of his pension was invested, which suggests that had the error not occurred this is when 
the funds in question wouldve also transferred. 
In this instance, and on balance, I think this is the date that the business should use, 
because it broadly represents when Mr S wouldve invested. 
I dont agree with the businesss suggestion to use 4 November as the appropriate 
date for the loss of opportunity, I also dont think its rationale for doing so  namely 
the date by which Mr S wouldve received his money and therefore be in a position to 
invest as he wouldve wished  applied in this situation.  
In the circumstances Im not persuaded that the approach initially proposed by 
Fidelity  to use the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Index in full or in part  is 
reasonable. 
Despite what the business says, on balance Im satisfied that Mr S wouldve  more 
likely than not  invested (in whole) in the Wisdom fund, therefore this is the indices 
that Fidelity should use in calculating redress. 
Im mindful of the research initially conducted by Mr S and the subsequent 
discussions with his IFA in the lead up to trying to transfer his funds to another 
platform, so that he could invest. Therefore, Im satisfied that the Wisdom fund 
should be used in respect of calculating redress, despite the reference to the March 
2022 discussions with his IFA.  
I agree that without the benefit of hindsight, its difficult to know for sure what 
wouldve happened if the business didnt make an error. Thats why our service 
adopts an approach based on various assumptions as listed above in the 
background section of this decision, which I agree with when calculating redress. 
In this instance, I think the calculations based on a 10-year assumption is fair and 
reasonable. Despite what Mr S says about the businesss initial offer  based on 
returning assets to the ISA over a 29-year term  Im not persuaded that its 
reasonable. I think a 10-year period is reasonable  given the potential changes in 
tax, personal circumstances, and market conditions  and its in line with our 
approach. Despite what Mr S says about his retirement in 10 years, I cant see any 
justification for using a 29-years (or longer) period in this instance. Despite what Mr S 
says, Im mindful that theres no easy way to determine for sure how long he would 
maintain the investment.  
Also, this should reflect Mr Ss investment behavior of fully funding his ISA each year, 
whilst keeping it for 10 years. That said, I dont agree with the businesss suggestion 
to only use 50% contributions from new money and invested funds. 
I note the point the business makes about previous decisions, but regardless of what 
may have been decided by an ombudsman in the past, Im not bound by previous 
ombudsman decisions. Whilst I appreciate the need to be consistent in our approach, 
Im also mindful that every case must be decided on its own facts, which is why I 
dont agree with the businesss approach in this instance. 
Its in dispute which CGT rates should be, Im aware the business says 20% whilst 
Mr S thinks it should be 45% - I think it should be at the highest rate available. In this 
instance I think the business can liaise with Mr S and his IFA and perhaps HMRC if 
necessary. 
In any case, I think the business will need to use the rate of 7.5%, to counter the 
impact of inflation, in line with our services approach, and Im persuaded that this 
should be calculated on a compound basis. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the parties say, I agree 
with the investigators recommendation for redress  in terms addressing the 
financial loss Mr S is likely to suffer due to the error by the business. 
In the circumstances and on balance, I think the £2,000 redress offered by the 
business is broadly fair and reasonable. On balance I think the error couldve been 
rectified more swiftly than it has been. I think the compensation better reflects the 
impact this error has had on Mr S over a significant period. In the circumstances and on balance, to put things right, Fidelity should do the following:
Calculate if theres a difference in value from when the investment ought to have 
started (same date as the pension) to now. And add this sum, if higher to any related 
performance back to the investment. 
The following assumptions should also apply:
oThe investment (thats now outside the ISA wrapper) will be held for 10 years 
 from the point the ISA wrapper was lost  with 100% of his allowance being 
used, as evidenced by Mr Ss tendency to do so in the past. 
oThe investment will grow at 7.5% each year, as per FCA guidance, comprised 
of 5% growth and 2.5% dividend. 
oThe investment will be sold after ten years and taxed at the highest rate 
applicable. The business can liaise with Mr S and his IFA to establish his 
CGT liability in order to calculate redress. 
Use these assumptions to work out the expected tax burden resulting from the error, 
and pay this amount as a lump sum to Mr S.
Fidelity should also pay £2,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused which I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr S will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what he wants to hear. But on the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to give him what he wants.
Putting things right
To put things right, Financial Administration Services Limited should do the following:
Calculate if theres a difference in value from when the investment ought to have 
started (same date as the pension) to now. And add this sum, if higher, to any related 
performance back to the investment. 
The following assumptions should also apply:
oThe investment (thats now outside the ISA wrapper) will be held for 10 years 
 from the point the ISA wrapper was lost  with 100% of his allowance being 
used, as evidenced by Mr Ss tendency to do so in the past. 
oThe investment will grow at 7.5% each year, as per FCA guidance, comprised 
of 5% growth and 2.5% dividend. 
oThe investment will be sold after ten years and taxed at the highest rate 
applicable. The business can liaise with Mr S and his IFA to establish his 
CGT liability in order to calculate redress. 
Use these assumptions to work out the expected tax burden resulting from the error, 
and pay this amount as a lump sum to Mr S.
Fidelity should also pay £2,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused which I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
Financial Administration Services Limited should calculate and pay the redress as set out 
above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman