DRN-4082167
The complaint
Ms O complains about how The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Platform managed her 
mortgage, prior to its redemption in November 2021.
What happened
Ms O brought a very detailed complaint to our service, in which she asked our service to 
look at how Platform had handled her mortgage over many years. 
In response to this, I provided a decision setting out that, unfortunately, our service couldnt 
now consider a number of the points that Ms O had raised. I said our service would only be 
able to consider Ms Os complaint about arrears interest added to Miss Os mortgage from 
26 November 2015, until she redeemed her mortgage on 25 November 2021, and about the 
addition of any debt recovery fees or charges applied to Miss Os mortgage in the same 
period (including the amount Miss O says was either duplicated, or already paid).
Our investigator then provided his view of this part of Ms Os complaint. He said Ms O had 
been charged some arrears interest during the period between 26 November 2015 and 25 
November 2021. But as her mortgage had remained in arrears until 10 July 2019, and that 
matched the time when these interest charges were incurred, he thought these arrears 
interest charges were correctly applied. 
Our investigator noted that Ms O had queried why she was asked to pay off an amount of 
arrears interest when the mortgage was being redeemed. She said shed been making her 
full monthly payments, without missing any, for quite some time before this, so she didnt 
think she should owe arrears interest. 
Our investigator said hed seen the terms of Ms Os mortgage, and Platform was entitled to 
charge interest on the arrears. And the statements Platform was sending her confirmed that 
the payments she was making each month didnt pay off that arrears interest. Instead, it 
would be paid back when the mortgage was redeemed. Our investigator set out the relevant 
provisions for Ms O, which said these amounts would be included in any redemption quote.
Our investigator explained that we could only look at any fees, charges or interest applied 
after 26 November 2015. And there were no debt recovery charges during this time. But he 
said that Platform had provided information setting out how all the debt recovery charges 
and arrears interest costs previously applied to Ms Os mortgage had been incurred. 
Our investigator didnt think Ms O had been charged these amounts twice, and he didnt 
think Platform had done anything wrong. 
Ms O didnt agree. She sent us an annotated list of charges which she said had already 
been debited and added back to the redemption statement. 
Our investigator confirmed that hed checked, and this wasnt the case. Her redemption 
statement said Ms O owed Platform £206,048.43 as a mortgage balance, plus an arrears 
charge of £2,515.01. Ms Os last mortgage statement showed the total balance as 
£209,262.29, which was made up of the mortgage balance and the arrears balance. Our 
investigator said these amounts had just been set out separately on the redemption 
statement. 
Ms O sent our service annotated copies of her statement going back some years. She said 
shed already paid more than the £2,505.01, plus other charges, and these shouldnt have 
been added back in at redemption. Ms O also said shed cleared her arrears sometime 
between 2018 and 2019, with the payment of a lump sum. 
Ms O followed this with two calculations of what she thought she should owe (she asked us 
to replace the first with the second, because of a transposition error). Both of these 
calculations relied on correcting errors Ms O said that Platform had made several years prior 
to the period that were considering for this complaint. 
This case was then passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
I should stress here that Im looking only at the part of Ms Os complaint which our services 
previous jurisdiction decision said we could consider. 
So I will only consider here Ms Os complaint about arrears interest added to Miss Os 
mortgage from 26 November 2015, until she redeemed her mortgage on 25 November 2021, 
and about the addition of any debt recovery fees or charges applied to Miss Os mortgage in 
the same period (including the amount Miss O says was either duplicated, or already paid). 
For those reasons, I cant take account of other errors Ms O says predate this, which she 
says then affected the amount she was asked to pay when she redeemed this mortgage.
I appreciate that the presentation of Ms Os annual mortgage statements may be confusing, 
because the balance in the right hand column doesnt differentiate between two debts. It 
adds them together, and provides one total. 
But, as our investigator explained, that total amount isnt all made up of the same thing, and 
that amount isnt all treated in the same way. 
Ms O is charged interest on her mortgage. That interest is added to her mortgage debt, and 
then cleared every month, by the regular monthly payments Ms O made.
We know that Ms O has, historically, got behind on some of her mortgage payments. And 
while Ms O was in arrears (before her lump sum payment made in July 2019) she was 
charged interest on those arrears. But, importantly, Platform doesnt treat this interest in the 
same way as her ordinary mortgage debt. It keeps this amount separate, so Ms O isnt 
charged interest on this. So, as our investigator noted, Ms Os annual statements have for some time included a 
separate, non-interest bearing balance. Those statements also explain that Ms Os monthly 
payments dont include any money towards that balance. 
Ms Os lump sum payment cleared the arrears, and stopped any increase in the non-interest 
bearing balance. After Ms O paid off her arrears with a lump sum payment on 10 July 2019, 
the arrears interest for that month was considerably lower than previously. There are then no 
further amounts of arrears interest added after this. 
But Ms O didnt pay her non-interest bearing balance off at the same time as she paid off the 
arrears. And none of the regular monthly payments Ms O has made since, reduced this non-
interest bearing balance. 
The statements Platform has shown us made clear that Ms O would be asked to pay this 
non-interest bearing balance when she redeemed her mortgage. 
If we look back at when Ms Os arrears first started, I can see that Platform wrote to Ms O on 
24 November 2014 to confirm the same thing  that she would be charged interest on her 
arrears, this balance would be kept separate, and she could pay it off once shed paid the 
arrears, if she wanted to. 
After this, starting in December 2015, Platform wrote to her each quarter, with letters setting 
out the total arrears, and the total non-interest bearing balance, which was made up of debt 
recovery fees previously charged, and interest on the arrears she then owed.
Thats why, as our investigator explained, Ms Os mortgage statements show an Interest 
Bearing Account Balance and also, separately a Non-interest Bearing Account Balance 
which, when put together, give the Total Account Balance (and that matches the amount in 
the final column on the right, adding together the total Ms O owed on each statement).
Platform has provided a summary of all the debt recovery charges and arrears interest 
charged on Ms Os account. On 30 November 2021, it also sent Ms O a summary of the 
arrears history on her account. Thats a lengthy document, which Ms O has shared with us. 
Its also a little clearer than her annual mortgage statements, because on this document, 
Platform has separated out the arrears balance, and any arrears interest that was charged 
on this balance, from the rest of Ms Os mortgage.
This document also confirms that no debt recovery charges were added during the period of 
26 November 2015 to 25 November 2021.
The document shows that arrears interest was added during this period, until Ms O made 
her lump sum payment on 10 July 2019. The arrears history for Ms Os account shows that 
the arrears were cleared on 10 July 2019. But it also shows that this lump sum payment 
didnt also clear the arrears interest which had accrued. So this amount remained. 
So I think our investigator was right to say that Platforms terms mean that when Ms O 
makes her monthly payments, she isnt clearing this non-interest bearing amount, and that 
Platform was right to add it at the end of her mortgage. I think the documents Ive see are 
consistent on this point. And, importantly, I have found no evidence that either these sums 
have been duplicated, or that Ms O had already paid them off before she redeemed her 
mortgage. 
For those reasons, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I know that Ms O will be 
disappointed, but I hope the above explanation assists her. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman