DRN-3272943
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about how U K Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against their
travel insurance policy. Reference to UKI includes its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs T have travel insurance as a benefit of a bank 
account.
In 2019, Mr and Mrs T booked a trip with departure and return dates of
11 February 2020 and 14 April 2020 respectively. On 23 March 2020, whilst
Mr and Mrs T were on their trip, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office 
(FCDO) advised all UK tourists abroad to return home.
I understand that on 24 March 2020, the airline cancelled Mr and Mrs Ts original return 
flights and on the same date, Mr and Mrs T booked return flights for 5 May 2020. On
25 March 2020, Mr T e-mailed their accommodation provider and extended their stay. Ill 
refer to the content of that e-mail in more detail below.
On 15 April 2020, the airline cancelled Mr and Mrs Ts return flights for 5 May 2020. On  
16 April 2020, Mr and Mrs T booked return flights for 19 May 2020, but they were 
cancelled by the airline on or around 2 May 2020. On 19 May 2020, Mr and Mrs T booked 
return flights for 2 July 2020, but they were cancelled by the airline on 18 June 2020. On   
19 June 2020, Mr and Mrs T booked the return flights which got them home on                 
23 June 2020.
Mr and Mrs T made a claim against their policy in relation to additional accommodation
costs (€3,500) and for additional rail fair in the UK (£61.99).
UKI said that Mr and Mrs Ts additional costs werent covered under the policy, as they didnt 
attempt to return home following the FCDO advice. It agreed to deal with Mr and Mrs Ts 
claim under the delay section of the policy, which it said entitled them to £250 per insured. In 
its final response to Mr and Mrs T, UKI maintained its position but apologised for its delay in 
reviewing Mr and Mrs Ts claim. It paid compensation of £50 in relation to that.
Mr and Mrs T say that Mr T phoned UKI and it told him that theyd be insured until they 
could get home. They say that they tried to get home and booked return flights, which 
were cancelled. Eventually, they booked a flight home to an inconvenient UK airport and 
had an arduous train journey for the last part of their journey home.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He thought that UKI had acted 
fairly in considering Mr and Mrs Ts claim under the delay section of the policy. The 
investigator said that Mr and Mrs Ts claim doesnt fall within the delayed return, 
curtailment, or cancellation sections of the policy.
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree with the investigator. They said, in summary:
Their friends, who were in exactly the same position, had their claim paid by UKI 
after referring the matter to this service  the only difference is the type of current 
account they hold.
Their claim should be covered by the catastrophe cover in the curtailment section 
of the policy.
Mr and Mrs T asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was passed to 
me to decide.
It came to light that UKI hadnt provided this service with the correct policy terms and 
conditions in this case. UKI put that right. It maintained its position and said that
Mr and Mrs T didnt attempt to return home, so their claim doesnt fall under the 
curtailment provisions of the policy.
UKI said that its willing to consider the claim under the delay provisions, even though 
the claim doesnt strictly fall within the terms of the policy relating to delay. Under the 
correct policy terms and conditions, that amounts to a maximum of £1,000 per insured 
for certain additional costs incurred.
Mr and Mrs T didnt accept UKIs offer but said that theyd accept a total of £2,600. They 
said that their flight wasnt delayed, it was cancelled, which means that their journey was 
curtailed. Mr and Mrs T say that following the FCDO advice, they looked online for flights, 
but it wasnt possible to book flights home. They say that as they couldnt book earlier 
flights home, they asked their accommodation provider for an extended stay in case their 
return flights were cancelled, which they were.
My provisional decision
On 6 December 2021, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case in which I 
indicated that I intended to direct UKI to deal with Mr and Mrs Ts claim under the delay 
provisions of the correct policy terms and conditions, as it had now offered to do. I said:
the relevant policy terms and conditions
UKI has now provided the terms and conditions applicable to this complaint, the relevant
parts of which are as follows:
B  Travel delay and abandonment
What you are covered for
1. Delay
We will pay you up to £1,000 per insured person after the first four hours delay of 
the pre-booked flight [] for additional expenses such as accommodation, travel [] 
which arise because the transport you have checked-in for is delayed []
Curtailment/Curtail
Cutting short your journey after its commencement to return to your home address 
or business address.E  Curtailment (cutting a journey 
short) What you are covered for
1. Curtailment due to early return
We will reimburse up to £5,000 per insured person 
for []
b) Additional travel expenses needed to return you to the UK (repatriation) which have 
been authorised by the assistance service which you cannot recover from any other 
source following curtailment of a journey, due to:
[]
3. The Foreign & Commonwealth Office advising against All travel or All but essential 
travel to your destination, providing the advice came into force after your departure 
date.
2. Catastrophe cover
If, during your journey, you [] are unable to return to the UK by your pre-booked and 
pre- paid method of travel because of:
[]
-medical epidemic or 
pandemic; []
We will pay you up to £5,000 per insured person for the necessary extra travel and 
accommodation expenses to allow you to continue with your journey to a similar 
standard as you had pre-booked, or if you choose to return to the UK, we will pay you up 
to £5,000 per insured person for your unused travel and accommodation expenses, 
including additional transport costs of up to £500 per insured person if you were within 
Europe or £1,000 per insured person if you were outside Europe, to return to your 
home address earlier than originally planned.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that UKI has a duty to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint to the extent that UKIs updated offer to 
deal with their claim under the delay provisions of their policy is fair. Ill explain why:
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks it is willing to cover and set these out in the terms 
and conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show 
that their claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy.
In certain circumstances, including FCDO advice against all or all but essential 
travel, Mr and Mrs Ts policy provides cover for curtailment of their journey. Ive 
set out above the policys definition of curtailment, which is cutting a journey 
short to return to a home or business address. Based on what Ive seen, I dont 
think thats what happened here. The weight of evidence suggests that             
Mr and Mrs T decided to extend their journey, rather than curtail it. Ill explain 
why Ive come to that view.
Mr and Mrs T say that on 24 March 2020, shortly after the FCDO advice to 
return home, they booked a flight for 5 May 2020. On 25 March 2020, they 
extended their stay in their accommodation until 5 May 2020.
In an e-mail to the accommodation provider, Mr and Mrs T said that they would 
pay every two weeks, as they didnt know how things would go and just in case 
they  have a knock on the door insisting we leave. They said that they couldnt see that happening as they  a third party - would have to arrange 
flights. Mr and Mrs T said that they preferred to remain in their destination 
country until 5 May 2020, as they were both clinically vulnerable and they 
expected a wave and a peak of Covid-19 in the UK.
Mr and Mrs T say that following the FCDO advice, they looked on-line for return 
flights, but none were available. But thats not consistent with what they said to 
their accommodation provider. I think that Mr Ts e-mail to their accommodation 
provider shows that they wanted to extend their stay.
Mr and Mrs T were due to return home on the 14 April 2020. They booked 
alternative return flights for 5 May 2020, 19 May 2020, and 2 July 2020, all of 
which were cancelled. None of those return flights would have curtailed their 
trip, as the dates of the flights were after Mr and Mrs Ts original planned return 
date.
Mr and Mrs T say that they should be covered by the catastrophe cover under 
the curtailment section of the policy. But that section of cover only applies if they 
wanted to continue with their journey or cut short their trip and return to the UK. 
As Ive outlined above, the evidence suggests to me that its most likely           
Mr and Mrs T decided to stay where they were until 5 May 2020. Mr T says that 
its for UKI to show that he could have booked a flight. However, its for Mr T to 
demonstrate that he has a valid claim under this section of the policy and Ive 
not seen evidence that they would have been unable to travel home before       
5 May 2020. So, I cant fairly conclude that Mr and Mrs T are covered under this 
section of the policy in the circumstances of this particular case.
Based on what Ive seen, I think that Mr and Mrs T didnt try to curtail their 
journey following the FCDO advice to do so on 23 March 2020. I think they 
preferred to extend their journey. In those circumstances, I dont think that UKI 
acted unfairly in declining their claim under the curtailment provisions of the 
policy.
Mr and Mrs T are right to say that what happened here doesnt strictly speaking 
come within the delay provisions of the policy, as their return flights were 
cancelled, not delayed. In addition, they hadnt checked into the flight, as 
required by the policy. But I think its fair for UKI to deal with Mr and Mrs Ts 
claim under the delay provisions. Thats because when deciding what we think is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case of this nature, wed 
generally consider the ultimate impact of the situation on the consumer. The 
impact of the cancelled flight on Mr and Mrs T is the same as if the flight was 
delayed, then cancelled.
Mr and Mrs T say that Mr T phoned UKI and it told him that theyd be insured 
until they could get home. That doesnt amount to a promise to pay additional 
costs not covered by the policy. Ive looked at the transcript of that call. UKI told 
Mr T that as they couldnt return due to circumstances beyond their control, the 
policy would be extended until they could get the first available flight home. That 
means that if, for example, they needed emergency assistance, the policy would 
be in place. I dont think that UKI misled Mr T in that phone call. Even if I came 
to a different view about what was said in the phone call, I wouldnt necessarily 
direct UKI to pay a claim thats not covered by the policy; Id look at what effect 
any incorrect information had on Mr and Mrs T.Mr and Mrs T say that UKI settled a claim by their friends who were in exactly 
the same position as them. I cant comment on a claim by others, but I can say 
that each case is decided on its own facts and merits. A different outcome may 
well result from different circumstances or different policy terms. Here, Im not 
satisfied that Mr and Mrs Ts trip was curtailed.
For the reasons Ive explained above, I think that UKIs offer to deal with           
Mr and Mrs Ts claim under the delay provisions of the policy is fair.
Responses to my provisional decision
UKI said that it agreed with the provisional decision and will deal with Mr and Mrs Ts claim 
under the delay provisions of the policy which provides cover up to £1,000 per person. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree with the provisional decision. Mr T said, in summary:
They had good reasons relating to their health for wanting to get home as soon as 
possible.
Hes never suggested that in the phone call on 14 April 2020, UKI told him that it 
would meet his claim.
UKI didnt mention that it could get them home or advise them about how they could 
do so. 
UKI misinterpreted his e-mail to the accommodation provider in which he said that 
hed prefer to remain until 5 May 2020: he was talking to the accommodation 
provider about how long she could let them stay and they had no choice as their 
rearranged departing flight was on 5 May 2020. 
They reiterated the chronology of the booked and cancelled flights, which they say 
show that they were trying to return home. 
UKI made mistakes in dealing with their claim and contacted them in November 2021 
for further information.
There were no departing flights. Each time they booked a flight they chose the 
earliest one.
They never stopped trying to get home and the only reason UKI has offered to deal 
with their claim under delay provisions, rather than the curtailment provision, is that it 
will pay them less.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr T in particular has very strong feelings about this 
matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which I have read and 
considered. However, I trust that neither he nor Mrs T will take as a discourtesy the fact that 
I focus on the issues that I consider affect the outcome of the complaint. 
 I dont think that Mr and Mrs T have shown that they curtailed their journey, as defined by the 
policy, that is, cut their journey short to return home. The cancellation of their original return 
flight of 14 April 2020 on 24 March 2020 doesnt, in itself, amount to curtailment, as defined 
by the policy. 
After their original return flight was cancelled, Mr and Mrs T booked return flights for             
5 May 2020. Mr Ts e-mail of 25 March 2020 to the accommodation provider indicates that 
Mr and Mrs T didnt want to return before that date but wanted to extend their trip. Mr T said 
that they wanted to avoid the wave and peak of Covid-19 in the UK. Ive considered what   
Mr T now says about the content of that e-mail, but I remain of the view that it indicates that 
they didnt want to return to the UK any earlier than 5 May 2020. 
Ive noted the chronology of the booked and cancelled flights. None of the booked and 
subsequently cancelled flights would have curtailed their trip, as they were after their original 
departure date.
Ive considered all that Mr T has said and provided but Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs T 
would have been unable to travel home before 5 May 2020. Mr T sought information in 
support of his claim from an established resident of their destination country. Her reply to   
Mr T of 24 January 2021, indicates that the UK government didnt arrange repatriation flights 
because commercial flights were available, although they were rare and kept getting 
cancelled. She says that flights were arriving and departing carrying, amongst others, people 
returning home. 
I dont doubt that this was a difficult situation for Mr and Mrs T, but the available evidence 
suggests that they preferred to remain where they were rather than curtail their trip. In those 
circumstances, I dont think that UKI treated them unfairly in declining their claim under the 
curtailment provisions of the policy. 
In all the circumstances of this case, I think that UKIs offer to deal with Mr and Mrs Ts claim 
under the delay provisions of the policy is fair.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, UKI should deal with Mr and Mrs Ts claim under the delay 
provisions of the policy, as its now offered to do.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint in part. I now direct                      
U K Insurance Limited to take the steps Ive set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2022. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman