DRN-3248065
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as W has complained that American International Group UK 
Limited (AIG) unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim.
Mrs C, a director of W, has brought the complaint on Ws behalf.
What happened
W held a business protection policy with AIG. W claimed on its policy after it was impacted 
by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
AIG turned down Ws claim. They said Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to property and 
while the policy covered a specified list of diseases, Covid-19 wasnt one of the diseases 
covered. 
Unhappy with AIGs response, W brought its complaint to our service. It referred to the 
Supreme Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case to support its 
view that its claim should be paid. 
Our investigator looked into Ws complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover for its claim. 
W asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
W has referred to claiming for a number of periods of business interruption. In this decision I 
am only commenting on AIGs decision to turn down Ws claim for business interruption 
which commenced in March 2020. AIGs decision to decline claims for any other period of 
business interruption would need to be dealt with separately.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ws business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if AIG have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ws claim. I have considered the policy in its entirety but will focus on the 
parts that appear most relevant. 
Denial of access
This extension in Ws policy provides cover for loss resulting from:
Damage to property in the vicinity of the Premises which prevents or hinders the 
use of, or access to, the Premises
The policy defines damage as:
Loss of, Destruction of or Damage to
For this to provide cover Ws loss would need to be as a result of damage to property in 
the vicinity of its business premises which prevented or hindered the use of, or access 
to, its premises. I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to 
property in the vicinity of Ws business premises which prevented or hindered access 
to, or the use of, its premises. So this doesnt provide cover for Ws claim. 
Notifiable diseases
In 2019 the terms and conditions of Ws policy were amended by a policy changes 
endorsement document. This document amended the notifiable disease extension within the 
policy to cover an outbreak of a notifiable disease at Ws business premises or within a 25 
mile radius. The endorsement says that notifiable disease is now defined in the policy as 
being an illness sustained by a person resulting from a list of specified diseases. Covid-19 
isnt one of the diseases listed in the policy. 
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect
it to be included in the list of diseases. But there are similar policies on the market that 
provide cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which cover all notifiable 
diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Ws policy is not like this  it 
sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording 
of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which might emerge. 
So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new diseases and 
therefore this doesnt provide cover for Ws claim.
W has referred to the Supreme Court judgment but whether a claim is payable still 
depends on the wording of the individual policy. In this case, the judgment doesnt 
impact Ws claim. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome W was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require AIG to pay its claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman