DRN-2829831
The complaint
Mr L complains about the service provided by National Westminster Bank Plc when opening 
some additional accounts. 
What happened
Mr L wanted to open two new accounts. One account was opened without any issues. But 
Mr L says when he tried to open a second account, he was asked to provide information he 
wasnt asked for when opening the first account. 
This caused a problem from Mr L as at the time he was shielding due to the Covid-19 
pandemic and he couldnt attend a branch in person. Mr L says NatWest was unhelpful as 
telephone appointments arranged with his account manager - to discuss the account 
opening requirements, werent made. So, he complained to NatWest.
NatWest responded to Mr Ls complaint. It said that Mr Ls account manager had called at 
the agreed times but there had been no answer. But it says a detailed message had been 
left confirming the account opening requirements. 
It added that it was unable to determine how the first account had been opened, but the 
second account did require Mr Ls signature on the application form. And it sent Mr L an 
application form to sign and return by post.
 
Ultimately, it didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint because it didnt agree it had done anything 
wrong. But it credited Mr Ls account with £20 in recognition of the time hed spent dealing 
with the matter.
Unhappy with NatWests response, Mr L referred the complaint to us. He said that NatWest 
had previously awarded him £150 when he referred other complaints to it. So, he didnt think 
£20 was enough to put things right. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ls complaint. But she didnt think NatWest had done 
anything wrong when it asked Mr L to sign the account opening form. And she thought it was 
most likely that NatWest had attempted to contact Mr L at the agreed times. Overall, she 
thought the £20 paid by NatWest was fair and she didnt uphold the complaint.  
Mr L didnt accept this outcome and asked for his complained to be escalated. So, the 
complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as our investigator for broadly 
the same reasons. I know Mr L will be disappointed with my decision, so Ill explain why.
Mr L has raised two complaint points, which I will deal with in turn:
Telephone appointments  
As the investigator has said, NatWest is unable to provide a call recording for the telephone 
call it says it made to Mr L. But it has provided its notes recorded during the investigation of 
this complaint. These say that Mr Ls banking manager had confirmed she called during the 
agreed time  between 6pm and 7pm on 3 November.
In these circumstances, where evidence is conflicting, Im required to reach my decision on 
the balance of probabilities i.e. what I think most likely happened given the evidence I do 
have. Having thought about this carefully - on balance, I think its most likely that the calls 
were made as promised. I see no reason why Mr Ls bank manager wouldnt have called as 
agreed. In any event, I note that Mr L is able to speak with a dedicated Premier 24 phone 
line. Had Mr L not received a call as expected, I wouldve expected him to call the 24-hour 
phone line, and I cant see that he did. So, I dont uphold this part of Mr Ls complaint.
Account opening process
NatWest has since explained that the initial request to open an additional account didnt 
require a signature  this was because it applied an exceptions process which was available 
due to the particular type of account being requested. However, it says that the exceptions 
process couldnt be applied with the second new account request as the request was for a 
different type of account. 
I can understand Mr Ls frustration and confusion that different requirements applied to two 
account opening requests. But overall, the requirements seem to stem from the different 
types of account Mr L was asking to be opened. So, I dont think NatWest did anything 
significantly wrong when it asked Mr L to sign an application form for the second account. 
And from what Ive seen, it seems NatWest posted the application form to him so he could 
sign it at home and return it in the post (identification was not required)  avoiding the need 
to attend a branch whilst shielding due to the pandemic. So, I dont think Mr L was put to any 
undue inconvenience that would warrant a compensation payment.  
  
Compensation
I note NatWest has paid Mr L £20 compensation for the time spent dealing with this matter. I 
also note Mr Ls comments about awards he has received in other complaints referred to 
NatWest. But I cant comment on awards made in other complaints as Im unaware of the 
circumstances of those complaints and the impact they had on Mr L. 
My role is to consider the individual circumstances of this complaint. And, having done so, I 
dont think NatWest did anything significantly wrong to the extent that it should pay more 
than £20 already paid. I think £20 fairly reflects the time Mr L spent dealing with this matter. 
So, I wont be asking NatWest to take any further action.My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman