DRN-1606820
 
The complaint
Miss A says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny (Sunny), irresponsibly 
lent to her. Miss A says Sunny should have known she couldnt afford the lending and as a 
result of the borrowing she got into more debt and suffered financial hardship.
What happened
This complaint is about nine short-term loans Sunny provided to Miss A between December 
2016 and June 2017. Miss As borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 10/12/2016 27/03/2017 12 £100.00
2 07/01/2017 14/03/2017 12 £50.00
3 13/01/2017 13/06/2017 12 £500.00
4 04/02/2017 22/05/2017 12 £50.00
5 14/03/2017 08/08/2017 12 £150.00
6 27/03/2017 09/05/2017 12 £50.00
7* 10/05/2017 01/07/2019 12 £250.00
8* 22/05/2017 01/07/2019 12 £200.00
9 13/06/2017 14/11/2017 12 £150.00
 
*Miss A defaulted on loans seven and eight. The debt was written off on 1 July 2019.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss As complaint and thought the loans from loan four 
onwards shouldnt have been given because they were unaffordable for her and when she 
took loan seven, she was becoming persistently reliant on this type of lending. 
Sunny disagreed. It said its checks prior to granting each loan showed the borrowing was 
affordable for Miss A. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss A could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Miss A could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Miss A didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to three shouldnt be 
upheld. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. 
So, I wont be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Miss A had with Sunny. So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans she took. Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss As complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
When Miss A returned for more borrowing at loan four, loans one to three were still 
outstanding and had been taken out over the relatively short period of two months. So, all 
repayments would need to be made concurrently for around ten months if the loans were to 
run to the term agreed at the outset. 
Sunny has told us its product allows its customers the flexibility of taking more than one loan 
at a time subject to its affordability and creditworthiness checks. But I think it can equally be 
the case that by taking four loans at the same time could be an indication a customer was 
have problems managing their money. And I note that loan three was by far the largest loan 
taken out  five times the amount of loan one  and Miss A then returned three weeks later 
for a much smaller sum. This would suggest to me that she was juggling her finances to 
make ends meet. 
Sunny also disagreed that the lending was unaffordable when compared to Miss As 
disposable income. But according to its checks and information its given us, Miss A earned 
£1,176 per month, her expenditure is recorded as £375 per month and the combined 
monthly repayments at loan four total £229. I think the amount being repaid each month was 
a large enough proportion of her disposable income  and particularly taking into 
consideration the length of time the repayments were to be made  for Sunny to have 
questioned whether they were affordable for her and whether the lending should have been 
given. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss A, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Miss As case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan seven. I say this because: 
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Miss A was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Miss A had taken out seven loans within five months. So Sunny 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Miss A was having to borrow 
further to cover the hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her finances and 
that Miss As indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
 
Miss As first loan was for £100 and loan seven was for £250.  At this point Sunny 
ought to have known that Miss A was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary 
shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing need. 
 
Miss A was quite often provided with a new loan within days of settling a previous 
one. Loan six was taken the same day loan one was repaid, loan seven was taken 
the day after loan six was repaid and loan eight was taken on the same day that loan 
four was repaid, as examples. Again, this suggests to me that Miss A was juggling 
her finances and was becoming reliant upon short-term lending to make ends meet.
 
Miss A wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Sunny. Loan nine 
was taken out six months after Miss As first. And it was for a larger amount. Miss A had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Sunny over an 
extended period.
 
I think that Miss A lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan seven 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss As indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time.
 
the number of loans which Miss A borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Miss As ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
 
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans four to nine and Sunny should put things right.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do 
I understand loans seven and eight have been written off, but if the outstanding balance due 
on these loans has been transferred to a third party Sunny should buy the loans back if it 
can. If Sunny cant buy the loans back, then it needs to work with the third party to make 
sure the following is achieved: 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Miss A towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss A which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss A originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding loans, 
and treat any repayments made by Miss A as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on all outstanding loans. 
If this results in Miss A having made overpayments then Sunny should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
Sunny should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus, 
then the surplus should be paid to Miss A. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Sunny should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss A. 
E) Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss As credit file in relation to loans four 
to six. 
The number of loans taken from loan seven onwards means any information recorded about 
them is adverse. So, all entries about loans seven to nine should be removed from Miss As 
credit file. Sunny does not have to remove loans seven and eight from Miss As credit file 
until these have been repaid, but any adverse information recorded about these loans should still be removed.                                                                                                              
               
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If after doing the above Miss A still has an outstanding balance due, then Sunny should try 
and work together to come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan with Miss A in order to 
repay what is owed. But Id remind Sunny of its obligation to treat Miss A fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss As complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman