DRN-2468719
The complaint
Mr V complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called Provident 
Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma. Mr V says he was lent to irresponsibly and the 
loans caused him financial problems.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Satsuma.
What happened
We now know that Mr V took out 4 loans from Satsuma between October 2017 and March 
2018. Ive enclosed a summary of Mr Vs borrowing with Satsuma, based on the information 
it provided to us: 
Loan Date Taken 
OutDate Repaid Type of Loan Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 06/10/2017 10/01/2018 Payday £200 £98.40
2 28/11/2017 10/01/2018 Instalment £200 £63.20
3 29/01/2018 28/04/2018 Payday £300 £147.60
4 12/03/2018 27/03/2019 Instalment £1,210 £200.86
One of our adjudicators recently re-looked into the complaint and said they thought it should 
be upheld in respect of loan number 4 only. Satsuma didnt agree so Ive been asked to 
make an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr Vs complaint.
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
V could repay all the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Satsuma should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr V could sustainably repay the loans; not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr V could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Satsuma told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend 
to Mr V including assessing his income and expenditure. It says that this information showed 
he would be able to make the loan repayments he was committing to. 
Having looked carefully over all the evidence we have, I dont think its clear enough that 
what Satsuma would have seen, from its checks, would have suggested loan numbers 1-3 
were either unaffordable for Mr V or that the information from the checks it carried out 
undermined the income / outgoings Mr V had himself declared. For these first 3 loans 
proportionate checks would have probably been at the less detailed end of the spectrum and 
I think Satsuma was entitled to rely on what it was being told, together with checks that 
would have exposed some, but certainly not all of Mr Vs financial profile. 
He had declared his income (after tax) as £2,200 per month and given the amounts he was 
asking to borrow were originally quite moderate, I think loans 1-3 would have looked 
sustainable. Im therefore not upholding the complaint in respect of loans 1-3.
However, I think from the point of loan number 4, the situation was different. Whilst he was 
still in a situation where the lending relationship was at relatively early stage, loan 4 was 
applied for whilst loan 3 was still outstanding, and importantly, it was for a much higher 
amount. 
I think any reasonable assessment of this situation ought to have caused a more 
comprehensive look at Mr Vs ability to pay, mainly because the monthly payments had 
increased substantially from the first loans and the repayment schedule also kept him 
indebted for a considerably longer period. And, if Satsuma had looked into Mr Vs financial 
affairs, even to a modest degree, it would have easily seen he was in financial difficulties; he 
was having trouble managing money, regularly using on-line gambling sites and borrowing 
elsewhere.
I therefore uphold the complaint about loan 4 for these reasons. Satsumas lending in this 
regard was irresponsible.
Putting things rightIn order to put things right for Mr V, Satsuma should:
refund all interest and charges Mr V paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
paid to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Vs credit file in relation to loan 4;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr V a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr Vs complaint and direct Provident Personal Credit Limited to put things 
right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman