DRN-2044357
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M have complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them a
packaged bank account, called a Plus account.
Mrs M and Mr M paid a monthly fee for the Plus account and received several potential 
benefits in return. They think that HSBC should refund them all the fees they paid. 
What happened
Mrs M and Mr M have been customers of HSBC for quite a long time. I understand that 
before HSBC sold them the Plus account, they had held one of its fee-free accounts for well 
over ten years. HSBC then sold them the Plus account during late 2007. They kept it until 
late 2012 when they went back to a fee-free account. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mrs M and Mr Ms complaint and didnt think 
that HSBC had mis-sold the Plus account to them. Mrs M and Mr M didnt agree with the 
adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review their case. So, it has come to 
me to make a final decision.
(During 2010, HSBC changed the name of the Plus account to the Advance account. But, for 
simplicity, I have used the single term Plus throughout this decision).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mrs M and Mr Ms
complaint. Ive looked into everything that Mrs M and Mr M and HSBC have told us or sent 
us about the case, and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
In 2007, HSBC, along with other banks, was allowed to sell packaged bank accounts in two
ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an information-only (or non-advised)
basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. In both situations, as well as giving Mrs M
and Mr M a choice, I would have expected HSBC to tell them about the Plus accounts costs
and benefits clearly; and in an advised sale I would also have expected it to check if the
account was a reasonable match for their needs and financial situation. 
HSBC has told us that it didnt recommend the account to Mrs M and Mr M, but sold it on an
information-only basis. Mrs M and Mr M have given us a few more details. Theyve told us 
that HSBC sold them the account during a meeting when Mr M went into one of HSBCs 
branches on other business. Theyve said that HSBC advised them to buy the Plus account 
and that it almost bullied them into taking it.
Its now over a decade since HSBC sold the Plus account to Mrs M and Mr M and there are 
no detailed records from the time of the meeting, so I cant tell for certain what happened. 
Instead, I have considered the strength of the evidence that is available to determine what is 
most likely to have occurred.
Im not convinced that HSBC bullied Mrs M and Mr M into buying the Plus account, but from 
what they have told us, I certainly accept that they believed HSBC was recommending that 
they should take it. So, I have considered this complaint to be about an advised sale. 
In 2007, the benefits of the Plus account included worldwide family travel insurance and fee-
free cash withdrawals from some overseas cash machines. HSBC also offered customers
with Plus accounts higher interest rates on some types of saving accounts than it usually 
provided to customers with fee-free accounts. 
I understand that Mrs M and Mr M travelled abroad from time-to-time, both in Europe and 
further afield. And within twelve months of taking the Plus account, they opened a savings 
account. So, it seems to me that they had potential needs for both the travel-related benefits 
of the Plus account and for some of the potential banking benefits. So, I think it was 
reasonable for HSBC to recommend the Plus account to them. I also think its highly likely 
that HSBC told them about these benefits.  After all, it was trying to sell the Plus account to 
them, and it was in its own interest to tell them what they could gain by buying it. 
It also seems highly likely that HSBC told Mrs M and Mr M about the cost of the Plus 
account, as the fees would appear on their bank statements and I doubt that HSBC tried to 
hide them. Indeed, there doesnt seem to be any dispute about this. And as Mrs M and Mr M 
had held a fee-free account for many years, I think that HSBC probably gave them the 
choice to keep it. 
Mrs M and Mr M have told us that despite having the Plus account they continued to 
purchase separate travel insurance for each holiday they went on as a one off. Theyve 
also told us that a neighbour told them that the insurance policy that came with the Plus 
account wasnt worth the paper it was written on. 
I wont comment on the neighbours opinion of the travel policy, but I have looked at its main 
limitations and exclusions and I havent seen anything which adversely affected Mrs M or Mr 
M. And as Im satisfied that HSBC told them about the policy and gave them a choice about 
buying the Plus account, I cant hold it responsible for their decision to buy additional one-
off cover. 
Mrs M and Mr M have also told us that HSBC mis-led them that buying the Plus account 
would improve their credit score. Theyve said that the reason HSBC recommended it to 
them was to increase (their) credit rating and that it told them that the Plus account would 
get rid of (a) poor credit rating. They believe this to have been wrong and that taking he Plus 
account didnt improve their score.
Firstly, I would like to confirm that Mrs M and Mr Ms current belief is correct. I think its 
extremely unlikely that changing from a fee-free account to the Plus account would have 
improved their credit score. In recent correspondence with us, HSBC has said pretty much 
the same thing. It has said that an individuals credit score is linked to the maintenance and 
servicing of the financial product/s they hold and is not linked to a specific type of account. 
However, the crux of this part of Mrs M and Mr Ms complaint is that they believe that back in 
2007, HSBC told them the opposite and that if it hadnt, they wouldnt have bought the Plus 
account. 
Obviously, I cant tell why for sure what HSBC said, or didnt say, in 2007. But Mrs M and Mr 
M have told us that through no fault of their own their credit rating at the time was poor and 
they wanted to improve it; so, Im satisfied that it was discussed during the meeting. I think its highly likely that HSBC told them that they could improve their score by maintaining and 
servicing an account well, but I doubt that it told them they needed to buy the Plus account 
to do this. I fully accept that Mrs M and Mr M may now remember things differently and have 
done their honest best to tell us what they recall happening, but a very long time has passed 
since the meeting and I dont think that HSBC misled them in the way they have described. 
So, in summary, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for HSBC to recommend the Plus
account to Mrs M and Mr M, and I think it probably told them about the accounts benefits.
They seem to have known about the costs and to have been aware they had a choice. So, I 
dont think that HSBC mis-sold the Plus account to Mrs M and Mr M.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mrs M and Mr M s complaint about
HSBC UK Bank Pic. I am not going to tell it to give them any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 March 2021.  
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman