DRN-3559574
The complaint
Miss P complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua have irresponsibly lent to her.
Miss P is represented by a claims management company in bringing this complaint. But for
ease of reading, Ill refer to any submission and comments they have made as being made
by Miss P herself.
What happened
Miss P applied for a NewDay branded credit card in January 2020. She was accepted for the
credit card and was approved for a £1,200 credit limit. Miss P complained to NewDay and
she said they irresponsibly lent to her.
NewDay did not uphold her complaint. They said they considered the data she provided
them on her application, that she was self employed, earning £24,000 gross per annum,
other household income of £19,800, she had unsecured debt of £2,600 and she was 
cohabiting.
They also said they looked at external information available to them which showed
Miss P had two defaults, with the last one occurring 51 months prior to her application. The
total value of the defaults was £2,700.
The data also showed she had a County Court Judgement (CCJ), which occurred 17 months
before her application with a value of £700. But she also had no payday loans, no accounts
in arrears, eight active accounts and four searches on her credit file.
Miss P brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld her complaint. He said
that the lending was unaffordable for Miss P and that she had previously missed payments.
He concluded that the checks NewDay carried out were not proportionate so he said
NewDay should refund the fees and charges Miss P had incurred and use this to reduce any
outstanding balance. He said if this creates a positive balance then this amount should be
paid back to Miss P, with 8% simple interest added and any adverse information should be
removed from her credit file.
NewDay asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. They said that Miss P had no
accounts in arrears and had no payment arrangements or debt management programs.
They said the presence of external balances doesnt mean that a consumer wouldnt be
accepted for credit.
NewDay said that while she incurred two late payment fees in the first 12 months of the
account being opened, she made consistent payments and these were often in excess of
her monthly minimum payment. NewDay also said that it could not be inferred from the data
available at the time of her account opening that she would have subsequent financial
difficulties - and these appeared to have manifested quite some time afterwards.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to approve the credit limit for Miss P, NewDay needed to make
proportionate checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable for her.
Theres no prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I expect
lenders to consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the
borrower's income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as
the consumer's personal circumstances.
Ive looked at what checks NewDay said they did prior to accepting Miss Ps application.
They said at the time of applying for the credit card, they considered the information that
Miss P had given them, such as her being self employed, earning £24,000 a year and they
looked at external data available to them. NewDay said that the data showed she was not in
arrears at the time of the application on any of her accounts.
So Ive considered if the checks that NewDay carried out were proportionate to the level of
credit that Miss P was given. And despite Miss P being approved for a relatively modest
credit limit, compared to her gross annual income, Im persuaded there are other factors
which should have persuaded NewDay to make further checks and Ill explain why below.
The application data shows a null value for the time that she had been self employed. So
this could indicate that Miss P had just become self employed and as such she may have
additional start-up costs or may not initially have the income to meet any additional
outgoings (including new credit card repayments). In addition, NewDays data showed that
Miss P had a CCJ for a considerably lower amount (£700) than her approved credit limit
(£1,200), only 17 months ago, which was fairly recent. This could indicate that Miss P may
not be able to afford or sustain a £1,200 credit limit since she couldnt sustain £700
previously. Im persuaded these factors should have prompted NewDay to make further
checks.
So, I would have expected NewDay, as part of a proportionate check, to ask for further
information from Miss P to ensure that a £1,200 credit limit would be affordable and
sustainable for her. They could have done this by contacting Miss P to discuss her personal
circumstances at the time, or they could have asked for information about her income and
outgoings, such as requesting her recent bank statements, to see whether the credit limit
would be sustainable and affordable for Miss P.
So I asked Miss P how long she had been self employed for when she applied for the
NewDay card and if she could provide her bank statements for the time period before her
NewDay credit card application was accepted, as Im persuaded this is something that
NewDay could have done as part of a proportionate check to see if the NewDay credit card
would be affordable for her and to ensure she could make payments in a sustainable
manner based on the reasons Ive already mentioned. But Miss P did not respond to any
requests to provide me with this information.
So on the face of it, it does look like NewDay shouldve looked more closely into these
issues. But as my role is impartial, that means I have to be fair to both sides and although
Im satisfied that NewDay shouldve done more checks here  I cant say whether that
wouldve revealed further information which means they wouldnt have lent. As Miss P hasnt
provided me with the information I asked for, that means that it wouldnt be fair for me to say
that NewDay shouldnt have lent here, because I dont know what further checks would
reveal. So it follows I do not intend to ask NewDay to do anything further.I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Neither party responded with any further information for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman