DRN-4096548
The complaint
Ms L complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax says it wont fully refund the 
money she lost when she was the victim of a scam in 2021.
Ms L brings her complaint with the aid of professional representation, but for clarity in what 
follows I will refer throughout just to Ms L.
What happened
I should firstly note tha in the submissions made to this service, not all of the facts are 
consistent throughout. Therefore, in what follows, I have set out what appears to be the 
sequence of events as best as can be established given the evidence available to me.
Ms L met someone on a dating site, who Ill refer to as M. While she hadnt met M in person, 
shed messaged him for a period of around three months. M told her hed travelled to 
eastern Europe to buy gold and gemstones for his work as a jeweller. Hed had trouble 
getting these items shipped back to the UK and said his bank had frozen payments from his 
account. He asked Ms L to help. 
Payment one
M first asked Ms L to make a payment of £40,000  supposedly to a shipping company. 
Ms L attempted to send this by international transfer to a US company, making the payment 
on 14 September 2021 from her Halifax account using online banking. Halifax declined to 
make the payment and called Ms L to discuss it. She was told the bank was concerned 
about the risk of fraud. Ms L was questioned about the reasons for the payment.
During the call, Ms L told Halifax she was trying to help out a family member. She said this 
was her son, and hed asked her to make the payment to help with his business in the US. 
She insisted she was happy to make the payment.  
Halifax asked further questions and discussed the risks of various types of scams and the 
risk of losing her money. Ultimately, Halifax said Ms L would need to attend a branch in 
person if she wanted to make the payment. She was told at this point that if shed been 
given another reason for the payment, she should be honest about this with the bank 
because it was trying to protect her.
Ms L later updated M about what had happened. M asked her what she planned to say to 
the bank about the payment when she went to the branch, and Ms L explained about the 
cover story shed already used. Before Ms L visited the branch, she asked M to tell her his 
full name and home address, believing this would be an extra check.
Ms L visited a branch the following day, and it appears she stuck to the same story about the 
purpose of the payment. While the evidence of exactly what was discussed in the branch is 
limited, Ms L says it took nearly 30 minutes for the payment to be processed, and in chat 
messages with M says I am not sure about this. They are going through the dating scam 
thing.
Ms L then appears to have identified that M was not on the electoral roll at the address he 
claimed was his home, and the real property didnt at all correspond with the pictures M had 
previously shared. 
She reported the matter to Halifax that evening as a scam. 
Payment two
Ms L nevertheless remained in contact with M. About a week later, M said there had been a 
problem with the shipment and more money was needed. She was asked to send a further 
£15,000 to the international payee, Ms M made this payment online on 21 September.
Payment three
M then said hed been stopped at customs with some gold bars in his hand luggage. On 
29 September, Ms L attempted to send a further £12,000. This time the payment was 
intended for a personal account in the UK, which Ms L was told was Ms solicitor. Halifax 
blocked the payment and again contacted her to discuss it.
During this call, Halifax told her they wouldnt process the payment. She was told that she 
was being scammed. Ms L accepted this, and the payment ultimately wasnt sent. Ms L told 
Halifaxs agent about the previous payment. However, once again her funds couldnt be 
recovered.
After another week, M asked for yet more money. Ms L didnt want to send any more. She 
told M that too many things hed said didnt appear to be true. She thought she was being 
scammed. Her friends had told her to be careful of M.
M sent Ms L a screenshot appearing to show a bank balance of over £15 million as proof he 
could repay her. Ms L then agreed to make another payment.
She first attempted to make a £10,000 bank transfer online, but the payment was blocked by 
Halifax. Ms L then visited another Halifax branch location later the same day. This time, Ms L 
told the branch staff that the payment was going to her stepdaughter to pay her rent. She 
used the payment reference Mum. The staff accepted Ms Ls story and the payment was 
sent.
However, again Ms L began to realise shed been scammed. She called Halifax to report the 
payment on 22 September. 
Halifaxs subsequent steps
Halifax was ultimately able to recover part of the funds Ms L had sent. In total this amounted 
to £8,408.64. But Ms L was left significantly out of pocket.
Halifax considered whether it ought to refund Ms L for the remaining loss. Halifax is a 
signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM 
Code) which provides additional protection to scam victims against the impact of authorized 
push payment scams. The CRM Code doesnt apply to international payments such as the 
first and second payments made here. But it would apply to the third payment Ms L had 
sent.
Halifax therefore considered the third payment under the CRM Code. It didnt think Ms L had 
taken sufficient care to check who she was paying and what for. So it wasnt obliged to 
reimburse her in full. But accepting a share of the responsibility refunded Ms L 50% of that third payment (repaying her the sum of £5,000).
While the CRM Code didnt apply to payments one and two, Halifax still considered whether 
it might be responsible. Halifax didnt accept it was at fault for payment one and didnt think it 
could reasonably have prevented that loss. It did not reimburse Ms L for this payment.
However, the bank said it could have done more to protect Ms L when she was making 
payment two and said it would share equal responsibility for the loss. It refunded 50% of the 
value of that payment (repaying her the sum of £7,500).
In total, Halifax refunded £12,500. Taken together with the recovered sum of £8,408.64 this 
meant Ms L received back £20,908.64. But this left a loss of just over £44,000.
Ms L asked our service to look into the matter. Our Investigator thought Halifax had treated 
Ms L fairly, and in line with the CRM Code where the code was applicable. She didnt think 
there were any other reasons she could fairly ask Halifax to pay Ms L more than the bank 
already had. She thought Halifax couldnt have prevented Ms L from making payment one. 
For later payments, while Ms L had already realised this was a scam, she had continued to 
send money  so the Investigator thought it was fair that liability should be shared equally.
Ms L didnt accept the Investigators findings. She said that Halifax should have questioned 
her further when she was making payment one in branch. And she argued that she had 
acted reasonably in making payments two and three so no reduction should be applied to 
the refunds Halifax had given  she should be fully reimbursed.
The investigator sympathised, but thought the outcome remained fair. 
In light of this disagreement, I have been asked to review everything afresh and reach a final 
decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. Where clear or unambiguous evidence is unavailable, I am required to reach my 
findings on a balance of probabilities  in other words based on what I find most likely given 
the information and circumstances before me.
Having done so I have reached the same outcome as that of our Investigator and for broadly 
similar reasons.
Firstly, Halifax has a primary obligation to carry out the correctly authorised payment 
instructions its customers give it. As a starting point, a customer will therefore assumed 
liable for a payment they have instructed to be made. 
There is no dispute that Ms L authorised these payments, albeit having been deceived by a 
scammer into doing so. So, on the face of it she is liable for the resultant losses.
As Ive mentioned above, the CRM Code can provide additional protection for the victims of 
APP scams such as this was. Im satisfied that the CRM Code applies to payment three.However, the first two payments were international payments. The CRM Code doesnt cover 
international transfers so I cannot fairly apply the terms of the Code to those two payments.
In what follows, Ill consider each payment in turn.
Payment one - not covered by the CRM Code
The first payment was an international payment, and as such the CRM Code does not apply.
Nevertheless, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, Id expect Halifax to have 
been on the lookout for unusual or out of character transactions and intervening in the event 
it had concerns a payment might result in financial harm through fraud or scam.
I have listened to the relevant call recordings and considered the evidence provided by both 
sides about the circumstances leading up to this payment being made. 
Based on what Ive seen, I am satisfied that Halifax took substantive steps to protect Ms L. It 
initially blocked her attempt to make the payment online. Having done so, it then discussed 
the payment with Ms L. Unfortunately, Ms L provided the bank with a false story. It doesnt 
appear Halifax accepted Ms Ls explanation at face value, and she was directed to a branch 
if she wanted to proceed. 
Im satisfied that there was likely a lengthy conversation between Halifax and Ms L when she 
visited the branch (as reflected in her messages to the scammer). She says in those 
messages that the bank had specifically warned her about romance scams. Reading those 
chat message indicates that the scammer had prepared Ms L for the questions shed be 
asked in the branch, with the intent of preventing Halifax from being able to protect her from 
making the payment.
Of course, I cant know exactly what was discussed when Ms L visited the branch. But on 
balance I dont think Halifax could have prevented her from making this payment. I think she 
likely was questioned at some length by the branch staff but had prepared a thorough story 
with the assistance of the scammer. On the evidence I have, I therefore think it unlikely there 
would have been enough for the bank to reasonably have triggered the final stage of the 
banking protocol process. And in any event, I cannot ignore the fact that even after the scam 
first came to light, Ms L made further payments. I cant rule out the likelihood shed have 
insisted on making payment one. The evidence doesnt lead me to find a causative failure on 
Halifaxs part.
Overall, while I have carefully considered the arguments raised by Ms L, I dont think the 
bank could reasonably have prevented payment one from being made. When the scam was 
later identified, it appears Halifax took steps to recover the funds, although being an 
international payment there was limited scope to do so. 
In short, I cant reasonably find Halifax was at fault in relation to this payment. That means I 
do not find the bank needs to accept liability for the resultant loss. 
Payment two - not covered by the CRM Code
As with the first payment, payment two was international, and so the CRM Code is not 
applicable.
However, for this payment, Halifax accepts a share of the blame, and has refunded 50% of 
the amount Ms L lost. As the bank has already accepted fault here, I have not considered 
that point further. But I have given thought to whether it is fair that Halifax should apply a 
reduction of 50% in respect of contributory negligence on Ms Ls part.By this point, Ms L had been alerted by the bank that this was almost certainly a scam. And 
looking at the message history between her and the scammer, I think shed realised this 
herself. I dont consider it was reasonable to have proceeded to make a further payment in 
this situation. All considered, I find it fair and reasonable that Halifax and Ms L should share 
the loss resulting from payment two equally.
Payment three - payment covered by the CRM Code
As with payment two, Halifax has accepted it was at fault in relation to the third payment 
Ms L made to the scammer. Unlike payment two, this was a domestic transfer, and so the 
CRM Code is applicable.
While the CRM Code offers additional protection to the victims of an APP scam, it includes 
provisions allowing a firm not to fully refund APP scam losses in some situations.
Relevant here, this includes an exception to full reimbursement where the customer made a 
payment without a reasonable basis for believing that they were paying for genuine goods or 
services, dealing with a legitimate person or business, or paying the person they believed 
they were paying.
Halifax says this exception applies here. It says Ms L made the third payment without 
holding a reasonable basis for believing what she did.
I have considered whether Halifax has acted fairly in seeking to rely on that exception.
Ive carefully considered the evidence and arguments Ms L makes on this point. But I do not 
find it was reasonable even in the circumstances she was in to have made this final 
payment. I dont consider she had a reasonable basis for believing this payment was for a 
genuine purpose. I think this for broadly similar reasons to those I have explained in relation 
to payment two.
So, I find Halifax is entitled to rely on this exception to full reimbursement under the terms of 
the CRM Code in relation to this final payment.
As the bank has accepted it was at fault, and as it has established an exception to full 
reimbursement can be applied, the CRM Code says Halifax should refund Ms L 50% of her 
loss. The bank has already done so. Therefore I do not require Halifax to take any further 
steps here, it has reimbursed Ms L in line with the provisions of the CRM Code.
Overall
In saying this, I recognise that Ms L has been the victim of a crime here. She has been 
cynically exploited by a scammer, and I dont underestimate the impact these events will 
have had on her. Fraud is a horrendous crime, and romance scams in particular are 
especially cruel in nature. 
But my natural sympathy for Ms L isnt a reasonable justification for holding Halifax 
responsible for everything that happened here. The primary cause of these events were the 
actions of the scammer. Having carefully weighed the evidence before me, I have reached 
my conclusions based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances. I do not find Halifax needs to do more than it has already done - I dont 
consider I can fairly require the bank to refund Ms L by more than the amount it has already 
repaid to her. My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Ms Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman