DRN-4379101
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with how esure Insurance Limited have handled collection of a Direct Debit
payment for a loan taken out to pay for his motor insurance policy.
What happened
I issued my provisional findings to both parties setting out why I thought Mr As complaint 
should be upheld and invited both parties to provide any further submissions in reply to my 
provisional decision. 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision together with my 
provisional findings. The background and my provisional findings are copied below and now 
form part of this final decision. 
Background 
Mr A arranged a motor insurance policy with esure, which started on 12 June 2022.
To pay for the insurance Mr A entered into a credit agreement with esure Insurance Limited.
The agreement began on 12 June 2022, and the total payable for the insurance premium
and credit was £725.66 over 12 months. The monthly payment of £60.44 (after the initial
payment of £60.82) was due on the 12th day of each consecutive month.
On 12 December 2022 Mr A received a letter from esure which said the payment for
December had not been made. esure said Mr A had breached the terms of the credit
agreement, and said payment of £60.44 needed to be made before 14 January 2023. They
also said an attempt would be made to collect the amount from Mr As bank on or after 3
January 2023.
Amongst other things, the letter also set out that if the payment was not made, then the
credit agreement would be terminated and full repayment demanded up to the date of
termination (including any fees). It also said Mr As insurance policy would cease to exist.
Lastly, the letter said Mr As account could be referred to a debt collector, and that a default
could be applied.
Mr A raised a complaint with esure, and they responded on 21 January 2023 and again on 3
February 2023 to say they had done nothing wrong.
esure said their systems showed they had applied for Mr As payment on the 9th of the
month as usual, but the request was unsuccessful because Mr As bank had rejected the
payment. esure reapplied for the payment again on 31 December 2022, and it was
successfully received on 3 January 2023. Januarys payment was successfully applied for
and paid on 12 January 2023.
As Mr A was unable to reach an agreement with esure, he brought his concerns to our
Service. Our Investigator reviewed Mr As complaint and did not uphold it, mainly because
esures internal screenshots showed the payment request had been made on 9 December
2022 as usual, and that it had been declined due to a problem with the payer. So on
balance, the Investigator didnt find that esure had done anything wrong.
Mr A disagreed, primarily as he had obtained information from his bank to say that the only
request for a December payment from esure had been received on 20 December 2022. Mr A
therefore maintained that it was esure at fault for what had happened.
A separate complaint was set up against Mr As bank, and through that investigation further
information was obtained which challenged esures system reports. In light of this our
Investigator therefore asked esure to review their position again.
On 18 April 2023 esure responded to our Investigator to say they had escalated the matter
internally to their platform engineers and it came to light that due to a processing issue with a
third party, esure did not apply for Mr As December 2022 payment until 19 December 2022.
esure explained because the error was with the third party, esures own system had not
updated to reflect this. esure therefore offered Mr A £150 to compensate for the
inconvenience caused.
esures offer was put to Mr A, but for a number of reasons he did not accept it.
In the circumstances, our Investigator thought esures offer was fair and as Mr A did not
accept this, the matter has come to me to decide.
Provisional findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all the available submissions, it seems to me that as esure have accepted
the error with the payment was due to issues with their third party  and therefore not the
fault of either Mr A or his bank  the matter that is now left for me to decide is whether, in the
circumstances, esures offer of £150 is fair and reasonable to recognise the trouble this has
caused Mr A.
Mr A says the amount offered is not fair for a number of reasons, which I have addressed
below where appropriate.
Before I set out my findings on this matter, given some of the points Mr A has raised in
connection with there being a breach of contract and these events potentially affecting other
customers, I think it may help to explain the scope this Service has when looking at
complaints.
This Service is an alternative to the courts, so it is not for me to decide if a law has been
breached. This Service is also not the regulator, so it is not for me to decide if a firm should
be punished or fined, nor is it for me to interfere with a firms systems, processes or controls.
Or address any wider practices of the firm. These are matters for the regulators
consideration.
The role of this Service is to decide what is a fair and reasonable resolution in the
circumstances of the individual complaint. So, in the circumstances of this complaint, is £150
fair and reasonable to reflect the impact this matter has had on Mr A?
Having reviewed all the available evidence and submissions I am minded to increase this
amount to £250. Ill explain why.It is accepted that the fault of Mr As payment not being collected when it should have been
 and when funds were available in Mr As account  lies with esure and their agent.
However, to discover where the error had occurred took four months and Mr A approaching
various parties to get to the bottom of this matter. It is disappointing that it now appears
further enquiries on esures part would more likely than not have resolved this sooner. So I
think Mr A was put to added inconvenience in having to sort this out.
Ive considered Mr As suggestion that esure falsely presented their initial screenshots
showing the dates they requested the payment. This is a serious allegation. On balance
though, there is nothing to suggest that they have more likely than not done this. As esure
have explained, the problem occurred due to a processing problem with a third-party they
use as their agent to facilitate the payment request. So I can see how, initially, esure
concluded they had not done anything wrong. As Ive mentioned though, I think it would
have been reasonable for esure to further explore the problem given Mr As submissions and
what he had been told by his bank, which couldve resolved things sooner.
Mr A said his financial standing was affected due to there being a record of the missed
payment on his credit file; however, Mr A has more recently confirmed that there is nothing
on his credit file and esures submissions are also that they never reported anything to the
credit reference agencies. So I dont think Mr A was impacted by these events in respect of
his credit file.
Mr A also mentioned to esure a potential impact on him being able to get to work and that he
would have to borrow money from his partner for petrol and to cover his payment because it
wasnt taken when it was supposed to be. Im aware from Mr As insurance documents that
he did not have cover for commuting at the time, so I dont think it would be reasonable to
say this impacted Mr A. And while Ive also considered Mr As points that he would have had
to borrow money, Im also mindful that the money earmarked for the esure payment had not
been taken so, while I note Mr A may have thought it had been collected, arguably that
money would still have been in Mr As account and he had benefit of this.
I understand much of Mr As submissions are that esure breached the contract with him for
not requesting the payment when they had agreed to do so. Mr A also said that esure then
took the December payment in January when he had asked them not to, as hed said he
would need to borrow funds and it would affect him financially.
As Ive already said, Im unable to determine if a breach of contract has occurred  that
would be for the courts to decide. But in terms of what is fair and reasonable here, I would
say that esure did fail to collect the payment on the agreed date, but I would also note that
Mr A did have a responsibility to make his monthly payments to ensure his motor insurance
was still in place, so in the circumstances I dont think it was unreasonable for esure to have
re-requested the payment.
Mr A also hinted to our Service that esure should be held accountable for the cost of his
banks case fee to this Service for the complaint he had to raise about his own bank. While I
understand Mr As comment most likely stems from his frustrations with esure, I am only
looking at what has happened between Mr A and esure, and Mr A cannot bring a complaint
on behalf of his bank.
Overall, Im minded to say that £250 is a fair and reasonable sum for esure to pay Mr A in
recognition of the time and effort, and upset this has caused Mr A. The fault with claiming the
payment was not Mr As, and he had the required money available in his account at the time
it was expected to be taken. I consider compensation of this amount is fair where the impact
of a mistake (or mistakes) has caused considerable distress, upset and worry and/orsignificant inconvenience and disruption. I think this describes Mr As experience as a result
of esures errors.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr A replied to my provisional decision to say he accepted my provisional findings. 
esure also replied to my provisional decision to confirm they accepted it and would pay the 
£250 proposed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of both parties accepting my provisional decision, I see no reason to alter the 
conclusions set out in my provisional findings above. The error with Mr As direct debit was 
not the fault of Mr A or his bank, but rather something that went wrong with esures 
processing. In the circumstances I think £250 is a fair sum for esure to pay Mr A to reflect 
the trouble and impact this matter has caused Mr A.   
Putting things right
To put things right esure Insurance Limited should pay Mr A £250. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Mr As complaint is upheld and esure 
Insurance Limited should put things right as Ive described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman