DRN-2820669
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard unfairly recorded a 
default in respect of his credit card account.
What happened
Mr P held a credit card account with Barclaycard and had been making his monthly 
repayments in line with the account terms and conditions via direct debit. 
But in late 2019 Mr Ps monthly direct debit payments were returned unpaid. As Mr Ps 
account remained in arrears, Barclaycard ultimately defaulted his account in June 2020 and 
provided this information to the credit reference agencies (CRA).
Mr P says that he was unaware that the direct debits had been returned unpaid and that 
Barclaycard didnt do enough to let him know the status of his account and the action it 
intended to take. He says he tried to call Barclaycard both before and after receiving the 
default notice, but he was unable to get through due to the Covid-19 pandemic. He also says 
that Barclaycard shouldnt have cancelled his direct debit instruction. So, he complained to 
Barclaycard.
Barclaycard didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said that after a series of missed 
payments it defaulted Mr Ps account in line with his account terms and conditions. It says 
that it tried to contact Mr P in a variety of ways to inform him of the situation. And that it is 
required to report information about the conduct of the account to the CRA. It added that the 
direct debit was cancelled to ensure Mr P didnt incur any further unpaid charges. So, it 
didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint.  
Unhappy with Barclaycards response, Mr P referred his complaint to us. Our investigator 
didnt think Barclaycard had done anything wrong. She noted that Barclaycards records 
showed that it had tried to contact Mr P using a variety of communication methods before 
defaulting his account and that Mr Ps statements clearly set out the status of his account 
and that the direct debit had been cancelled.
Mr P didnt accept this outcome. So, the complaint has come to me for a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as our investigator. In order to 
uphold this complaint, I need to be satisfied that Barclaycard had done something wrong, but 
I dont think it did. I know Mr P will be disappointed with my decision, so Ill explain why.
Mr Ps statements show that in late 2019 payments to his credit card failed. I can see that 
the statements made clear the current position, the charges incurred and what Mr P need to 
do to get the account back on track to avoid any further consequences. Ive also seen that 
subsequent statements included further information confirming the direct debit instruction 
had been cancelled and warning such as:
Failure to make the payment requested could result in the issue of a Default Notice under 
section 87(1) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and / or a reduction in your credit limit.
Ive also seen that, in additional to sending this information within Mr Ps monthly 
statements, Barclaycard was also writing to him under separate cover. So, I think 
Barclaycard did enough to initially inform Mr P that payments had been missed and the 
potential consequences of not bringing his account up to date. I also think it was reasonable 
that the direct debit was cancelled in order to avoid Mr P incurring more charges  
particularly as this was also confirmed on the statements and there was additional 
information setting out other ways Mr P could make his payments.  
Mr P has suggested that Barclaycard should have contacted him by other means rather than 
just relying on the post. But Barclaycard has provided its records which indicate that not only 
did it send monthly statements and separate letters, it also tried to contact Mr P by phone, 
email and text message on several occasions. Unfortunately, Barclaycards records dont 
show any record of Mr P calling back in response to these communications. Taking account 
of all of this, I am satisfied that Barclaycard made reasonable efforts to contact Mr P using a 
variety of communication methods and, I think that the number of calls and correspondence 
sent shouldve made it clear to him that it was important for him to speak to Barclaycard
As Barclaycard had been unable to discuss the account with Mr P for around six months, it 
sent correspondence in May 2020 which gave notice of its intention to default his account in 
June 2020. And as no further payment was made, the formal default notice was sent on     
26 June 2020. Given Mr Ps statements show that no payments were made to his account 
for around six months, I dont think Barclaycard did anything wrong by defaulting Mr Ps 
account at this time. These timescales are within the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO) standards for dealing with accounts in arrears. 
I appreciate the default notice may have only been sent by post. But I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Barclaycard to send such formal letters by post in line with its normal 
practice. And, from what Ive seen, Mr P received these letters as I can see that 
Barclaycards records show that Mr P called it in July 2020 to ask for the default to be 
removed. So, it follows that I think Mr P was aware of the action Barclaycard intended to 
take by this time. 
I note Mr P says he tried to call Barclaycard but couldnt get through. Barclaycard hasnt 
disputed that there were issues at the time with call waiting times. This was due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic and the impact on its business operations. Given the wider 
circumstances at the time, I dont think that longer call waiting times were entirely 
unexpected. But Ive seen that Barclaycard made its account holders aware of alternative 
way of contacting it - rather than relying on the phone, on its website.    
I also note that Mr P says he applied on-line for a Covid-19 payment holiday  a relief 
measure brought in by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) due to the pandemic in       
April 2020. But his application was declined. However, as the investigator explained the 
relief measures brought in were intended to support people whose accounts were up to date 
before the pandemic started. But here, by April 2020, Mr Ps account had already been arrears for several months and before the end of 2019. So, I dont think Barclaycard did 
anything wrong when it declined a covid-19 payment holiday.    
Mr P has sent us a copy of a letter he received from another bank which he says reflects a 
different and fairer approach than that taken by Barclaycard. But, having read the letter, I 
note it refers to payment missed between April and June 2020. And as mentioned above,  
Mr Ps account with Barclaycard was in arrears several months before these dates.  
Overall, while I can see that Mr P feels strongly about the default being recorded on his 
credit file as this is now having an impact on him, I dont think Barclaycard did anything 
wrong. Im satisfied that Mr Ps account was in arrears and that Barclaycard did enough to 
make Mr P aware of the situation and what he needed to do to prevent the account 
defaulting. So, Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman