DRN-3205524
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank (YB) didnt 
properly advise them about the alternative payment methods available to them when they 
rang to make a payment to a business that subsequently ceased trading. They also 
complain that it didnt try and recover their money.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W booked a holiday with a company Ill refer to as X. X asked them to pay for 
the accommodation, a cost of £1,100 via bank transfer (BACS).
Mr and Mrs W rang YB, and the payment was processed, with the funds being sent from 
their account to the account nominated by X. But before Mr and Mrs W went on their holiday 
X went out of business. They tried to contact X with no luck, so Mr and Mrs W rang YB to 
ask for its help.
But they were transferred several times through different departments, and were eventually 
told by YB that it couldnt help to get their money refunded as the payment was made by 
BACS, so wasnt protected under the Visa or Mastercard payment protection schemes. 
Mr and Mrs W complained to our service, saying YB had a duty of care to advise them when 
they rang to make a BACS transfer that it wasnt a safe way to pay, and shouldve advised 
them to use a credit or debit card. The complaint was referred to YB to give it an opportunity 
to respond. 
YB looked into the matter, and said it wasnt able to raise a dispute for the cost of the 
holiday, as there were no chargeback rights for payments completed under a bank transfer. 
But it did say the service it provided to Mr and Mrs W when they called for help wasnt good 
enough, as theyd been on the phone for over an hour, and the advisors didnt deal with 
them in a sufficiently professional and empathetic manner. So for this part of the complaint 
YB paid Mr and Mrs W £75 for the distress and inconvenience theyd been caused. 
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with this response. They complained to our investigator that, in 
summary:
YB shouldve made them aware a bank transfer wasnt a safe option to use to pay.
YB shouldve told them of the option to pay by credit card, as the payment would 
then be protected under the chargeback rules.
Our investigator didnt uphold their complaint. She thought a bank transfer was a standard 
method of paying for services, and it wasnt YBs responsibility to tell its customers not to 
use that method if that is what they want to do. She agreed that had the payment been made 
by credit card then they wouldve had the opportunity to raise a dispute, but this wasnt 
guaranteed to be successful. And in any case they didnt have a credit card that they could 
use, so wouldve had to go through an application process for a new card first.
She also thought it likely that YB had probably asked the necessary questions on the phone 
to ensure Mr and Mrs W were comfortable in making the payment via bank transfer, so was 
unable to conclude that YB had made an error in making the payment.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree, so the matter has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to say I have considerable sympathy with Mr and Mrs W and the position they 
have found themselves in. Theyve paid for a holiday theyve not been able to go on. So I 
can fully understand why they feel they should be able to recoup their money. But Im afraid I 
dont think the responsibility for refunding the costs theyve incurred sits with YB. I know Mr 
and Mrs W will be very disappointed by this decision, so Ill explain. 
I think it might be helpful if I explain what a chargeback scheme is, and how it works:
A chargeback is where a consumer disputes a transaction and asks the card provider to 
claim the money back from the bank account of the business that provided, or was due to 
provide, the goods or service. A chargeback isnt a legal right, but is a voluntary scheme 
operated by some card providers, including VISA and Mastercard. And the scheme is 
subject to eligibility rules.
But it is important to note that the transaction that the consumer asks the card provider to
reverse must be made under the card scheme (Visa or Mastercard). In Mr and Mrs Ws 
case, the payment in question wasnt a Visa or Mastercard payment and so isnt afforded the 
protection provided by either of them. So even if YB had raised the chargeback (and Im 
satisfied it couldnt) the card scheme wouldve rejected the request as the payment wasnt 
made through them. So Im satisfied YB did not make an error in not trying to recoup Mr and 
Mrs Ws money.
But the crux of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint is that YB shouldve advised them, when they 
called to make the transfer, to use an alternative method of payment, such as a credit card, 
as this would afford them more protection. But Im afraid I dont agree.
YB is not obliged to advise customers how to make payments. But what it does have, is a 
responsibility to ensure the customer is comfortable with the payment they wish to make, 
and has to exercise due diligence to ensure, as far as it can, the payment is not connected 
to a fraud or scam. And having seen the questions that YB asks its customers before it 
completes the requested transfer, Im satisfied that it has most likely met its obligations in 
this regard. 
So, although I have great sympathy with Mr and Mrs W, I am satisfied that YB has not made 
an error here, and is not responsible for refunding the money they have paid to B, and was 
not obliged to advise Mr and Mrs W to use an alternative method to make their payment.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman