DRN-1864877
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a junior ISA for his child.
What happened
Mr C says he opened a junior ISA account for his child. But later tried to make a withdrawal 
from it that Lloyds told him wasn't possible until his child reached 18 years of age. He says 
the account was mis-sold, and he wasn't told that a parent couldn't make a withdrawal from 
the account. He also says he watched Lloyds video about these accounts before opening 
the account, and there is no mention of an adult not being able to withdraw money from the 
account. Mr C says that is unfair and Lloyds should change its terms and conditions to make 
it clear what the position is.
Lloyds says the video and account terms and conditions make clear that no withdrawals can 
be made from the account until the child reaches 18 years of age. It says Her Majesty's 
Revenue and Customs (HMRC) sets those rules not it.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought the account terms and conditions make clear that no withdrawals can be made from 
the account and thought it likely Mr C was told that when the account was opened as he also 
opened an instant access account at the same time.
Mr C doesn't accept that view and says Lloyds staff agreed with him that the video is not 
clear about an adult not being able to withdraw money from the account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that Lloyds hasn't made a mistake or acted unfairly.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr C would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions say that no withdrawals can be 
made from the account until the child reaches 18. So I'm satisfied that Lloyds hasn't made a 
mistake or acted unfairly by telling Mr C that he couldn't withdraw money from the account 
and has acted inline with the account terms and conditions. I also think those rules are set 
not by Lloyds but by HMRC and that Lloyds has no choice but to follow them.
I appreciate Mr C says that wasn't made clear to him when the account was opened and that 
the video he watched didn't make it clear that a parent couldn't withdraw money. But I'm 
satisfied that there is no mention of a parent being able to withdraw money and that the 
terms and conditions make clear what the position is. And Mr C ought to have read those 
terms and conditions before agreeing to open the account.
Overall I'm satisfied that Lloyds hasn't mis-sold this account and I could not fairly order that it 
allow Mr C to be able to make withdrawals from it, even if I thought Lloyds had made a mistake for the reasons I have explained about HMRC rules.
I can see that Mr C did open an instant access account at the same time the ISA was 
opened which I think on balance suggest that Mr C told Lloyds he wanted an account for 
long term saving and an account for instant access.
I don't think Lloyds terms and conditions or the video it shows are misleading and in any 
event it's not our role to tell Lloyds what its terms and conditions are or what information it 
records in them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman