DRN-3792698
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined to pay 
for alternative accommodation while their home was uninhabitable due to subsidence.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J had home insurance with RSA. In August 2019 they made a claim after 
noticing potential subsidence damage at the property. RSA initially declined the claim as it 
said the subsidence was due to defective foundations. Mr J complained about the decision 
and ultimately brought the complaint to this service. An ombudsman issued a decision in 
January 2021 directing RSA to cover the claim.
During this time Mr J made two other claims on the policy. One for his boiler and another for 
an escape of water under the kitchen floor.
In January 2021 Mr J informed RSA that he had moved out of the property in September 
2020 due to the escape of water and had been living in alternative accommodation since 
that date. RSA declined to cover the cost of the alternative accommodation as it said this 
would only be provided under the policy where the property is uninhabitable and it didnt 
consider it to be in this instance.
 
However Mr J said that the property was without heating and hot water as he was unable to 
get the boiler fixed due to the severity of the cracks on the wall where it was located. He said 
hed called out a number of plumbers but theyd refused to do any work on it due to the 
cracks caused by the subsidence.
In November 2021 RSA sent a gas engineer to inspect the boiler and they agreed the wall it 
was located on had cracked to an extent that made the boiler unserviceable. It therefore 
agreed to pay Mr and Mrs Js alternative accommodation from this date.
However Mr J wasnt happy with this as he said his property had been uninhabitable for 
much longer than this and thought RSA should cover his costs from the date he moved out 
in September 2020. He made a complaint.
RSA didnt uphold his complaint, so he brought it to this service. Our investigator considered 
the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said he didnt think there was 
enough evidence to say the property had been uninhabitable before November 2021 so 
thought RSA had acted fairly by only offering alternative accommodation from this date.
Mr J didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
When the complaint came to me, I disagreed with our investigators outcome and I wrote to
both sides to explain my provisional decision.
In this I said:
RSA had relied on its report from February 2021 to say that Mr Js property was not 
uninhabitable at this point. However having looked at the notes from this report I didnt 
consider it to be very persuasive.
The only comment on the cracks around the boiler were as follows: the cracking did 
not appear to be any worse than the cracking noted within the original technical report. 
Although cracking behind the boiler is noted which looks to be new. The rest of the 
report focused on cracks in other areas of the property. So the report agrees the 
cracking has worsened in this area but makes no further comment or recommendation 
for further investigation. I therefore dont think RSAs report is enough to say that the 
cracks around the boiler werent a hazard at that time.
Further, RSAs visit in November 2021 was made by a gas safe engineer and it was at 
this time that they agreed the property wasnt habitable. RSA has provided no 
information about why a gas safe engineer was only sent in November, and the 
contractor who attended in February was referred to as our local repair manager. It is 
difficult to understand why it was only at this time that a gas engineer was sent out and 
how RSA can be confident that the property only became unsafe at this time when it 
hadnt been checked by an engineer previously.
Based on this, I can conclude that in November 2021 RSA agree that the property is 
unsafe. However I dont think its provided enough evidence to show that it was safe 
before this date. As its contractor agreed cracks had worsened around the boiler in 
February, but did nothing else until November to follow up on this. Had the gas safe 
engineer attended earlier then I may take a different view.
Mr J has provided comment from a number of experts that he says attended during the 
period between February and November 2021. While this evidence has been compiled 
after the event, so I wouldnt usually find it very persuasive, as RSA hasnt provided 
anything to show that it checked the gas safety of the boiler due to the subsidence 
damage, I feel this is the most compelling evidence in the circumstances.
For these reasons I intend to uphold Mr Js complaint. It is difficult to calculate exactly 
when the property became uninhabitable. But I certainly think theres enough to say it 
was some time before RSAs visit in November 2021. As RSA visited in February and 
noted the cracks had worsened at this point, I think it could have done more to ensure 
the property was safe from this date. 
I therefore think this is a fair date to ask RSA to pay alternative accommodation costs 
from. So I intend to require RSA to pay costs from February 2021.
In regards to compensation, I think RSA should have done more to address Mr Js 
concerns when they were raised. And if it had this would have alleviated the additional 
distress and inconvenience he and his wife have experienced. I therefore also intend to 
ask RSA to pay Mr and Mrs J £300 compensation.
Mr J responded to my provisional decision to accept my findings.
RSA responded and didnt accept. It provided comments from its expert explaining that the 
boiler wasnt working before the claim was made and it was only declared unusable in 
November 2021.
Ive considered all representations when reaching my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.RSA has said that the boiler wasnt working before the claim and has provided an email that 
shows this to be the case. I dont dispute that Mr Js boiler was already experiencing issues, 
however this doesnt change my position on the outcome.
The matter Im assessing here is whether RSA has acted fairly by only offering alternative 
accommodation from November 2021. Its said that the policy only covers this when the 
property is uninhabitable. And it considered the property uninhabitable from this date as it 
considered the cracking around the boiler to have been to such an extent that the boiler 
should be condemned.
In my provisional decision I explained why I wasnt persuaded that RSA had done enough to 
show that the property wasnt uninhabitable before this date. And the fact the boiler wasnt 
working before the claim has no bearing on this decision. As RSA agreed the property was 
uninhabitable because of the extent of the cracks on the wall the boiler was attached to that 
made it unsafe to repair. Not just because the boiler wasnt working.
As I said in my provisional findings, it is difficult to pin point the exact date the boiler became 
unsafe. But from RSAs report in February 2021 it seems the cracks had already significantly 
worsened at this point. And as Ive seen no evidence from an engineer to show that the 
boiler was safe at this time, I maintain my position laid out in my provisional decision and 
direct RSA to pay Mr and Mrs J alternative accommodation costs from this date.
I also maintain my position that RSA should pay Mr and Mrs J £300 compensation to make 
up for the distress and inconvenience its caused by not addressing their concerns sooner.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint and require Royal & Sun
Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Reimburse Mr and Mrs J for the alternative accommodation paid from February 2021 
until the property is habitable.
Pay Mr and Mrs J £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman