Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 2001 with a 
store card. 
AXA France IARD (AXA), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale. So to keep 
things simple in my decision Ill just say AXA when Im referring to the PPI seller or to AXA. 
Miss W says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
Background
The policy cost was £1 per £100 Miss W owed on her store card. The policy would have paid 
15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Miss W couldnt work because 
she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ws case. 
I am upholding Miss Ws complaint. Ill explain the reasons why Ive reached this conclusion.
The store card was applied for on 20 October 2001. AXA told us that no advice was given 
and the policy wasnt recommended to Miss W. So, it didnt have to check that the policy 
was right for Miss W. But it did need to give her clear enough information to enable her to 
decide for herself if this cover was right for her.
Its maybe understandable that AXA hasnt been able to provide a copy of the sales scripts 
that the representatives were supposed to follow at that time in which the PPI was sold, 
considering that the sale took place so many years ago. Not that we could be certain any 
such scripts would have been faithfully adhered to in any particular sale. So, I dont know 
what was said to Miss W, or what was supposed to have been said to Miss W. 
So, I havent any evidence to show that Miss W was given clear information about the cost of 
the policy, in real terms. Its possible AXA may have explained the amount she would pay for 
each pound she spent on the card, but I dont know if it explained that interest would be 
charged on those premiums if there was an outstanding balance or that she would need to 
DRN-1712253keep paying the premiums during a claim. So I dont think it is likely Miss W would have 
been made aware of the true cost of the policy in real terms.
I think this would have mattered to Miss W as she has told us that she would have received 
sick pay for between six and twelve months if she was too ill to work. And Miss W also told 
us that she had savings that equated to six to twelve months of her pay. I am aware that the 
benefit of the policy was relatively high. But so was the cost. And given what Miss W has told 
us about her circumstances, I dont think that Miss W would have thought the policy was 
value for money if she had fully understood the costs.
AXA has questioned the size of Miss Ws sick pay arrangements, and the scope and nature 
of Miss Ws savings. But AXA has presented no evidence that calls the information that Miss 
W provided into question. And Miss W shared similar information with AXA when she 
brought her complaint to them initially. And Ive seen no evidence of any searching enquiry 
into the nature of these holdings at the time that AXA investigated the case before issuing its 
final response to Miss W. 
Miss W has not been inconsistent in her testimony. So, in thinking about this matter I have 
also thought about how long ago the sale was (over 18 years ago), and the difficulty that 
Miss W would most likely have faced in providing evidence in support of her testimony. So, 
considering all of this, in my opinion, I have seen insufficient evidence to undermine the 
accuracy of the testimony supplied to both AXA and us by Miss W. 
So, overall, based on what Ive seen and been told, I dont think AXA gave clear enough 
information to Miss W to enable her to decide if the policy was right for her. And, if it had, I 
dont think she would have taken the policy out as I dont think she would have considered it 
value for money. So I think Miss W has lost out as a result of what AXA did wrong.
Putting things right
AXA should put Miss W in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Miss W would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Miss W owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her. 
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss W would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year. 
C. If  when AXA works out what Miss W would have owed each month without PPI  Miss 
W paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Miss W paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Miss W would 
have owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
D. AXA should tell Miss W what its done to work out A, B and C. HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Ws complaint against AXA France IARD and 
require them to pay Miss W compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman