DRN-3780543
The complaint
Mr A has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined a claim for storm 
damage under his home insurance policy.
References to UKI include companies acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr A contacted UKI when he found damage to his roof following a storm. UKI offered Mr A a 
cash settlement for the claim. However, Mr A didnt accept the offer because he wanted UKI 
to do the work. So, UKI sent a surveyor to assess the damage. Following this, UKI declined 
the claim because it said the damage was the result of pre-existing issues.
When Mr A complained, UKI maintained its decision to decline the claim. It said the surveyor 
found the mortar used for the hip tiles wasnt the right mix. Some of the tiles had also 
delaminated. It said the damage wasnt covered by the policy.
So, Mr A complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She said it was 
reasonable for UKI to rely on its surveyors findings that there were pre-existing issues with 
the roof and for it to decline the claim.
As Mr A didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Ive looked at the weather conditions around the time Mr A found the damage. These 
showed windspeeds of up to 64mph. This would be considered storm strength winds. Storm 
strength winds could cause damage to a roof. So, I think the answer to the first two question 
is yes.
So, Ive thought about the third question, which is about whether storm conditions were the 
main cause of the damage. The surveyor looked at the mortar for the hip tiles and said this 
appeared to be a sandy mix or an incorrect mix and wasnt suitable for the roof. The 
surveyor also found some of the roof tiles had delaminated and said this usually happened 
over a period of time through the freeze/ thaw process. Ive also looked at the photos, which 
show the damage to the roof.
I havent seen anything that shows me the surveyors findings were unfair or unreasonable. I 
havent seen any expert evidence provided by Mr A to show the surveyors findings were 
incorrect or that the damage was the result of a storm. Im aware Mr A has queried why the 
surveyor said the hip tiles were replaced about six years ago. Mr A said they were older than 
this. UKI said this is what Mr A told the surveyor. Ive thought about this. Even if there was a 
misunderstanding about how old the hip tiles were, Im not persuaded this shows the 
surveyors findings were wrong. The surveyor found the roof had pre-existing issues. These 
were assessed to be the main cause of the damage, highlighted by the storm. UKI explained 
to Mr A that its terms and conditions said it didnt provide cover for issues such as poor 
workmanship or gradually operating causes. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think it was reasonable for UKI to rely on its surveyors findings 
and for it to decline the claim. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require UKI to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman