DRN-3080908
The complaint
Mr N complains that Santander UK Plc rejected his claim for a refund under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of legal services he paid for to extricate himself from a 
timeshare agreement.
What happened
Mr N had a timeshare he wanted to get rid of. In March 2017 he entered a contract with a 
company which promised to terminate his liability within 12 months or refund his money; 
I will call that company X. He paid £8,154 in two instalments, using his Santander credit 
card, but those payments were made to another company, which I will call Y. It is not in 
dispute that Y then forwarded that money to X. But that, on its own, is not enough to 
establish Santanders liability under section 75 for anything which X did or omitted to do.
X failed to deliver on its promise, and failed to refund Mr Ns money. It entered insolvency in 
May 2018. On discovering this later that year, Mr N asked Santander for a refund, citing 
section 75, on the ground that X was in breach of its contract with him. Santander declined, 
saying that section 75 did not apply. Mr N brought this complaint to our service in March 
2019.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She agreed that X had breached its contract. She 
said that section 75 did apply, because the same individual controlled both X and Y, and that 
meant that X and Y were associates within the meaning of section 184 of the Consumer 
Credit Act (which in turn meant that Santander was liable for a breach of contract by X, even 
though the payment was made to Y). She recommended that Santander refund the £8,154.
Mr N accepted that opinion. Santander did not, and so this case was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed this case, I am not satisfied that section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 makes Santander liable for any breach of contract by X. I will explain why.
Section 75 was not meant to be read on its own. It is supplemented by some other sections 
of the Act which elaborate on what it means. One of these is section 12.
The combined effect of sections 12 and 75 (if they apply) is that if someone uses a credit 
card to pay for a service, the credit card provider may be held equally and jointly liable with 
the supplier of the service for any breach of contract by the supplier, provided that the 
payment was made directly to the supplier. In this case, X contracted to supply legal 
services to Mr N, and Santander provided the credit, but the credit was provided to Y, not X. 
That would normally mean that section 75 would not make Santander liable for what X did or 
failed to do.
However, there is an exception to this general rule. Section 12 is supplemented by section 
187, which says that X can be treated as if it was the supplier if it is an associate of the 
actual supplier, Y. Associate is defined in section 184, which says that two companies are 
associates if the same person is a controller of both. And the controller of a company is 
defined (in section 189) as:
a person
(a) in accordance with whose directions or instructions the directors of the body 
corporate  are accustomed to act, or
(b) who  is entitled to exercise, or control the exercise of, one third or more of the 
voting power at any general meeting of the body corporate
Our investigator looked up X and Y in the records of Companies House, and concluded that 
the same individual, who I will refer to here as Mr S, controlled both companies. I have 
checked those records for myself, and I can see that Mr S is listed as having been a person 
with significant control over both companies, with the right to remove and appoint directors of 
both companies. So I think it is more likely than not that he fell within paragraph (a) of the 
definition of a controller which I have quoted above.
Furthermore, it is also clear that Mr S had more than a third of the voting power at a general 
meeting of Y, and a closer examination of Xs records reveals that the same was true of X 
too. So Mr S also qualified as a controller of both companies within paragraph (b).
If that situation had still prevailed at the time that Mr N made his purchase, then section 75 
would have made Santander liable for any breach by X of its contract with Mr N, even 
though both of his credit card payments were made to Y.
However, Companies Houses records show that Mr S ceased to be a controller of X in late 
2016, before Mr N entered his contract with X in March 2017. The two companies were 
therefore not associates at the material time. It follows that section 75 does not apply to X 
after all.
So my provisional decision is that I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Santander accepted my provisional decision. Mr N did not. He made the following arguments 
in support of his case:
As far as he had known at the time, he had made his credit card payments to X in 
good faith, believing that he would be protected by section 75.
Although the payments had in fact been made to Y, Mr N had only been following Xs 
instructions about who to pay.
It is normal for a credit card payment to appear on a statement with a different name 
to the merchant which supplied the goods or services paid for, and so the fact that 
Ys details had not exactly matched Xs had not been suspicious or cause for 
concern.
Credit card providers have a responsibility to ensure that the merchant being paid is 
directly linked to the account the payment is being made to, at the time the payment 
is made. This responsibility arises under money laundering legislation.In December 2019 Mr N had again complained to Santander about this matter, this 
time with an emphasis on the fact that he had been a victim of fraud by X. Santander 
had not responded to that complaint or discussed it with him.
Mr N also asked me to investigate Xs fraudulent activities.
My findings
Investigating X is not within my remit. I only have power to consider the actions of 
businesses which are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. In this case, I am only 
considering whether the respondent, Santander, was entitled to reject Mr Ns request for a 
refund.
I appreciate that it must have been frustrating for Mr N not to receive a substantive reply to 
his 2019 complaint. But by then Santander had already given him its final response to his 
2018 complaint, which was substantially about the same topic, albeit with a different focus. 
Once a business has given its final response, I dont think it needs to engage in further 
correspondence about the same issue, especially when (as in this case) its customer has 
already brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. I think Santander was 
entitled to wait and see how we resolved this complaint.
Turning back to the issue of section 75, I think that Mr N has made reasonable points about 
his credit card payments and the circumstances in which he made them. However, these do 
not change the fact that section 75 did not apply to the payments, and since Santanders 
only liability to refund them would have been under that section (if it applied), I am still 
unable to find that Santander ought to have refunded them.
Mr Ns point about money laundering is an interesting one, but I am not aware of any law or 
regulation which would require Santander to do what he suggests, nor do I think there is any 
practical way in which Santander could enforce it. Santander did not necessarily have any 
prior connection with or knowledge of X or Y at the time of the transaction; X and Y were 
probably not Santanders customers. So I think that section 75 sets out the full extent of 
Santanders responsibility to Mr N in connection with these transactions.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman