DRN-2639640
The complaint
Mr P and Ms P complain that when their car broke down the recovery agent used by the 
policy insurer, UK Insurance Limited (UKI), misdiagnosed the fault and caused further 
damage by carrying out poor repairs, and Mr P had to pay a garage to remedy the problem. 
For ease of reference I have only referred to Mr P in this decision.
What happened
Mr Ps car broke down and he arranged breakdown recovery the next day under his policy. 
The mechanic said the timing belt had broken and had drained the battery. Mr P said the 
mechanic caused some damage to the battery and went off to get a replacement and new 
timing belt. He said the mechanic struggled to fit the new timing belt and when Mr P drove 
the car the repair failed, and the car had to go to a garage. Mr P said he had to pay the 
mechanic £220 in cash with no receipt for the repairs or the parts.
Mr P said delivery of his car to the garage was delayed by the recovery agent. And the 
garage told him the mechanic had fitted the timing belt incorrectly and it had damaged the 
casing. The garage replaced the timing belt and charged Mr P £105. He said the garage told 
him his old battery could have been re-charged. 
In response to Mr Ps complaint UKI said its recovery agent denied damaging his car saying 
the damage had already occurred, and it needed garage repairs. UKI said the policy doesnt 
cover parts or repairs, but apologised for delayed attendance and paid £100 compensation. 
Mr P was content with the compensation for the delay but thought he should be refunded the 
cost of the roadside repairs and be provided with a guarantee for the battery hed had to buy.
Mr P brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator recommended the complaint be 
upheld. He said Mr Ps garage said the roadside repair was incorrect and so UKI should 
refund the cost of £105.06 and pay him £50 for his inconvenience. He said evidence of Mr 
Ps purchase of the battery should be provided or UKI should pay half of the cost.
UKI disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsman review the complaint. UKI 
said the terms of the policy are clear that any repairer used is the policyholders agent and it 
wont accept responsibility for any damage or loss. It said the terms tell the policyholder they 
are responsible for the cost of repairs and UKI wont provide any warranty. It said Mr P 
would need to take up the lack of documentation about his battery with the recovery agent.
our provisional findings and the parties responses
An ombudsman at this service upheld the complaint via a provisional decision. He said Mr P 
was charged for parts in accordance with the policy, but it was fair for UKI to pay for damage 
to the timing belt and battery cover and half the cost of the new battery which Mr Ps garage 
said was unnecessary. He said Mr P should pay the garage bill as he would have had to 
anyway, but UKI should pay further compensation for his inconvenience, as below.
 50% of the £183 cost of the battery.
 £37 for the timing belt that was not fitted correctly
 The cost of repairing or replacing the timing belt cover and the battery cover.
 £200 for their distress and inconvenience dealing with the claim.
UKI disagreed. It said Mr P made a private arrangement with the recovery mechanic and for 
the car to go to the. It said it couldnt check about the repairs with the mechanic as hed left 
shortly after the complaint. But a senior engineer had said that the mechanic had fitted the 
correct parts, though it wasnt possible to know at that point that the alternator had failed. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The ombudsman who sent the provisional decision is not in a position to send a final 
decision and so the complaint has come to me.
Mr P complains about the poor service he received from UKIs recovery agent. UKI says the 
service he received was additional to the recovery and was not covered by his policy.
UKI said there was an initial contract between Mr P and its recovery agent, but when Mr P 
paid for the services of the mechanic, he was contracting outside the terms of the policy. UKI 
said Mr P made an informed decision not to obtain any other quotes but to accept the 
mechanics offer to do the work as he was happy with the arrangement.
Im not sure Mr P was in a position to make an informed choice about the repair services he 
would favour as he had broken down by the roadside. I think that Mr P felt he had to go 
along with what the mechanic told him because he needed to get his family moving again. I 
have no reason to doubt Mr P when he says that at the time he wasnt aware that repairs 
wouldnt be guaranteed by his policy. UKI has said this was clear in the disclaimer Mr P 
signed by the roadside and in the relevant term of the policy, which states:
Any repairer used in connection with an incident is deemed to be your agent. We will not 
accept responsibility for any damage or loss resulting from the repairer's acts or omissions.
When deciding a complaint like this we look closely at what cover the policy provides and 
whether the mechanic acted reasonably and in line with what theyre able to do within the 
restrictions of being at the roadside. If we think theyve been negligent, were likely to hold 
the insurer liable despite the presence of an exclusion in the policy and a signed disclaimer.
I agree that the exclusion term limits UKIs liability for the repairs, so long as the term is 
applied fairly. Im not sure this exclusion was properly explained to Mr P at the time. And so, 
when Mr P saw the mechanic damage his battery cover he had reason to believe he would 
be covered for this.
In considering the mechanics actions I referred to the job sheets. The mechanic advised he 
refitted the timing belt and on doing so found the pulley to be damaged. He said it wasnt 
clear at the time that the alternator needed replacing as well. He didnt acknowledge causing 
any damage to the battery cover as Mr P said he witnessed. 
Once the roadside repairs failed, Mr P took his car to a garage and his invoice from the 
garage states, that multi-ribbed belt fitted incorrectly and has damaged timing belt casing. 
This supports what Mr P has said about the roadside repair by UKIs recovery agent. 
The mechanic left the recovery agent shortly after Mr Ps breakdown and so we have no way 
of obtaining his account. However, I think the garages statement and Mr Ps eyewitness account are evidence of negligence by the recovery agents mechanic. I say this because 
the damage to the battery and timing belt appear to have been due to insufficient care taken 
by the mechanic. I think that UKI should bear some responsibility and so I think it is unfair for 
UKI to apply the exclusion term in this case. I think that the redress set out within the 
provisional decision is a fair way to resolve this complaint and reflects the distress and 
inconvenience that Mr M has suffered during his claim. 
The mechanic didnt provide Mr P with a receipt or warranty for his new battery and despite 
his and our best efforts this still hasnt been provided. A warranty was Mr Ps entitlement and 
protection against the possible failure of the battery. I think it is fair that Mr P is compensated 
for this lack of protection, not least because his garage said a new battery wasnt required as 
the old one could have been re-charged.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require UK Insurance Limited to pay Mr P for the reasonable repair costs of the damage to 
the timing belt cover and battery cover of his car. Mr P should provide UK Insurance Limited 
with evidence of the completed work and cost. In addition, I require UK Insurance Limited to 
pay the following:
 £91.50, being 50% of the cost of the replacement car battery.
 £37 for the timing belt that was not fitted correctly
 £200 for the distress and inconvenience Mr P has been caused in dealing with the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman