DRN-1713781
The complaint
Mrs S, represented by Mr S, is unhappy that esure Insurance Limited turned down her claim 
for a damaged computer under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs S contacted esure because Mr Ss computer fell, breaking its screen. Esure turned 
down the claim because it said that, as it was worth more than £1,500, the computer needed 
to be listed as a Specified Item in order to be covered under the policy.
Mrs S provided esure with a quote to show that a replacement computer could be bought for 
under £1,500. However, esure said that the quote wasnt for a computer of equivalent 
specification, so it maintained its decision to decline the claim.
Mr S complained to this service on Mrs Ss behalf. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. She said that as the item was worth more than £1,500, the terms and conditions 
of the policy required that it be listed as a specified item. 
As Mr S did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the policy documents. These say:
You will not be able to claim for any pedal cycle including accessories worth more than 
£500 or any item valued at £1,500 or more, under any section of this Policy if the item has 
not been listed as a Specified Item.
It isnt in dispute that the computer cost more than £1,500 when it was bought. The issue is 
whether the item can be replaced for under £1,500. Mr S provided a quote for a replacement 
computer. The computer Mr S was claiming for was no longer available, so he provided a 
quote for an available replacement. Esure said that the quote wasnt for an equivalent 
specification computer. Having looked at the details, I agree that it is a lower specification 
than the damaged computer. So, I dont think this shows that the damaged computer can be 
replaced with an equivalent model for under £1,500.
Mr S provided a further quote for a replacement computer costing £1,500, which I asked 
esure to consider. After making enquiries with the company that provided the quote, esure 
concluded that this didnt change its decision because the quote was for a refurbished 
computer. It pointed to the wording in the policy that says: You have a duty to take 
reasonable care to ensure the information provided or confirmed to us before you enter into, 
vary or renew your Policy is accurate and not misleading. This duty includes a requirement 
to ensure that your household goods, high risk items, personal possessions and specified 
items are insured for the full replacement cost as new at all times  If you fail to comply with 
this duty any future claims may be reduced, rejected, additional terms applied or your policy 
voided.
On that basis, I think it was reasonable for esure to maintain its decision to decline the claim 
because the quote was for a refurbished computer, but the policy required that items are 
insured for the full replacement cost as new. 
Ive also thought about whether Mrs S would have been aware of the need to list items worth 
£1,500 or more. Looking at the policy schedule, I can see that another computer was listed 
as a specified item, so I think this indicates that Mrs S was aware of this requirement in the 
policy. However, I am also aware that Mr S told this service that the other computer was 
listed as a specified item when the policy was taken out because Mrs S was explicitly asked 
to list it. He said that they hadnt been made aware that they needed to, or were able to, add 
extra high value items to the policy. 
Looking at the policy booklet, in the introduction to the document it says Please keep in 
mind that anything new You buy or gifts You receive can change the level of cover that You 
need. It can be surprising how quickly the value of Your possessions, such as jewellery can 
increase, so it is important You have enough cover should You need to make a claim. 
So based on that, and the wording in the policy about items needing to be insured for their 
full replacement costs as new, I think that esure made it clear that it was important to keep 
the level of cover up to date and the possible consequences of failing to do so.
Im also aware that Mr S is willing to accept a lower specification computer or to pay any 
amount that it would cost over £1,500 to replace the computer. Ive thought about this, but I 
think that the terms and conditions are clear that items worth £1,500 or more must be listed 
as a specified item. As the computer wasnt listed, this means that there wasnt any cover in 
place for it, so I dont think it would be fair to ask esure to pay up to the £1,500 limit.
So, thinking about all of the above, Im satisfied that the policy terms and conditions were 
clear and that Mrs S was aware of the requirement to specify items worth £1,500 or more. I 
also think it was reasonable for esure to decide that the computer couldnt be replaced as 
new for less than £1,500 and to turn down the claim on that basis. It therefore follows that I 
dont uphold this complaint or require esure to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman