DRN-3916133
The complaint
Ms S complains she was the victim of a number of investment scams and that Revolut Ltd 
(Revolut) didnt do enough to recover her money.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Ms S complains she was the victim of multiple scams involving over 40 transactions made 
via card payment and transfers between February 2020 and July 2020. At least one of these 
scams involved her allowing remote access to her computer, so a third party could trade on 
her behalf.
Ms S realised shed been the victim of a scam when she was unable to withdraw her funds 
from one of the scammers.
Ms S raised a complaint with Revolut and requested a refund of all of the transactions. 
Revolut declined this request.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 August 2023 in which I said the following;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S authorised the payments she made, even though she was duped into making them. 
The starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
customers account. And under the Payment Service Regulations 2017, Ms S is presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. I consider that 
Revolut should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, such as money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism, and preventing 
fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly so, 
given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined 
to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud.
In this instance, I am satisfied that Revolut should have intervened and asked probing 
questions about the payments that Ms S was making when a payment of $6,115 was made 
on 10 April 2020. But had such an intervention took place I am not satisfied that it would 
have prevented Ms S with carrying on with the transaction and the ones that followed. Let 
me explain why.
In 2018 Ms S was a victim of a similar scam in which she allowed a third party to use her 
computer to make trades. I note that she raised a complaint with a different bank about this. 
So I think Ms S was already aware before 2020 of the risks of allowing a third party to 
access her computer to make trades. As she then proceeded to be scammed again in a 
similar manner - despite being aware of the risks of this sort of scam - I dont think a warning 
would have changed anything.
Moreover, in June 2020 Ms S was contacted about a transaction by a different bank as it 
was concerned that Ms S had installed remote access software on her computer. From the 
notes of the call, Ms S was warned about possible fraud, but in response Ms S explained 
that the transactions were legitimate and the remote access software was used by her 
occasionally.
From the available notes from the other bank, Ms S seems to have also explained during the 
call that she had been scammed before but was confident that the company she was dealing 
with was legitimate this time around. Ms S then went on to proceed with the transaction. So 
given this, had Revolut also intervened and provided a warning, I really dont think that Ms S 
would have changed her decision to go ahead with the transactions, as a similar warning 
had no effect on Ms Ss choice to proceed. Overall then I dont think the scam would have 
been prevented if Revolut had intervened and provided a warning, so it follows that I cant 
reasonably require Revolut to refund the transactions in question.
Ive also thought about whether Revolut could have done more to recover the funds after Ms 
S reported the fraud. However, in these circumstances, I dont think that Revolut could have 
recovered the funds either through a series of chargebacks for the debit card payments or by 
raising an indemnity with the receiving bank for the transfers. I say this because it looks as if, 
for the most part, Ms S got what she paid for - which was crypto currency or gold that was 
then forwarded on to a third party and I find it unlikely that any funds transferred to a third 
parties account would remain in the account for long enough for them to have been 
recovered when Ms S first complained.
Revolut are also under no obligation to refund the money to Ms S under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code either, as they do not participate in that particular 
scheme.
So overall I think that Revolut should have intervened, but I dont think that the intervention 
would have made a difference in this instance and Im strongly of the view that Ms S 
wouldve continued with the transactions even if Revolut had warned her about the risk of 
fraud. I also do not believe that Revolut could have recovered the funds by other means. So 
I currently dont think this complaint should be upheld and therefore I dont think that Revolut 
should reimburse Ms S for any of the transactions that she has complained about.
In response Revolut did not disagree with my provisional decision. Ms S did not agree with 
my decision, but did not raise any new points.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
So in summary, I think that Revolut should have intervened, but I dont think an intervention 
would have changed Ms Ss decision to carry on with the transactions, as she was confident 
that the investments she was making were legitimate. I also dont think that the funds could 
have been recovered via other means.
So having reconsidered everything I do not uphold this complaint. I appreciate this will come 
as a disappointment to Ms S and I would like to reassure her that Im  very sorry to hear 
shes been the victim of a such a number of cruel scams. However, Im not persuaded that 
Revolut can fairly or reasonably be held liable for her loss in these circumstances.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman