DRN-3272820
The complaint
Ms B complains that Caliber Financial Associates Limited (Caliber) didnt provide the service 
she had paid for and gave her unsuitable advice. Ms B is also unhappy with how she was 
treated and spoken to in a telephone call.
What happened
Ms B received around £220,000 as a result of a Pension Sharing Order. She sought advice 
from an adviser (from here on referred to as Caliber). The money Ms B received was from 
her ex-husbands already crystallised drawdown pension fund and it was held in a pension 
with Old Mutual Wealth (OMW). Ms B had told the adviser her divorce was acrimonious.
Ms B completed a Risk Profiling Questionnaire. This determined she had a very cautious 
attitude to risk. Her capacity for loss was categorised as moderate. Ms B had also 
previously completed a risk profile in her very first meeting with the adviser, and she 
scored 0 out of 5  which stated she was not prepared to take any risk with the value of 
her investments and is limited in the investments she can make.
The adviser sent her recommendation of where the pension funds should be held. She 
recommended a Collective Retirement Account with OMW as they confirmed if Ms B 
wished to transfer elsewhere, they would require Ms Bs ex-husbands signature to do so.
Ms B made it clear she didnt feel ready to make any decisions regarding her investments 
or future plans regarding her income and employment. So the adviser recommended her 
funds be held in cash, whilst she considered her options.
The funds were invested 100% in Blackrock Cash. However, the adviser said:
I recommend that you review the fund allocation of your pension within a maximum of 6 
months of this report, due to the risk of leaving your funds in a low-earning cash fund over 
the longer term and the value of your funds therefore becoming eroded by inflation.
The recommendation report also set out the plan charges:
We currently charge an ongoing adviser fee of 0.5% per annum of the value of your 
pension account Old Mutual take no initial charges but do take an annual product 
charge.
In January 2016, the adviser received confirmation that the funds had been invested. A 
diary note was made to review Ms Bs position in six months time. 
In June 2016, the adviser emailed Ms B to remind her that her funds were sitting in cash 
and this wasnt a long-term position. She asked Ms B to contact her to arrange a meeting 
when she was ready. And another diary note was made to contact Ms B in December if 
no response was received. A similar email was sent in October 2016.
Ms B called Caliber in November 2016 stating she was aware she was due a review but, 
due to bereavement, she wasnt in the right mindset and wanted to delay the review 
meeting to the new year. Due to personal circumstances this was postponed further.
Caliber tried to call Ms B in April 2018 to arrange a meeting but didnt hear back from her. 
So, they sent an email asking Ms B to contact them. Ms B requested a 30-minute 
telephone meeting, and Ms B was told the adviser would call her after her meetings 
which she did do.
In July 2018, Caliber sent Ms B an email to arrange a review meeting as they hadnt been 
able to get hold of her. The meeting was arranged for 12 August 2019 (Ms B had called on 
7 August confirming she was ready for a review meeting). Despite several conversations, 
Ms Bs funds had remained in the cash fund.
Ms B had questioned a number of times how safe the Blackrock cash fund was. This led to 
a call from the advisers mobile on in June 2020. In the call the adviser made an incorrect 
statement about Ms B being able to take tax-free cash. Ms B queried this, and the adviser 
apologised for her mistake. 
It seems after this the relationship and call became strained. Ms B felt she had been 
misled about the Blackrock cash fund. Ms B said shed been led to believe it was just in 
cash like a bank account and wasnt invested. The adviser explained that this wasnt an 
option within the product but the next best thing was a cash fund. Ms B was unhappy with 
this and added that she felt the adviser had acted unethically and unprofessionally by 
misleading her while she was paying an ongoing fee that wasnt justified. The adviser 
didnt think a refund was fair. She said that it seemed the relationship had broken down 
and therefore it would be best if she ceased to be Ms Bs adviser and all future charges be 
stopped. Ms B said the call left her traumatised.
Our investigator looked into matters but didnt think Caliber had to do anything to put 
things right. She felt the adviser had tried to contact Ms B and had put time and effort into 
trying to provide a service to Ms B. She understood the telephone call had become 
strained and the adviser mightve been frustrated but there was no malice or intent to 
upset Ms B. However, the investigator did ask Caliber if it wished to make an offer as a 
gesture of goodwill and it said it was prepared to offer £250.
Ms B didnt agree with the investigators recommendation. She also didnt wish to accept 
the £250 as she said the fees shed incurred had been over £7,000. Ms B said she didnt 
feel her experience and mental state at the time had been taken into account. She said 
the risk warning notice she was given prior to the transfer completing was done quickly 
with the adviser ticking the form asking quick fire questions. Ms B wouldve liked time to 
absorb information and understand the questions before answering.
Ms B says she didnt receive the service she had paid for. Shes pointed out the client 
agreement said: Two reviews annually, printed valuations, postal quarterly printed 
valuation and investment comment. She didnt receive this. 
Ms B says she was provided with conflicting information as to whether she could take 
tax-free cash and whether she could contribute further to the pension. She also says she 
was never told the Blackrock Cash fund was invested, she thought it was sitting in a 
cash-pot, safe.
The crux of the complaint is that Ms B doesnt believe the adviser shouldve charged an 
ongoing service fee knowing full well that Ms B didnt wish to discuss her pension. Ms B 
says she was mentally unwell and wasnt in a position to make any major decisions in her 
life.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigators recommendation and broadly for the 
same reasons. I know Ms B will be disappointed with this but I will explain why.Ms B has made a number of points but Ive not included them all in this decision. That is 
deliberate but it is not meant as a discourtesy. I would like to assure both parties that I
have considered everything that has been provided to this service with care and attention. 
However, my role is to get to the heart of the complaint and focus on its most important 
aspects. This also reflects the informal nature of our service.
Did the adviser give Ms B unsuitable advice?
Ms B sought advise as shed received pension funds from the result of an acrimonious 
divorce and needed advice about where to put it. It is clear that Ms B was in a vulnerable 
state and at the time didnt want to take any risk with these funds at all.
The adviser decided to keep the funds with the existing provider because to transfer would 
require the signature of the Ms Bs ex-husband. Given everything Ms B has said about her 
circumstances and frame of mind at the time, I think this seems a sensible decision from the 
adviser.
It was clear from what Ms B said at the time that she didnt wish to take any risk with her 
funds. Ms B wanted to put her fund in a cash pot essentially but this wasnt possible within 
the product she was invested within. So the adviser said she chose the closest thing 
available, a cash fund. Ive looked at the makeup of this fund and it is a low risk fund unlikely 
to suffer any sort of volatility. So I think it was suitable for Ms Bs circumstances.
Much of the complaint is that Ms B says the adviser didnt explain this fund properly to Ms B, 
but I can see it was explained in the written documentation as a cash fund. The advisers 
said that she explained the fund to Ms B a number of times, whereas Ms B says it wasnt 
explained well at all and she is still not sure about how it works. Its difficult to draw any 
conclusions here, other than the adviser wouldve understood how the fund works. It seems 
there is a gap between her understanding and Ms Bs understanding but the evidence 
suggest the adviser attempted to close this gap. Ultimately, regardless of Ms Bs 
understanding of the fund, what is important is whether it is suitable for her attitude to risk 
and I think it was.
In conclusion, I think the adviser gave suitable advice to Ms B and considered her 
circumstances and attitude to risk.
Did the adviser do something wrong in setting up an ongoing service charge?
Ms B says that the adviser shouldnt have taken or set up an ongoing service charge 
because she was vulnerable and it was clear she wouldnt be in the right state of mind to 
make changes to her investments. Ms B had a quite considerable fund which was clearly 
very important to her and she was very worried about it, hence initially seeking financial 
advice. 
The adviser set out the options to Ms B around future charging, including the option to pay 
as you go. And I can see that Ms B signed to agree she read this information. And she later 
signed to agree to the fees set out by the adviser for ongoing advice. I can also see those 
fees were discounted from the standard packages. I think this suggests a conversation was 
had over these fees and how to move forward in terms of an ongoing relationship.
Ms B says it was clear she wouldnt be in any fit state to make any investment decisions for 
a long time and so no fee shouldve been taken. But I think it would be impossible for the 
adviser to have known then, how Ms B would feel or what her state of mind would be in the 
future. I appreciate Ms B told the adviser she was very vulnerable but I think it was 
reasonable for the adviser to belief Ms B might be ready to talk about her investments in six months time. I cannot use the benefit of hindsight as the adviser wouldnt have had this at 
the time. And as Ive said it was Ms B who agreed to ongoing advice when other options 
were available to her. And after the initial meeting the adviser made clear they should meet 
within six months to discuss Ms Bs investments, as it was just sitting in a cash fund. And Ms 
B accepted that then.
Whilst I appreciate Ms B says she was in a vulnerable emotional state, she did sign to agree 
to an ongoing service and I cant say that the adviser did anything wrong in offering this 
service.
Should the ongoing fee be refunded due to the terms not being met?
Ms B has said the ongoing service terms of two annual meetings, quarterly posted 
valuations and investment comment wasnt met by the adviser. Looking at the client 
agreement it set out six different service packages, but the letter of engagement signed by 
both parties doesnt say which of these service packages had been agreed. And the fees 
were less than that of the standard packages. 
Regardless of which package was agreed, this ultimately doesnt change my view of this 
matter. I say this because I think the adviser made reasonable efforts to carry out her duty to 
Ms B. I understand Ms B was struggling and faced some really difficult circumstances but it 
was her choice not to meet with the adviser. And when Ms B did wish to speak to the 
adviser, the adviser made herself available at short notice. The adviser diarised meetings 
and told Ms B after the initial meeting that they should meet in six months time to discuss her 
investment strategy. As I said it was Ms B that chose not to have this meeting and this 
pattern was followed until 2019. 
In 2019, Ms B was still very reluctant to move her funds from the cash fund and the advisers 
notes show the fee was discussed then and it was agreed to keep it at 0.5% - the standard 
was 1%.
The adviser may not have met the standard requirements set out in the initial client 
agreement but I think this was largely down to Ms Bs unwillingness to meet or discuss her 
investment strategy rather than a fault on the advisers part. I appreciate Ms B wasnt in the 
right frame of mind to meet with the adviser but I dont think I can say this was the advisers 
fault. And it was also set out at outset that Ms B could cancel the arrangement at any point. 
However, into 2019 and 2020 Ms B was engaging again with the adviser which suggests she 
at that time at least saw some value in having the services of a financial adviser. Also as Ms 
B had stayed in a cash fund the whole time, Im not sure what difference investment 
comment or valuations really wouldve made. As the advisers position from outset hadnt 
changed -  it was clear that the adviser felt Ms B by leaving her funds in a cash fund was 
losing out on potential returns and her funds were eroding due to inflation. But Ms Bs 
position was that she wasnt ready to make investment decisions.
Ms B has also said that the adviser gave conflicting information about the cash fund and her 
options such as tax-free cash. The adviser admitted to a mistake in a call about whether she 
could take tax-free cash but this was quickly rectified. Ive looked at the documented 
information and the recommendation given at outset and it was made clear then that tax-free 
cash couldnt be taken from this plan. Ultimately, I dont have enough evidence to say the 
adviser did anything wrong here.
In conclusion of this point, I dont think it would be fair in the circumstances to decide that 
Caliber should refund its fees. Ms B agreed to these fees and couldve cancelled the 
arrangement at any time. And I think efforts were made to provide Ms B with an ongoing 
service and reviews.Was Ms B treated badly by the adviser?
Ms B was left traumatised after the call with the adviser where the relationship broke down. 
She says the adviser was rude, unprofessional and unethical. Unfortunately, there is no 
recording of this call, so it is difficult to say with any certainty what happened. But it is clear 
the call became strained and the adviser has admitted she was a little frustrated at having to 
explain the cash fund again  as she felt this had been explained a number of times verbally 
and in writing. And that this may have been detected by Ms B but the adviser says she 
remained calm and professional despite this. There does seem to be some agreement in 
what was said but both parties have differing view of how it was said and the meaning 
behind what was said. This isnt unsurprising, especially in what was quite a difficult 
conversation with Ms B being raising her unhappiness with the service provided by the 
adviser.
Without the recording of the call, I cant reasonably make a finding on the tone or subtext of 
what was said. The recollections are subjective but looking at what both parties have agreed 
upon in terms of the words used and how the call progressed  I cant conclude the adviser 
said anything untoward. I appreciate Ms B found this call very upsetting  but the evidence I 
do have doesnt suggest that the adviser did something wrong that requires compensation.
Conclusion
In conclusion, Im sorry to hear about the difficult circumstances Ms B has faced and that the 
relationship here with the adviser broke down to the point Ms B felt traumatised. However, I 
dont think there is sufficient evidence to say on the balance of probabilities that the adviser 
did something wrong. And therefore I will not be making any award.
I note that Caliber offered £250 as an ex gratia payment to Ms B but Ms B chose not to 
accept this. I will not be including this award as part of my final decision as I have not found 
fault with Caliber. However, Ms B may wish to contact Caliber to see whether this offer is still 
open. Ill leave it up to both parties to decide whether to take this forward.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman