DRN-2126893
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains that TIDE PLATFORM LTD trading as TIDE did not make 
clear how it held deposited funds, and this affected the tracing of a misdirected payment.
What happened
C made a payment from its TIDE account to one at another financial business on 19 August 
2019. But it explained that its account there was subsequently closed, and the money was 
returned back by that business. When C contacted that business on 28 August 2019 it was 
told it had been returned to a sort code and account number C did not recognise. TIDE told 
C that it was using an intermediary account and needed further details to trace the payment 
and then the faster payment identification. The money was traced and returned to C on 30 
August 2019 and it says that its complaint is that the transfer process does not make clear 
that the payment originates from an intermediary account.
TIDE told C it did not think it had made a mistake, but it offered a gesture of goodwill of £50. 
C did not accept this and referred its complaint to this service. 
Our investigator contacted TIDE on a number of occasions for information about the 
complaint. Although it acknowledged the request it did not respond in a reasonable time 
period, so he has proceeded based on what C has said. He did not recommend that TIDE do 
anything more. He said that the terms and conditions available on its website made clear 
that TIDE is not a bank and its current account is an e money account provided by a named 
third party. And that this third party holds an amount equivalent to the money in Tide current 
accounts in a safeguarding account. It was stated that as a condition to opening an account 
it was a requirement to agree to those terms and conditions for TIDE and the third party. 
Those conditons went onto explain that a payment instruction would be made from the third-
party account. He said that TIDE did not hold Cs money and whilst this could have been 
explained more clearly there was sufficient information in the documents setting this out.
He looked at a screen shot of a payment instruction from C which stated that this came from 
an account sort code and number recognised by C. But in fact, the payment came from the 
intermediary account. This became an issue when C had contacted the financial business 
itd sent the payment to. TIDE had said to C that if the returned payment does not have all 
the reference numbers it can be difficult to trace. Here it asked C for more information and 
he didnt think it was at fault. And he was not able to consider the distress of the director in a 
complaint by C, a separate legal entity.
C did not agree. It said that the terms were unclear and that the screenshot misled it into 
thinking the money had come from its account. The wording and jargon used was confusing 
and TIDE had shown its poor attitude to what happened by just not replying to us.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think TIDE has been given a fair opportunity to provide any further information to this 
service and so Im looking at the correspondence it had with C and its final response to the 
complaint as its position.
I am satisfied that C was fairly bound by the terms and conditions of TIDE and the 
intermediary here in using this product. This was an e-money account and Im not convinced 
that adding more information to a payment instruction about the intermediary would have 
made things clearer. The issue arose when a payment C had sent and that was returned 
could not be matched to its details. 
TIDE says in the final response that there was no matching outbound payment from the 
account for the amount of £10,008.29. Im not able to verify that from the information I have 
seen, and I dont know how the payment came to be sent to a closed account by C. But I 
accept that TIDE was not able to match this returned payment to the outgoing one based on 
the information it had. It asked C questions about this and I dont agree with the director that 
this was designed to delay things. Its offered a goodwill gesture to C to reflect what 
happened.
Im afraid I dont have a reasonable basis to uphold this complaint and I know that the 
director of C will be very disappointed with my conclusions here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman