DRN-2573284
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with how long it took Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) to complete 
her bed and ISA request. She says that it took too long, resulting in the unit price increasing 
prior to her repurchase of units and causing a financial loss. 
Mrs C is represented by her husband, but for ease, Ill refer to Mrs C throughout. 
What happened
Aviva say a Bed and ISA request was submitted by Mrs C through her advisors to Aviva on 
3 April 2020. This is a request to sell units in a fund outside of an ISA (held on Avivas 
platform) and then use the proceeds to repurchase units in the same fund, within an ISA 
wrapper. 
The purchase of units took place on 9 April 2020. By which point, Mrs C says that the unit 
price had increased, meaning fewer units could be bought and causing a financial loss that 
she calculated to be approximately £200. She was unhappy with the amount of time it had 
taken and wanted to be compensated for the loss. 
Aviva said that the transaction was completed within their expected timescales. They said 
they hadnt made any error and the time it took was dependent on how quickly it took the 
sale to settle at the third-party fund manager. 
Our investigator looked into it and also felt that Aviva hadnt made an error. He said the time 
taken was reasonable for such a transaction. Mrs C remained unhappy. She said that it 
hadnt been completed in line with expectations and felt it had taken too long and she had 
lost out as a result. 
As no agreement could be reached, it had been passed to me to reach a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why. 
Mrs Cs request involved Aviva firstly, as the platform manager, requesting the investment 
manager to place a sell of units. Aviva would then require the proceeds of that sell to be 
returned before the repurchase of units could take place, within an ISA wrapper. 
Aviva have said that it took four days for the sell transaction to settle and for them to receive 
receipt of the proceeds before the repurchase of units was completed on the 5th day and at 
that days unit price. 
I havent seen anything to suggest there was an error here. Whilst I understand that Mrs C 
would be frustrated that the unit price increased as much as it did between the sale and the 
purchase, this is the risk involved with such a transaction. It was completed within five 
working days and that is within what I would consider to be a reasonable timescale. 
Mrs C has said this was longer than she expected. However, I havent seen anything from 
Aviva that they suggested it would be quicker than this and they have been clear in the 
communications that I have seen, that they expect a five working day turnaround for such a 
bed and ISA transaction. 
I therefore cant hold Aviva responsible if Mrss expectation of how long this might take was 
not met. Aviva carried out the transaction as requested without error, and within the 
timeframe they set out. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I 
make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman