DRN-3233875
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited declined a claim made on their
travel insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr and Mrs S took out a premier single-trip travel insurance policy,
underwritten by Ageas (the policy). The policy covered the period 20  25 April 2020 which
coincided with a planned trip abroad.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel abroad
on 17 March 2020. And that guidance remained in place at the time Mr and Mrs S were due
to start their trip. And on 23 March 2020, the FCO advised all British tourists who were 
abroad to return to the UK and the UK government announced wide-ranging restrictions on 
movement, commonly referred to as lockdown. The Government announcement included 
an instruction to stay at home other than for a limited list of essential reasons.
Also, on 23 March 2020, Mr and Mrs Ss trip was cancelled  they say in response to the
travel restrictions imposed due to Covid-19.
Mr and Mrs S made a claim on the policy for their pre-paid costs for the trip.
Ageas declined the claim because the reason which led to Mr and Mrs Ss trip being
cancelled wasnt listed as an insured peril covered under the cancellation section of the
terms and conditions of the policy. Ageas also said that the policy didnt cover any claims
arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of any country.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs S complained to our Service. Our investigator recommended their
complaint be upheld. Although, the trip was cut short for a reason not listed in the
cancellation section of the policy terms, there was also an exclusion in the policy limiting
cover if theyd travelled against the advice of the FCO. So, if Mr and Mrs S hadnt cut short
their trip and had been able to travel on 20 April 2020 as planned, they wouldnt have had
cover under the policy. As such, our investigator didnt think it was fair and reasonable for
Ageas to decline the claim for the reason it did. He concluded that it would be fair and
reasonable for Ageas to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation section of the
policy. And recommended Ageas settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and
conditions of the policy.
Ageas didnt agree. So, this complaint was passed to me to consider everything
afresh. I issued my provisional decision in November 2021 explaining why I wasnt intending 
to uphold it. An extract of which Ive set out below:
Industry rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The relevant documentation
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions and the Insurance Product Information
Document (IPID) in this case. An IPID is designed to give consumers a summary of certain
information about a policy in a way that is easy to understand. This includes excluded risks.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) which the insurer has provided as
relating to Mr and Mrs Ss policy says on page 1 (under the heading: what is not insured?)
that claims relating to the following arent covered:
Claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of any country.
And:
Travel against Foreign and Commonwealth Office advice
The cancellation and curtailment section of the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ss
policy say (on page 6) that the policy provides covers if a trip is cancelled for any of the
following listed reasons:
the death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a close relative 
or any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during your trip; or
you being called for jury service or as a witness in a Court of Law (but not as an
expert witness or where your employment would normally require you to attend
court); or
your redundancy, provided that you were working at your current place of
employment for a minimum of 2 years and that you were not aware of any impending
redundancy at the time this policy was issued or the trip was booked; or
your home being made uninhabitable due to accidental damage, burglary, flooding or 
fire; the police requesting your presence following burglary or attempted burglary at 
your home; or
you, or any person you intended to travel with, who is a member of the Armed 
Forces, emergency services, the nursing profession or a government employee 
being ordered to return to duty.
Mr and Mrs Ss trip wasnt cancelled for any of the above reasons. This means their claim
isnt covered under the terms and conditions of the policy.
Ive also looked at the remaining sections of the policy, but I dont think Mr and Mrs S held
any cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances they found themselves in.
Ive moved on to consider what I think is fair and reasonable in the overall circumstances of
the case, taking into account industry rules and guidance, and the relevant law.
The terms and conditions of the policy also set out the general exclusions which relate to the
policy at pages 12 and 13. On page 13, it says Ageas wont pay anything directly or 
indirectly caused by:
your travel to a country or specific area or event to which the Travel Advice Unit of
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation has advised
against all, or all but essential travel (clause 15, page 13).
There are some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and
transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy exclusions such as an exclusion for
claims for travelling against FCO advice, I might think its fair and reasonable for an insurer
to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and conditions. However, I dont think thats thecase here.
Thats because the policy also says in the cancellation and curtailment section of the policy
(at page 6, exclusion 9) that there is no cover for:
claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of any country.
Ill refer to this as the prohibitive regulations exclusion.
Its hard to say with any certainty that there was one specific reason for Mr and Mrs S claim.
I think a combination of factors  the spread of Covid-19, FCO advice and government
restrictions both in the UK and abroad  are all likely to have impacted to some degree on
the cancellation of their trip. But Mr and Mrs Ss trip was cancelled on 23 March 2020  
which was the date the UK restrictions on movement were announced by the Government 
and these restrictions remained in force when Mr and Mrs S were due to start their trip.
So, not only are the reasons for the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Ss trip not covered as listed,
insured events under the cancellation and curtailment section of the policy, I think its likely
the prohibitive regulations exclusion would apply to the circumstances of their claim.
I know Mr and Mrs S will be very disappointed, but I dont think Ageas has unfairly
concluded that their claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of their policy.
And I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly direct Ageas
to accept their claim.
I invited both parties to provide any additional comments or information. Ageas had nothing 
further to add. Mr and Mrs S didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information for me to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings. So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision 
(an extract of which appears above), I dont think Ageas unfairly declined the claim Mr and 
Mrs S made on the policy.  
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 
1 February 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman