DRN-3345973
The complaint
Miss R complains that Nationwide Building Society wouldnt let her port her mortgage to 
another property.
What happened
Miss R had a mortgage with Nationwide. In 2020 she took a new ten year fixed rate. She 
says her intention was to move house, so she chose a rate that was portable.
In 2021, Miss R decided to move. She found a new property and applied to Nationwide to 
port. In order to complete her purchase, she also needed to borrow an additional £154,000.
Nationwide considered her application. But it said it wasnt willing to allow further borrowing. 
It said it would have allowed her to port her mortgage with the same amount of borrowing  
but not extra borrowing. It offered her £500 compensation for not being clear about what it 
could offer. 
Miss R wasnt happy with that. She didnt think her application had been assessed fairly. She 
said she thought Nationwide had discriminated against her because she was a self-
employed contractor and had recently been on maternity leave. She said it hadnt been 
worried about her income when it gave her the fixed rate the year before.
Miss R found a mortgage with another lender, but had to pay an early repayment charge 
(ERC) of around £16,000 to leave Nationwide. She said this was a large sum of money and 
she didnt think it was fair. She said the stress and worry had impacted her health.
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide had acted unfairly in refusing the further borrowing 
and he thought the offer of £500 compensation was fair for not making clear that it would 
have offered a like for like port  since that would not have been enough for Miss R to 
complete her new property purchase, she would never have accepted that in any case.
Miss R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered what happened in the course of Miss Rs application.
Ill start with her application for a fixed rate in 2020. This was an online application, with no 
advice given by Nationwide. That means that it was for Miss R to decide if the rate was right 
for her. Im satisfied Nationwide made clear that the rate was portable  but that any porting 
application would need to be considered against Nationwides lending criteria at the time. 
And that an ERC would be payable if the rate ended early.
Where a borrower wants to port the same amount as their existing mortgage balance, or port 
less, theres no requirement for a lender to carry out an affordability assessment. Thats why 
Nationwide was willing to consider a like for like (that is, the same balance) porting request.
But where, as here, further borrowing is needed, the rules of mortgage regulation require a 
lender to carry out a full affordability assessment. The rules dont, however, specify the exact 
form that assessment must take, or require all lenders to have the same affordability 
thresholds. Just because Miss R was able to find another lender, that doesnt mean 
Nationwide was wrong to reject her application. Each lender will have its own risk appetite  
and that means some have stricter lending criteria than others.
Therefore what I need to decide is whether Nationwide gave fair consideration to Miss Rs 
application, and Im satisfied it did.
Miss Rs situation wasnt straightforward. Shes been a contractor for some years. Until 
2019, she was contracting through her own personal services company. Between 2019 and 
2020, she took one years maternity leave. In late 2020, she returned to work, this time 
through an umbrella company following changes to government tax rules in the meantime.
Miss Rs application was initially refused because she hadnt been working as a contractor 
for an umbrella company for twelve months, which is Nationwides standard requirement. 
Miss R didnt meet this requirement  but thats because she had been on maternity leave in 
2019 and 2020. Prior to her maternity leave, she was contracting too, albeit through her own 
limited company rather than an umbrella company. Nationwides standard process therefore 
rejected her application.
However, when Miss Rs application was manually reviewed by an underwriter, the 
underwriter disregarded this policy requirement so that Miss Rs maternity leave wouldnt 
affect her application. But the full mortgage balance she wanted didnt meet Nationwides 
affordability criteria, based on her actual income from the umbrella company at the time of 
the application. Ive seen internal discussions involving Nationwides underwriter where this 
is made clear.
It's unfortunate that Miss Rs application wasnt initially referred to an underwriter for manual 
consideration. That should have happened  its standard for existing customers  and so I 
can understand why Miss R feels her application wasnt considered fairly and her recent 
maternity leave used to refuse an application she would have passed otherwise.
Nationwide has apologised for not referring Miss Rs application to an underwriter until she 
complained. And its offered £500 compensation for this failing, which meant her application 
wasnt initially considered properly.
I think thats fair compensation for that failing. Im satisfied, as Ive explained, that once 
Miss Rs application was considered by an underwriter it was found to be unaffordable, even 
disregarding the twelve month policy and the impact of her maternity leave. So even if it had 
been referred to an underwriter sooner, Miss Rs application wouldnt have been granted  
on, once the policy and the impact of her maternity leave were set aside, a fair basis. So I 
dont think this failing made the difference between Miss R having to move to another lender 
or not  that was always going to happen, since Nationwide could not have lent Miss R the 
full amount she needed under its affordability criteria.
That means Miss R was always going to have to pay the ERC once she decided to go ahead 
with this property purchase. The ERC was in place because Miss R chose  deciding for 
herself, without advice from Nationwide  to fix her interest rate. An ERC is chargeable when the fixed rate ends early, and if Miss R wanted to buy her new property, that was inevitable. I 
dont think I can fairly require Nationwide to refund it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im satisfied that Nationwide Building Society has made a fair and 
reasonable offer to settle this complaint and I dont require it to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman