DRN-2162200
The complaint
Mrs P complained about the way Ageas Insurance Limited handled a claim made on her 
home insurance following a storm that damaged her property.
Mrs P is represented in this complaint by her daughter but, for ease, Ill refer to Mrs P 
throughout this decision.
Reference to Ageas includes agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
In May 2018 Mrs Ps property was damaged by heavy rainfall during a storm. Ageas sent a 
surveyor to inspect the damage and although it declined the claim for external damage to the 
property, it agreed to pay for the repair of internal damage to the hall, stairs, landing, two 
bedrooms and the bathroom. Ageas appointed one of its agents to make the repairs. Mrs P 
paid to have her roof repaired separately.
Mrs Ps daughter visited her mother in July 2019 and called Ageas as she wasnt happy with 
the work that had been done. Ageas sent another agent round to inspect the property and he 
knocked holes in the bedroom ceiling before being called away. Ageas later said hed done 
this to aid the drying process. The dust created by this caused Mrs P to have an asthma 
attack, prompting a visit to the hospitals A&E department. She also decided to move out of 
the property and stay with her daughter. 
Ageas accepted there was lots of evidence of poor workmanship. It sent another surveyor to 
the property who raised concerns about the roof and said it would need to be repaired before 
any rectification work could begin. Mrs P wasnt happy with a comment made by the agent 
who accompanied the surveyor, or with the service provided by Ageas, and she complained. 
In response, Ageas offered a cash settlement so Mrs P could appoint her own contractors to 
repair the damage. Mrs P remained unhappy and approached this service.
Our investigator noted there was a dispute about whether the roof needed to be repaired. 
But in the absence of any evidence from Ageas about that, she thought it should either 
appoint a different contractor to reinstate the property or provide a cash settlement to Mrs P 
based on what shed need to get the repairs completed. She also thought Ageas should pay 
for the cost of cleaning some curtains and bedding that had been damaged by the dust, 
£100 for the inconvenience caused and £5 per day from when Mrs P moved out of the 
property to when the work is completed or a cash settlement paid. Ageas didnt agree and 
instead offered to pay a total of about £1,900 to settle the complaint. Mrs P didnt agree that 
was enough, particularly as shed received a quote for about £2,700 to repair the property. 
As Mrs P didnt accept Ageass revised offer the complaint has been passed to me to make 
a final decision. I didnt agree with all the investigators findings. So, I sent a provisional 
decision to Mrs P and Ageas. Both parties accepted my decision. As such, my findings and 
decision below are substantially the same as set out in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is in this 
complaint), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and wider 
circumstances.
Theres no dispute about the poor quality of work carried out by the agents appointed by 
Ageas. Theres photographic evidence showing what the property looked like after the 
agents said theyd repaired it and Ageas accepts the poor workmanship and the need for 
further repairs. What I need to decide is what Ageas needs to do to put things right.
The first issue is the roof. Ageas declined the claim for external damage to the property and 
Mrs P paid to have the roof repaired by a third party. One of Ageass surveyors questioned 
whether the roof had been repaired properly. While Mrs P has said the third party who 
repaired the roof had revisited and were satisfied there were no further issues with it. This 
dispute needs to be resolved one way or the other and, as Ageas has no responsibility for 
the repair of the roof, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Mrs P to arrange for the roof 
to be inspected and to confirm there are no current issues that would cause further water 
damage to the inside of the property. If any remedial work is needed to the roof, Mrs P would 
be responsible for arranging those repairs.  
I think Ageas should then make a cash settlement to allow Mrs P to pay for a third party to 
repair the internal damage to her property. Mrs Ps policy includes the following wording:
We may offer to repair, replace or rebuild any loss or damage through one of our 
approved suppliers, however, should you prefer to use your own supplier you may, 
providing you agree this with us beforehand. Should you use your own supplier; any 
payment made would not normally exceed the discounted amount we would have 
paid our approved supplier. 
This reflects the fact that insurers will often have arrangements with companies that mean 
they can get things repaired or replaced for less than the market rate the consumer might 
pay. But in the particular circumstances of this case, I dont think it would be fair for Ageas to 
make a cash settlement to Mrs P for less than she needs to repair the damage to her 
property. Ageas accepted the claim and appointed agents to repair the property. It only 
offered to make a cash settlement after it accepted its agents hadnt completed the works to 
the standard expected. Ageas should look to put Mrs P back in the position she was in 
before the damage. And as its chosen to make a cash settlement, that should be enough to 
cover the cost to Mrs P of doing that.
Putting things right
Ive seen the quote from a third party for about £2,700 to repair the internal damage to 
Mrs Ps property and Im satisfied it covers the extent of the damage caused by the storm as 
well as the damage caused by the agents appointed by Ageas. I think Ageas should 
therefore pay Mrs P that amount so she can get the work done.
Ageas has provided a very poor level of service to Mrs P. The initial works were carried out 
to a poor standard. This prompted further visits by agents who made the situation worse by 
knocking holes in the ceiling and making comments that upset Mrs P and her daughter. 
Because of the dust caused by the ceiling being knocked through, Mrs P had an asthma 
attack that meant she had to attend hospital. It also prompted her to move out of the property to live with her daughter, where she is still residing. In light of the significant distress 
and inconvenience caused by this poor service, including the damage to bedding and 
curtains, and having to move out of her property, I think Ageas should pay Mrs P an 
additional amount of £750 for the trouble and upset its caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold this complaint and direct Ageas Insurance Limited to pay 
Mrs P the following:
£2,700 to pay for a third party to repair the damage caused by the storm and Ageass 
agents
£750 for the trouble and upset caused by its poor service
This is subject to Mrs P providing written evidence that the roof has been inspected and no 
current issues had been found that would cause further water damage to the inside of the 
property.
Ageas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
Mrs P provides the above evidence. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman