DRN-4122157
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the way AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA)
has dealt with their claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2022 Mr and Mrs B made a claim on their home insurance policy following a burst
water pipe in their upstairs bathroom. This caused damage throughout the house.
AA accepted the claim. Mr and Mrs B appointed a loss assessor to deal with the claim on
their behalf. They sent a copy of the loss assessors instruction mandate to AA. AA replied
giving information about how the claim would be handled following the appointment of a third
party and reserving its right to communicate directly with Mr and Mrs B when necessary.
The loss assessor arranged for a contractor to attend and produce a schedule of works.
Using this schedule, AA produced its own schedule at its own contractors rates. In August
2022 AA offered a cash settlement to Mr and Mrs B so that they could arrange the remedial
work themselves through their loss assessor.
The loss assessor rejected the settlement on behalf of Mr and Mrs B as it wasnt considered
sufficient to return them to the position they were in before the incident. Mr and Mrs B then
made a complaint to AA regarding the settlement and the fact that AA wasnt corresponding
with their loss assessor as they had requested. They said they would like AA to carry out the
work but that no arrangements had been made for AAs contractors to view the property and
begin the work.
AA didnt uphold the complaint. It referred to the policy booklet and said that it had offered a
cash settlement based on what it would have cost AA to carry out the repairs. It had been
costed using their National Schedule of Rates. It said it had also offered to appoint its own
contractors to carry out the work if Mr and Mrs B preferred  but only if they removed their
loss assessor. AA said that it reserved the right to communicate with Mr and Mrs B directly
rather than through their loss assessor if they felt it appropriate and that this had been
explained from the outset.
Mr and Mrs B werent happy with AAs response and brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think AA had acted unreasonably. He said that Mr and Mrs B were
offered settlement options in August 2022 and that it was fair for AA to offer a cash
settlement at the insurers rates as stated in the policy. He also didnt think it unreasonable
for AA to insist that Mr and Mrs B remove their loss assessor from the claim before it carries
out any work.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They said they were
keen for the works to progress and were happy for AA to use their contractors but wanted to
retain their loss assessor to represent them. AA said this wasnt possible and so the matter
has come to me for a decision.
My provisional decision
On 25 April 2023 I issued a provisional decision. I said:
My starting point is to look at AAs policy booklet. AA refer to the condition where it says At
our option we will: - repair or rebuild the damaged part using our suppliers; or - make a cash
payment if you wish to use your own supplier. If we make a cash payment, we will only pay
you what it would have cost us using our suppliers and therefore the amount you receive
may be lower than the cost charged by your suppliers.
I think its clear from this that AA can choose how to settle a claim but if a policyholder wants
to use their own contractor AA will cash settle at its own contractors rates. I dont think this
is unreasonable. AA will have relationships with contractors whose costs are likely to be
lower than those charged by a policyholders own contractor. If a policyholder chooses to
use their own contractor, it wouldnt be fair to expect the insurer to pay more than what it
would have cost it to carry out the work itself. AA has used its National Schedule of Rates to
value the works and I dont think this is unfair.
As well as offering a cash settlement, AA also offered to carry out the works and Mr and Mrs
B have now said they would like to take up this option. The loss assessor has asked AA to
appoint a contractor to inspect the property and begin the work. However, AA say that it
wont do so unless Mr and Mrs B agree to remove their loss assessor. This seems to be the
crux of the problem now and has led to the claim coming to a standstill.
The reason AA give for wanting the loss assessor removed is that it doesnt think he is
working in Mr and Mrs Bs best interests and that he is being obstructive. It believes that
without the loss assessor the claim would have progressed more quickly. It also says that as
the loss assessors fees are likely to be a percentage of any settlement figure, this could
lead to the claim being inflated.
AA say that Mr and Mrs B have a choice. They either allow AA to manage the claim and it
will appoint its contractors to carry out the repairs  or they accept a cash settlement and the
loss assessor can manage the claim and appoint contractors to do the work.
I dont think AAs approach is fair. I understand AAs concerns, but Mr and Mrs B are entitled
to appoint a loss assessor to represent them if they wish. Whether he is working in their best
interests or being obstructive is up to Mr and Mrs B  not AA. He is instructed by Mr and Mrs
B and so its their decision whether to continue to employ him.
There have clearly been differences in opinion between AA and the loss assessor about
certain aspects of the claim  but thats not unusual as there are different interests at play.
This complaint is not about the loss assessors behaviour, but whether AAs refusal to carry
out the work unless the loss assessor is removed is fair. I appreciate that if a loss assessors
behaviour was so unreasonable it might become difficult for an insurer to work with them, but
I havent seen anything that persuades me this is the case here.
Whilst I appreciate that the policy allows AA to choose how to settle, I dont think it fair for it
to insist on the removal of the loss assessor before it carries out the repairs. This would
leave Mr and Mrs B with just a cash settlement which the policy says is only an option if you
wish to use your own suppliers  and Mr and Mrs B have said they dont.
In all the circumstances I dont think AA have treated Mr and Mrs B fairly. In order to put
things right, I intend to require AA to withdraw the requirement for Mr and Mrs B to remove
their loss assessor before work can begin. I would encourage both parties to work together
to conclude this claim now as swiftly as possible.Mr and Mrs B also complain that AA have continued to communicate with them when they
asked for communication to be through their loss assessor. In April 2022 Mr and Mrs B
signed a mandate instructing the loss assessor to act for them  and asking him to arrange
for all communications to be made through him. A copy of this was sent to AA.
AA responded by setting out how it dealt with mandates. It said that despite receiving a
signed mandate it reserved the right to correspond with policyholders as it felt appropriate.
So, Im satisfied that AA set out its position to Mr and Mrs B in advance  and Im not aware
that they objected to this.
AA also say that the mandate doesnt require it to deal with a third party, but merely provides
authority to do so. If the third party is acting unreasonably, it says it will communicate with
the policyholder  as it says happened in this case.
Ive read the mandate and I agree with AA that I dont think it requires AA to communicate
only with the loss assessor. The mandate is actually an instruction to the loss assessor
rather than an instruction to AA.
However, AA were aware that Mr and Mrs B would like correspondence to go through their
loss assessor, and this was confirmed when they complained to AA. I dont think it fair for AA
to simply ignore Mr and Mrs Bs wishes  particularly as it had been informed by the loss
assessor of a bereavement and that communication regarding the claim was causing
additional distress.
Its not clear how much correspondence was sent directly to Mr and Mrs B. I can see that
they were informed of the offer to settle and asked to confirm their wish to complain. I dont
think this communication was unreasonable as I think it fair that Mr and Mrs B are asked to
provide confirmation in both cases of their specific instructions. However, I understand that
Mr and Mrs B were also sent copies of other letters sent to the loss assessor which I dont
think was reasonable. I therefore intend to require AA to pay Mr and Mrs B £100
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Response to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs B accepted my provisional decision. AA replied but didnt add any further 
comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change what I said 
in my provisional decision. My final decision is that I uphold the complaint for the reasons 
given in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to:
withdraw the requirement for Mr and Mrs B to remove their loss assessor before 
carrying out repairs;
proceed to deal with the claim under the terms and conditions of the policy; andpay Mr and Mrs B £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman