DRN-3127229
The complaint
Mrs D complains HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) failed to inform her that she needed a current 
account in her name in order to continue direct debits payments to her ISA. She also says 
she contacted HSBC to open her account but wasnt told she could do this online until 
November 2020. 
What happened
In January 2020, HSBC wrote to Mrs D to explain that in April 2020, her ISA account would 
be migrating over to HSBC Global Investment Centre (GIC). The letter detailed that regular 
savings payments from eligible HSBC UK Bank accounts would continue to be collected. But 
if the direct debit instruction was to collect from a Non-HSBC account, the last payment to be 
taken would in April 2020, unless an eligible HSBC account was opened. 
Following the migration, in May 2020, Mrs D rang HSBC as her direct debit for that month 
hadnt been collected despite paying from a HSBC account in her husbands name. At this 
point, HSBC advised the direct debit payments would need to come from an account in her 
name. HSBC also issued a letter in May 2020 explaining that they could not set up Mrs Ds 
regular savings due to the account she was using to make payments. They apologised for 
not being clear in explaining what they meant by an eligible account and offered to compare 
the price for the missed payment.
Mrs D contacted HSBC again in June and November 2020 to explain shes been trying to 
open a HSBC account in her name but hasnt been able to due to the lack of facilities as a 
result of the global pandemic. Following advice from HSBC in November 2020, Mrs D 
successfully opened a current account online but was unhappy the option hadnt been 
shared with her previously, despite going into branch and contacting both GIC and HSBC 
customer services. So, she raised a complaint at the same time. Shes also unhappy HSBC 
failed to identify that her account wasnt eligible to set up regular savings before May 2020.  
HSBC said they werent clear in their initial letters about the migration that the account 
needed to be in Mrs Ds name which was why they offered a price comparison for the May 
payment. However, they didnt think they were responsible for further payments because 
they informed her about the option to apply for the account online during her call with them in 
June 2020. And they werent contacted after this until November 2020.
Mrs D was unhappy with their response and asked our service to look into the complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. He agreed they 
could have been clearer in their letters that it needed to be an account in her name, but 
thought the offer was a reasonable way to put this right. And he didnt think they needed to 
do more because he felt they were clear about the option to apply for an account online in 
June 2020. He also said theres no evidence she contacted them after this or attempted an 
online application prior to November 2020. 
 
Mrs D did not agree with the investigators opinion. She says she made several calls to 
HSBC customer services and visited the branch but wasnt informed that she could open the 
account online. She also said she was told by HSBC they would price match missed 
payments until she was able to set up her current account and are now refusing to do so. As 
Mrs D did not agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that HSBC could have been clearer in explaining what they meant by an 
eligible account when they contacted Mrs D in early 2020 about changes to the funding of 
her ISA. To put things right, theyve offered to price match the May 2020 payment  when 
customers were notified of the error. So, Ive considered whether theyre required to do more 
than this here.  
Ive listened to Mrs Ds calls with HSBC from May, June and November 2020. In May, HSBC 
informed her the current account would need to be in her name. And she said shed look into 
opening one. In her call with HSBC in June, Mrs D explained she hadnt been able to open a 
sole current account or add herself to her husbands account due restrictions in the branch. 
During this call, the advisor told Mrs D that she could also attempt to open a sole account 
online. Mrs D seems to disregard this saying shes attempted to apply online, but it wasnt 
possible as she needed to provide her identification documents in branch which she couldnt 
do without an appointment. 
I understand Mrs D argues she wasnt given the option to apply online until she spoke to 
HSBC in November 2020. And says even if she was told in June 2020, she doesnt think 
HSBC would have provided her with the information she required in the way they did in 
November. I appreciate the advisor didnt go into the details of how to open an account 
online in June 2020. But Im satisfied he made it clear she could open the account online. I 
also dont think its unreasonable he didnt go into this further. The call handler told Mrs D on 
more than one occasion that she could apply online  so I think it is clear she was given this 
information before November 2020. 
Mrs D has mentioned she contacted HSBC customer services several times between June 
and November 2020 as she was struggling to open an account. However, HSBC have only 
been able to locate one other call prior to November 2020, where her husband queried 
adding Mrs D to his account and they said there was no mention of why Mrs D wished to be 
added to the account. Whilst I appreciate Mrs D looked into adding herself to her husbands 
account, she was informed of the option of opening a sole account online in June 2020. And 
from the evidence available, I cant see she was advised this wasnt possible. Weve also 
asked HSBC if they received any online applications from Mrs D prior to November 2020. 
And theyve provided evidence to show the only record of an application was the one 
completed in November  nearly five months after HSBC informed her of this option. Also, 
Mrs D hasnt provided any further evidence of failed attempts to open an account.  
Mrs D has explained she was reassured in a call with HSBC that they would carry out a price 
comparison on missed payments until she was able to open a current account. I can see she 
was given some assurances about this in the June 2020 call after she explained she had 
attempted opening an account and hadnt been able to. But I think the advisor based this on 
Mrs D being insistent that she had attempted all the avenues of opening the account. I also 
cant see there was any guarantee of an indefinite price comparison. So I cant say HSBC 
acted incorrectly or it would be fair to say they need to price match further payments. 
Taking all this into account, Im satisfied HSBC clearly explained in June 2020 that Mrs D 
had the option of opening an account online. Ive considered Mrs Ds testimony that she did make further attempts to open an account and HSBC told her on each occasion that opening 
new accounts had been suspended. While, I agree it is likely she wouldnt have able to open 
an account in branch in the summer of 2020, I have clear evidence from the June 2020 
telephone call that she was informed she could open an account online  so I dont find the 
balance of evidence supports her arguments.  And if Mrs D was unsure about how to open 
an account online, I would have expected her to contact HSBC sooner than November 2020. 
I recognise that Mrs D will be disappointed with my decision. But I dont think HSBC need to 
do anything further. HSBC has confirmed its original offer to complete a price match for the 
May 2020 payment is still open. If Mrs D wishes to accept HSBCs offer of the May price 
comparison, she can contact them directly about this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman