DRN-3826566
The complaint
Mr W complains that SEIB INSURANCE BROKERS LIMITED incorrectly debited a duplicate 
payment from his account and acted unfairly by not agreeing his request to cancel his policy.
What happened
Mr W complained to SEIB after it incorrectly charged him a duplicate premium. After Mr W 
queried this, SEIB explained that the cause was an issue with its systems and later refunded 
him the duplicate payment. Mr W requested that his policy be cancelled and asked for a pro-
rata refund of the premiums he paid. SEIB pointed to its terms, explaining that Mr W wouldnt 
get a refund given his cancellation request had been made after the initial 14-day cooling off 
period had expired. SEIB offered Mr W £50 compensation at the time.
Mr W asked this service to get involved. In the meantime, SEIB agreed to compensate Mr W 
£100 in order to resolve this matter. Mr W didnt accept this as a resolution, so one of our 
investigators looked into his complaint. SEIB then decided to offer Mr W the option to cancel 
his policy and agreed to waive the remaining premiums. SEIB pointed out that it would still 
charge its £15 administrative fee and that it wouldnt be waiving the vet fees that would be 
due.
Mr W didnt agree. Our investigator concluded that SEIB had offered a fair resolution. 
Remaining unhappy, Mr W asked for a final decision  so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I share the investigators conclusion that SEIB has put forward a fair 
resolution to this complaint.
SEIB already accepts it made an error when it charged Mr W a duplicate premium. My 
understanding is that the additional charge has since been refunded. SEIB compensated 
Mr W £100 because of this. This is a reasonable compensation figure and within the region 
of what I wouldve asked SEIB to pay had it not offered anything at all.
The crux of Mr Ws concerns is around the cancellation of the policy. Mr W seems to have 
lost faith in SEIB and wanted to cancel his insurance contract. However, although the terms 
allow cancellation after the initial 14-day cooling off period expires, under the terms Mr W 
wouldnt receive a refund. Although Mr W thinks these terms are unfair, I dont find the 
cancellation terms to be onerous or unusual. 
Mr W points to the fact that SEIB issued new terms part way through the policy year. And the 
amended cancellation terms seem more favourable to him. However, Mr Ws policy was 
taken out prior to these amended terms being issued. So the terms in place at the time his 
policy came into effect apply  rather than the new terms. I know this is disappointing to 
Mr W, but these are the terms he agreed to when he took out the policy. 
SEIB recently put forward a new offer to resolve this complaint. I wont repeat the specifics of 
the offer again given Mr W has rejected this new offer. In my opinion, SEIB has taken 
reasonable steps to resolve Mr Ws complaint  departing from its own terms by agreeing to 
waive the remaining premiums. 
So I think SEIB has done enough to fairly resolve Mr Ws complaint. I wont be asking SEIB 
to do anything further.
Putting things right
Mr W has rejected SEIBs recent offer. If Mr W changes his mind, SEIB should settle the 
complaint in line with its recent offer. SEIB has already paid Mr W £100 compensation, 
which I think is fair. So it need not pay him any further compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that SEIB INSURANCE BROKERS LIMITED has put forward a fair 
resolution to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman