DRN-4364176
The complaint
Mr G complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) cant provide evidence of the 
funds in his accounts being paid to him.
What happened
Mr G found paperwork relating to accounts he opened with NS&I in the 1990s. He wrote to 
them to ask them for the status of the accounts. NS&I replied asking him to complete a form 
so they could locate the accounts, which Mr G sent them the completed form. NS&I sent Mr 
G a letter dated 7 October 2022, informing him that his two accounts had been repaid. Mr G 
responded asking for more details about this as he didnt have any records of the accounts 
being closed. Mr G made a complaint to NS&I.
NS&I apologised for the brief previous response, and they sent him £30 in recognition of 
this. They said his Income Bonds were repaid on 1 February 2007 for the amount of 
£25,000, and when his account was open, any interest earned was paid to his Investment 
Account. NS&I said Mr Gs Investment Account was repaid on 6 June 2012 for the amount of 
£42.28. NS&I said that they have a responsibility to meet regulations regarding the retention 
and destruction of data to ensure that records are kept no longer than necessary. In 
accordance with this, they retain details of transactions for six years following the end of the 
relationship with the customer from which they can provide details of repayment. This means 
that they were limited in the information they could provide on historic repayments. Mr G 
brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Gs complaint. She said NS&I provided a copy of a letter 
dated 6 March 2007. The letter advises the £25,000 Income Bond was repaid on 1 February 
2007 following a request from Mr G to do so. She also said that NS&I provided details of 
account transactions that went through the Investment Account, which shows a closing entry 
of £43.33 with a value date of 6 June 2012. Our investigator said that as its more than six 
years since the funds were paid out to Mr G, NS&I no longer have any further details, and 
we dont expect NS&I  or any other financial business  to retain information indefinitely. Mr 
G asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mr Gs complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by him. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.  
I know that Mr G wants definitive proof that NS&I have paid him the funds of his accounts. 
But due to the time thats passed since the accounts were closed, NS&I are not obliged to 
retain such records indefinitely  nor would we expect them to as they have legislation they 
need to follow regarding the retention of data. As it is over six years since these accounts 
have been closed, then the information Mr G wants to see is not available.
When it comes to complaints where its one word against another, I have to consider the 
evidence available to me. I then have to weigh the evidence against the balance of 
probabilities, that is, whats more likely to have happened in the circumstances. NS&I 
provided our service a letter that they have been able to locate dated 6 March 2007. This 
letter is addressed to Mr G, and it contains the same address as the letter NS&I sent Mr G 
dated 7 October 2022.
This letter is in relation to the £25,000 Income Bond. This contains the wording Thank you 
for your recent letter. So it does appear that Mr G had wrote to them shortly before 6 March 
2007. Its unclear what the letter was that Mr G had sent them, but this letter does give an 
indication of this as it says With regard to your request to repay the £25,000 Income Bond 
holding. So it does look like Mr G made a request for them to pay the £25,000 Income 
Bond. The letter goes on to say The repayment was dated 1st February 2007 and as such 
you were not entitled to a full months interest payment on 5th February 2007. At the point of 
repayment it was too late to stop the interest payment to adjust it accordingly and therefore a 
deduction of £13.56 was made from the repayment monies. A full months interest totalling 
£101.84 was credited to your usual account on 5th February 2007.
So NS&I informed Mr G on this letter that the repayment was dated on 1 February 2007. It 
appears Mr G wrote to them about the interest payable when his Income Bond was sold, and 
that is why they explained he was not entitled to a full months interest payment and that a 
deduction of £13.56 was made from repayment monies. So if NS&I had not have repaid 
him the repayment money around this date, it would have been proportionate for Mr G to tell 
them he hadnt received the repayment funds, and raise a complaint, and bring this to our 
service if necessary, but Ive seen no evidence Mr G did this, so I am persuaded that he was 
paid the Income Bond funds.
Ive also been able to cross reference what this letter has said about £101.84 being credited 
to his usual account on 5 February 2007. This appears to be Mr Gs Investment Account, 
and the transactions do indeed show a payment of £101.84 into his account on 5 February 
2007, which further reiterates the contents of the letter they sent him on 6 March 2007. The 
transactions of his Investment Account do show that Mr G made further transactions on this 
even after his Income Bond had been closed, for example a cheque for £42.40 was credited 
to the account on 1 June 2007. 
The transactions also show Mr G making withdrawals on occasion such as 10 May 2011, 
where £1,075 was withdrawn via Bankers Automated Clearing System (BACS). This would 
have been a payment made direct to an account. And while I cant see the account it was 
paid to due to the time thats passed, on the balance of probabilities, it would have been paid 
to an account Mr G instructed them to pay it to otherwise he would have informed them he 
didnt receive the withdrawal he asked them for.
The transactions of Mr Gs Investment Account shows that on the value date 6 June 2012, 
there was a closing payment of £43.33 paid via BACS. So although I cant see the account it 
was paid to due to the time thats passed, on the balance of probabilities, it would likely have 
been paid into the same account that Mr G instructed them to pay it to when he withdrew the 
£1,075, just 13 months earlier. 
NS&I paid Mr G £30 for not giving him further information in their letter dated 7 October 
2022. Im satisfied that this was fair based on the inconvenience Mr G will have had by needing to write back to NS&I to request this. So it follows I dont require NS&I to do 
anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman