DRN-3954753
The complaint
Ms Rs complaint is about a secured loan she has with Swift 1st Limited trading as Swift 
Advances. She doesnt consider that it offered appropriate support when she was in financial 
difficulties.
What happened
Ms R took out her loan in 2004. It was for £14,250 and due to be repaid over a term of 20 
years. The contractual monthly payment (CMP) was set at £178.86.
The account fell into arrears because Ms R wasnt able to maintain the payments. This 
caused fees, charges and additional interest to be added to the loan balance. Over the years 
Ms R had various payment arrangements that ranged from Swift allowing her to pay 
considerably less than the CMP to between £10 and around £40 more than the CMP.
In December 2015 Ms R contacted Swift to ask it to reduce the interest rate or stop charging 
interest at all. This request was made because, even though she was paying more than the 
CMP, the total payment was less than the amount of interest accruing each month. Ms R 
was told she needed to maintain her payments for three months, do an income and 
expenditure (I&E) exercise, and then the request needed to go to management for 
consideration. The I&E showed that Ms R had a small disposable income of £72. It was 
agreed at that point that she would continue to pay the CMP plus £10 as she had been. The 
monthly interest at that time was £242.35.
In March 2016 Ms R contacted Swift again and chased her case being referred to 
management for consideration. She again asked that interest be reduced or frozen given the 
amount she had to pay back. She was told at this point that she had to speak to Citizens 
Advice before that could happen. 
Six months later Ms R went back to Swift and explained that shed been unable to speak to 
someone at Citizens Advice face to face. She again asked that her account be referred to its 
management for consideration of the interest rate. This was arranged and on 12 December 
2016 it was decided that the interest rate would be reduced from 14.16% to 8.4%. This was 
applied on 6 January 2017 and meant that the amount Ms R was paying was more than the 
monthly interest charged, and the balance on the account started to reduce. However, not by 
any significant amount each month and there was no possibility that the loan would be 
repaid by the end of the term in just over seven years time.
By the time the account was reviewed by Swifts management and the interest rate reduction 
decided upon, Ms R had started to miss payments again. When shed initially asked for help 
in 2015, she had maintained payments over the previous year. Due to payments being 
missed and the account balance not reducing, Swift decided to take legal action to 
repossess Ms Rs property. A suspended possession order was issued in March 2018, 
requiring Ms R to pay £200 each month in order to retain possession of her home. She has 
done so ever since. 
Ms R complained again because she was unhappy with the balance on the loan, given what 
she had already paid. On 13 January 2021 Swift responded to the complaint. It said that 
some aspects of the complaint were time-barred, and so it didnt comment on them. In 
relation to the fees and charges and interest applied over the previous six years, it said it 
had applied them in line with the terms and conditions. As for the outstanding balance, it 
explained that it was at the level it was because payments had been missed. This had 
resulted in fees and charges being applied and additional interest. Swift confirmed that the 
then present balance of the account at around £21,000 included over £3,000 of fees and 
over £11,000 of extra interest. Swift didnt uphold any aspect of Ms Rs complaint. 
Later in 2021 Ms R raised further concerns about the fact that the loan wouldnt be paid off 
by the end of the term and the correspondence shed been sent. Swift issued another letter 
on 6 August 2021 explaining that the Consumer Credit Act required it to send its customers 
information about any arrears on their loan account and any charges that had been applied 
as a result. Swift also highlighted that Ms R had been told regularly how much she needed to 
pay in order to clear the loan before the end of the term. In addition, it provided an 
explanation of certain documents and figures within them. It was satisfied that its 
communications were what they should have been. 
In addition, Swift said that when Ms R had asked for help with her financial difficulties, it had 
assessed her situation and set up payment arrangements, reduced the interest rate charged, 
monitored the account and discussed an assisted sale. It considered it had done what it 
could to assist her. However, it concluded that the interest rate review that took place in late 
2016 should have been done earlier. As such, it was backdating the interest rate concession 
to 1 April 2016., resulting in a reduction in the loan balance of £1,403.32. This date was 
selected as it was the earliest point the review could have been done following Ms Rs 
request on 26 March 2016. Swift also acknowledged that Ms Rs comments in 2016 
regarding the balance of the loan should have been dealt with as a complaint.
One of our investigators looked into Ms Rs complaint. She concluded that we could only 
consider part of the complaint and she didnt recommend the part we could consider be 
upheld.
Neither party accepted everything the investigator said, so the complaint was referred to an 
ombudsman for consideration.
One of my ombudsman colleagues issued a decision setting out our jurisdiction in relation to 
the complaint. She concluded that we could consider the following aspects of Ms Rs 
complaint: 
Her request for an interest concession in early 2016 wasnt fairly considered.
The outstanding balance she had in March 2016 was unfairly high. Including looking into 
what had affected the account balance in the previous six years (i.e. from 27 March 
2010), such as charges and interest applied.
Since 8 January 2015 fees, interest and other costs were unfairly applied to her account, 
that she wasnt given clear information about what she had to repay and Swift didnt 
keep her arrears separate from her loan balance.
Swift didnt offer appropriate support with her financial difficulties from 8 January 2015.
One of our investigators then considered the merits of the parts of the complaint we could 
consider. She concluded that the offer made in relation to the interest rate concession 
request in 2016 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. The investigator didnt 
recommend the remainder of the complaint points be upheld.Ms R wasnt happy with the investigators conclusions and said that she was not disputing 
that Swift had acted legally and within its rights, but that it was irresponsible, which led to her 
difficulties. She said that she didnt receive support or understanding of her situation, she 
was just told to pay less which made things worse and increased her arrears. Ms R said that 
no solution was given when she was in financial difficulties and there should be a fair 
outcome now; she would like at least some of the charges refunded. She asked that the 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision on 24 January 2023 setting out my conclusions and reasons 
for reaching them. Below is an excerpt. 
At each stage of our investigation we review our jurisdiction to consider a complaint. Having 
done so, I agree with my colleagues conclusions on jurisdiction and I will review the merits 
of the complaint accordingly.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first point of Ms Rs complaint that we can consider is about her request for an interest 
rate concession in 2016 not being considered fairly. Swift has already accepted that it should 
have dealt with the request sooner and that if it had, it would have reduced the interest rate 
at an earlier date. It has offered to back-date the change to the point where the change 
should have been applied to the loan. As Swift has accepted it should have dealt with the 
request earlier, I dont need to reach a conclusion on this matter. I wont, however, comment 
on the offer made at this point, as I will be considering the interest applied to the loan and 
how Ms Rs financial difficulties were dealt with as a whole.
When a borrower is in financial difficulties a lender should explore ways to resolve an arrears 
situation, especially if the problem that created the arrears to begin with is one that looks to 
be short-term and capable of being resolved. For long-term difficulties, a lender must also 
look at other ways to help, such as deferring interest for a period of time or reducing the 
amount of interest charged. Balanced against that is the lenders obligation to ensure that 
any arrangement is affordable and sustainable. 
In Ms Rs case, at the point I can look into the management of the account, and the handling 
of her financial difficulties, the arrears situation had been ongoing for years. Indeed, at the 
beginning of the period I am considering in 2010, the interest being charged was more than 
the amount of the CMP and either more than she was paying to the loan or around the same 
amount.  As time progressed, the amount being paid, even when it was more than the CMP, 
was less than the interest accruing each month and the balance owed increased 
accordingly.
While there were times that Ms Rs situation appears to have improved and she managed to 
pay more than the CMP, there were also periods where she wasnt able to afford to pay 
even that amount. It wasnt until late in 2013 that Ms Rs situation appears to have stabilised 
and she was able to maintain payments for more than a few months. 
However, throughout Swift kept in touch with Ms R and reviewed her situation on a regular 
basis, as I would have expected it to.  Various arrangements to pay (ATP) were set up and 
they were reviewed on a regular basis. When Ms Rs finances were particularly difficult, it 
agreed to payments of significantly less than the CMP for periods, to give her circumstances 
time to improve. In addition, when she approached Swift to reduce the interest rate on the 
account, it reviewed the situation and reduced the interest rate (albeit later than it 
acknowledges it should have). Swift had a duty of care toward Ms R and I dont think it 
should have taken her asking for such a review for it to have taken place.However, I note that in November 2013 Swift reviewed Ms Rs payments with her. At this 
point an ATP was agreed of £10 above the CMP. Ms R maintained that arrangement and it 
was extended at a review in March 2014 for another three months. Again Ms R maintained 
the monthly payments as she had agreed to. At the next review in June 2014, I think it would 
seem reasonable for Swift to have concluded that Ms Rs situation had stabilised. It is at this 
point that I consider it should have looked into Ms Rs situation in a wider context, including 
the interest it was charging on the loan, not just the amount she could afford to pay each 
month. 
In June 2014 Ms R was paying £10 each month toward the arrears and the CMP. However, 
the interest that was accruing each month was around £40 more than the amount Ms R 
could afford to pay. The balance was slightly under £20,000 at that point with just over ten 
years left on the term. So it would have been very clear to Swift that based on what it had 
assessed Ms R was able to pay to the loan that its balance was going to continue to 
increase each month and there was no possibility of it being repaid at all, let alone by the 
end of the term. In addition, the interest accruing was still increasing the balance of the debt 
each and every month; contributing to the balance that Ms R complained about in 2016.
Given this, I consider that Swift should have taken action about the interest rate, as it did in 
2016, in June 2014. I consider that it should have proactively reviewed the interest rate it 
was charging on the loan and reduced it to a level that would have allowed Ms R to repay 
the loan by the end of the term, assuming she continued to pay the monthly payments it had 
agreed with her. If this meant that the interest rate would have needed to be zero, then that 
is what it should have reduced it to. I consider that Swift should complete this backdated 
assessment now, and rebuild the account accordingly.
I note that Swift took legal action and was granted a suspended possession order in 
March 2018. It appears this was due to the level of arrears and the fact that Ms R started to 
miss payments again from the autumn of 2016. I have considered whether I think the above 
action would have changed that situation. While the loan balance would have been lower, 
there would still have been arrears, charges and additional interest balances outstanding, 
and the further missed payments would still have been missed. As such, I dont think I can 
conclude that the decision to start legal action wouldnt have been made. 
Ms Rs account has had charges added to it over the years, both for additional management 
activities and litigation activities. We dont generally consider it is reasonable for a lender to 
add charges and fees to a mortgage or secured loan just because there are arrears on the 
account. However, where an account is not being maintained and this causes the lender 
additional cost to administer it, we wouldnt consider it unreasonable for charges to be 
applied. I have reviewed the charges that were applied from 27 March 2010.
As I have said above, Swift and Ms R had agreed various ATPs over the years. I dont 
consider that where such an agreement was in place and Ms R fulfilled her side of it, even if 
the payment was slightly late, an additional management charge should have been applied. 
As such, I consider that Swift should reverse the management charges applied on the 
following dates:
2 October 2014 
2 July 2011
2 June 2011
2 December 2010
28 March 2010
There were other occasions where there wasnt an ATP in place, or Ms R paid the CMP 
rather than a higher ATP amount. Again, if Ms R had paid at least the amount she was legally obliged to pay to the loan, it doesnt seem fair that a charge was applied for those 
months. As such, I consider the account management charges applied on the following 
dates should also be reversed:
2 October 2013
2 April 2013
2 February 2011
2 January 2011
Swift decided to start legal action in March 2018 and applied the first charge for this action 
on 26 March 2018. However, it also applied an account management charge in the same 
month. Given that the account had been move to its litigation team, I dont consider it was 
fair to apply a management charge as well, as any actions from that time onwards would 
reasonably have been carried out under the litigation process. As such, I consider that Swift 
should reverse the account management fee applied on 10 March 2018.
Ms R accepted my provisional decision. Swift did not. I will comment on its response later in 
the decision. However, in the meantime, in light of Swifts comments regarding the charges, I 
reviewed this issue again and came to a slightly different conclusion. Our investigator 
informed the parties of my revised conclusions, which were that the following charges should 
be reversed, for the reasons detailed in my provisional decision:
10 March 2018
2 October 2013
2 April 2012
2 July 2011
2 June 2011
2 February 2011
2 January 2011
2 December 2010
Swift agreed to reverse all but the charge applied on 10 March 2018. It considered that this 
charge was reasonably applied because it related to Ms R having missed the payment due 
in February 2018, which resulted in additional administration for it. The litigation fee applied 
later in March 2018 was a separate and specific fee in and for activities undertaken that 
month. As such, there were not two fees applied for March, but rather one for February and 
one for March. It went on to explain what activities were undertaken in order for the litigation 
fee to be charged. 
Ms R accepted my revised conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Swift explained that it is concerned that when reaching my conclusions I had made the 
assumption that if a customer was in financial difficulty, they would be so until the end of the 
term and possibly forever. It went on to say that this gave the impression of giving up on or 
writing off a customer, which was not the right thing to do. Swift then gave examples of 
situations where it considered it would be appropriate to change forbearance arrangements. 
Swift also set out the various things that Ms R had put forward as potential changes to her 
situation and it also postulated on what Ms Rs situation might have been at the end of the 
term of her main mortgage. On a generic basis, it suggested that the approach I had set out 
for redress in this case, meant that theoretically a customer could pay nothing over the term of a loan and simply repay the amount borrowed at the term end. 
I would firstly agree with Swift that it would not be appropriate to write-off a customer. Any 
forbearance arrangements put in place should be reviewed regularly to ensure that they are 
what a particular customer needs. If there were material improvements in a customers 
circumstances, such as them gaining work if previously unemployed, or changing jobs and 
having an uplift in their income, then any forbearance being provided might not be needed to 
the same degree or at all. In such circumstances it wouldnt be unreasonable for the 
arrangements to be changed.
My provisional decision set out my conclusions for Ms Rs individual case. While when 
speaking to Swift Ms R expressed the hope for various things to happen, from her parents 
making a payment to the loan to her gaining employment, those things didnt happen. So in 
this case, it was not necessary for me to highlight any points where forbearance 
arrangements should reasonably have been reviewed because of an improvement to Ms Rs 
circumstances, because there was no such improvement. Furthermore, as a suspended 
possession order was later issued, the judges conclusions about the situation took 
precedence from that point. 
As for Swifts concern that the approach I have set out on this case means that in the 
extreme consumers could pay nothing during the term of a loan and just pay back the 
amount borrowed at the end of the term, I dont agree with that interpretation. As I made 
clear in my provisional decision, I didnt consider that the review of the interest rate should 
have been undertaken until Ms Rs financial situation appeared to have reached a point of 
reasonable stability. This being evidenced by the fact that in June 2014 when Swift 
completed its second review of the payment arrangement that had been in place since 
November 2013, all payments had been made under that agreement. 
I note that Swift has said that when it did an income and expenditure exercise it showed that 
Ms R had £58 disposable income, but it set the arrangement at £8 as its policy was that it 
would factor in an additional £50 on the expenditure to allow for any unexpected expenses. 
As such, Ms R had the option to pay more to the loan and reduce the arrears more quickly. I 
would firstly confirm that Swifts approach of leaving a customer with some contingency 
income when completing an income and expenditure exercise is an appropriate one. We 
dont consider that it is appropriate for a lender to expect a consumer to pay every penny of 
their calculated disposable income to a payment arrangement for arrears on their loan or 
mortgage. This is because there will be costs in life that cant be factored into an income and 
expenditure exercise, especially when the subject of that exercise has a property to 
maintain. So I am not persuaded that the £50 contingency sum that Swift allocated in its 
calculations for this purpose would reasonably alter my conclusions. 
Swift has highlighted that it is not required by any specific regulations to alter the interest 
rate applicable to a loan. I would agree that this is not specified by the regulator. However, 
since April 2014 Swift has been regulated by the FCA and it does require a lender to treat a 
customer fairly and, where possible, to support them when in financial difficulties and during 
their recovery from such circumstances. This could result in a range of forbearance 
provisions, including the reduction of the rate of interest applied to a loan or mortgage. It is 
clear that Swift understands that it needs to look into the various options, including changing 
the interest rate, as it did just that in 2016. What my provisional decision effectively 
concluded was that Swift should have completed the review earlier than it did. 
I am pleased to see that Swift has agreed to reverse most of the charges. However, it has 
objected to the refund of the charge on 10 March 2018. I acknowledge that the charge was 
applied because the payment in the previous month was missed. However, the additional 
administration that missed payment caused was undertaken in March. This means that Ms R was charged twice in the same month for administrative activities completed in that month 
relating to the arrears on her account. While I have considered everything that Swift has said 
I am not persuaded that this is fair in the circumstances.
Putting things right
I require Swift to complete a retrospective review of the interest rate on Ms Rs account, as 
of June 2014, and reduce the rate to a level that would have allowed Ms R to repay the loan 
by the end of the term, assuming she continued to pay the monthly payments it had agreed 
with her. If this means that the interest rate would have needed to be zero, then that is what 
it should have reduced it to. The account should be rebuilt accordingly.
In addition, Swift should reverse the following charges:
10 March 2018
2 October 2013
2 April 2012
2 July 2011
2 June 2011
2 February 2011
2 January 2011
2 December 2010
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Swift 1st Limited trading as Swift 
Advances to complete the actions detailed in Putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman