DRN-1712930
The complaint
Mr W has a series of complaints about the contact made with him by Lantern Debt Recovery 
Services Ltd (Lantern). Mr W says his requests for information have been ignored, the 
contact has harassed him, and he feels it was unreasonable for Lantern to write to an 
address he doesnt currently live at. 
What happened
Mr W had a loan with a company that subsequently went into administration. His loan was 
among a tranche the administrator sold to Lantern. I've looked at the administrators website, 
which says both it and the loan purchaser would contact the customers affected. 
Mr Ws complaint makes no mention of receiving the administrators contact. But Lantern 
sent him a couple of emails telling him theyd bought the loan and asking him to arrange 
from that point on to pay it back to them. These went to Mr Ws spam email folder, and he 
replied saying he felt the contact might be some sort of scam. 
As well as their emails, Lantern wrote a letter about the loan. This was sent to an address for 
Mr W that turned out to be his ex-wifes address. Mr W was unhappy Lantern had written to 
this address and asked why theyd used it. Lantern explained theyd been given it by a 
third-party credit reference agency T, who they used as a tracing agent. Mr W asked to see 
what Lantern had been given but they said hed need to contact T directly. 
Mr W checked Ts online service but couldnt see the address on his file, so he didnt believe 
what Lantern had told him. But he later complained to T, who confirmed they did have the 
ex-wifes address linked to Mr W. They said this was because, according to their records, 
hes registered on an electoral roll at that address. 
Mr W wasnt happy with Lanterns responses to his complaints, so he brought the matter to 
us. Our investigator explained why they thought Lanterns service had been reasonable. 
Mr W didnt agree, and felt more should have been done to look at evidence to prove that 
what Lantern were telling him, and us, was true. 
The case has passed to me for a final decision. While I dont have all of the evidence that 
Mr W feels I need, Ill explain below how I have enough to reach a conclusion. Ill also 
explain why my conclusion is that Lantern have acted reasonably in this matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When bringing his complaints to us, Mr W explained how he was concerned that the emails 
he received from Lantern were part of a scam. He said he felt that the original lender or the 
administrator should have been the ones to tell him his debt had been sold, or that his 
payments towards the debt would need to change. I can understand why Mr W was wary of Lanterns email. Having heard about the damage 
that email scams can do to people, I can see why he might have been cautious of a new and 
unexpected email contact from a business he didnt know. 
To establish what Lantern needed to do here, Ive looked at the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) handbook, which can be found online. This sets out the rules that apply when buying 
or selling someones debt. A key rule for Mr Ws case is in the section called the Consumer 
Credit sourcebook (CONC), part 6.5.2. Applying this rule to Mr Ws case, it would be Lantern 
and not the original lender, that needed to tell him the ownership of the debt had changed. I 
appreciate Mr W feels that there should be a different requirement, but that isnt a matter for 
Lantern or me to decide.
I can see that Lantern informed Mr W with their email on 22 May 2019. So even though it 
didnt meet Mr Ws expectations, I think it was reasonable for Lantern to contact Mr W and 
expect that to be okay, as its what the rules said they had to do. 
Within their email, Lantern gave Mr W contact details  phone, post and online addresses  
that he could have checked against the details available for them online. These all match 
with what Ive seen listed for the company on the Financial Services Register, a free to use 
online search tool set up by the FCA. So I dont see any issue here with Lantern feeling 
theyd done enough to identify themselves to Mr W. 
The emails ending up in a spam folder was clearly a concern for Mr W. But there wasnt 
anything Lantern could have done about that, as the way Mr W received an email is 
determined by the email service he uses. So Im not going to hold that against Lantern. But it 
does support Lanterns use of more than one method of contact for Mr W. Doing that helped 
ensure he got the message CONC 6.5.2 said they needed to give him. 
Ive looked at the issue of the letter sent to Mr Ws ex-wifes address, and considered 
Lanterns position on this. Its legitimate for a company to use a tracing agent such as T to 
try to find a current address for someone. And I can believe that T told Lantern that Mr W 
was linked to his ex-wifes address, given that T later told Mr W they had him down as 
registered to vote at that address. So I dont need to see anything else here to conclude that 
Lantern were taking reasonable actions to search for Mr Ws current address, and then 
acting on the results they got. 
Its clear that Mr W became very upset when he felt Lantern werent doing enough to prove 
to him that their contact with him wasnt a scam. But I think they had by that point already 
done enough to make it clear who they were, what had happened, and what Mr W needed to 
do next in order to manage his debt with them. So I dont think Lantern needed to do more to 
resolve Mr Ws complaints or satisfy his requests.
Looking generally at the tone and frequency of the contact, I dont find it was intended to 
cause Mr W to feel harassed. The first email was needed to tell him his debt had been sold, 
to comply with CONC 6.5.2, and to update the arrangements for paying the debt. The follow 
up email, call and letter are understandable, given there was still no payment arrangement in 
place with Lantern at that point. The correspondence then turned to looking at Mr Ws 
complaints, which I find was done in an open and professional tone, and in a reasonable 
amount of time. 
Clearly, Mr W is not happy with Lanterns service towards him, and I accept that Im probably 
not going to be able to change that feeling. But I do think his interests now will be better 
served by working with Lantern, not against them. I hope my decision and the conclusion of 
our process will at least draw a line under Mr Ws complaints, and so help him do that.My final decision
Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd treated Mr W in a fair and reasonable way. They do not 
need to do any more to resolve Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman