The complaint
Mr N says Emergency Cash Limited (trading as wizzcash.com) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr N had one loan with wizzcash, for £825, taken on 25 June 2017. The loan was originally 
due to be repaid in three monthly instalments of just under £400. I understand Mr N's loan 
was actually repaid after only one day, with a payment of £831.60.
Our adjudicator didn't think Mr N's complaint should be upheld. Mr N didn't agree, so his 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
wizzcash needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Mr N could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Before lending to Mr N, wizzcash asked him for some information about his income and 
expenditure. Mr N said his monthly income was £2,400 and his declared monthly 
expenditure came to £1,750. Mr N's expenditure included £150 for utilities, £150 for travel, 
£150 for food, £400 for housing, £600 for monthly credit commitments and £300 for 'other' 
credit commitments. wizzcash also carried out a credit check. This showed that all of Mr N's 
credit commitments were up-to-date.
I think the checks wizzcash carried out were proportionate and its decision to lend was 
reasonable. The information Mr N provided about his income and expenditure suggested the 
monthly repayments were affordable and wizzcash's credit check didn't significantly 
undermine what Mr N told wizzcash about his credit commitments. So it was reasonable 
for wizzcash to rely on Mr N's declarations.
Finally, I'm aware Mr N has said wizzcash offered him £25 in vouchers. I've seen no 
evidence of this and wizzcash says it never made such an offer. But, even if such a gesture 
of goodwill was made, it must be the case that Mr N didn't accept it as he referred his 
complaint to this service. 
DRN-1569869As I don't think wizzcash lent to Mr N irresponsibly, I wouldn't order it to reinstate any offer 
which was purely a goodwill gesture. So I don't need to comment on whether I 
think wizzcash made any such gesture or not.
I realise this will be disappointing for Mr N. But for the reasons given above, I do not uphold 
his complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr N's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman