DRN-3435354
The complaint
Y Ltd complained because Advanced Payment Solutions (APS) Limited, trading as Cashplus 
Bank, closed its account.
What happened
Y Ltd opened a business bank account with APS in February 2021. On 11 August, APS 
issued a notice to Y Ltd, saying its account would be closed in 60 days time, and Y Ltd was 
asked to withdraw all funds within that timescale. No reason was given. Y Ltd complained, 
through its solicitor, on 29 September.
In APSs final response to Y Ltds complaint, it said that it had issued the closure notice in 
accordance with clause 10.1 of the account terms and conditions. It said it wasnt obliged to 
provide detailed reasons, and it refused to provide more information about the decision, 
which it said would not be changed. It said the account would be closed on 13 October.
Y Ltd wasnt satisfied and complained to this service, saying it was unreasonable that the 
account should have been closed without an explanation. It had asked APS for a Data 
Subject Access Request, but when this was provided, it hadnt given the reason for the 
closure. Y Ltd said that the information provided was incomplete, and Y Ltd had been the 
victim of an automated process which marked the account for closure. Y Ltd said that its 
directors had had unnecessary stress and inconvenience in having to look for an alternative 
business account, and change direct debits and other matters. It said APS ought to have 
had to provide the reasons  and if it wouldnt, it should reinstate the account.
Our investigator didnt uphold Y Ltds complaint. He asked APS for its reason for closure, 
which it provided. But he told Y Ltd that this was commercially sensitive information which he 
couldnt pass on. He said APS had the power under the terms and conditions to close the 
account at any time by giving 60 days notice - and it didnt have to explain the reasons.
Y Ltd said the outcome was disappointing and frustrating. It said that it understood APSs 
terms of business, but that didnt mean that the reason to close the account had been fair. It 
said that our investigators statement that he wouldnt disclose APSs reasons, conflicted 
with our website which says that this service will always explain the reasons behind its 
assessments. It said that this service had assumed that APSs reasons were accurate. And 
APSs decision not to disclose the reasons wasnt fair or acceptable, because Y Ltd couldnt 
have the opportunity to address and correct any allegations about the directors or the 
company. It asked that even if we wouldnt disclose the reason for the closure, we should 
say what the source of the information was. Y Ltd asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Y Ltds representative has raised multiple points in submissions to the service. Ive 
understood all of those and considered all thats been said and sent to us, but in reaching 
my decision Ive focused on what I think is vital to my conclusions.
The terms and conditions of Y Ltds account, which the directors accepted on opening the 
account, give APS power to close an account, stating:
  15. Expiration, cancellation and termination

15.5 Subject to applicable law, we may terminate this agreement for any reason by written 
notice to you. Termination shall be effective on the date specified on the notice, but in any 
case, the notice period given shall not be less than two (2) months.
For clarity, Section 10.1 of the terms and conditions, which APS quoted in its final response, 
sets out APSs power to suspend or restrict access to the account. One of the circumstances 
refers to doing so if the contract has been cancelled in relation to section 15.5. Section 15.5 
is the relevant clause relating to Y Ltds closure complaint.
Here, APS gave Y Ltd notice on 11 August that it would close the account on 13 October. So 
I find that it gave Y Ltd the required amount of notice as set out in the terms and conditions.
As well as considering whether APS had the power to close the account under the terms and 
conditions, and whether it acted in line with the requirements of the terms and conditions, 
Ive also considered overall fairness. Y Ltds representative has argued that it wasnt fair that 
the investigator didnt disclose what APS gave us as its reason for the closure  because it 
meant Y Ltd couldnt address whatever APSs concern was. 
But what Im impartially assessing here is whether or not APS closed Y Ltds account for a 
fair reason. APS has told us why it took that decision. Ive considered that information, and I 
find that there wasnt unfairness in its reason for closing the account. I realise this will have 
had an impact on Y Ltd, but closing an account often will for a customer. That doesnt mean 
that a business isnt entitled to do this though. APS gave the notice it did allowed Y Ltd some 
time to make alternative arrangements, which is fair in the circumstances. 
Having found that APS closed Y Ltds account for a fair reason, Ive gone on to consider 
whether it had to disclose the reason. It didnt. Banks arent required to give reasons, any 
more than a customer has to give their bank a reason if they decide to close their account. 
As APS chose not to disclose the reason for the closure, it wouldnt be right for this service 
to disclose it either. This applies equally to Y Ltds request to know the source of the 
information, if not the reasons. Sometimes we do receive information, from either side, which 
isnt to be passed on, and wed honour that confidentiality. While I understand why Y Ltd 
would want to see this and why it may feel prejudiced from being able to defend itself, this 
service is impartial and has to be fair to both sides. So in considering this matter, I can only 
reassure Y Ltd that I have fully considered the reasons given by APS for the closure and 
having done so, I have seen nothing to suggest that it wasnt entitled to make that decision 
or that it did so unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Y Ltd to accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman