DRN-3883329
The complaint
Mr F complains that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 Money, hasnt followed his 
communication preferences.
What happened
Mr F holds an account with Madison and, on occasion, hes received SMS messages about 
it. Generally, because Mr Fs account is in arrears, the messages offer him the chance to 
settle his debt for a reduced amount.
Mr F wasnt happy about being contacted by SMS message. Hed previously raised a 
complaint about being contacted by letter, and the subsequent impact to his mental health, 
and he felt that the SMS messages were having the same detrimental effect.
 
Specifically, Mr F said that Madison were already aware of matters to do with his mental 
health  and he thought it should know that its communication would cause him a great deal 
of unnecessary distress.
 
Madison sent its final response to Mr F on 19 May 2022. It apologised for any issues it had 
caused and said that its SMS communication, with offers to settle the debt at a reduced 
balance, were intended to help and not to cause distress. Madison said it had a duty to let 
Mr F know about different options that were available to him, as well as any changes or 
action that it might take regarding his account. So, it simply wasnt able to suppress all 
communication.
 
Lastly, Madison also explained that it had asked Mr F to complete a Debt and Mental Health 
Evidence Form so it could better understand how to help him. But Mr F had yet to take up 
that course of action.
 
Mr F remained unhappy, so he contacted our service and referred his complaint to us for an 
independent review. An investigator here looked at what had happened, and she concluded 
that Madison hadnt acted unreasonably in the circumstances. In summary, she said:
Shed reviewed the contact notes which Madison had provided and, until very 
recently, there was no record that Mr F had asked not to be contacted by SMS 
message at all. So, on balance, she couldnt say that Madison had acted unfairly by 
sending Mr F SMS messages if it wasnt aware that he didnt want them. 
Soon after Mr F had raised the issue, Madison acted to ensure his communication 
preferences were amended.
Madison has confirmed to us that Mr F has now been opted out of all SMS 
communications. So, overall, she thought Madison had acted quickly to ensure no 
further distress was caused and that it had done enough to put things right. 
Mr F didnt agree. In reply, he pointed to an email hed previously received from Madison 
which he said proved that it had agreed not send him any SMS messages. He provided a 
copy for our investigator to consider.
 
Our investigator, though, didnt agree that this email showed Madison had made a mistake. 
Instead, in her view, she thought it confirmed that Mr F wouldnt be contacted by SMS 
specifically about his arrears. Not that he wouldnt be contacted by SMS at all. So, she still 
didnt think Madison needed to take any further action.
 
Mr F still disagreed, and he asked for an ombudsmans decision. So, as no agreement has 
been reached, Mr Fs complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr F feels very strongly about his complaint, and Im very sorry to have read about 
how much the matter has affected him. But, while I know it will greatly disappoint Mr F, I 
agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator  for much the same reasons. So, I 
wont be asking Madison to take any further action here. Ill explain why.
 
Having reviewed the internal notes provided by Madison, Ive not seen any record that 
Mr F had previously asked  prior to raising a complaint about it  not to be contacted by 
SMS message. So, on that basis, I dont think I can fairly conclude that Madison did 
something wrong by contacting Mr F in that way given theres nothing to indicate that it knew 
he didnt want such communication.
 
I have noted that, after Mr F raised his concerns, he still received one or two more messages 
over the course of the next day or so. Madison has explained that its front-line agents cant 
simply turn off methods of communication, rather, such requests must be passed on and this 
might take a day or so to review, which is just what happened here.
 
I dont think thats particularly unreasonable. And, overall, Im pleased to see that Madison 
acted quickly once it was aware of Mr Fs communication preferences  and that hes now 
been opted out of all SMS contact. I think that was practical action for Madison to take and it 
follows that Mr F shouldnt experience the same problems moving forward.
 
Mr F thinks Madison already knew, or should have known, that he didnt want SMS 
messages and that it had agreed previously  in an email from September 2021  not to 
send him any.
 
Having read that email, I can understand why Mr F might have interpreted it in the way he 
has. But with that said, in my view, I dont think the email does say that Mr F wont receive 
any SMS messages.
Rather, I think the email refers quite specifically to SMS messages about Mr Fs arrears and 
how  because hed agreed to a repayment plan at the time  he wouldnt receive any more 
of those. It doesnt say, though, that all SMS contact, such as the messages he received in 
2022 about settling his debt at a reduced balance, would stop. 
So, with that in mind, I dont think Madison had previously agreed not to send Mr F any SMS 
messages prior to him raising this complaint about it. Im aware too that Mr F feels Madison should have known, as a general rule, not to send him 
any SMS messages because of his mental health. And hes also mentioned that he feels the 
business has behaved in a discriminatory manner towards him. 
Im sorry to hear that he feels that way. With that in mind, I think its important for me to 
explain here that our service isnt able to make a finding on whether something constitutes 
discrimination as per The Equality Act 2010. Ultimately, thats a matter for a court of law to 
decide.
 
What I can consider, though, is whether Madison has treated Mr F fairly  taking into 
account the law, amongst other things. And, in the circumstances of this case, I think 
it has. Thats because, as Ive said above, once Madison was aware that Mr F didnt want 
any SMS contact, it took steps to change how it communicated with him. 
Theres nothing Ive been provided which shows Mr F had ever, prior to his complaint, 
categorically said that he didnt want any contact by SMS. And I wouldnt expect a business 
to simply assume whats best for its customers, if it hadnt received confirmation of what an 
individual does or doesnt want when it comes to communication.
Ive seen that Madison has tried to obtain further information from Mr F about how it can best 
help him. But it seems, from what I have, that hes not engaged with that request to provide 
more detail. 
That, of course, is Mr Fs choice to make. But, overall, I think Madisons actions demonstrate 
that it has taken steps to try and ensure that its treating Mr F in the best way it can  which 
is what Id expect it to do.
 
To sum up then, I am sorry to hear of how this matter affected Mr F. But for the reasons Ive 
explained above, I dont find that Madison has acted unreasonably or that it broke any prior 
agreement not to send him SMS messages. Instead, I think its made suitable changes  
now its firmly aware of his communication preferences  to make sure this matter doesnt 
re-occur. So, in the circumstances, I dont require Madison to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman