DRN-2738405
The complaint
Miss D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt meet her claim under Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act in full for a poor holiday.
What happened
 In March 2019 Miss D booked an overseas holiday for her and her partner with a merchant I 
will call H. She paid £1,815.90 using her credit card.  She says it was advertised as a 5 star, 
adults only VIP holiday. 
Before travelling she contacted H and asked as they had paid for adults only VIP trip did 
they qualify for the VIP bar? She also queried which restaurants were included in the 
package. H referred her query to the hotel. It responded saying: All restaurants are 
included, you should not pay for any, but there are some services such as lobster and some 
wines that have an extra cost, if you would like to make a reservation you can let me know in 
this way and we will gladly make you, below you can see the list of restaurants we have. 
Miss D made reservations for various restaurants for three nights and was told these were 
booked.  
She says her experience staying at the hotel was less than satisfactory. She listed the 
following:
There were children everywhere with many childrens activities at the hotel and on 
the beach.
The VIP restaurants and extra alcohol were not available as advertised. 
There was leak in their bedroom from the floor above which was not dealt with 
adequately leaving them with a damp smell for the remainder of the holiday.
The hotel ATM was out of order
The resort credit of $200 they were offered never materialised despite asking the rep 
to obtain it from the hotel.
A boat trip run by the hotel was captained by a drunk whose behaviour left a lot to be 
desired. 
Miss D complained at the hotel and to H on her return, but it went into administration. She 
then made claim under Section 75. Barclays rejected her claim but offered her a goodwill 
payment of £200. It said that the issues were subjective and couldnt be quantified.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. She reviewed each of the issues raised by Miss D and concluded that there was no 
breach or misrepresentation. Miss D didnt agree and provided a detailed and lengthy 
response. I issued a provisional decision as follows:  
I explained this complaint had been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to 
make purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to 
claim against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there 
has been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
I was satisfied there was no break in the required link for Section 75 to apply. I added that it 
had been suggested that the responses given to Miss D by the hotel were outside the 
contract she entered into with H. However, given H referred her request to the hotel I 
considered it should take responsibility for those answers and that they form part of the 
contract. 
I noted that in complaints like this there was a degree of subjectivity. Of course, there were 
some matters which were less subjective e.g. if a room with a sea view is promised and not 
provided that is not a subjective issue.
I considered if there was a clear breach of contract or misrepresentation. The booking 
documentation showed that that a master suite was booked on an all-inclusive basis for two 
people and the hotel is described as adults only.
In matters such as this I said I had to bear in mind that Miss D did have the benefit of the 
flights, transfers and use of the hotel and facilities. I reviewed each of her complaints 
separately, but in terms of redress I said there is a degree of subjectivity and a round sum 
figure was often the best way of settling matters.
Children
Miss D said that there was a large childrens inflatable by the adults only beach and indeed 
had provided a photograph of it. She also said that there were lots of childrens activities on 
the beach and they made use of a pool attached to the hotel. The hotel is advertised as 
adults only, but it gives little detail on what this means or whether it has control of the beach. 
However, I did consider Miss D had a point and I believed the information given to her about 
the hotel was not as clear as it could have been.
Restaurants
I noted that Miss D made reservations for three nights which were accepted and says that 
when at the hotel she was told these had not been made. Her VIP booking entitled her and 
her partner to use these restaurants at no extra charge. I can appreciate her disappointment, 
though I recognise that they were able to use the buffet restaurant. 
Free Alcohol
Miss D said that the all-inclusive holiday was offered top shelf alcohol, but the drink her 
partner liked wasnt included. As H has gone into administration we do not have the full 
terms and conditions, but I explained that it is usual for some brands/types of alcohol to be 
excluded from such offers. As such I didnt think I could say there was any breach or 
misrepresentation. Leak
I noted the photographs of the leak and I saw that the result of the leak would likely to have 
left the room smelling damp. She hadnt said when this leak occurred. I gathered she and 
her partner were not offered another room and the leak wasnt dealt with efficiently. I agree 
this was not what one would hope for from a VIP experience, but I also recognised that such 
accidents can occur and resolving them cannot always be achieved as easily as one might 
wish for.
 ATM
Usually ATMs are not owned by the hotel and I thought it reasonable to presume that 
applied in this case. While this was a useful service which was available in the hotel, I didnt 
believe I could say the fact it was broken for some or all of the time would amount to a 
breach of contract. 
Credit
Although it wasnt itemised in the invoice I had seen Miss D has provided a screen-print from 
the hotel which states: US$200 Resort Credit per room when you book 5 nights or more in 
any of Master Suite Rooms. I had not seen any more detail about the credit, but from 
research online I saw it could be used to purchase upgrades such as better wine or certain 
spa services.
Miss D said they werent given this and she has asked the hotel for a copy of her bill to try 
and evidence the fact she didnt have it. In the current pandemic it seems the hotel is closed 
at the moment. In any event I wasnt sure this would have been terribly useful. She had 
shown us details of her spending at the hotel, but again I am not sure this confirms that she 
didnt get the credit. However, having considered her testimony I was satisfied that it wasnt 
provided. 
Boat Trip
This was paid for separately and as Miss D had acknowledged that Barclays cannot be held 
liable for the cost. However, I appreciated her point that it did not reflect well on the hotel 
which organised it. That said, I didnt believe I can consider this as being either a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation.
Miss D said the additional cost of the adults only VIP and she provided some online 
comparison details in support of her claim. The invoice does not specify the additional cost 
of the upgraded holiday and I thought this approach while it had some merit was not the 
most appropriate means of deciding on redress. 
I believed there was a breach of contract in that the hotel wasnt fully adults only, the 
restaurant reservations werent made and the credit wasnt provided. I didnt consider the 
other aspect to have been a breach of contract although I had factored the impact of the leak 
into my deliberations since it was reasonable to conclude it will have had some effect on the 
holiday.
As I said above, I could not ignore that Miss D and her partner had the benefit of the flights, 
transfers and the use of the hotel despite those issues which werent up to standard. As 
such I considered redress of £300 is appropriate 
Finally, Miss D had raised a complaint about the handling of her complaint by the bank. 
However, I explained that complaint handling is not a regulated activity although I appreciated the line between the handling of a claim and the subsequent complaint can be 
blurred. However, I believed that my proposed award covers all aspects that fall within my 
remit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has accepted my provisional decision and Miss D has not responded. It follows 
therefore that I have no grounds to amend it and so my decision stands
Putting things right
 Barclays should increase the level of compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
Miss D £300 rather than the £200 offered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman