DRN-2052123
The complaint
Mr S complains that UK Credit Limited accepted him as a guarantor for a loan when it 
shouldnt have. He would like to be released from the guarantee of the loan and for UK 
Credit to remove any information about the loan from his credit file.
What happened
Mr S stood as a guarantor for a loan which his sister borrowed from UK Credit in March 
2018. The loan was for £6,000 to be repaid in 48 monthly instalments of £282.49.
When Mr S complained, he said he was pressured into being a guarantor by his sister and 
her partner who verbally abused him and threatened him with violence. Mr S also said he 
wasnt in a position to afford the loan if the borrower defaulted.
UK Credit didnt uphold his complaint and when the complaint was referred to this service, 
our adjudicator didnt think UK Credit had done anything and so didnt recommend that the 
complaint should be upheld. 
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision on the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loan was offered.
When considering complaints from a guarantor of a loan, there are three key questions I 
need to answer, and these are;
Was the loan responsibly lent to borrower?
Did UK Credit obtain proper consent?
Did UK Credit take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that Mr S would be able to meet 
the repayment of the loan over the term?
Was the loan responsibly lent to the borrower?
Neither UK Credit nor Mr S has been able to provide information about the borrowers 
circumstances at the time the loan was lent, so I dont know if the loan was reasonably lent 
to the borrower.
Did UK Credit obtain the guarantors proper consent?
UK Credit has provided call recordings to show that it went into detailed discussions with 
Mr S about the loan before agreeing to lend. The call recordings show that UK Credit 
explained Mr S responsibility as the guarantor and the implications of a default by the 
borrower. Mr S confirmed that he understood this information and was willing to proceed with 
application. So, Im satisfied that Mr S was made aware of his responsibilities and was 
willing to accept the terms of being a guarantor for the loan.
Mr S has said he was pressured into being a guarantor. Ive listened to the call recordings 
between Mr S and UK Credit and while I appreciate Mr S testimony that he was verbally 
abused and threatened with physical violence, I havent seen anything that suggests that UK 
Credit knew or ought to have known that Mr S may have been pressured into being a 
guarantor for this loan.
Did UK Credit take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that Mr S would be able to meet the 
repayments of the loan over the term?
UK Credit has provided evidence to show that it searched Mr S credit file and asked him 
about his monthly income and expenses and even though wasnt the borrower of the loan, it 
assessed his ability to repay the loan on the basis of him covering all the household bills as 
he shared the house with his sister who was the borrower. I think given the term of the loan 
and the fact that Mr S wasnt able to provide full details of his monthly expenses, UK Credit 
should have verified some of the information Mr S provided before agreeing to lend.
Mr S has provided a copy of his bank statement from the time of the loan and from what I 
can see, there was nothing within the statement that should have concerned UK Credit 
about Mr S ability to repay the loan. Mr S had very little credit he was repaying, in fact in the 
month before the loan, he had no outstanding debts to other high cost lenders, the results of 
the credit file showed that he had a small balance of around £175 on his credit card with a 
limit of £1,000. From the information on the bank statement, Mr S income was around 
£1,366 and his outgoings including things like rent, food and travel was around £850. So, 
further checks by UK Credit would likely have shown that Mr S would have been able to 
sustain the loan repayments over the term.
So, I dont think UK Credit was wrong to lend to Mr S in these circumstances. I appreciate 
that Mr S feels strongly about his complaint, but based on the information I have seen, I 
dont think UK Credit has done anything wrong.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr S complaint about UK Credit Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman