DRN-2113922
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy Allay Claims Ltd is charging him a fee for a payment protection insurance 
claim (PPI), that he said he didnt authorise them to make. He said hed made the PPI claims 
himself with his lender.
What happened
Mr C said he made a PPI claim with his lender, Ill call B, before the August 2019 deadline 
for making PPI claims. And said he received confirmation that his claim was being looked 
into. As the August deadline was approaching he said he asked Allay, in that month to look 
into any other claims he might have with other lenders.
At the end of August 2019 Mr C was told by B  his claim was successful and the amount of 
compensation hed be paid. Mr C said he got an invoice from Allay asking him to pay their 
fee as his claim had been successful. Mr C complained to Allay as he said hed never asked 
them to submit a claim for him to lender B and he hadnt returned the questionnaire they 
had sent to him.
Allay said Mr C had asked them to carry out a free PPI check, and hed signed a letter of 
authority (LoA) in June 2019 authorising them to act on his behalf to make his claim. Allay 
said theyd submitted his claim to lender B, and as their agreement with Mr C hadnt been 
cancelled, their success fee was justified. They said they asked Mr C to sign a further LoA in 
August 2019 as a precaution as the deadline was approaching and they wanted to make 
sure all of their customers had up to date authorisations on their files.
Mr C wasnt happy with Allays response and referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator said Allays terms were clear in that they said theyd submit a PPI claim. 
And they told Mr C when it was found he had PPI, and hed completed their questionnaire 
instructing them to act on his behalf.
Mr C didnt agree and said he hadnt signed the LoA  and hadnt authorised Allay to act for 
him. He asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Cs frustration as he doesnt agree that he asked Allay to look into 
whether he had any PPI, and he said he hadnt given them the information needed to 
progress his claim. Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I base 
my decision on what I think most likely happened.  And I need to determine whether Mr C 
had authorised Allay to act on his behalf. And if he had, whether he let them know he no 
longer wanted them to work for him. 
Allay has shown an online application for a free PPI check was made in June 2019. The 
personal details in this application correlate with the personal details Mr C has given this 
service. The application also needed details of Mr Cs lender, and this detail was provided. 
So, on balance I think  Mr C completed the on-line form as the information was specific to 
him. On completion of the application, an LoA was generated, populated with this 
information. The LoA couldnt be submitted without a signature being added. As I think Mr C 
completed the application, I have no reason to doubt that he added the signature to the form. 
Allays terms and conditions were also available to see. And in signing the LoA Mr C had 
agreed to them. 
Allays terms and conditions say:
We will carry out a free PPI check. We will notify you once PPI has been identified and 
submit your complaint to the lender following your instruction. Your instruction can
be given by completing the postal Claim Questionnaire, submitting the Claim Questionnaire 
online or over the telephone with Allay. 
I can see Allay sent a request to lender B the day after the on-line PPI application was 
completed to determine whether Mr C had a PPI policy with them. And before the end of 
June 2019, lender B told Allay theyd found a PPI policy that Mr C had taken out in July 
2000. Allay in line with the above terms and conditions notified Mr C and sent him a link for 
him to complete an online PPI questionnaire. And I can see that the questionnaire was 
completed and submitted the next day.
Lender B sent an acknowledgment to Allay that theyd received the claim. And they told 
Allay they would be kept updated about its progress. I can also see that the following day 
Allay updated Mr C about his claim.
I can understand Mr Cs frustration as he  says he made a claim direct to lender B and 
doesnt think he completed a questionnaire for Allay. He has explained why he wouldnt have 
been able to post the questionnaire back to them. But I havent seen any evidence of Mr C 
making a claim directly with lender B. And the questionnaire wasnt posted to him or 
returned in this way. As I outlined above Allay sent an on-line link to Mr C, and the 
questionnaire was completed digitally. The information included in the questionnaire was 
again specific to Mr C.
And I can see at the end of August 2019, lender B sent the offer of compensation to both 
Mr C and Allay. I think this shows lender B accepted Allay had authority to represent Mr C 
in making his PPI claim, and they werent solely dealing with Mr C. So, Im satisfied Mr C 
authorised Allay to act on his behalf in pursuing a PPI claim for him.
I will now look to see whether Mr C asked Allay to stop working for him. 
The terms and conditions say:
From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14 day cooling off period during which 
you can cancel your contract with us. 
And goes on to give a variety of ways the cancellation can be done, telephone, email or in 
writing.
The terms and conditions also say:If you terminate this agreement after the 14 day cooling off period and prior to an offer of 
redress, Allay reserves the right to make a reasonable and proportionate cancellation
charge that will reflect the work undertaken by Allay.
I havent seen any evidence that Mr C asked Allay to cancel his agreement either within or 
after the 14 day cooling off period. And despite still getting updates after he said hed made 
his own PPI claim from Allay, I havent seen any evidence that Mr C asked Allay to stop or 
question them as to why they were still contacting him. The claim may not have been 
formalised according to Mr C, but its not enough that he simply disengaged from the 
process. And by not telling Allay he didnt want them to act on his behalf before the end of 
the 14 day cooling off period, theyd submitted his PPI claim to lender B and the claim was 
successful.
The agreement Mr C had with Allay was on a No win No fee basis. Allay charged a 
percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they actually undertook. 
This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claim would be done for free. When a 
claim was successful, Allays fee may be more or less than the value of the work they 
actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. 
And Allays fee as outlined above isnt based on the work they did but on whether the claim 
they submitted was successful or not. Allay submitted Mr Cs claim as their agreement 
hadnt been cancelled. And his claim was successful.
Allays fees were charged in line with what Mr C agreed to and reflect the fee cap thats in 
place for PPI claims. Mr C could have cancelled his claim with Allay. But I cant see he 
cancelled the claim before it was successful. 
I know Mr C will be disappointed by my decision but Im satisfied that Allay was authorised 
by Mr C to act on his behalf and his claims were successful. This means Allay can charge 
their fee for the claim. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman