DRN-3494870
The complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) provided poor service when he made a 
claim under his Plumbing and Drainage Plus cover. 
What happened
Mr H contacted Aviva on 13 November 2021 to report a leak from his overflow. He wanted to 
check if this was covered under his Plumbing and Drainage Plus cover. Aviva sent an 
engineer to investigate the problem on 15 November 2021. 
Mr H contacted Aviva again on 16 November 2021 to tell them that the overflow was still 
leaking. He said they shouldve sent a heating engineer out, not a plumber. Aviva sent their 
engineer on 17 November 2021. The engineer told Aviva that there were two separate 
issues  a boiler issue and a problem with the immersion heater. Mr H said the engineer 
removed the heating element from the immersion heater and ordered a replacement part. 
And that the engineer had said that a gas engineer would be required for the boiler issue. 
Aviva told the engineer that Mr H didnt have boiler cover. The engineer said he would inform 
Mr H about his lack of cover.
On 18 November 2021, Mr H called Aviva again to explain the issues he was having. He 
said that he understood that his boiler wasnt covered under his policy. But said that the 
person who had recently carried out his boiler service didnt agree that the problem was 
related to the boiler. Mr H said hed been told that the problem was related to the water 
cylinder, which he felt was covered under his policy. Aviva told Mr H that theyd send 
someone out to look into the issues. They felt that one of the issues  the immersion heater 
repair - was covered under the policy, but the issue that might be related to the boiler may 
not be. Mr H felt the second problem was related to the water cylinder. Aviva agreed to send 
out an engineer to look at the water cylinder. Two separate appointments were booked for 
24 November 2021  one for the fitting of the immersion heater part, and one for the 
engineer to look at the water cylinder. 
On 24 November 2021, Avivas engineer attended to assess the boiler. Mr H said he was 
accused of tampering with the immersion heater. He told them that the previous engineer 
had worked on the heater. He felt that Avivas engineer didnt believe him, and was generally 
rude.
Avivas call records show that their engineer called them later that day to tell them Mr H had 
been unhappy with his visit. He told them that, from what hed seen, the issue was a 
possible blockage in the heating system. He suggested that a further visit was arranged so 
that a water sample could be taken to confirm this. The engineer told Aviva that hed said the 
immersion heater had been tampered with, but didnt accuse Mr H of doing that. He said he 
had explained to Mr H that he needed the immersion heater to be safe before he could work 
on it. The engineer told Aviva that he didnt agree that there was a problem with Mr Hs 
cylinder. But that even if it was, it wouldnt be covered under his policy.
After the call from the engineer, Aviva internally checked the cover Mr H held with them. It 
was confirmed that he only had Plumbing and Drainage cover. And that he had no cover for 
the immersion heater. 
Later on 24 November 2021, Aviva called Mr Hs wife and told her that there could be a 
blockage in the heating system. They explained that there was no cover for either the boiler 
or the heating system. They also explained that the electrics on immersion heaters werent 
covered either. So they couldnt do any further work under his policy. They apologised for 
the incorrect advice about what was covered. And offered to provide a quote for the required 
repairs. Mr Hs wife said that a quote would be helpful. 
Mr H said that another engineer had been booked to take the water sample. But that when 
he attended, he wasnt able to do that, and had been unsure about why hed been sent. I 
understand that Aviva made a new appointment for this on 29 November 2021.
Unhappy with the service hed received, Mr H complained to Aviva. He said that Aviva had 
provided poor service, acted unprofessionally, and failed to pay the claim he made under his 
Plumbing and Drainage Plus cover. He said that Aviva had initially told him the problem 
would be covered under the policy. But then, after several inconvenient engineer visits, told 
him it wouldnt be covered. He said he wanted compensation for the poor service and really 
bad customer experience. 
Mr H told this service that he had a private engineer look at the issues. He said he was told 
he needed a new immersion heater as the mechanism had split inside. He said that the 
boiler was fine but that he still had heating and overflow issues.
Aviva issued their final response to the complaint on 7 January 2022. They upheld the 
complaint. They apologised for the for the inconvenience caused. And offered £180 
compensation for not informing Mr H earlier that the immersion and the boiler werent 
covered under his policy. They said theyd wanted to speak to Mr H before responding to his 
complaint to check they had all relevant information. But they hadnt been able to. So they 
offered Mr H the opportunity to discuss his complaint further if needed. 
Mr H was unhappy with the response, so brought his complaint to this service. He explained 
exactly what he wanted Aviva to do to put things right. Our investigator felt that Aviva had 
already taken reasonable steps to put things right, so didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
that Mr Hs policy didnt provide cover for any work to the boiler, heating system or 
immersion heater. He considered that Aviva had met the policy terms and conditions in 
declining the claim. He acknowledged that Mr H had been inconvenienced by some 
unnecessary engineers visits. But felt that Aviva hadnt initially been aware of the cause of 
the issues Mr H was experiencing. He felt that as theyd only become aware that the issues 
Mr H was experiencing werent covered under the policy after their engineers visits, the 
£180 compensation offered was fair.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I consider that Aviva have fairly acknowledged 
their failings in this case. And that theyve offered appropriate compensation under the 
circumstances. Ill explain why.
Before I start, Id like to reassure Mr H that I have listened to all 11 phone calls provided by 
Aviva. And have carefully studied the policys terms and conditions. Ive also seen all notes recorded after the engineers visits. My decision below doesnt address each and every 
aspect of Mr Hs complaint, but I have considered all of the points he made. Instead, my 
decision focuses on the main aspects of his complaint. 
It should also be noted, as our investigator has already done, that although part of Mr Hs 
complaint relates to the way his complaint was handled, this service cannot comment on 
this. Complaint handling is not an activity regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. Also 
as noted by our investigator, we have no power to tell Aviva to conduct their review of his 
complaint in the way he has requested.
I first looked at whether the claim shouldve been covered. 
Mr Hs policy schedule for the year starting 2 December 2020 stated the following:
Here's a quick reminder of what your agreement covers you for:
Leaking pipes within your home
Blocked drains
Blockages to sinks and toilets
Leaks or blockages to your water supply pipe
The schedule goes on to list items which arent covered:
What's not covered
Here are the main exclusions of your agreement:
A boiler breakdown that leaves you without heating or hot water
I consider that this is a clearly worded summary. 
Ive also looked at the policy terms and conditions. From what Ive seen, theres no cover 
under the Plumbing and Drains Plus plan for problems with the heating system, boiler or 
immersion heater. The terms and conditions specify what is covered, which is problems 
relating to your plumbing and drainage. The What is covered? section does include the 
phrase: repairs to leaking overflows. So, given Mr Hs initial assessment of the problem, I 
can see why he made the claim. But, after Avivas engineers had assessed the issues, they 
told him on 17 November that any boiler issues werent covered. Therefore, I dont consider 
that Aviva made an error here  they investigated whether the issue was covered, and, when 
they found that it wasnt, immediately informed Mr H. Therefore I dont consider that Aviva 
acted unfairly or unreasonably when they declined the claim.
However, I can see that Aviva made an error in relation to the immersion heater issue. They 
told Mr H it was covered. And their engineer even ordered the part. They didnt tell Mr H it 
wasnt covered until 24 November 2021. I think they shouldve told him this on 17 November 
2021. 
Mr H has told this service that his private engineer has since told him that he needed a new 
immersion heater. Therefore I dont consider that Avivas engineers actions have caused Mr 
H additional cost that he wouldnt have had anyway. But I do agree that Aviva caused 
inconvenience by sending at least one engineer who did nothing to help. And I agree that 
Aviva shouldve told Mr H that his immersion heater wasnt covered under the policy earlier. Mr H has also told this service that one of the engineers who assessed the issues was rude 
and accused him of something he hadnt done. While I acknowledge this wouldve been 
upsetting, the conversation wasn't recorded. But I have been able to listen to the engineers 
call to Aviva which he made immediately after his visit to Mr Hs property. From what Ive 
heard, the engineer felt that Mr H had misunderstood his use of an example as an 
accusation that Mr H had tampered with the immersion heater. I cant know exactly what was 
said, so Im unable to uphold this part of Mr Hs complaint based on the evidence available 
to me. 
Aviva have acknowledged that they didnt inform Mr H earlier that his immersion heater and 
boiler werent covered under his policy. Theyve apologised. And have offered £180 
compensation. I acknowledge that Mr H doesnt consider that this compensation is enough. 
He feels that £1,250 would be more appropriate in this case. But based on what Ive seen, I 
consider that Avivas offer of £180 is fair and reasonable under the circumstances of the 
complaint. I say this because I consider that the claim was  in the end  fairly declined. And 
although Aviva did make an error, it didnt cause Mr H additional expense. And it was 
corrected relatively quickly. Therefore I dont uphold the complaint. And I wont be asking 
Aviva to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman