DRN-3897571
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society has stolen £3,000 from him. He wants his 
money back. 
What happened
On 25 February 2021 Mr H opened a bank account with Nationwide. He says he opened the 
account online and was telephoned by Nationwide asking him to come into branch with 
identification documents. During this telephone call, Mr H said he was told he could bring the 
£3,000 cash with him to be deposited. 
Mr H said he went into a Nationwide branch (sometime in February 2021) with the requested 
documents and to deposit the £3,000. He said the cashier took copies of his documents and 
he handed her the £3,000 cash to deposit into his account. Mr H says he wasnt given a 
receipt for the £3,000. The account was closed on 1 March 2021. 
On 5 November 2021 Mr H went into the branch to say his money had been stolen. Staff told 
him the account had been closed and there was no evidence of the £3,000 having been paid 
in. 
Mr H complained to Nationwide. He said his money had been stolen by the cashier and it 
should look at CCTV footage which would prove be handed the £3,000 to the cashier to be 
paid into his account. 
Nationwide said it hadnt seen any evidence the £3,000 had been stolen. It invited Mr H to 
provide any evidence he might have to support his position.
Mr H remained unhappy and so referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. He 
maintained Nationwide had stolen his money and he wanted it back, together with 
compensation. Mr H said he was suffering financial hardship. 
Mr H provided us with a picture of the money as evidence. And said there was evidence he 
opened the account, and that he went to the branch. Mr H said Nationwide was legally 
obliged to return his money as hed been the victim of fraud. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He wasnt satisfied there was 
evidence to show Mr H tried to deposit the £3,000  other than Mr Hs own testimony.  Our 
Investigator also said there was no evidence of an accounting error on the part of 
Nationwide, and it had confirmed thered been no other reports of theft at the branch in 
question. 
Mr H didnt agree with our Investigator and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said 
we should believe him over Nationwide, as it is more likely he is telling the truth. 
Mr H said the fact the account with Nationwide was opened, and copies taken of his 
identification documents, proved he had gone into the branch. 
Mr H said the cashier hed given the money to had run away and this was a cover up by 
Nationwide, which is why he said it wont provide CCTV footage. Mr H said the reason 
Nationwide has no record of the money was because it was stolen. 
Mr H has also provided a witness statement from a friend to support his position.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons. I want to assure Mr H that Ive thought very carefully about the points hes 
made. But I cant say Nationwide has treated him unfairly. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome. 
As our Investigator has explained to Mr H  the Financial Ombudsman is an informal dispute 
resolution service. We cant test evidence in the same way the police or a court would do 
when there are criminal allegations. So, there are limitations on what I can consider when 
reviewing Mr Hs complaint. 
I should also add that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it 
is here), I must make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is 
more likely than not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
I appreciate Mr Hs strength of feeling and frustration, and why he thinks his testimony 
should be enough to prove Nationwide stole his money. But as an evidence-based 
organisation, I must look at all the evidence provided by both parties. And having done that, I 
cant say, on balance, Nationwide has done anything wrong.
Mr H has spoken at length about the events leading up to the point he says he went to 
deposit the money with Nationwide. Hes told us where the money came from, why he 
opened the account with Nationwide and why he was in the branch on that day in 
February 2021 (although he is unable to recall the exact date). Hes also provided a witness 
statement from a friend which says Mr H entered the Nationwide branch with £3,000 and 
came out without it.
I can also see from Nationwides records that the account Mr H says the money went into 
was opened on 25 February 2021. And it appears he did attend a branch around that time. 
So, this corroborates some of Mr Hs testimony. 
But accepting an account was opened and that Mr H visited the branch sometime in 
February 2021, doesnt negate that Ive seen no specific evidence of any cash being 
deposited. No money appears in Mr Hs account, and the account was closed on 
1 March 2021 with a zero balance. Theres also nothing to suggest an accounting error on 
the part of Nationwide. Its also told us Mr H wouldve been given a receipt for the deposit if 
hed made one. Mr H accepts he doesnt have a receipt. 
Theres also no CCTV footage available given the passing of time. And the witness 
statement provided by Mr H doesnt prove the money was handed to the cashier. 
Mr H hasnt disputed the evidence from Nationwide, nor has he provided anything to 
contradict it. Rather, his point is that the money was stolen by the cashier he gave it to  so in essence hes saying it was never deposited  which he thinks explains why theres no 
record of the funds in his account and no receipt of the deposit. 
I cant know for sure exactly what happened here, and as Ive said above, there are limits on 
what I can do when there are allegations of criminal activity. Nationwide has told us that 
there were no concerns over the staff at the branch in question  nor were there any other 
reports of theft. So, the wider circumstances here dont support Mr Hs claims.
Im also mindful that Mr H didnt approach Nationwide about the missing money until 
November 2021  nine months after he says it was stolen. This makes his testimony less 
reliable, as there seems to be no reason why Mr H wouldnt have complained about the 
missing money as soon as he realised it hadnt credited the account. 
Ive taken account of all the evidence from both parties, within the limits of what I can look at, 
and considered the wider surrounding circumstances. But I cant say theres enough 
evidence for me to find Nationwide responsible for the loss of Mr Hs £3,000. 
And so, I wont be asking Nationwide to take any action.  
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman